So it's good to be back on the first Sunday of 2018. I trust that 2018 will be a great year for you in the Lord that He will prosper you in many ways. Today the schedule is a little different. I'm speaking on two verses at this time and then we're going to enjoy the potluck which if you've never had potluck here I recommend it okay I had it about a month ago and it it is six steps above the word pot. Okay? It's it's Quite amazing. And then afterwards, I have 12 questions that I've written out on the message. And we want to pass the questions out to each table, and I figured you could discuss at the table at least one of these questions. and come up with further questions. And so the service in the afternoon is going to be more of a discussion kind of question-answer, that kind of thing. So you could answer you can ask me any question. I will answer the question I will say things like, I don't know. Or I'll say things like, that's a good question, why don't you work on it? And uh those kind of things. Should be a great time together. So today we're focusing on these two verses at the end of James. For those of you who are here for the first time. We have we're trying to introduce this epistle that James wrote, which I think is the earliest epistle written in the New Testament. And I think it is the epistle that every young believer needs in their lives, needs to memorize, and so on. This is a book that is so practical and helpful in everyday life. So we've had three times together. We dealt with the first 12 verses, and the title of those 12 verses was Does anybody remember? You have got it. Yes. Give that lady extra credit. Yes. The friends we abhor. Friends we abhor. And the friends we abhor are what? Trials and difficulties and problems. And James gives us six commands in that section. And he says, You need to be serious about these six things because they're going to make the difference between a life that is blessed and a life that isn't. Second time we were here, we dealt with verses 13 to 20. The title was Terrorists we adore. Excellent. Terrorists we adore. This section talks about the fact that yes, those trials can bring blessing, but verse 15 and 16, those trials can deceive us and bring death. So be careful how you deal with these things. And we talked about five ways of deceiving ourselves about temptation that we face. And then four Sundays ago, I think it was, we were in verses 21 through 25, and the title was The elephant in the room we ignore. The elephant in the room we ignore. And what was the elephant in the room? God's word. And you remember I started by saying I'm not trying to call God's word the elephant. I'm trying to take the elephant in the room as a picture. Meaning something that is always there, something that everybody knows that is there, but nobody talks about And very few consultants. So every trial you face, every difficulty you face in life, whatever's going on in your life, this book is always there. And this book has the answer. Question is, will you open it and consult it? So that section talked about how to read God's Word. So today we're in verses 26 and 27 and we're talking about this strange little transition section. It says, and I'm reading, if anyone among you thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this one's religion is useless. Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their trouble and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. These two verses are strange because three times James uses this word religion. I thought Christianity was a relationship. Not a religion. What's he mean by religion? And then it's also strange, a little strange, because James thinks that your religion needs to change your relationship. And he talks about these things that don't seem to be that important. How you talk. widows and orphans, and unspotted from the world So he's got these three items, and he says these three items are crucial in your religion. And if you think you have religion and you don't have these three items in your life, your religion is worthless, useless. So, what are these three items? And why are they so important? And why is it that we tend to minimize these three items? Here's number one. We overlook the importance of how we talk to ourselves. We overlook the importance of how we talk to ourselves. You notice James is not necessarily talking about how I talk to other people. The verse says, if anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart. This one's religious that religion is useless. In other words, he's talking about how you talk to yourself and how you deceive yourself and what you say to yourself. He's saying if your relationship with Jesus Christ does not change the way you talk to yourself, be careful. So we overlook the importance of how we talk to ourselves. How we talk to ourselves is a part of our religion. Are religion. The word religion is really the word worship. It's how people live when because of their fear of the gods. The word came from Greek culture and talked about how people were changed by their fear of the gods. They worried about the gods, and because they worried about the gods, they did this, or they did this, or they didn't do that. So it's that kind of word. It's a word that says, your worship of God Whether or not you really worship God is affected by how you talk to yourself. You can talk to yourself and deceive your heart You can talk to yourself and think that you're worshiping God when you really may not be. So has James Mentioned this before? Has he said anything before about how we talk to ourselves? This is a classroom question. Has James said anything before about how we talk to ourselves? All right. Good response. Maybe it's it's cold. Try verse two. Verse 2 says that when you fall into various trials, the first way you should talk to yourself is you should count it all joy. That's not necessarily talking to anybody else. That's talking to yourself. You should put a tag on the difficulties that come into your life, and the tag should be, thank God, because he is in this and he is going to use it for good. Verse 5. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask. Here's the way we talk to ourselves. Verse nine, let the brother of low degree boast in his exaltation. Verse ten, let the rich brother boast in his humiliation. Verse 13, let no one say when he is tempted, I'm tempted of God. Do you see what's going on? James is talking about in this chapter how we talk to ourselves. But he's saying we need to bridle our tongue. We need to harness how we talk to ourselves. Because we can get the idea from talking to ourselves that such and such is true, and we are such and such, when it may not in any way be true. And affect our relationship with God. So if you are One who fears God. James says, you will be careful how you talk to yourself. So James is talking here about obedience. Verse 2, count it all joy. Verse 5, ask God for wisdom. Verse 6, ask in faith. Verse 9, rejoice, boast in your high position. He's talking about obedience. And what happens in my life, at least And my guess is it happens in maybe 50% of your lives, is we talk ourselves out of obedience. So Scripture says, Count it all joy, and we say Yes, maybe sometime. Maybe some other time. Maybe not this time. I told you about the situation where our 15-year-old son decided there was a better way to live and Stole our van at 4 o'clock on a Wednesday afternoon and disappeared without a driver's license with two 13-year-old girls. And when when I heard about it, my wife called and said he's gone. I found a uh friend who was a police officer jumped in his squad car and we drove around for more than an hour looking for our big yellow van And couldn't find anything. And we were we were angry. We were frustrated. We were fearful. This kid's going to kill himself. He's going to kill these girls. One of the mothers of the mother of one of the girls contacted us and said, I'm going to sue you for everything I can get out of you. And I have picture a picture in my mind of that evening. After he's gone, we know he's gone, we don't know where he is, you know, all that kind of stuff. We're sitting on the couch, our five other kids are around us, and we're all crying. What do you do? And then either Martha or I thought of James 1, too. Count it all joy. And immediately, immediately my reaction was: that can't be true. That cannot be true. How in this world would God expect somebody in this situation at this moment? To respond by counting it all joy. It's ridiculous. You ever had that kind of response? Or am I only alone? You know, that's what happens. You you get into situations where the verse doesn't fit. And you talk to yourself and you deceive yourself and let yourself off the hook about obedience. I don't need to obey that because it doesn't fit this situation. Remember Genesis 22? Where God said to Abraham, I want you to go sacrifice Isaac, your only son. And it says, the next day Abraham was obeying and going. Abraham could have done something religious. He could have read his Bible. He could have had evangelistic services Instead of obeying his son. He could have done good works instead of obedience. The key was he obeyed. So do you see how we can talk to ourselves? We can lead ourselves astray, we can lead ourselves out of obedience. And at the same time, think that we are religious. I go to church, I sing I give money. I help old people. You know So verse 26 says, You think that you are religious. You think that you worship God. You think that you are here worshiping God. And you are not bridling your tongue in terms of what you say to yourself, your worship of God may not count. It may be vain, it may be religious. Do you see how that's something that we overlook? Do you overlook how you talk to yourself? You don't have to nod, but I'm assuming we all are in that category. We're careful about how other people talk to us. Sometimes we're careful about how we talk to people, but how you talk to yourself. Someone has said, the first lie, lying to yourself, is the hardest thing. But after you do that, everything else is easy. So that's number one. We overlook the importance of how we talk to ourselves. Let's go to number two. We overlooked the importance of underprivileged people. We overlooked the importance of underprivileged people. Is everybody warm enough? Is anybody getting cold in here? You want to stand and do exercises or anything? Is it okay? I don't see any response. Are you frozen? Oh, okay. I got a response over there. By the way, it just struck me that I have not introduced my wife. I've been here four times, and you have questioned whether I'm really married because she has not come She is here. Would you stand, please, even though she doesn't like me to put her on the spot. This is my lovely wife from Georgia. Martha is her name. And she would be happy to talk to all of you. Any of you? Her father was a Methodist pastor in Georgia, and so they would move every two years or three years to a different place. I grew up never moving. Okay? So when I got married to her, or even before I got married, I was interested in this girl who had been so emotionally bent out of shape by moving every two years and having to get a new set of friends and so on. came to the realization she loved it. She loved moving every year. So we were married for four years and she thought it was time to move We did. We moved after twenty-three years. But she loves meeting people. She loves talking to people. And so on. So I'm in verse 27. Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this. To visit orphans and widows in their trouble and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. What's so important about orphans and widows in their distress? Don't you find this issue a little bit strange? I mean, we acknowledge that our tongues can get us into trouble. And that harnessing them is a big struggle at times. And number three, the world can get us into trouble. And staying unspotted from the world is important. But what's the thing about widows and orphans? Why are they so critical, crucial in religion? And my worship of God. True religion is what is going on in my heart with God How could my walk with God depend on or be influenced be or enhanced in some way by orphans Remember that James is not talking here about religion that gets us to heaven. He's not saying you need to visit orphans and widows to go to heaven. Your heavenly state is determined by your relationship with Jesus Christ. Trusting Jesus Christ as your Savior, receiving Christ as John 1. 12 says. Makes the difference between heaven or hell. Salvation is a gift Given to those who understand their need and call upon the name of the Lord for forgiveness and salvation. But what we're talking about here is your relationship with God after you have come to Christ. Is your relationship with God one that is growing One that is being blessed of God, or is your relationship one that is coming under God's disapproval? Is God dissatisfied with what is happening? And so he's saying here that your relationship with widows and orphans is important. And he describes widows and orphans in their trouble. In their trouble. The issue is how we participate in the sufferings of others. How we participate in the sufferings of people less important than us, less significant than us. What we do, how we respond to those less significant. You know, if If the person is more important or the person has a position that's higher than yours, then there's no problem. We all look up to them. We all respect them in some way. The question is, what happens to you when someone has no influence on you? This is the picture Jesus presented with the Good Samaritan. You know, the Jewish man goes down from Jerusalem to Jericho, falls among thieves, they beat him to death, he's lying on the side of the road. And somebody comes by, what can that man do? Can he in any way compel someone to help him? No. So the response of people in that situation is the response of their heart. The only person that's going to help them is somebody whose heart has compassion. That's the picture of Jesus Christ. Why did Jesus Christ come to earth? Because he was constrained by these sinners down here? No, he came to earth because of his compassion. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. And so the issue is: does the love of God Change our hearts? Does the love of God give us compassion? Does the fact that God, of grace, of complete grace, The fact that he's forgiven us our sin motivate us in any way to forgive somebody else their sin. Especially somebody that doesn't deserve it. Especially somebody that doesn't have any extra credit in our thinking process. So that's the picture here. The picture is how we respond to those who are lower on the scale. Now, the interesting thing here is that God has all the way through the Old Testament emphasized the importance of widows and orphans. Listen to some of these verses. Exodus 22, 21. 22, 21. You shall neither mistreat a stranger. Nor oppress him, for you are strangers in Egypt. You shall not afflict any widow or fatherless child If you afflict them in any way, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will become hot, and I will kill you with a sword, and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless. How's that for a promise of God? You notice it's talking about afflicting them. So it's pretty serious But it's saying that God is very much interested in widows and orphans and homeless and people who don't have what we have Here's Deuteronomy 14. Deuteronomy 14, 28. At the end of every third year, you shall bring out the tithe of your produce of that year and store it up within your gates. And the Levite, because he has no portion nor inheritance with you, and the stranger and the fatherless and the widow who are within your gates may come and eat and be satisfied, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do. Do you see what he's doing? He's saying you take a tithe of whatever you get and you store it. And why do you store it? You store it so you can bless an orphan and a widow and a Levite. And a homeless person. Does any widow or orphan or homeless person know of the love of Jesus Christ because of what you've done for them? Have you introduced any orphan or widow to the love that Jesus Christ has shown to them, to you, by how you've treated them? I think that's the principle here. The principle here is grace given to us should be grace given to others. So widows and orphans. And then one more verse, Deuteronomy sixteen. To me, I love this passage because it says, the passage says, if you want a true family celebration, there should be a widow there or an orphan there. Here it is, Deuteronomy 16, 10. Then you shall keep the feast of weeks to the Lord your God with a tribute of a free will offering from your hand, which you shall give as the Lord your God blesses you. You shall rejoice before the Lord your God, you and your son, your daughter, your male servant, your female servant, the Levite who is within your gate, the stranger, the fatherless, the widow who are among you at the place where the Lord your God chooses to make his name abide. You shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall be careful to observe these statutes. You shall observe the Feast of Tabernacles seven days. And then verse 14, you shall rejoice in your feast, you, your son, your daughter, your male servant, your female servant, the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your gates. You ever invited an orphan for a family meal? It looks like this passage is suggesting that they are the ones who complete the family meal. Bring in somebody who doesn't have it. Invite somebody and make it a real meal. Why does God place special emphasis upon widows and orphans? I think because God is the God of hope. God is the one who wants to give hope to people who have little hope. And he's describing widows orphans as people who many times are in situations that are hopeless. What's it like to grow up in an orphanage? I don't know if any of you have grown up in an orphanage. I didn't. I had good Christian parents for which I praise God. Ruben Galego was born in 1968 in Moscow. His grandfather was general secretary of the Spanish Communist Party Very soon after his birth, doctors diagnosed baby Reuben with severe cerebral palsy. Unwilling to deal with his disabled grandson. The grandfather had him placed in a Soviet home for handicapped children. Reuben's mother was told the child had died. Instead, he disappeared into the Soviet Union's vast institutional bureaucracy, growing up thinking he had no mother, no father, and no relatives. The surprising thing is, he lived. At the age of 33, Ruben wrote a book about his experience typing the manuscript out on a computer with his left index finger, the only one that worked The book won, the 2003 Russian Booker Prize, has now been translated into English In short, intensely vivid segments, he tells of overcoming heavy odds that would have destroyed most of us. Here's what he says. He was ranked in the eyes of his teachers and attendants as a retard, as a useless hunk of flesh. And when you're a retard, he said, everyone looks right past you. They ignore you. You're not a person, you're a nothing. He said, at eight, I understood one very simple idea. I'm alone and nobody needs me. He sums up the horrors of his boyhood in a haunting, memorable phrase, The permanent nothing of hospital life. Can you imagine growing up that way? The permanent nothing of hospital life. Everybody looks right past you. They ignore you. I'm alone and nobody needs me. I mean, children that grow up in good families sometimes say that. But here's a guy who lived it. I've been at SAMS or at Costco, you know, and they will hire somebody who is sitting there in a wheelchair Trying to encourage the customers or maybe pass out something. And you notice how people respond. They just look over them, you know. They don't bend down, squat down, talk to them. You know, it's just sort of like nobody's there. That's the person. That's the person. And James says, how do you respond to that person? Is there any kind of compassion in your heart? Anything that says, I really want to give them the hope that God has, the hope that God has given me. I would like them to hear the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So do you see that here is something we so often overlook? We don't even think about how we respond to these kind of people. So, number one, we overlook how we talk to ourselves. Number two, we overlook how we respond to people who are more in significant on the social ladder than we are. And then number three talks about being unspotted, the danger of the world spots. Do we have time for this? What time is it, Randy? Do we have time for this one? I mean we don't want to miss the potluck. I guess a potluck will wait. Let me quickly talk about. We overlook the danger of the world's spots. Number one, we overlook the importance of how we talk to ourselves. Number two, we overlook the importance of those who are less significant. Number three, we overlook the danger of the world's spots. It says, keep oneself unspotted From the world. The word unspotted is the key word here. What does it take for the world to spot? You to spot me. It spots us by getting its attitude into our lives, by getting us to think its way And the attitude is, as James is going to say in chapter 4, the attitude is that desires are the key to my life. Here's how the world spots us. It gets us all excited about our desires. And we come to the conclusion that my desires are going to give me life. Are gonna give me joy. Ever been there? I think probably as teenagers, every one of us was there. That's the teenage life. I am going to fulfill my desires because my desires are going to give life. Here's James chapter 4, verses 1, 2, and 3. Where do wars and fights come from among you? Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that war in your members? You lust, that's the word desire, and you do not have. You murder and you covet and you cannot obtain. You fight and war, yet you do not have, because You do not ask. What a verse. What a passage. You know, it's describing, I think, Shupe's false doctrine here. I think he's describing believers. He's describing Christians. who have gotten so spotted by this worldly motivation that says, I am only going to get it if I grab for all Augusto I can get, you know? And they live for their desires. And they are so strong on their desires that they will even Murder. Murder may not be literal. They will cut people down. They will go after people. You have church fights. You have church splits. You have people who can't tolerate other believers. You know, you heard that statement, living above with people we love, that will be glory. Living below with people we know, it's a different story. That's the passage. So the word that appears in verses one and three Desires in verse 1, desires for pleasure is the word, is the Greek word hidona. Hedona. Ever heard that word? That's the word from which we get hedonism. Hedonism is the philosophy that says pleasure is the greatest thing in the world. And I want to live my life for pleasure. And so we have, I understand, hotels designed for pleasure. Hedonism 1 and Hedonism 2. Hedonism was a written-out philosophy that came out about 300 years before Christ. That said, whatever brings maximum pleasure should be the aim of our lives. The philosophy is completely ridiculous. Even at the start, it's completely ridiculous because what brings pleasure to you may not bring pleasure to me. What brings pleasure to me may hurt you. So how do you decide whose pleasure? And some people say, well, it's what brings pleasure to all of us. Well, who makes that decision? How do you decide what brings pleasure to all of us? And so the bottom line is that hedonism is basically a private philosophy. I want to live for pleasure. Meaning it's the way we talk to ourselves. It's the way we organize our own outlook. I want to live for pleasure. And James says, this kind of thing gets in your system. And it affects your relationship with God. You're listening to somebody who is well versed in hedonism. You know, sometimes you get the idea that preachers of the gospel have no trouble with desires. I was 11 years old visiting my cousin on his dad's farm in Wisconsin when I discovered go-karts with big engines. He had a go-kart with a 15 horsepower engine. And we're going down this dirt road at about 50 miles an hour. And I said, wow, that's the way I want to live. I'm gonna live for go-karts with big pleasures. I was 12 years old in Clarendon, Virginia I'm not proud of this. I caught a look at a woman in a magazine who didn't have much on. I took another look with lust and said, Whoa, I want to live here. I was 14 when I experienced my first speedboat ride. I came to the conclusion that real life could only be found speeding across the top of the water. That started my boat-building desires, which lasted for years. By the age of 15, I knew that an important goal in life was to become rich, because only as a millionaire could I enjoy the good life. I was 16 when I bought my first car. Had my own wheels. I was about 17 when I concluded that real life could only be lived by being able to follow the birds. I set out to become a pilot, to buy an airplane, to be free. By the time I was 26, I owned the right wing of an airplane. Thus I developed and nourished all my desires, all these desires, you know. They were arming themselves to get what they wanted. Because I knew that getting these things would really bring me life. There was no question in my mind that go-karts would bring me life. That women would bring me life, that money would bring me life, that airplanes would satisfy me. So my life was a search for pleasure that combined all these desires under the title Christian Youth. I had trusted Christ. I wanted to serve Christ. I really wanted to serve Christ. And yet these desires spotted me. and affected me for so many years in so many different ways. Can you relate? That's the point. This is something that we so often minimize. We so often overlook how our desires influence. Our relationship with Christ. So we have in these two verses three important tasks that help define our worship of God, our religion. Religion is not just what we sing about in church. Religion is how we talk to ourselves in private, what we do with orphans and widows, how much of our lives are spotted by this Worldly desire for pleasure. Do you lie to yourself? You care at all about orphans, widows How about the world's spots, pleasures? What do you do about it? What you do about it is you don't say to yourself, well, I'll just get better. What you do about it is you confess. You confess it to the Lord. You ask God to forgive you. You ask God to cleanse you. You ask God for his wisdom on how do I conquer these things. Dead run around in my life. Amen