Your friends, uncles and aunts are much more influential in their lives. In their eyes, your style is old-fashioned, your ways outdated, your authority oppressive. Not infrequently you hear something like, I hate you, what have you ever done for me? I am not looking forward to this stage of life, right? But parents take hard. It you know, if you stay calm and steady, this too will pass, apparently. If all goes well after they mature, you know. And then going back after they idolize you in their early years and demonize you in their teenage years, they'll eventually humanize you in their adult years. They'll realize that their expectations of us were too heavy, often unreasonable. Maybe they themselves get married, have their own kids and realize how hard it is. Perhaps they'll say, you know, Mom and Dad did their best to Raise us given their circumstances. They're not gods and they're not tyrants, they're mortals, human just like us. Now if in if I indeed must pass through these stages, I pray that the demonizing stage lasts like one week, and humanizing early and often, I can only hope. Now I bring all this up not only to share my concerns as a father. It's a warm-up talk to today's lesson from Genesis. I wonder if Noah's three sons, Shem, Ham, and Jephet, had times when dad was their hero, larger than life figure. From their diapers, they saw him stand apart from the rest. I don't know how diapers work, I'm just Um they hear him preaching and his hands were busy working hard to provide every day and prepare for judgment day. Um But as the boys grew, they'd hear people talk. Is it true what they say? Is our dad insane? A fanatic? Everyone says he is Of course, in the end, even if they had moments of doubt, they and their wives followed him into the ark. They made the faith of their father, their own faith. But still, after many years of living with him, they know that Noah wasn't perfect. Then they have to ask: how do we honor him? How do we not disrict not disrespect him? What do we do about his hypocrisy? How do we eulogize him properly? And how about us Noah is in a sense father of us father of us all, like Adam. How do we humanize him and not idolize him or demonize him? If we do want to idolize him, we'd skip over most of the verses for this week. But we can't do that, right? The fact remains we do have the passage that's for this week and it records Noah's lowest moments. God wanted the sin of this man to be a lesson for you and me So today, as we near the end of Genesis 9, we conclude another section of Genesis. To rewind, this section began back in chapter 6, verse 9, and we've been going through it rather slowly. After a general introduction of his lineage and his world, Moses focused on the man himself. We don't know much about him in the first half of his life. Much of what we do know is closer to the flood and tied and linked to the the building of the ark Of course, that's what's essential, was key is that Noah and his family obeyed God and survived as passengers on board. But you know what else survived, besides God's image bearers and lesser creatures? Sin survived And sin continues even today. Not even Noah, the great man of faith, preacher of righteousness, was immune. He had his faults and flaws. So we shouldn't idolize him as if he's perfect. We shouldn't demonize him for his mistakes Rather with a dose of sympathy, we humanize him and learn from him and his life in today's passage. So let's turn to Genesis 9, 18 to 29. If you don't have a Bible, feel free to take the one in front of you. Matthews Genesis nine, the first book of the Bible, chapter nine, eighteen to twenty-nine Now the sons of Noah who went out of the ark were Shem, Ham, and Jephet. And Ham was the father of Canaan. These three were the sons of Noah, and from these the whole earth was populated. And Noah began to be a farmer, and he planted a vineyard. Then he drank of the wine and was drunk and became uncovered in his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. But Shem and Jephet took a garment, laid it on both their shoulders. and went backward and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were turned away, and they did not see their father's nakedness. So Noah awoke from his wine and knew what his younger son had done to him. Then he said, Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants. And he said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and may Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge Jephet, and may he dwell in the tents of Shem, and may Canaan be his servant. servant. And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. So all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years, and he died. Again, in the post-flood world, the problem of sin continues from one generation to the next. Case in point, verses 18 to 21 record a mistake of Noah that left them exposed. And then in verses 22 to 23, one son sees his father's shame, but the other two refuse to see it. And then in the aftermath, as Noah wakes up from his drunken stupor, there are lasting consequences in verses 24 to 29. So as you see I divide the sermon into three parts, eighteen to twenty-one, twenty-two to twenty-three, twenty-four to twenty-nine. All throughout our warnings against vices and promises of reward for virtue. Here are three of them in form of household rules. They apply to our families at home and even our church family, the household of faith. First, in our lavish years, stay vigilant against dissipation. twenty one. Secondly, in our lowest moments, choose to honor each other. 22 to 23. Thirdly, in our lasting legacy, turn to God for justice and grace. So the first household rule in our lavish years, stay vigilant against dissipation. The first sentence of verse 18 reintroduces us to Noah and his sons. It echoes 7:13, where we read, These same men entered the ark with their wives, now they've exited. Some time must have passed. As 10 1 tells us in the next chapter, Shem, Ham, and Jephet began having sons after the flood. Later in 106, we learn that Ham had four sons. Back to chapter 9, the second sentence of verse 18 puts emphasis on Ham as the father of Cain. That's very relevant for the inspired writer and the original audience of Genesis. Moses recorded this account for the Israelites who would later go and conquer the land of Canaan. So no doubt their ears perked up as they learned of their enemy's origins. But in Genesis 9, much of the focus is on the father and grandfather of Canaan, Ham and Noah. Respectively. Earlier they along with Shem and Japheth were blessed by the Lord himself. They were commanded to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth As we see in verse nineteen, the three sons of Noah did just that. From them come all kinds of people and nations. And while his sons were busy with their own lives, Noah got to work himself. That's what we see in verse 20. He chose as his vocation to be a farmer, literally a man of the ground. It's similar to Cain's occupation as the tiller of the ground back in chapter 4, except that Noah specialized later in the vineyard work. Now while doing so, Noah found great value in grapes. Maybe he picked, washed, and ate grapes. them as snacks at first. Maybe later he created the first charcuterie board, right? With cheese, crackers, and cured meat. Right. Somewhere along the way he went from general horticulture to viniculture, from wine dressing to wine making. There's nothing wrong with the consumption of wine in itself. Later in chapter 14, Melchizedek shares wine with Abraham. As prophets like Isaiah and Joel speak of the millennial kingdom to come, they predict the feast of wines on the lees and mountains dripping with new wine. Jesus taught that the cup and wine of the Last Supper and the Lord's Supper symbolize the new covenant in his blood, shed for many for the remission of sins. So there's nothing wrong with wine in itself. But there's everything wrong with drunkenness. The scripture clearly prohibits intoxication and alcoholism. It says in Ephesians 5. 18, do not be drunk with wine in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit. Even long before the New Testament, it was common knowledge that the sort of substance abuse was dangerous. It promotes stubbornness and rebellion among the youth It would lead us astray to poverty and sensual living, as Proverbs tells us. So then why did Noah make this mistake? Various theories have been proposed to at least partially excuse Noah. Some say he was naive. He didn't understand fully the effects of the drink. Others say he overestimated himself, thinking he could handle it, but he should have known his old age would affect his alcohol tolerance. Still another theory is that he was depressed or in despair of life. Perhaps he has something like PTSD or Survivor's Guilt after the flood. He witnessed the s you know societal evils for centuries and the awful judgment of God for a year. That's a lot for a person to take in Right. After that he was going weary maybe from the tough work life he was having. Because the ground Noah worked was the same cursed ground that Cain worked, he faced the same frustrations. Maybe as Proverbs 31:6 says, he gave himself wine because he was bitter of heart. Well, whatever the motivation, Noah crossed the line. There's no excuse for that. Drunkenness literally exposed him as it says in verse 21. He didn't know what he was doing as he undressed himself in the tent and was knocked out cold. As I said earlier, we don't want to demonize Noah, but we should learn something from his mistake. Many great men have failed in their later years. Moses, the one who's writing Genesis, you know. He delivered Israel out of Egypt, led them to the Red Sea and the wilderness. But near the end he acted impulsively, in frustration, struck the rock twice. He was so close at the threshold of the promised land, yet he did not hallow God in the eyes of the people. So he failed to enter. Later in the Bible, as he ate, Solomon's wives turned his heart towards the other gods. He became disloyal to the Lord. Like him, King Asa, right, mostly a good king for decades, messed up in the last five years or so He relied on human strength and intelligence more than God. He refused accountability. He oppressed the people This is a ruler who walked in dignity in royal estates, but he stumbled. He became diseased in his feet. Now back to Noah, all this to say in our lavish years, stay vigilant against dissipation. So I'm sure you can say Steve is going against all kinds of vices. And I wonder, just thinking about many of us in this congregation If you're discouraged or slowing down in old age. And I don't mean that physically, right? Because I heard recently that 70 is the new 60. You're laughing in agreement, right? That's all right. Seventies and you sixty, okay? I'm talking about spiritual energy. Hopefully you're not slowing down in that area. Follow the example of Paul, right? Whose words to Ephesian elders and an Ephesian pastor should be ours. You know, he talked about how nothing will move him, not the uncertainty of the future or the certainty of trouble ahead. He said, I must finish my race with joy and the ministry which I receive from the Lord Jesus. I must testify to the gospel of the grace of God. May my last words be, I have fought the good fight. I've finished the race. I have kept the faith. So to do just that in our lavish years, stay vigilant against dissipation. And thankfully we're not alone Right, in this contest, in this struggle. Christianity is a team sport. This is why commitment to a local church is so important. As we see the last day approaching, we consider one another in order to stir up love and good works, to not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. And in such gatherings, we want to see younger saints exhorting older ones. Do that wisely and compassionately, as with the Father, not rebuking them disrespectfully. Paul told Timothy. If you want to see how an example of how not to help an older saint struggling with sin Take a look at the next few verses in Genesis 9. In verses 22 to 23, you find the second of the three household rules. In our lowest moments, choose to honor each other. While Noah laid in the tent in Shane, his youngest son, Ham finds him. As he enters the scene, again, he's said to be the father of Canaan. I'll explain why this title is important later. But now we focus on the second part of verse 22, where it says Ham saw his father naked. Obviously this isn't a proud moment for Noah, but at least it's not public indecency. And Han Ham just covered up his dad, kept his mouth shut about it, and can and talked with Noah later. You know, just eventually confront Noah later, he would have been innocent, but he didn't stay quiet. He didn't wait until Noah woke up. He went out and told his two brothers outside. Now before we get to Shem and Jephet, let's figure out exactly why Ham's at fault here. Some of try to reconstruct the scene of verse 22 in more detail. One approach is to define the verb saw as meaning more than a glance, but closer to staring, voyeurism even. Some ancient Jewish traditions hold that Ham went as far as castrating Noah. That would explain why Noah had no more children. There's even a modern interpretation that says Ham forced himself on Noah and violated him in a homosexual act. But I take these ideas to be far-fetched and they put too much weight on the verb sol. The problem with him is not that he saw what he saw. The problem is that he went and spread the news of his father's shame and disgrace. He might defend himself and say, Well, I'm just telling you the truth, brothers. Nothing more. Just I'm a truth teller. Our highest calling is not just to be truth-tellers, right? But to speak the truth in love. Our job is not to be investigative journalists, but be faithful children. Children, children of God, and children to our earthly parents. Our mouth and tongue only reveal facts, but faith and love clothe the naked. Have fervent love for one another, right? For love will cover a multitude of sins. And that's what Ham's brothers were determined to do in verse 23. They work together to cover up the shame Noah brought upon himself. Now I'm not trying to promote cover-ups in general. Let's be clear that in this case, Noah's both the perpetrator and the victim of his own sin. Of course, cover-ups would be wrong had Noah hurt someone else. But Noah brought this trouble upon himself, and it was up to his sons to get him out of it. So Shem and Japhet do damage control from here on. They will not spread further what Hamad just told them. As they entered Noah's tent, they made considerable effort to make sure they never saw their father's nakedness. Walking backwards with the car garment over their shoulders is a simple gesture that demonstrates this household rule in our lowest moments. Choose to honor each other. A few weeks ago, some TikTok videos of healthcare workers in Southern California surfaced. They were mocking their patients who left behind stains from bodily fluids. Not too long afterwards, they were all fired. This goes to show that even well-educated professionals can be foolish, unwise. It only takes one dumb statement, one click and post to ruin your career. But even at more stake, right, more at stake than one's job is the dignity of another human being. And if medical ethics demands we honor strangers as patients, certainly biblical ethics demands much more to protect God's image and image and fellowship. humans. And if professional etiquette demands honor, how much more the duty of love, especially for our suffering family members. And when sons honor their father, there are positive outcomes. Conversely, when a son dishonors his father, there are negative out consequences, right? And the effects of such choices are determined by the Lord Himself. That leads to the third and final household rule derived from the last six verses of Genesis 9. In our lasting legacy, Turn to God for justice and grace. Go on to verse 24 to see Ham's simple choice come to roost. As I said in an earlier sermon, we understand Ham as the youngest instead of younger, as you see in the New King James Version. And this is actually important in this context. Anne's position as the youngest answers why Noah says what he says in verse 25. So keep that in mind and tuck that away for a few seconds. We have in Noah's speech retributive justice, more specifically, the law of retaliation. The fancy Latin phrase is Les Talionis. So this big phrase means the punishment ought to fit the crime, right? In both degree and kind. In the law of Moses, we see it expressed like this: life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, strife for strife. But at times perfect reciprocity is not always possible, especially in complicated cases of dishonor like this one, especially before the age of the law. But here's the closest thing to it. And I've kind of wrote down my interpretation here. Because Ham, Noah's youngest son, brought him family ruin, it's only right that Canaan, Ham's youngest son, will bring him family curse. Again, because Ham, Noah's youngest son, brought him family ruin, it's only right that Canaan, Ham's youngest son, will bring him family curse. So I think that's why is what's going on here. Looking ahead to Genesis ten and you look at verse six, Canaan's listed last indicating he's the youngest of ham. And remember what I said earlier, the best translations of 924 say Ham's the youngest of Noah. So this is my personal explanation. Just as Noah's greatest disgrace came from his youngest, Ham's greatest disgrace will come from his youngest, Canaan. Now, this doesn't deny that maybe Ham and Canaan were in it together. Canaan was already a wicked man and his descendants were following his footsteps. So I think that's still a possibility. I just don't have like a solid proof of it. So and it's very likely that, you know, obviously Canaanites later were evil. Maybe Canaan their forefather was evil too. But that sort of explains why this curse was taking place. Anyways, besides having a good reason for why Canaan was cursed, it's also important that we answer the who question. Well you say to me it's Canaan who's cursed, of course, duh. Sadly, some have justified chattel slavery of Africans and built their case on this passage. But that's so clearly wrong. Noah's curse did not fall on the three sons who became fathers of African nations. Kush of Ethiopians, Mizriam of Egyptians, and Put of Libyans. Noah's curse fell on the fourth and last son, Canaan, the father of the Canaanites. So as we go on to verse 26, we learn that Canaan would serve Shem. Historically, one could point to later Israelites subjugating the Gibeonites. They served as woodcutters and water carriers for the congregation and for the altar of the Lord Canaan would serve Jephet as well in verse 27. A historical example of that's the Battle of Carthage in 146 BC. That's when the Phoenicians lost their city and freedom to the Romans. But I tend to agree with Alan Ross that the curse of bondage here is more general in fulfillment. Canaan will be brought low while Shem and Jephet are raised up. Using a bit of wordplay, Noah poetically blesses them. Jephet's name itself means expansion. It's related to the verb enlarge in verse 27. So the father's prayer is literally, may God Jeffhet Jeffhet. He also prays for peace between Japheth and Shem. Now you think with that Japhethes growing in influence and numbers, the Shemites will go and live with them, but it's the other way around. It's Japhet dwelling in the tents of Shem in peace. Now, one of my favorite biblical scholars, right, Walter Kaiser, I love many of his works, thinks that he in the middle of verse 27 is not referring to Jeffhet. He, he thinks, there belongs, refers to God earlier in the verse. If that's the case, we have another messianic prophecy. Noah would be predicting that God Himself would someday dwell in the tents of Shem. Of course that happened when the glory of the Lord filled the tent of meeting later in Exodus. To go further in the timeline through the line of Shem, Abraham, and David, the word of God became flesh and dwelt among us. We beheld the glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. While I find this interesting, and again I love Walter Kaiser, you'll see that most Bible translators Do not interpret that he as referring to God or Christ. You won't see it capitalized as you do in Genesis 3. 15 or Isaiah 53. Okay. I love Walter Kaiser, like I said. I think I've said like a couple times already. But I don't really think this one's this directly foretells the coming of the Messiah. But the story continues, right? It's a very important part that the descendants of Shem continue the redemption story. And the main point here holds true, right? Let's keep that up for a second. Noah disappointed by his son, maybe even disillusioned with life in general, looks to the Lord for hope. He does not take the path of violence and vengeance as layment did in chapter 4. He demonstrates that household rule in our lasting legacy turned to God for justice and grace. So now we conclude the account of Noah. He lives out his days 350 years after the flood, as we see in verse 28. saw many of his descendants just as Adam did. He was a great man of faith, but even he could not live forever. As we see in the final verse of the chapter, he died at 950. And that's pretty impressive, actually. He's the third in the list of top longest lifespans, right? Only behind Metzalah and Jared. and beating out Adam. But again, even as Noah looms large in the hall of faith, he's just a man. He was fallible. He battled his flesh until his end. He proved to be mortal. He stood head and shoulders above his generation. At one point, literally at the top of the world. But as death reigned from Adam to Moses, he too succumbed to death. A sinner like all the rest. And that includes us today, right? This is a m that all of us need the gospel of Jesus, the good news of Christ. But first, we have to know and understand what's the bad news. We're guilty of dissipation, drunkenness, gluttony, substance abuse. I'm sure we can point to a time when we dishonored our fathers or our mothers. Maybe we disrespect authorities in general. By doing so, we've insulted the greatest authority, our Father in heaven. We've broken his laws, and if we rely on our good works for blessings, we'd always fall short. What's worse, your moral performance, if you go in that path, obligates you to keep all of the commands of the Bible, hundreds of them. You can never do it in your own flesh. We fall under the curse of the law. Left to ourselves, we die in sin and be condemned forever in hell. So what do we do? The better question is, what did God do? John 3. 16 summarizes it well. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. God the Father sent his son. Christ Jesus is one person with divine and human nature. He lived a perfect life. He was subject to his earthly parents, but more importantly, he always did those things that pleased his father above. And to glorify the Father to the utmost, he went to the cross. He was stripped, degraded, humiliated. He was ridiculed and scorned in public. He was cursed for our blessings. He suffered in our place to pay the penalty of sin that we should pay. He declared his work finished as he breathed his last and died. He was buried. But on the third day Jesus rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection for 40 days. Then he ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. And this good news of Christ's reign demands a response. We must repent. Turn from yourselves. Your selfishness and self-righteousness, turn to Jesus, trust in them only for salvation. You cannot earn or deserve everlasting life. It's a gift, unmerited, undeserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. So we declare this truth, uh we declare it verbally, you know, in our studies and even in this ordinance of the Holy Communion. We do not celebrate it in gluttony and drunkenness, despising and shaming each other. We celebrate under the same tent and the same roof, at the same table, as saints covenanting together. at the local church. So let's pray and observe this ordinance now. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word, and thank you that we see sinners finding grace. Whether it was at the beginning of the Bible, middle of the Bible, towards the end of the Bible, Lord, we see ourselves in these sinners In people who found mercy and people who are weak in their and facing temptation and facing hardships in life Lord, we pray that we would imitate the fate of Noah. That we would understand that we're imperfect, that we need you. And Lord, as we even as we may have walked with you for many years, We know that sin is at every corner, lurking. And help us to be vigilant. And for those that we see struggling, help us to have compassion. To protect their dignity, but also to warn them and admonish them to commit themselves to you, to turn away from sin. And Lord, we thank you that with all the things that are going wrong in this world, in our individual relationships, in our lives, in society, country, the world, we just Just turn to you. We know that you are a God of blessing. You are the blessed God. You have a plan, and you reveal that plan through your Son Jesus Christ. Christ. And we thank you that we can trust in Him in this life and the next. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. So I get a lot of parenting advice. Some are bad. Some are good. Some of them are unsolicited and unhelpful. Some of them I seek out and find them useful. One that struck me as interesting is this one. Children go through three distinct phases with their parents. First, your kids idolize you. You're the coolest, the strongest, the fastest, the hero who can do anything The other day my son asked me to chop down a tree and build him a pirate ship. The fact that he thinks I can do this is interesting. My w my wife would tell you that I can't even chop carrots properly, so uh but and then after they idolize you for a while. Your children demonize you