Thanks, Randy. It's good to be back with you. I notice people have moved forward. I'm very happy to see Such excellent response. I also noticed that the that the bread and soup fellowship, did you notice the bread and soup fellowship is prophesied to begin at one o'clock? I will try to cro close in prayer at twelve fifty-nine so that that is possible. I'm kidding. It's good to be back. Did anyone have an opportunity this week to count it all joy? Anybody have only four people counted it joy. All right. That's interesting. Anybody have an opportunity to ask God for wisdom? No, several. That's good. Everybody remember the uh five commands from last week? Command number one, got it all joy, command number two. Determined to go through it fully. Command three. Ask for wisdom. Command four. Ask in faith. Right. Command five. Rejoice in your status change. I trust you won't forget those. I would encourage you to teach those to somebody else. I really believe that every new believer in Jesus Christ needs To learn James chapter 1, such an important section of Scripture. So today we're in 13 to 20, James 1, 13 to 20. We ended last week at verse 12. The blessing that God intends that we experience through these Difficulties through these trials. Why do bad things happen to good people? Verse 12 says, Blessed is the man or woman who endures temptation. For when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life. Which the Lord has promised to those that love him. I want you to just notice two things that this verse says Will happen. Number one, approved. When he has been approved That means that God wants to put his stamp of approval on our lives. God wants to say, tested and passed. With flying colors. You say that doesn't sound exactly like God. That sounds more like school. God wants to put a stamp of approval. Look at the way God talked to Job. I mean Job chapter 1, verse 8. God says to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil? Do you catch God's attitude there? He seemed proud, italics, proud, almost, of Job. And Job's relationship with him. Of course, Satan's attitude, you know, with a snarl was, yeah, he's he's great, fine, because you're paying him off. But that attitude there, I think, is a picture of verse 12, when he has been approved. God wants his children to go through difficulties so that he can approve them. And then the other thing I want you to notice in verse 12, it says, He shall receive the crown of life. Which the Lord has promised to those who love him. The crown of life. Don't think of the word crown as a twenty-pound golden thing that you put on your head and then try to stand up. It's not talking about that. The crown is the picture of what somebody received for winning the Olympics. In those days it was sort of a wreath, you know, that you wore on your head. That may have been worth what? 79 cents. It wasn't the value of what went on your head. It was what that meant. It was what was associated with that. The person that won that was at the peak of life. The peak of all of his practice, the peak of all of his difficulty. So the crown here is talking about the ultimate Like the crown in a road. It's talking about the ultimate of life. It's talking about the kind of life that everybody wants. Everybody dreams of. And James is saying, you will find that life as you go through your difficulties God's way. Amen. When he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those that love him. So I want you to notice this week the contrast. The first twelve verses introduce us to life. That God gives us as we deal with the difficulties. Today we have the contrast. Verse 15 ends with the word death. In verse 12, you can experience the crown of life. In verse 15, you can experience death. As a Christian, 15 is not talking about unbelievers. 15 is talking about believers. Believers experiencing death. It's amazing, but you and I face life or death possibilities in every trial and temptation. So verse 13 begins a new section. Verse 13 says, Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. The phrase, tempted by evil tells us that this is a different subject. Verse 2 said, various temptations. Various trials, meaning good, bad, indifferent, many different colors, and so on. Verse 13 says, tempted by evil. So our big question today is, what does it mean to be a doer of the word when tempted by evil? James 1. 22 says you want to be a doer of the word. Last week we have five commands. But what is a doer of the word when you're tempted by evil? James is now talking about how trials and difficulties become temptations, how we process offers from the other side. This is a negative side. Becoming a doer of the word by not doing what temptation suggests. I build this title and I build this message on a picture that I received about eight or nine years ago In Iraq, there was a young woman, apparently a beautiful young woman, who came to a police station And said to the person at the desk at the police station, can I go in? I want to retrieve my wallet. I left my wallet here yesterday. Can I come get my wallet? When the answer was no, she detonated herself, blew herself up, and injured several people in the police station. And that picture gives me the picture for this section. You know, it's hard to believe that there are people that live in a situation where at any time they could meet somebody who would just explode and kill them. This passage is saying you and I meet those kind of people. Maybe not in a physical sense, even though it's that's getting more and more real these days as we watch people getting shot. even in church. But we're talking about in a spiritual kind of sense where We face these temptations which can very really blow up in our face and bring about death. That's where verse 15 is going. So, verse 15, verse 16 says, the issue in our lives is deception. Be not deceived my beloved brethren. How does temptation get into our lives in such a way that it can blow us up? How does it get in? It gets in by deception I find in this section five well-used arguments that repeatedly deceive us and open the door for the cute young terrorist to come in loaded with explosives. Five ways we deceive ourselves. I'll give them to you quickly and then we'll go through them. Way number one God made me this way and I can't help it. Way number two, the devil made me do it. Way number three, it's not going to kill me. Way number four, the devil always seems to have the best offers Way number five, I don't need any help, thank you. I don't know if you've ever used these excuses, rationalizations. But here's the way that Satan, that evil, that temptation can get into our minds, get into our hearts, and push us in the wrong direction. So let's start with number one. God made me this way and I cannot help it. God made me this way, and I can't help it. Verse 13. Let no one say when he is tempted, I'm tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he himself tempt anyone. The addition of the phrase by evil helps us understand what kind of testing this is. The Greek word to test also means to tempt. The same word is used both ways. So you distinguish which it is by the form of allurement. A temptation is what I like, but shouldn't do. A test is what I don't like, but should do. Okay? Mint chocolate chip ice cream is a temptation to me. Cod liver oil is a test. Alright? So a temptation is what I want to do and should not do. Test is what I do not want to do. And should do. The interesting thing is that these are opposite sides of the same coin. God said to Abraham, Go sacrifice your son. What was that? A temptation? No, he didn't want to do that. I would imagine along with that test came who knows how many temptations that said to Abraham, ask him again whether he'd change his mind. You know, what's your rush on this? All kinds of temptations that came as the opposite side of that test. So testing, God tests us Almost every command in the Bible is or can be a test. Satan is the one who tempts us. So the point is, don't say that God tempts you. God does not tempt you. Now, if you've been reading your King James Version of the Bible recently in Genesis 22, you may question me. Genesis 22, 1 says, and God tempted Abraham and said, Go sacrifice your son. And that is the right word when you see tempt tempt in the big sense, meaning both test and Both test and tempt. The New King James helps us here because the New King James says, and God tested Abraham and said, go sacrifice your son. Do you see the difference? So the point is, God has nothing to do with evil. Nothing. He doesn't tempt He doesn't move in that direction. Nothing to do with evil. We'll notice in verses 17 and 18, God's only concern is good. So what happens here is that we get into difficulties and trials and we try to blame God. We try to say it's because God made me this way. This is victim theology. I am the victim. I just can't help it. It's the way I'm built. It's my environment. It's my boss. It's my husband. It's my parents. It's my neighbors. It's my child. It's the dog. It' It's a thermostat They are all so bad and make life difficult. If I could just get out of my present environment into a better one, I would be better. Ever thought that? If I could just get out of this job. Crying out loud, if we could get out of this neighborhood All right, take that thinking process and move it to its ultimate thought. Its ultimate thought would be, if I could be, if I could be in a perfect environment. So maybe we should talk to Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve were in a perfect environment. What happened to them? And in contrast to that, maybe we should talk to Jesus Christ in the wilderness for 40 days with nothing to eat, being tempted constantly by Satan. Do you see the difference? Adam and Eve fell at the first temptation. Jesus Christ never fell, even though tempted for 40 days and 40 nights. Environment doesn't have anything to do with it. Whether you fall into sin, whether you yield to temptation, depends on what's going on inside. Not what's going on outside. Some people say, well, it's just my nature. I'm ambitious. I want to get the job done. I'm in a hurry. That's why I'm cutting corners That's why I'm cutting people's throats. Others say I'm a perfectionist. I've got to do it right. I'm obsessed about exactness. Or why did God make me with these uncontrollable desires? Why was I created with such a need to eat? Or so attracted to sex, or so desirous to succeed, or be popular. You know? All of this is ultimately blaming God. All of this started with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. They started the whole process of acting as victims. It wasn't long after Adam and Eve sinned that God found them hiding and said, Why are you hiding? Adam and Eve said, We were afraid. Because we are naked. God said, Who told you you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree which I commanded you that you should not eat? That was the question. Question: Have you eaten of the tree? What was the answer? Remember the answers? Both of them confessed. Amen. Both confessed. They confessed the way my kids confess. Adam said, I ate in Genesis 3. 12. Eve said, I ate in Genesis 3. 13. But notice how they couch the confessions. Look at the way they loaded them. Here's Adam's confession. Genesis 3:12. The woman who you gave to be with me She gave me of the tree, and I ate. Alright, so what's he saying? Is he saying he's guilty? Yes, but you know, Lord, if it hadn't been for the woman you handed who handed it to me Put it in front of my nose, ate a bite herself in my face, almost stuffed it down my throat. I might not have done it, but yeah, I ate. And remember. You gave her to me. Perhaps if you had not given her to me to hand it. to me and put it in front of my nose and eat a bite in front of my face and almost shove it down my throat, I might not have eaten. Okay, so much for clear confession of guilt. Here's Eve's confession. The serpent deceived me, and I ate. What's she saying? Is she admitting her guilt? Well, yes, but really it's the serpent. You know, if it hadn't been for this snake rising up before me and controlling the conversation and talking about only one tree Questioning your word, suggesting you're trying to hold out on us, I might not have eaten. But, yes, I ate. Adam suggested that God had some blame. Eve pointed to Satan. Ever done that? I see no hands. I heard a sneeze, but I don't know if there was any confession here. You know Here's deception number one. I am the victim. Somebody else pushed Martin Luther was correct when he pictured Adam as in reality saying this: You, Lord, have sinned. Thinking you can shift the blame off of your choice There's nothing, perhaps, that shows so clearly the horror of sin as this incredible tendency of humans to blame their holy, alwise, righteous Creator for their sin. So temptation gives you the choice to do wrong. We make the choice And until we see that and admit it clearly, we may not successfully handle temptation. So that's number one. God made me this way, and I couldn't help myself. Rationalization number two is if God didn't do it, then Satan made me do it. This is verses 14 and 15a But each one is tempted when he is drawn away by his own desires and enticed. Then when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is full grown, brings forth death. If God didn't tempt me, it's got to be the devil. This was Eve's view. The serpent deceived me and I ate. The devil pushed me. He lied to me. He tricked me. You ever done this? Excused your decision by blaming it on the snake. The truth is in verse 14 that your sin and my sin begins with us. The awful truth about sin is that we choose to execute ourselves. How? These two verses give us the process. And there are four participles here. That gives us the steps down that lead to death. You've got four participles here: the word drawn away, as if from some safe place, the word enticed. As with an apple and peanut butter and a rat trap, the word conceived, as in get pregnant, and the word full grown. as in mature and ready to deliver. These four words describe the dark side of trials The possibility that what's designed for good may become bad, in fact, becomes so bad that it leads to death. So I want you to look at the first two participles. We are drawn away and we are enticed. Verse 14. Drawn away and enticed. You'll notice it says, sin begins when we are drawn away of our own desires. Sin begins with our desires Somehow we can be pulled out or drawn out by desires. What kind of desires? First of all, notice that these are not bad desires. They're not bad desires. Even though if you have the New International Version, it says evil desires. That's a wrong translation. It's not, they are not evil desires. You say, how do you know? Well, you don't have sin until verse 15. When desire conceives, it brings forth sin. So you don't have sin in verse 14. You have desires. What kind of desires are these? These are normal human desires, at least to begin with. These are normal human desires that every human person has. You were born with a desire to eat and sleep and exercise and all of those things, you know, receive love and appreciation and accomplish something. If you remember Abraham Maslow from back in the whatever 30s and his his pyramid of desires, you know, all of those are normal human desires. And what happens is that we are in a safe place until those desires pull us out. When they pull us out, then we can be enticed. So desire pulls you out. You may be completely satisfied as you sit here. until you receive this message from your stomach that says, I am getting hungry, and it's a while before one o'clock I am getting hungry. You get hungry, and all of a sudden there are antennae that go up and out looking for how do I fulfill this desire Until you get hungry, you can't be tempted with food. My illustration is from Thursday. I'm prophesying, okay? I'm prophesying on Thursday. You are going to have this very nice Thanksgiving dinner with all the turkey and all the trimmings and all the other things, you know, and let's say you overeat I doubt that any of you would do that. But so let's just suppose you overeat on Thursday and you are sitting there stuffed watching the Redskins play football. And somebody comes in and says, do you realize that McDonald's has two Big Macs for $4 today? Let's go get some Are you tempted? Maybe to throw off. See, it's the desire that pulls you out. And we have all of these desires, all kinds of desires that are built in because we're human beings. And when those desires pull us out, we can be tempted. This is how Christ could be tempted. How could Christ be tempted when he had no evil desires? He could be tempted because he was a human and got hungry. And Satan came along and said, wouldn't you really think about a sandwich? How about a hand, not a hand. How about a uh how about a uh about a lamb sandwich, you know. You provide the bread, turn these rocks into bread, and I'll supply the mayonnaise. That's the way temptation works. It begins with normal desires. And then the word enticed is the word bait. You're baited. And that often comes from Satan. That can come from somebody else. Can come from a neighbor, can come from the situation, can come from what you thought of, what you did before. But you're baited. Bait is always something you like. Bait is always something that looks good. Any of your normal human needs can be enticed. Satan is a specialist. He enticed Eve with an apple. Or pomegranate. Christ with bread. Any of you men ever been enticed by pornography? Satan always seems to be able to have a woman floating by who's more beautiful or wearing less or making suggestions. You have a need? Satan has an answer. It's important to realize that being enticed Is not sin. You don't have sin until verse fifteen until the desire gets together with the enticement. And the desire says, all right, let us do this. Someone has said it's not the first look a man makes at a woman that is sin. It's the second look. David could have turned away the first time he saw Bathsheba. But the choice to look again is where verse 15 comes in. The fact that Eve saw a beautiful apple wasn't sin. until she reached out and took it and took a bite. Remember that Christ was tempted in all points, like as we are. All points, yet without sin. So sin is created in verse 15 And in verse 15, we go to rationalization number three Number one, God made me this way and I can't help it. Number two, Satan made me do it. Number three, rationalization. It's not going to hurt me. It's not going to hurt me. So it's just a small lie. All I'm borrowing for crying out loud is a pencil. I'm gonna do this and be done with it. It's not gonna hurt me Verse 15 says, Then when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin when it is full-grown brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brother. So you've got two more words. You've got the word enticement after the enticement. You've got the word conception, and then you've got a birth. When desire conceives. So sin begins when we grab the bait. When we say yes. The word conceives describes our reaction to the enticement. We could ignore it, we could choose something else. But the word conceive means we take it. We make it our own, like what a fish does with bait. And in that process, we create sin. We create it It wasn't in our lives before. It wasn't on earth before we created. Romans 5. 12 says, by one man sin entered the world. There was no sin in the world until Adam and Eve ate the apple, and they created it. By eating the apple. And we create something that's not there by giving in to our personal desires. The process is pure deception. Satan is the master, the father of lies. His pitch to Eve was, God is overstating the case. It's not going to kill you. In fact, you're going to enjoy it because your eyes will be open and you will become like God. The cleverness of Satan's lies is that he can pitch death as something we need, a fulfillment of our highest desires. Something that is light and refreshing. The embezzler tells himself that he's just borrowing the money and he will surely pay it back. The unfaithful husband assures himself that what his wife doesn't know won't hurt her. Or the government worker who says everybody else is doing it. Why shouldn't I, as he pads his expense account, steals things from the office? Satan succeeded with Adam and Eve by lying about the effect of their action. He pictured eating the apple as becoming like God. Unbelievable. Nothing about the fact that it would ruin billions of her children. Nothing about the fact that it was opening the door for her firstborn son to become a murderer of his brother and a wandering vagabond. You'll become like God. He presented an act that led to death as a Bible college education. Master liar, master. So that Conception, then in verse 15, leads to a birth Sin brings forth. Brings forth. The picture is a maternity ward. Nine months after pregnancy. The conception took place when you seize the bait, when you disobeyed God, when you sinned. Now, after a period of time, that which started as disobedience has incubated and come to full term. You bring forth a birth, and what is the birth? Death. Sin gives birth to death. James is talking about when the sin comes full term, when it becomes a fixed habit, so that it controls you rather than you controlling it. And the result is not a whole lot different than a woman who carries a child for nine months and then, after 20 hours of labor, has a delivery and discovers that her child is dead. The only difference is you are dead. What do you mean, dead? What do you mean dead? You mean a believer loses his salvation, goes to hell? No, we're talking about death in a very similar way to how Adam and Eve died. How did Adam and Eve die? God said to them, the day you eat of that tree, you will die. I don't think they died. Physically, they were still walking around. But something did happen How do you know something happened? Well, they recognized all of a sudden that they were naked. What did that mean? And then they were running. They were hiding from God. God had to go look for them. You'll find exactly the same kind of thing happens in your life. Sin causes you to run from God. Sin causes you To run from others. What happens as sin progresses in our lives, various things die You can die emotionally. You can die mentally. You can die relationally. before you ever die physically. You heard the story about the three old men sitting on a park bench Three old men, newspaper reporter comes up and says to the first man, Sir, to what do you attribute your long life? The man said, no wine, no women, no late hours. She said, that's wonderful. How old are you? Ninety-nine. Says to the second man, Sir, to what do you attribute your long life? No wine, no women, no late hours. It's wonderful, sir. How old are you? 102. Goes the third man. Sir, to what do you attribute your long life? Wine, women, late hours. That's wonderful, sir. How old are you? Twenty-seven. And we laugh at that and yet that so often is the point Sin eats away at the inside. Sin ruins all of those things that are so valuable in life Death. Do not be deceived. What do you mean it's not going to hurt you? It will kill you and injure people around you that you love. What do you mean, white lie? It's opening the door for a smiling terrorist to enter with her bulging trench coat. It's offering her a room in your house right next to your master bedroom with no thought about anything other than good because she's smiling and happy and kind and fun to have around. Think about the tragedy in the last couple years with Bill Cosby What absolute tragedy. Think about Marvin Weinstein, you know Just the tragedy of all of this success in life and then suddenly death That's what verse 15 is picturing. And then verse 16 says: Do not be deceived. Do not be deceived. So easy to get deceived in this area, to deceive yourself. So the first rationalization is God made me this way, I can't help myself. The second one is, uh, what's the second one? Satan made me do it. The third one is I can do this and get away with it because I'm special. It's not going to help. Not going to hurt. The fourth one, here's number four, Satan always seems to have the most fun. Satan always seems to have the most fun. He's got always got the most beautiful girls, the most handsome hulks. He always seems to be able to get the for real party going, and it just seems like God sits there saying, No, no. No, don't. What does he have to offer in that situation? Here's the real truth behind the fake news. God intends the best for you and me. I'm reading 16, 17, and 18. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and comes down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. These verses are saying that the truth is that Satan has nothing to offer. Zero. Satan is a zero and offers zero. Everything good is from above. Everything good is from above. In reality, Satan is bankrupt. In fact, he isn't even interested in giving. All he wants to do is distort God's gifts. Every good gift, every perfect gift is from above. None are from Satan. He is the taker, not the giver. What did he give Eve and Adam? Think of what Satan gave Eve. The tree was God's, the apple was God's, the garden was God's. The plan to make Adam and Eve rulers over the world was God's. All Satan could do was call God a liar and suggest that he was holding out on Eve. What did he give Eve? Did she get life? Did she get joy? Did she get peace? Accomplishment? Did she get extra apples? No, nothing. Satan disappeared because that's his nature. Jesus said in John 10, 10, The thief comes only to steal, kill, and destroy. I am come that they might have life and life more abundantly. The word only can be written over all of Satan's efforts. Only to steal, kill, and destroy No other motive. His only motive is to take from you. He wants to get what you have. That's the purpose of the bait. Contrast, the amazing father of lights. With whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. God is called the Father of light. His goodness is like the sun, which cannot be put out or eclipsed or shadowed in any way. There's no way we can put a shadow so that we cannot be reached by the radiance of his goodness. Doesn't matter where you are, doesn't matter what you've done, you're not too far from God's. Grace, and God's Son, when you turn to Him. God is the Father of lights, the source of every good and perfect gift. So Satan wasn't walking with Adam and Eve in the cool of the evening after they obeyed him. He wasn't looking for them when they were hiding. He couldn't care less. All he could do was twist God's word in a way that allowed him to pose as if he's giving something better. The stupidity of the whole situation is absolutely incredible. Absolutely incredible. And yet we talk today as Americans as if Satan actually is making a credible offer You know, you've heard the phrase that says, why is everything fun, either illegal, immoral, or fattening? As if Satan is making some sort of offer of fund Smoking is fun. Pornography is fun. Alcohol is fun. Exploding and telling one off in anger is fun. All-night wide open party time is fun. And God is the one who always says, No, no, and keeps us from the fun. The truth is that smoking is not fun. It simply signs you up for the lung cancer ward. Pornography is tragic, destroys marriages, relationships, true love. Alcohol is deadly in many ways. All-night wide-open party can leave you with a brutal hangover, a fresh case of herpes or STDs, or worse, AIDS. Fun? The truth of the matter is that God wants you to be blessed. To enjoy his kind of life, the kind you can come back to ten years later and say, that was great. Let's do it again. You know, I think one of the temptations that we face, you follow God, you serve God, and then it looks like other people who aren't interested in the Lord at all have more fun. Or their lives are better. Psalm 72 or 73 in there, where the psalmist was looking at Just how good these people have, you know? And here I am, I'm serving the Lord, and what do I have? Ever been tempted that way? Excuse me, I shouldn't ask. Yeah, right. Nobody's gonna raise their hand. But if perchance someday you get tempted that way Realize that's deception. Our firstborn son, what time is it? Should I quit Our firstborn son was is the greatest. By the time he was 10, 12 years old, had memorized more than a thousand verses of scripture. He was in Bible Memory Association. We actually have on cassette tape A tape of him saying 26 verses in the in the little children's book. A, all we like sheep have gone astray. B, but he was wounded for hours. You remember that book? He said all of those verses when he was two years and four months old. We have it on tape. Two years and four months old. At the age of 12 and a half or thirteen, he decided there was a better way. And swallowed some of these rationalizations and you know first thing we noticed is he was picked up for shoplifting and then he would disappear and then he was into smoking and alcohol and drugs and sex and you name it. At the age of 15, one afternoon at 4 o'clock on a Wednesday afternoon, he disappeared, had taken my van, and had two 13-year-old girls with him. And gone. Did not have a driver's license. He was in Maryland, driving without a driver's license. And just disappeared. And uh we went through this series of, you know, count it all joy, ask for wisdom, determined to go through it, what's the right way? And uh that was a Wednesday afternoon at 4 o'clock. And at Saturday night at 9. 30, I get a phone call from LAPD. He's been arrested in Hollywood, California, had driven from Wednesday at four o'clock from Lanham, Maryland, to Hollywood, California. And was picked up because the policeman behind him said the the driver looked either drunk or sleepy It could have been either, or both, for all I know. And I can remember saying to myself, here I am, I'm teaching at Washington Bible College, my desire is to serve God. We have We have raised this kid in the love of the Lord. And what do we get? What happens? Is God in any way interested here? You know And I think Satan so often can come in and do exactly the same thing he did to Eve. Has God really said? Do you really think? You know? And I think that's all in this rationalization of saying Satan's got a better offer. Satan's got a better offer. The bottom line, I should finish the story, but the story takes half an hour to finish Uh he went was put in detention, I flew out. The funny thing was, this is Saturday night at nine o'clock, nine thirty, and I'm scheduled to preach in Richmond Sunday morning at a fairly large church, and I've decided I'm going to speak on the prodigal son. I don't know why, you know, just Holy Spirit leading. And uh So I'm driving down. We have no idea what to do. What do you do? I was on the phone for two or three hours after that, trying to talk to lawyers. Do you does he go to court? They were charging him with grand theft auto and transporting minors across state lines. This is California. He's in detention. This was Martin Luther King's birthday weekend. Nobody was there. They couldn't tell me anything. What do you do? So I'm going to this church with this with this mix in my mind, praying, asking God for wisdom Halfway thinking, you know, I probably ought to get up and say, I'm really not qualified to give this message and close in prayer. I've got a rebellious kid. Why should I be here? And then the other side saying Maybe I shouldn't say a thing. Don't admit anything. So I get up to speak. I'm in the middle of the message and very clearly The Spirit of God says to me, Alright, here's your chance. So I said, you know, I got a son in detention in somewhere in California. I have no idea what to do. 15 years old, stole my van. You know, grand theft auto, transporting minors And uh told a little bit about the story. Do you know what happened? Many things happened, but one of the things that was a total shock to me is I'm standing at the front door of that church, and my guess is There were twelve people who said, I've got a son, he's gone, or I've got a daughter who's gone I went back to that church over the next two years. They didn't have a pastor. I went back about a dozen times. I think every time I was there, I talked to somebody about a runaway kid. For some reason I became the specialist in runaways. I don't know why. I felt like I failed with runaways. And God has worked in amazing ways. Someday I'll tell you some more of the stories, but that son is still alive. He is well on earth in Lynchburg, and he is an excellent surveyor in Virginia. with four kids and three grandkids at the age of forty-five. God is the only one who wants your life to be good and has created all these possibilities. He is the father of lights. So don't blame God. Don't blame Satan. Don't think you can do it without it hurting you. Don't think Satan's got the best offer. One more and I'll be done. Number five, I can do this myself. I can do this myself So then, my beloved brethren, verse 19, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. The so then in verse 19 points us back to 17 and 18. Since every good and perfect gift is from above, since God's purposes on earth are only good. And he intends we become a f kind of first fruits. We desperately need more information and help. We don't have the ability to stand against temptation. We're like lambs in the middle of wolves. Our chances of success are very low. How do we make it? How do we capitalize on the good and perfect gifts? How do we become first fruits? The answer is that we need the pouring out of the Bible into our hearts. These verses explain how that happens. Number one, you become a listener. We need to listen. The fact that you're here this morning, this afternoon, says you are a listener. At least on Sunday morning at this period of time, God wants us to continually throughout the week be listeners. And B, speak carefully. Speak carefully. Quick to listen. Slow to speak. And C control your anger. Control your anger. So listening is very important because Romans 10. 17 says, faith comes by listening. You know how you grow in faith? By listening. Faith comes by listening to God's Word. Speaking carefully because the first and greatest deception. is to lie to yourself. So James is not talking primarily about how you speak in church or how you speak at your job. He's talking primarily about how you speak to yourself. Slow to speak. Evaluate what you're saying to yourself. Is that really true? And slow to wrath, because righteousness does not come from your frustrated efforts. So I want to close by reminding you of Jesus Christ in the wilderness being tempted of Satan. How did Jesus manage in the wilderness? He's hungry. Satan tempts him. What Jesus managed, how Jesus manages is by having the exact verse to fit the exact temptation. And he gives Satan the verse. He doesn't just quote the verse, but he gives Satan the verse with the statement, and that's the way I live. Do you want bread? Satan says. Make bread. Jesus said, man shall not live by bread alone. And that's the way I live. So the way Jesus dealt with Satan was not by bringing down some super nuclear laser power from heaven. was not because of his divine authority snapping Satan out of there He won the battle by referring to something a man wrote fifteen hundred years earlier. He quotes Moses. He quoted Deuteronomy 6 and Deuteronomy 8. Ever thought about the fact that those verses were laying around for 1,500 years? I wonder how many Israelites who had those verses never used those verses? And they had all the power that they needed to deal with Satan, to counteract Satan's temptations, and never used it. So here was the power available while these Israelites allowed Satan to bash their moral brains in with his stupid rationalizations. They could have done it like Jesus did it. You know, the same thing happens today. That's why James says we need to be quick to hear. Slow to talk, slow to anger, we need God's answer. So how do we become doers of the word? We become doers of the word by saying no to the tug of these lies. Don't think that God has anything to do with your temptation. He doesn't do that. Don't think that the devil made you do it. You made the choice to listen and obey one of your own desires. Don't think it's not going to hurt you, it will kill you. Faster than you think. Don't think Satan has anything good to offer. He's a zero. Comes only to steal, kill, and destroy. Don't think you can do it by yourself You need God's word. You win by listening, by being careful how you talk, by not living in anger, by using his word. Thank you for your attention. Let's pray. Father, we realize that what we have in these verses is very precious truth. It can make the difference in our lives between life and death. I pray that we might experience the blessing of your life even this week In Jesus' name, Amen.