Amen is right. I always appreciate the music in this church and uh uh Steve's uh piano playing. I like to pretend that when my hands worked I could play as well as Steve, but that would be been a uh outright lie. Uh uh never uh could. Now you give me music, I could play exactly what was there, but forget the improvisation of any kind. uh couldn't do it. And yes, it seems like we are transported uh somewhere. I don't know where we're going, but uh wow that was pretty neat. I just want to know whether that was Built by someone locally or whether that was a kit. I have no idea. I'm just kind of curious because that's quite an impressive train, don't you think? Also impressive is that now I need to call your pastor, Reverend Dr. Cho. Or something like that. Uh I wish I could have been with you a couple of weeks ago. He didn't give me a huge amount of notice uh about this uh service. Uh uh and uh plus the fact that I was preaching in Fredericksburg on that day and uh just like even the commute up to here Uh what used to take me a little over an hour, Fredericksburg, now can take me two hours because of our wonderful uh traffic. Uh and not only that, uh Sharon and I were uh going on a uh uh on vacation the very next day and we needed to pack and do all those sorts of things. So as much as my spirit was very willing to attend, my body said that would be perfect. Pretty dumb even for me. And I have been known to be pretty dumb, by the way, uh o over the years, and I'm sure I'd get an amen from my wife on that. I'm delighted she is here. Uh and that is a an answer to prayer. Uh she hasn't been uh feeling a hundred percent since a year ago when she had whatever she had plus uh vertigo. Um but uh I'm delighted that she able to be with me here this morning. Well last time I was with you, uh which was back in January, remember? It was actually cold back then. We looked at Daniel chapter 6, a fantastic chapter that emphasized Daniel's integrity and faithfulness in spite of great opposition. And as we look at chapter 7 this morning, I want us to see the pivotal importance of Daniel 7 in the entire book. Most teachers of the book, myself included, divided up uh the into two main sections Chapters 1 to 6 detail the historical exploits of Daniel and his friends before kings, while chapters 7 through 12 speak of the visions and the prophecies of Daniel. So, in that sense, chapter seven begins a new section of the book in which, other than God and the angels, Daniel is the only person named. We are given Daniel's visions rather than the exploits of Daniel and his friends, and these visions are presented in the first person by Daniel himself. But at the same time, Daniel 7, just like Daniel chapters 2 through 6, is written in Aramaic, not in Hebrew. Indicating an interest in the world as a whole and not simply God's people Israel. And in my previous messages, I introduced you to the literary structure of Daniel 2-7, which Paul Tanner identifies, in which chapters 2 and 7 actually parallel each other, both dealing with Gentile powers and Messiah's kingdom. Chapters 3 and 6 do as well, dealing with the friend's deliverance from the furnace and then Daniel's deliverance from the lions. And chapters four and five. Speaking of the humbling of two world leaders, Nebuchadnezzar and Belshazzar, and the contrast between the two of them. In Daniel chapter 2, we had Nebuchadnezzar's dream of an image of gold, silver, bronze, iron, and clay representing four kingdoms that were ultimately vanquished by God's everlasting kingdom. Now, here in chapter 7, we have Daniel's vision of four monsters representing four kingdoms that are similarly replaced by God's everlasting kingdom. So chapter 7 both looks back to chapter 2 and forward to chapters 8 through 12 and its visions of the end of the days. So let's dive into the first part of the chapter, verses one to eight, the vision of four monsters. Notice that Daniel had this vision in the first year of Belshazzar, or 553 B. C. , which is actually earlier than the events of the previous chapter, chapter 6. dealing with Daniel and Darius after the death of Belshazzar in 539 BC. But that makes perfect sense. Because it's grouped with all of Daniel's visions in chapters 7 through 12, which are themselves chronologically arranged. On your outlines, I called this section the vision of four monsters. And yes, I know that we usually use the term beasts. uh to which is a general term used to indicate a living animal, but to me, beast, the term beast which is a general t uh such a general t term, it's too tame a word uh to be used in this context. The beasts of the earth created in Genesis 1 and the beasts of the field referenced in Genesis 2 bear scant resemblance to the creatures of Daniel's vision I think they're more aptly described as monsters. The Oxford English Dictionary defines a monster as originally a mythical creature. Which is part animal and part human, or combines elements of two or more animal forms and is frequently of great size and ferocious appearance. Later, more generally, any imaginary creature that is large, ugly, and frightening. That certainly fits what Daniel 7 describes. Certainly the first monster uh combines elements of a lion and eagle and and the heart of a man. The third combines a leopard with bird wings and four heads. And the fourth monster is utterly terrifying. So in Daniel's vision, he sees the four winds of heaven stirring up the Great Sea, possibly the Mediterranean, though since it's a vision, we can't Be sure. And four great monsters coming out of the sea. The first one, according to verse 3, is like a lion with wings of an eagle. Its wings are plucked, it's lifted up and caused to stand on two feet like a man, and is even given a human heart. Now we know from verse 17 of our chapter that these four monsters represent four kings, and so it's likely, though not entirely certain. that these monsters represent the same kingdoms as the medals of Nebuchadnezzar's image in chapter 2. There, Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon was identified as the head of gold, and that would seem to fit here as well. With the image of the lion and eagle symbols of Babylon used in other Old Testament scriptures. And possibly the image of standing on two feet as a man is a reference to Nebuchadnezzar's transformation from a beast in chapter 4 back to a man after his repentance. W The second monster mentioned in verse 4 is like a bear raised up on one side and eating three ribs. This would seem to represent the Medo-Persian Empire, consisting of the Medes and then the larger Persian empires, which would follow the Babylonian Empire. And Daniel's interpretation of the handwriting on the wall in Daniel 5. 28 affirms that, where he says, your kingdom has been divided and given over to the Medes and Persians. In the next chapter, Daniel chapter 8, the ram with two horns that Daniel saw is similarly identified in Daniel 8. 20 as the kings of Media and Persia. Possibly the three ribs that the monster is eating refers to the main conquests of Medo-Persia. which would be Babylon, Lydia, and Egypt. Well the third monster described in verse six is a composite of a creature like a leopard with four bird wings. and four heads that was given dominion. That probably represents Greece, whose leader Alexander the Great conquered the then known world in ten short years. Possibly the four wings allude to the four corners of the world. The four heads probably refer to the four generals who each controlled a portion of Alexander's empire after his death. And that interpretation may be confirmed by the reference to Greece as the goat in Daniel's vision in chapter 8. with the four horns signifying four kingdoms which arose from that nation, according to Daniel 8, 21 and 22. And by the way, and maybe I should have said this earlier, there are a lot of facts in this chapter. I can either just skip over them and give you a couple of general principles, or unfortunately. you're gonna have to what listen to a bunch of facts because that's what's in the chapter and I preach what's in the chapter I sometimes would like to preach something else but nope it's in this chapter This is the chapter we're in. So you're gonna have to bear with a few details. Maybe more than a few. Okay. That was the warning. I know, it's too late. You're not gonna actually walk, I hope. Walk out and go to another church. That would be uh you know, a little uh I I think that might be noticed, but at any rate. Okay, the fourth monster The fourth monster with its ten horns and the little horn that comes up is described in verses 7 and 8. I give this its own section in your outline sheet based on its significance in the rest of the chapter where it's discussed in nine more verses. And what a description Daniel gives of this fourth monster. It is fearsome and terrifying and extraordinarily strong with large iron teeth and different from the other three monsters. This monster has ten horns, and then another little horn comes up later. Three of the horns are pulled out, and this horn has the eyes of a man and a mouth making great boast. This monster would seem to parallel the fourth kingdom of Daniel II, with the iron teeth paralleling the statue's iron legs and the ten horns possibly corresponding to the statue's toes. which most identify with the Roman Empire. But I am not at all convinced of that explanation. This fourth monster isn't given any identification like another animal because it doesn't resemble any animal that Daniel has ever seen. The emphasis in this whole chapter is how different this monster is, which leads me to think that it may well be an end-time kingdom, in which case the attempts to identify the ten horns, you're not going to be happy with the me, most of you, uh the attempt to identify the ten horns and then the three horns are futile. In any event, even if you take it to be the Roman Empire, the idea that these ten horns represent the nations of the common market, which was the idea back years ago. uh when I first started teaching, or the EU, which numbers twenty-seven nations currently, not 10, seems to me especially misguided and futile But the little horn that arises out of them seems clearly to be the Antichrist, as later verses make plain. For now Daniel s uh sees his eyes like a man's eyes and speaking. Great bugs. Now, for sure, this is a scary scene, but in the second part of the same vision, Daniel sees some amazing things. And the scene seems to shift from earth to heaven in verse 9, in which what I have entitled the heavenly perspective. And what a perspective it is. These verses describe something completely different from the rest of the chapter, and yet they really form the heart of the message. The contrast between verses 8 and 9 is stark. John Wickham says: a greater contrast between the two connecting verses can hardly be imagined. And I would certainly agree. We go from the little horn, probably the Antichrist, in verse 8, speaking boastful taunts, to the sovereign Lord calmly sitting on his throne. ready to begin his court of judgment. And actually uh verse nine says that thrones, plural, were set up. One surely was for the Father, the ancient of days. But it's not clear who's sitting upon the others. Some think it's angels, maybe the son of uh son of God, and possibly even David, or more likely believers themselves according to Revelation 321 and Revelation 20 verse 4. Regardless, the focus is on the Ancient of Days, with his clothing white as snow and his hair like wool. You know, there are a few people that have white hair uh in this congregation and uh uh sadly or or wonderfully I'm among them. Uh but uh you know there are some benefits and here uh the Ancient of Days is uh pretty old but Pretty wise, right? And he's got hair like wool. The white hair, along with the term Ancient of Days, is a sign of his old age and his wisdom The whiteness of his clothes and hair may also speak of his righteous purity. His throne flaming with fire indicates the presence of God here undoubtedly in judgment. The fiery wheels are reminiscent of Ezekiel's vision, remember, in Ezekiel chapters 1 and 10. Now that would be exciting to have for a vision. DBS. I want to see the whole thing with the chariots and the wheels and everything like that. I want to see somebody come up with that because I've always wanted to have a good picture of it and I never really have because I'm just not that uh c uh creative or visionary. But somebody here in this church maybe can do that. Just gotta go to Ezekiel one and ten and we want all the details correct, of course. Verse 10 tells us that the Father has innumerable and eight angelic hosts ready to do his bidding, which must have been comforting to Daniel, who often seemingly had to stand alone. Finally, the books which symbolically contain the deeds of the people are opened. And Revelation 20, verse 12, and Daniel 12, verse 1 speak of the book of life. where the names of the redeemed are written. But Revelation 20, verse 12 also speaks of books where people's deeds are recorded, resulting in their judgment. And that's exactly the case here, as the next two verses make plain. Now, in the context of the Ancient of Days, in all of his splendor. Uh all of a sudden that boastful little horn of verse 8 doesn't seem so scary after all. In verse 11, Daniel still hears the sound of the boastful words, the little horn is speaking, but in a flash that monster is killed, his body is destroyed, and it's burned up in the fire. Not only that, verse 12 tells us that the rest of the monsters are dealt with as well. They no longer have any authority, but their judgment is postponed for another time. I'm not quite sure what this means. Some say that this is a reference to the first three kingdoms that each basically merged into the next rather than disappearing entirely, but it's not absolutely clear. What is clear is that this fearsome little horn that arises from the fourth monster is totally destroyed without any problem. When God gets involved, things that we may worry about for years get taken care of quite rapidly. And now the scene shifts back to heaven for the final two verses of this section. This is the climax of the vision. since verses fifteen to twenty-eight simply provide further explanation of the vision. In these climactic two verses, Daniel sees one like a son of man coming with the clouds of heaven. who comes up to the ancient of days. He's given an everlasting dominion, ruling over all peoples, a dominion that will not be taken away, and a kingdom that will never be destroyed. So now the four kingdoms and all associated with them, including the Antichrist, will be destroyed and replaced by one kingdom headed by the Son of Man. Normally the clouds of heaven are uh indications of the presence of the deity. In Exodus, for example, the narratives there, the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. Exodus 16 1610, for example. But here it's one like the Son of Man. In other words, he appears to be a man, but as we know from the rest of the scriptures, the Messiah is truly God and truly man. Now, in case we aren't convinced of this, the New Testament evidence here is overwhelming. Some of you know that I love to do word studies and I like statistics. Well, here we go again. The term Son of Man occurs 87 times in the New Testament, and every time it is used by Christ itself. And I'll give you just two examples here. Matthew 25, 31, which says, When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with them. Then with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory. In Matthew 26, 64, Jesus said to him, It is as you said, nevertheless I say to you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the power and coming on the clouds of heaven. So when Jesus refers to himself in the Gospels as the Son of Man, he's deliberately claiming to be the Messiah of Daniel 7. 13, the one who would receive his Now, before we go on to this next section, I want to make sure that you see the significance Of these six verses, Daniel 7, 9 to 14. First, both verses 9 and 10 and verses 13 and 14 are all written in poetry. In essence, elevating these verses from the rest. And well they should be elevated, since verses 9 and 10 are speaking of God the Father in judgment. And verses 13 and 14 are speaking of God the Son receiving the kingdom and ruling forever. Sandwich in between, in plain Aramaic prose, is the destruction of the little horn and all the other monsters. By the structure and the form of these verses, it's telling us that this proud, boastful little horn coming from the terrifying fourth monster is hardly a match for the King of Kings. And Lord of Lords. But Daniel's still distressed in verse 15. This was a powerful vision, and Daniel still has questions. This mighty, courageous prophet and interpreter of dreams, one greatly beloved by the Lord, as Gabriel tells him in Daniel 9. 23. is quite distressed with the visions continuing to trouble him. So in verse 16, he comes to one standing by, presumably an angel, and he asks for the meaning of what he has seen. And what we get in verses 17 and 18 is what I'd call the Cliff Notes version of the interpretation of the vision. Now, Cliff Notes, and I'm dating myself, were popular summaries of various books that would give you a quick version of the entire essence of the book. Probably today many people are using AI to get the same thing, and probably cheaper. Anyway, Daniel is told that the four monsters are four kings who will arise in the earth. But the saints of the Most High will un uh ultimately receive the kingdom and possess it forever. So in these two verses we have the four great kings of the earth mentioned first in verse uh seventeen. But then the kingdom of God in verse 18, which will be possessed by the saints of the Most High. Literally, the holy ones of the Most High. Since verse 25 tells us that the Antichrist will wear down the saints of the Most High, I think that in both passages they are believers. By the way, since verse 18 emphasizes that the kingdom will be forever, some commentators, such as E. J. Young, say that it can't possibly be referring to the Millennial Kingdom. But in my understanding, especially in the Old Testament, the millennium is actually what I call the first stage of the eternal state, which does indeed continue forever. But Daniel's not entirely satisfied with the Cliff Notes version. Now I've been teaching in seminary for almost 50 years now, finished year 48. in May and uh in that time I've had some really good students. And when they didn't understand something, that ask a question. And then sometimes even a follow-up question if they still didn't understand. Now some students simply would ask questions to show how much they knew. But others really wanted to know, and they weren't satisfied with a simple explanation. Daniel was definitely in that latter group. So in verses 19 to 22, Daniel asks a long follow-up question that actually reveals much of the vision that he had shared initially. In verse 19, he wants to know more about that fourth monster that was so different from all the others, extraordinarily fearsome. uh extraordinarily fearsome with teeth of iron and cloth of bronze, a new detail Daniel hadn't mentioned before. that tramped down everything. In verse 20, Daniel says that he also wants to know about the ten horns, and especially the other horn that came up and caused three horns to fall. called the little horn in verse 8, but here in verses 20 to 21, Daniel highlights his eyes, its mouth, speaking great boasts, and its size that was larger than the others. More importantly, in verse 21, Daniel explains that this horn was waging war with the saints and overcoming them. giving us more detail in verse 8 and a rather important detail at that. Daniel is so concerned about this little horn because he was waging war with the saints. And he was winning. Well, he was winning. Daniel continues in verse 22, until the ancient of days came and executed judgment on behalf of the saints of the Most High. And that judgment would result in the death of the little horn, as verse eleven had already indicated. Well, the heavenly interpreter does provide some answers for Daniel and for us in verses. 23 to 27. The fourth monster is indeed a fourth kingdom who will be different from all the others. It devours the whole kingdom, the whole earth, and it crushes it. In verse 24, the interpreter explains that ten kings will arise from the fourth kingdom with another after them. This 11th king will again be different from the previous ones and will bring three of the previous kings down. Verse 26 gives us some more extraordinary details about this 11th king, which was called the little horn back in verse 8. We already knew from verses 6, 11, and 20 that this little horn was speaking boastful words. But here in verse 25, we find that he's speaking these words against the Most High. And he's wearing down the saints of the Most High. The end of verse 25 explains that he will do so and uh by trying to change the times and the uh laws, presumably with respect to to specific religious holidays and God's moral law. He will attempt to eliminate any vestige of worship of the true God and direct it all to himself. The saints will be given into his hand for three and a half times, probably three and a half years. But then verse 26 tells us that the heavenly court, which we saw in verses 9 and 10, would sit in judgment and take away his dominion forever. Finally, the interpreter tells us in verse 27, that the reign, dominion, and greatness of all the kingdoms will be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. It is his kingdom which he shares with them, and it's an everlasting kingdom. So all of that is perfectly clear, right? There'll be a quiz at the end of uh, let's see, you got a congregational meeting later tonight? No, okay I'm just kidding. Yeah. All right. Well, we could spend three more sermons going over all these details, but let me give you my quick summary and interpretation. I think that the first three monsters represent Babylon, Medo-Persia, and Greece, as I've already explained. Nearly everyone thinks that the fourth monster represents Rome. Which is certainly possible, and you'll see a lot of wonderful, godly conservative commentators that say that with certainty. But I agree with Dale Ralph Davis, who points out that the writer seems to be bending over backwards to tell us that the fourth monster can't be categorized. Wh It's different from all the others. So Davis says, and I quote, I would prefer then simply to du the fourth beast the different kingdom. and understand it as the last human kingdom, the one in which human evil and rebellion rebellion will reach its apex. Personally, I think he's correct. But even if you adopt the view that Rome is the fourth kingdom, most scholars say that the ten kingdoms and the little horn that come from the fourth kingdom are yet future kingdoms and Kings. As I said earlier, I think it's a fool's errand to try to identify them since they are still future. But what seems abundantly clear is that the little horn who speaks blasphemous, boastful words against the Lord and persecutes the saints is the Antichrist. John specifically calls him the Antichrist in 1 John 2, 18. Paul describes him in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Verses 3 through 12, as the man of lawlessness, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself over every so-called God or object of worship, so that he sits down in the temple of God. proclaiming that he himself is God. He's described by John in Revelation 13, 2 John and five through eight. It says, The beast I saw was like a leopard, its feet were like a bear's, and its mouth was like a lion's mouth, and to it the dragon, that is Satan. gave his power and his throne and great authority. He was given a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and he was given authority to continue for forty-two months. Then he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God. He blasphemed to blaspheme his name, his tabernacle, and those who dwell in heaven. It was granted to him to make war with the saints and to overcome them. And authority was given him over every tribe, tongue, and nation. All who dwell on the earth will worship him, whose names have not been written in the the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundations of the world. But the Antichrist is finally judged in Revelation 19 and 20, and he's cast into the lake of fire. Before that happens, however, there's going to be a seven-year period of intense persecution by the Antichrist. specifically directed against Israel, the last half of which is called the Great Tribulation by Jesus in Matthew 24, 21. That's the 42-month period referenced in Revelation 13, 5, which is the same as the three and a half year period that is referenced in our text. uh um in uh verse twenty five. What our text in Daniel seven and the book of Revelation both conclude and emphasize is though that this will be a uh grievous time of testing. The Antichrist will be defeated, and the Lord will reign. Well, notice, though, in the last verse of our passage, that Daniel is still greatly troubled. He's troubled undoubtedly because of all the great difficulties that his people will still have to undergo in the future. Contrast King Hezekiah, who went, I'm still mad at Hezekiah for this. Every time I read it, I get mad at the King Hezekiah, who was when Isaiah told him in Isaiah thirty nine that Babylon would take away everything from Judah, he r responded that the word of the Lord was good, since he says there would be peace in his days. Daniel grieves for his people and the suffering that they would have to experience in the days to come. And I hope that you as parents and grandparents would would be grieving for the days that your children and grandchildren have to face and not just say, well, I'm glad it's not happening to me. That's Hezekiah. Sorry, Hezekiah, you're down a peg for that one. I don't like that. And he'll have to chat with me in heaven about it and explain what he really meant, and maybe I misunderstood him, but I don't think so. Okay. I don't know. Do you ever have these ideas that you're going to be talking with these folks and get some clarification? We'll probably have instant clarification. need it but still it's a I I I like to imagine these things and uh Hezekiah just doesn't come out too well there. Daniel really does because he's worried Not about what's going on with him. He's old, he's still in captivity, but you know, his life is almost done. As we conclude this remarkable chapter, then I'd like to give you a few key takeaways. And uh some of you are quite glad that we got to this point of the takeaways because uh yes, there are a lot of details, but I did warn you, well I sort of warned you midway through I should have warned you in the beginning, but uh at any rate, I did give you a little warning. But that's what the text is. That's what the text says. And so some key takeaways, first of all, God's view of people and events is often quite different from man's God's view of people and events is often quite different from man's. We've mentioned several times that this chapter and chapter two parallel each other in terms of the kingdoms and the basic themes. But I think that it's significant that in Daniel 2 contains the dreams of a pagan king, while Daniel 7 gives us the vision of a godly prophet. So in Daniel 2, the picture is that of a colossal image with various metals, a magnificent image in many ways. That may well be how Nebuchadnezzar saw it. But in Daniel 7, we have probably the same kingdoms viewed from God's perspective. No longer shining metals, but terrifying monsters. What man thinks is great is so often the opposite of what the Lord deems to be great. Probably my favorite Bible passage of all time. I don't know, I have a lot of favorites, but certainly among them is Isaiah 55, 8 and 9. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Let's never forget that key principle as we go through life and we try to evaluate what is significant and praiseworthy and what isn't. Twice, uh and and and uh that's my first point, then, that God's or takeaway, that God's view of people and events is often quite different from man's Second, it's sometimes okay to be alarmed at world events. It's sometimes okay to be alarmed at world events You know, when I think of Russia continuing to bomb Ukraine for what, two and a half years, etc. , I'm alarmed by that every time. And I'm praying for Ukrainian uh uh believers to be um harvesting a great fruit, but still it's just a horrible thing, and you can um you can just amplify that of course across the world. Well twice in this chapter Daniel says he was very troubled. Most of the commentators I consulted were so busy uh discussing the interpretation of the four monsters of the ten kingdoms uh uh uh of of the little horn, they didn't pay much attention to Daniel's response. But it's there right after he's finished recounting the vision in verse 15. And it's again there at the end of the interpretation in verse 28. So I don't think we should simply gloss over it. I mean, maybe you could say, well, Daniel was just an easily scared prophet. Um but do you remember chapters one to six? Did you read those? We don't see Daniel that way at all Just in the previous chapter, chapter 6, Daniel knew that the decree was signed not to worship any God but the king. And what did Daniel do? Goes right up to his room and prays in full view of anyone passing by, just as he always had done. Daniel chose being thrown into a den of lions rather than not praying to the Lord. That doesn't sound anything like a timid prophet to me. So why is Daniel so alarmed? I don't think he's alarmed for himself. Daniel's now in his late 60s. Probably 67 or so at the time of this prophecy. He's seen it all by this time. So it's not about him, it's about his people. It's about all the persecution and the suffering that they still would have to undergo before the blessings of God's kingdom came about. And Daniel knows that much of this will happen because they have by and large rejected God's ways. And as we look at our society today, where biblical values are turned around. and practices considered an abomination in the scriptures are praised by so many, I think it's okay to be alarmed and grieved at that So much needless sufferings and difficulties have come and will come because we have disregarded God's ways and his precepts. But let's make sure that we look at ourselves first in all these areas rather than simply condemning others, which is so easy to do. A third takeaway I see in this chapter is that suffering is the norm for the believer who's following Jesus. Suffering is the norm for the believer who is following Jesus. We tend not to want to mention this point since we are so averse to suffering. And it's much easier to emphasize all the blessings we have as believers. But Daniel 7 emphasizes the suffering and persecution that believers will have to undergo at the expense of the Antichrist. And this is nothing new. It's something that the first century church knew and understood quite well. Remember in Acts 5, 41, after Peter and the apostles were beaten, For teaching in the name of Jesus, it says that they rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. According to 1 Peter 5. 8, Satan and his emissaries are walking about as roaring lions, seeking whomever they may devour. If we're taking a stand for Christ, we should expect onslaughts from Satan and suffering. That's why we need to be praying for our spiritual leaders, for your pastor. For your elders, for all those around, because especially Satan is going to target these folks. As Jesus says in John sixteen thirty-three, in the world you'll have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Well, the fourth takeaway from this chapter is that we should beware of arrogant, boastful people, and make sure that we're not following down that path. We should beware of arrogant, boastful people and make sure that we're not following down that path. God hates boastful, prideful people. If I ever get uh through the uh series on Daniel, which has a few interruptions, uh, of course, uh maybe I will uh uh uh um uh preach a um a message on pride. The Bible has a ton of things to say about pride. Uh Proverbs eight thirteen says, The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogance and the e evil way and the perverse mouth I hate. James tells us in James 119 that everyone should be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. The Antichrist is a loud mouth. And he'll probably have his own podcast or his own blog or something similar. I don't know what we're going to have in the future, but he'll probably have it and he'll be very good at it. Let's be slow to speak, and let's be people who model humility, even as our Lord did. Boy, I don't see too much of that in the political arena. in either party, uh all the way from the bottom to the top, uh we need people of humility that are uh serving us and hopefully that's who we will focus on. Well finally, and I think this is the biggest takeaway from today's message, keep your eyes fixed on the Lord, not on the monsters. Keep your eyes fixed on the Lord and not on the monsters. We know from the entire book of Daniel that Daniel was a man of prayer and a man who studied the scriptures. We see that especially in Daniel 9, verse 2. Daniel spent lots of time with his eyes fixed on the Lord and on his word. The message of Daniel 7 is that God's kingdom is ultimately victorious. Yes, we need to recognize what's going on in the world around us, but we mustn't fixate on that I think for a lot of people, the best thing that they could do would be to turn off the news rather than to react to every single thing that's going on. There are plenty of monsters out there. Let's keep our focus on the Lord. And the glorious corollary to this truth, that God's kingdom is victorious. Is that it is the work of the Son of Man who will be the agent of victory over Satan. It's the work of the Son of Man who will be the agent of victory over Satan. Our Lord Jesus Christ became man so that he might live a perfect life, die on the cross for our sins in our place. pay the penalty that you and I should have paid, and he be raised again. He is the one who's already defeated Satan and all of his evil minions. even though that judgment hasn't yet been fully carried out. Let's never forget that Satan is a defeated foe. We serve a risen Savior, and we know that his kingdom will ultimately be victorious. Praise the Lord. Let's close in prayer. Father, how I thank you so much for your word, for the truth of your word, Lord, for the way that you show us Many of the things that will come to pass. And Lord, not all of those things are things that we like, but we need to know and understand So that we can be ready, Lord. I pray, Father, that you would continue to help us in our daily lives, Lord. There's a lot of things that we could focus on, and uh complaints and concerns and and problems. Help us, Father, not to neglect those things, certainly to pray about all of those things, but especially, Lord, help us to fix our eyes on you. And to rest in you and rejoice in you and recognize, Lord, that your perspective is often far different from ours. Lord, I would pray that you would help us to be students of your word, that we would be people of prayer. Lord, that we might more and more consider you and your perspective. In everything we do, Lord, from the big decisions in life to the little ones. Thank you, Lord, for all that you have done for us. Thank you above all for our salvation in Christ Jesus, who gives us the victory. In his name we pray, Amen