So we're largely dependent on reliable links, chains and connections. Our bodies depend on them. The foot bones connected to the leg bone, the leg bone is connected to the knee bone, the knee bones connected to the thigh bone, doing the skeleton dance, right? So, or think of the chains on your bicycle, or those of your necklace. Consider what happens if one of the links fails You learned the hard way, that axiom, that well-known axiom, the chain is only as strong as its weakest link There's something even more distressing than these, more perilous than breaking a bone, falling off a bike, or losing your jewelry. God speaks of key links and unbreakable chains in His Word. When we're dealing with matters of eternity, we can't afford to have weak links in a chain. Here are some few examples. Missionally speaking, Paul strings together in another letter the necessary parts for in Romans 10, 14 to 15. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? This is why we have the Great Commission. That's how we support missionaries, like the host that we heard this morning. Theologically speaking, there's a chain of God's decree to save the English clergymen William Perkins calls it the golden chain. It's based on Romans 8. 30, whom God predestined, these he also called, whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. What happens when such chains break? When there's a weak link in your doctrine of formation? You'd face eternal peril. That's why we must test our every major assumption, proposition and premise. That's what Paul does today in today's passage. Actually, the first link of this passage is the phrase Christ is preached in 1 Corinthians 15, 12. It takes us back to verse 16 from last time we covered this chapter, and let's read it. I'll just read verse 11. Therefore, whether it was I or they, so we preached and so you believed. In the first part, I or day refers to Paul and all the apostles who met Jesus raised from the dead. As eyewitnesses, they cannot but speak the things which they've seen and heard. They may go to different parts of the world, Peter to Lydda and Joppa, Paul to Athens and Corinth, but they carry the same message. The good news of Jesus. In response, many believed, including the Corinthians. That leads to the second part of verse 11. So we preach, and so you believe, Paul says. That verb preach is the link to verse 12 today. It also links us to the noun preaching in verse 14. Here's another link. The verb believe links us to its noun form in faith in verse 14 and 17. So all that to say, we ask what would undermine both the preaching of the apostles and the faith of the believers? What empties our core message and belief? What would snap the chain? The answer is the denial of the resurrection of the dead. Next thing you know, there goes the adoption of Christ's resurrection. Disaster ensues. If there's no resurrection, all pastors should go to jail. Not just those prosperity preachers who steal from their sheep. All Christians should be listed as the greatest losers in history. That's my paraphrase, but it's better to hear the original from Paul himself. So let's turn to 1 Corinthians 15, 12 to 19. 1 Corinthians 15, 12 to 19, as we continue in this chapter. Now, if Christ has preached that he has been raised from the dead, How do some of some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. Yes, and we are found false witnesses of God because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He did not raise up, if in fact the dead do not rise For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, your fate is futile. You are still in your sins. Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable When I read this passage, I can't help but picture a major highway car wreck. I'm not talking about just a few, one or two vehicles stopped on the shoulder, a bender bender. I'm thinking of what happened exactly 13 years ago in Sao Paulo, Brazil, a dense fog covered the Rodovia dos Emigrantes Highway. Due to low visibility, over 300 vehicles became piled up. A large number called fire. The pileup stretched over a mile. Thirty were injured and one dead. Paul forces us to look at the disaster that ensues when key doctrines are abandoned. Imagine every vehicle that's crashing like a conviction that's abandoned. First the final resurrection is denied. Crash. Then the truth of the empty grave. Crunch. Next in the power-up, our duty of preaching and our evangelism. Wham. Right? There's at last the shipwreck of our faith. If we fail to see the dangers ahead, if we're blinded by the dense fog of false teaching, we'll soon end up in the power. It's a horrific sequence that Paul needs to play, but not just play once. He's going to play and replay to get our attention. Paul plays it once in verses twelve to fifteen, pointing out the path of Mayhem that ensues. But then he rewinds the film and replays the scenario in verses sixteen to nineteen. Again, pointing out the trail of destruction. Even if he's dealing with hypotheticals, there's great value in such teaching. With that in mind, here are two errors of denying the resurrection. First, without the resurrection, ours and Christ, our faith is empty, and our message is false. And that's verses 12 to 15. Secondly, without the resurrection of ours in Christ, our faith is futile, and our destiny is hell. 16 to 19. First, without the resurrection of our sentrist, our faith is empty and our message is false. Start with some background information. We don't know exactly who among the Corinthians say that there is no resurrection of the dead. Maybe they're the same as those pumped up mentioned back in chapter 4, verse 18. Who knows? But we do know that whoever they are, they're contradicting the clear apostolic testimony of Christ rise from the grave. Besides not knowing who, we also aren't sure why they held such views, but a good guess is this. The influence here is probably more Greek. Than Jewish. Sure, there were Jews like the Sadducees who denied the resurrection. But the believers of Corinth were Gentiles, often in closer contact with Greek philosophies. Take Plato, for example, who'd say that a soul freed from its material body would never return to it because it's like a prison. Why would you not go back there? Or there's Epicurus who say that souls are made of atoms like everything else. And so they cease to exist at death. Whether you're Platonic or Epicurean, you'd end up with the same disastrous dead end. Any uh and and conclusion, which there is no resurrection from the dead. That's what they But again, any major idea, philosophy, right, must be tested on its implications and consequences before we embrace them. Maybe these false teachers didn't make the crucial connection between the resurrection of the last day and the resurrection of the third day. Well, Paul makes that connection clear in verse 13. If there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. The power-up continues in verse 14. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty. And your faith is also empty. Paul takes that juxtaposition of verse 11, puts a negative spin on it. You remember that we preach and you believe. But without the resurrection, ours in Christ, what we preach is empty, what you believe is empty. Maybe you think, well, empty talk doesn't sound that bad. You know, religion is good. Just just turn on some mindless shows and movies today and you'll find plenty of empty talk. But Paul's saying in verse 15 that actually the apostles will be doing far worse than just empty talk. Their empty preaching will be filled with deception. They be found guilty as false witnesses of God, saying he raised up Jesus from the grave, when in fact he didn't They truly deserve to be men condemned to death. All this is true if, in fact, the dead do not rise. So again, without the resurrection, ours in Christ, our faith is empty, and our message is false. We're about to rewind the tape and replay in verse 16. But before we go on, let's pause for an application and illustration. First and application. A passage like today's may not tug at your heartstrings like 1 Corinthians 13. Paul's thinking more like a philosopher, right? A logician, less like a poet. You may not get riled up for cold deductive reasoning and holler and shout for syllogisms. But thinking carefully and biblically like this is necessary. Biblical reasoning calls for good use of logic. We must follow a line of reasoning to its logical end. That sounds a bit boring. Here's something more like a Tom Clancy novel, but true and even more exciting. See, we're in a spiritual battle. In any battle, there's need for military intelligence, right? Reconnaissance, right? That's why we're to g gird up the loins of our minds. Peter says that in 1 Peter 1. In 2 Corinthians 10, Paul reminds us, I'll just read it for you, 2 Corinthians 10, 3 to 5. Though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds, casting down arguments and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. Bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ. To do this, we must keep our head clear. Mental faculty is sharp. We must not be conformed to the world. But be transformed by the renewing of our mind. So keep your ears close to the mouth of God. As we listen to the Lord speaking through Paul, we can say with confidence the following: what will happen in the future, what has happened in the past, and what happens in the present are all connected. The dead will rise, that's the future. Christ has risen, that's the past. Your faith is meaningful, that's the present, and there's a payoff onto eternity. I think even the world understands this, time connection to some degree, and here's the illustration. Now a few years ago a famous director say said that Back to the Future's the perfect movie. I don't know how much wave it created upon its release. I was still in Korea and four years old when it came out. Maybe some of you saw it in the summer of 85 and walked away impressed. If you're too young to know this film, it's one of those time-traveling stories that's in abundance today But unlike many other sort of dystopian works predicting a dark, grim future, this film's a bit more lighthearted. The main character Marty simply wants to improve his life. He gets his chance when he travels 30 years back in time He meets the younger versions of his parents. He has to help them improve as in their character as teenagers so that they succeed in life. And that way if his parents succeed, Marty as their son would have a better life too. Seems like a fun adventure, but then things get very serious. Marty repeatedly looks at a photo he's carried with him during his travel. It's a simple family photo with him and his two parents. But as the story moves along, he realizes something. If his parents don't improve their character, meet them falling in love, they'll never get married, and then they'll never have Marty. Marty's very existence is threatened and that danger is reflected in the changes happening to the photo. At various points Marty looks at it as the father and the father fades away, the mother too, and then Marty himself is about to disappear. What begins as an exciting journey to the past becomes a fight for his very existence. There's a chain of events that cannot be severed. What ha happened, what does happen, what will happen are all connected back to reality and back to the text. What will happen in the future, what has happened in the past. And what happens in the present are all connected. That's why Paul can say, if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. It follows that the apostles are false witnesses and they deserve the lowest place in hell. Again, without the resurrection, ours in Christ, our faith is empty, and our message is False. Let's move on to the rest of today's passage. Paul ended with the nightmarish, what if He takes that phrase at the end, if in fact the dead do not rise, and takes it to its logical conclusion. As I said earlier, if it's it's as if Paul rewinds the film of a terrible car wreck Replays the same scenario in verses 16 to 19. While doing so, he's again about to point out the devastating effects, but this time he'll highlight different details. Okay. This time he's going to focus on more on the saints in general, more than the apostles, the recipients of the gospel, more than the preachers of the gospel. That gets us to the second era of denying the resurrection. Without the resurrection, our Christ, ours in Christ, our fate is futile, and our destiny is hell. I won't spend too much time on verse 16. It's not so different from verse 13. Paul's again linking the denial of the future resurrection to the denial of Christ's resurrection. We will slow down in verse 17, where he describes a faith that's futile. Paul has already used futile earlier in the letter in chapter 3, verse 20. There he's describing the wisdom of this age as foolish before God, as nothing to boast of. Outside of 1 Corinthians, the word in the original is translated as useless and aimless. Now to be clear, the difference between empty faith in verse 14 and feudal faith here is not that great. They're synonyms. But here in context, Paul does hint that there's at least some difference between empty and futile. If I were to differentiate, I'd say this: empty tells us something's hollow, futile tells us nothing hollows. Right. Again, empty tells us something's hollow. Futile tells us nothing follows. When I say nothing follows, I'm saying that the a misplaced faith does not deliver what's promised. What good is a dead savior? What good is faith in a dead savior if there's no resurrection? What's the use of regeneration? How can we be begotten again to a living hope without a living Savior? Next, Paul points out three terrible implications of a feudal faith. Again, showing us the power of. He's zooming into the details, pointing out the worst spots. The first ones in the second half of verse 17, you are still in your sins. If Jesus, whose very name means salvation from sin. He is dead and gone, he'd be no different than any other name. Names on tombstones, memorials, and history books Okay, you know I like to cite great old hymns to make my point, but this time I'm going to cite a rap song from Shia Lin. I'm not going to rap, thank God. But here are the lyrics and it's good. Plato is dead, Socrates is dead, Aristotle and Immanuel Kant are dead, Nietzsche and Darwin are dead, however, Jesus is alive. Buddha is dead, Muhammad is dead, Gandhi and Haile Selassie are dead, Elijah Mohammed is dead. However, Jesus is alive Because Jesus is alive, right? There's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Jesus was delivered up because of our offenses, raised because of our justification. The second terrible implications of a feudal faith is in verse 18. Without the resurrection, not only are those alive headed for hell, those who've gone before us are goners. Just to get some terminology straight, those who fallen asleep in Christ are those believers who died from old age, disease, persecution, divine discipline. Right? Sleeping is a appropriate expression. That's because like our nightly routine, our soul and spirit appear to operate separately from our bodies, but unlike those hours in dreamland Upon death, we who trust in Jesus immediately enjoy communion with Christ in heaven. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And some that will inhabit our new bodies and wake, quote unquote, wake in the millennial kingdom. Yet that cannot happen without the link established here and elsewhere in First Thessalonians four: fourteen. If we can question whether Jesus died and rose again, then we can surely question whether he'll really bring with him those who sleep in Jesus. If the dead do not rise, Christ is not risen. If Christ is not risen, our fate is futile. If our fate is futile, those who leaned on God's promises have died for nothing. They perished. The third and final terrible implications of a feudal faith In verse 19, we're back to the realm of the living. Without the resurrection, ours in Christ, not only is our destiny hell, our life would be hell. Christians would be suffering for nothing. We'd be waiting for nothing. We'd be foolish for trusting that someday God will vindicate us. Our response to the problem of evil would be nonsense. The odyssey would be idiocy. More on that next week. For now, it's worth repeating. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. Without the resurrection, ours in Christ. Our fate is futile and our destiny is hell. As we conclude for today, leave the side of the wreckage, the power love. Let's take two more applications with us. First, as a church, we're grateful because of Christ's resurrection. That's why we meet on Sundays, the first day of the week. When Jesus arose. That's why we sang earlier, leaning on the everlasting arms, about what fellowship, joy, blessedness, and peace we enjoy now. How sweet is the walk, bright is the path. That's only true because our faith is in Christ who rose from the grave. It's the object of our faith, faith in our risen Lord, that makes our faith full, not empty. Our fate is not futile, it's fertile. It's not dead, but works through love. Here's a second application and it's a warning. I might be addressing a theological liberal who does not believe in miracles. Maybe they will listen to the sermon later online. Or I might be addressing a skeptic who cast doubt on every dogma. There are those whose worldviews reveal that they are of the world and they speak as of the world. I think that what's best for such folks is if I just lay out the cards, reviewing the gospel. I made note of many chains today. Now leave you with one more between the resurrection and the final judgment. Paul spoke to non-Christians at another city in Greece, Athens, and when he did that, he spoke of this link between resurrection and judgment. And before he was essentially glued off the stage, his last words were the following. This is Acts 17, 30 to 31. Truly, these times of ignorance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent. Because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. He had given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. So what Paul says to the naysayers of his time and our time is this: Christ's resurrection is linked to the future final judgment. Because there was a day Jesus rose from the grave. There will be a day all who are in the graves will hear his voice. Jesus' authority to execute judgment on them, and all will face one of two destinies: those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of condemnation. So our Lord talks about this in John 5. And this resurrection of condemnation is elsewhere called second death. Second death is the lake which burns with fire and brimstone. That's where the cowardly, unbelieving, abominable murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars end up. My prayer is that everyone who hears this message of the gospel would avoid that fate. So listen, how do we avoid the second death? Even if I didn't murder, I've definitely definitely been sexually immoral. You may not be a sorcerer, but you'd be lying if you say you never lie. If all I've sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and my record books filled with sin after sin, page after page, how do I dare to assume I'll enter heaven? If the Lord should mark iniquities, who could stand? There is salvation available in Jesus. There's a blessing in which lawless deeds are forgiven. Sins are covered. Sin is not imputed because but instead, righteousness apart from works is imputed. There's a way in which Christ's resurrection can be a preview of yours. And that takes us back to Christ's death. Jesus is the Son of God and Son of Man, divine and human in one person. He lived a perfect life, obedient to the Father. His ultimate act of obedience was going to the cross. He did no wrong, yet he died as a criminal. He had no sins of his own to pay, yet he became our substitute. He suffered a wrathful penalty of sins we deserve. He finished his work on the cross, read it his last, and he was buried. But that was not the end. On the third day after that dark day, there was a day of declaration. He had previously pointed to his body and said, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. And that's just what he did. He proved himself to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of Holiness by the resurrection from the dead. He showed beyond doubt that his claims and promises are not empty, that faith in him is not futile. After he presented himself alive by many infallible proofs, he ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Until then, God calls everyone everywhere to repent and believe in Jesus. You can do that by turning away from sin and self-righteousness. Put your hope in heaven in the Son of God. Heaven is a gift, right? Not a work to be earned. Hear him speak in John 11, 25. I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he may die. He shall live. Claim this promise as yours. Trust in Jesus alone. If you do, death will only be sleep. Gateway to heaven There's no second death, no lake of fire for those in this first resurrection, the resurrection of life, those who trust in Jesus. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So now we have this firm hope in Jesus. In this life and next. We are of all men the most enviable. As our final song says, our hope springs eternal. Because now and ever we confess Christ our hope in life and death. Let's think that should after prayer. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you that there is a resurrection. We thank you that your son was raised from the dead. For our justification. We thank you for justification because our sins are not counted against us. But we are justified. We are declared righteous before you, this holy God. We thank you that your son paid the price. And we pray that each week, each day, each moment we be thankful and grateful that Our preaching and our faith is not empty. There is a payoff for our faith. We thank you that it is by grace alone that we can be Save and we praise you for this grace, the God of grace. Even in our tough times, in our physical troubles, and even in perhaps in times of persecution. Lord, we do despair, we do get down at times, but we ask that you will remind us repeatedly through your word the promises of this world without end and how we belong. to this kingdom, blessed kingdom. We thank you for these promises. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.