Father Abraham had many sons. Many sons had Father Abraham. I am one of them, and so are you. So let's all praise the Lord Right arm. But the theology of this song holds true. As Paul writes in Galatians 3:7: those who trust in Jesus, those who are of faith, are sons of Abraham. Even if we're not near Abraham, genetically or contextually speaking, we can mimic his faith and be family. And studying this man's life is like studying the American founding fathers. Just as they embody virtues and values of our nation, Abraham embodies virtues and values of God's kingdom. That's why today we're restarting the exposition of Genesis. I began back in February. I paused the series in early October after covering close to eleven chapters. As you can see, I still have a long way to go. But chapter eleven, verse twenty-six was a good spot to in the book to uh pause That's because we were on the brink of that portion in Genesis where we look closely at the life of Abraham. Up to this point in Genesis, in a span of about eleven chapters, we mostly sped through more than 2,000 years of world history. We discussed creation, the fall of mankind, the cataclysmic flood, the table of nations, the tower of Babel. Now from 1127 to the next break, I find in chapter 25, verse 11, about 14 chapters. But focusing on one man and his family. Moses gives us a detailed account of this one man, Abraham Not even all of his life, about I would say like fifty-seven percent of it, con like concentrating on hundred of his hundred seventy-five years So why did Moses do that? Why did he slow down the pace of narration here? It's not because Abraham was innately talented or powerful. He didn't stand out from the crowds. His life was an action pact made for the movies But he is, as scriptures tell us, a friend of God. God himself said that in Isaiah 41:8. Both Old and New Testaments confirm this. His intimate relationship with the Lord is something to be admired and emulated. James Montgomery Boys observed this about Abraham. And I see that the keyboard is down there. I don't know if you can thank you. Most of us are aware that we will never become lawgivers like Moses. We are unlikely to become generals for God like Joshua for kings like David. We will not be prophets except in the sense that we are all called to be witnesses for Christ. But any of us can be what Abraham was: a person who heard God, believed God could do what he said he would do And based his entire life on that conviction. I hope you agree with that. We'll take a close look at Abraham as we Pick up from the last few verses of Genesis 11, Abraham formerly Abram. I'll go by Abram during this sermon. So we'll read from verse 27 to the end of the chapter, and then start chapter 12 and read up to verse 3. So here's Genesis 11, 27, 12, verse 3. This is the genealogy of Terah. Terah begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Haran begot Lot. And Haran died before his father Terah in his native land in Ur of the Chaldeans. Then Abram and Nahor took wives. The name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife Milkah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milkah, and the father of Iscah. But Sarai was barren. She had no child. And Terah took his son Abram and his grandson Lot, the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, his son Abram's wife, and they went out with them from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to the land of Canaan. And they came to Haran and dwelt there. So the days of Terah were two hundred and five years, and Terah died in Haran. Now the Lord has said to Abram, Get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house, to a land that I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse them who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. As usual, I'll start with a quick word on the structure. As I've said often there are twelve sections of Genesis. There's a division marker in all but one of these sections, the first one. It's an important phrase containing a key Hebrew word, tolodot. Toledot means genealogy, history, account, or records of generations. It's paired with the demonstrative pronoun, this or these. Together they add up to this phrase, this is a toledode, these are the toledot. 1127, chapter 11, verse 27 is where you find the sixth division marker and the start of the seventh section Lasting until, like I said, chapter twenty-five. My guess is I'll take another break from Genesis then, but we'll see. Well now the story of Abram starts with his last years with his father. Back to the sermon text. I see three parts in it. The three parts correspond to three locations. It might help if you want to use your pew bible. Right? The Black Pew Bible and turn to the back of it. There's a m map entitled The World of the Patriarchs. I put some arrows there to look at the key locations for today. So first we begin with Abram in Ur of the Chaldeans. All the way on the On the east there, right? That's Abram's upbringing in verses twenty-seven to thirty Next, you'll see Terah and his father taking him and others toward the land of Canaan, though stopping short of there in Haran. You see the other arrow there. The upper middle. That's Abram's uprooting in verses 31 to 32. Thirdly, there's something like a flashback at the beginning of chapter 12. The words of verses 1 to 3 may have been repeated in Harem, but it makes more sense that it was first spoken back in Ur of Chaldeans. God's command to leave his home is what started this family migration in the first place. So there you see Abram's up-ending call of God in his life. The Lord, He started it, right? Is the voice of God that brings Abram out of his upbringing? Is the word of God that's at the root of his uprooting? So based on those three parts of the outline and three upwards, there are road signs to read as you follow God like Abraham. One, value your upbringing, but beware of idolatrous traditions. That's chapter eleven, twenty-seven to thirty Two, start with uprooting, but be obedient to God to the end. That's thirty-one to thirty-two Moving on to chapter 12 3, God's call is up-ending, but be assured of his intent to bless. Chapter 12, verses 1 to 3 First road sign to note while you follow God is this: value your upbringing, but beware of idolatrous traditions. I already spoke on the first phrase of verse 27. So now we we're on to the rest of the verse. It's essentially the same as the previous verse, verse 26. Except we're told about Lot, Abram's nephew, who plays a key role later in Genesis. Back to Abram, he is one of three boys. As I commented last time, we know that Terah died at age two oh five when Abraham was Abram was seventy-five. Terah must have had Abram at 130. And since Tarah started having sons at seventy, his firstborn would be either Haran or Nahor, while Abram's the youngest. I think it's safe to assume Haran is the firstborn. That's because his daughter Milcom marries his brother Nahor. Also, his son Lot's old enough to relate with Abraham as an adult. All that to say, I think the order from Abram to Nahor to Haran is from the youngest to the oldest. Moving on to verse twenty-eight, we hear of a tragedy. Terah's oldest son Haran dies. So I can't really imagine the pain of burying your own child. But that's what Tara endured. Endured. We don't know how he died, why he died exactly, but Tara is bereaved of his oldest. Son. And we'll come back to Terra as a father in a moment. But first we must talk about Terra's fatherland. Most guess that Ur is a city name, while others say it's a land name. The majority view is that Ursa city situated on the Euphrates River. We saw that in the map, about 150 miles from the Persian Gulf, corresponding to Iraq today. As for the Chaldeans, it refers to a specific tribe or class of people, while there are other times it refers to the Babylonians. Archaeological studies of the city of Ur reveal much. By Abram's time, a seventy-foot ziggurat, a pyramid-like structure, stood above the plain. Shrines and chapels reveal worship of the moon god and his associates. A royal cemetery housed the corpses of the elite people of the society. It's interesting, their servants chose to die with them when they died, the masters died. Buried with them were precious stones, chariots, standards, lyres, and harps. Board games and jewelry. All in all, Ur of the Chaldeans was a prosperous and wealthy city, a thickly populated trade center This is the city of Abram's upbringing. This is the city he would leave. He left it to live in tents, to wait for the city whose builder and maker is God. But before the departure, Abram and his father Tara were just typical citizens. They came from a polytheistic culture serving multiple deities. As it says in Joshua 24, verse 2, thus says the Lord God of Israel, your fathers, including Terah, the father of Abraham. And the father of Nahor dwelt on the other side of the river, the Euphrates, in old times, and they served other gods. So as expected, Terah was by no means a morally outstanding person. He had children by multiple women, as we learn later, that Sarai, Abram's wife, is his half-sister. So this is not exactly an ideal family background for Avon. There's more background in Genesis 1129. Nahor married Milka his niece, the daughter of his older brother Haran, now deceased. These kind of marital unions are obviously frowned upon today as there's a great risk of genetic disorders in children. But this is before the law of Moses explicitly forbade this kind of relationships as incest. Besides, it's likely Abram and his brothers didn't have much choice in the matter of finding wives. In ancient times, dad talks with the other dad, the decisions made without much input from the kids. I don't know if that's more simple or better, but that's how it was back then, and that was the norm. But what was not normal was the barrenness of Sarai, according to verse 30. Aaron had one son, Lot Nahor and Milkah had eight. We'll see later. Abram and his son, I'm sorry, Abram and his wife at this point had none. If I was God and I could choose between the three brothers to make a nation, Abram would be the last choice. Nevertheless, God chose Abram and Sarai. To pause up some of these verses, the Lord chose Abram to continue the valid line while they were in Ur of Chaldeans. Abram came from a close family, an affluent city. There's much for him to appreciate about his upbringing. He can be grateful for his parents, relatives, and wife. But there are also pitfalls and snares in his upbringing. Again, he lived in a polytheistic culture with many gods. He had to rest himself free of those corrupting influences. As we'll see later, in contrast, Abram's brother Nahor and his descendants held on to what's called traditional household idols. We've got to beware of those things. So read the first road sign and following God like Abram. Value your upbringing, but beware of idolatrous traditions. The next road signs based on the final two verses of Genesis eleven. It reads, start with uprooting. But be obedient to God to the end. This is where we see movement. And at the same time, it's not a movement that's complete. And even from the beginning of this movement, there's something peculiar about it. Moses recounts in verse 31 that it's Terah taking initiative. But we know it's Abram, who's the focal point of the story. He's the one chosen, brought out of his homeland to a new land. He's the one who had the life-changing encounter with God. As Stephen recounts in Acts 7 2, the God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia before he dwelt. inherent. So shouldn't Abram be the one taking the initiative? Why is Tara leading the move? Is it because, you know, Terrace, the patriarch of the family, the oldest? Perhaps Abram as the youngest could not help but let his father make the major decision. Maybe that's what he's used to all his life. I don't doubt that Terah shared enough of Abram's religious convictions. He did, after all, leave Urb behind. We're not so sure about Nahor, Abram's brother. It doesn't say he followed himself at this point, though that could be, I guess, inferred. Eventually Nahor's descendants settled at Haran, where Terah dies Not much else can be said about Nehor, but there's a lot more in his grandchildren later. As for the rest, Terah, Lot, Abram, and Sarai left Ur without knowing much about their destination. They clearly went in the right direction, westward. They migrate towards Canaan. This group effort is working off well. But the last part of verse 31 says, And they came to Haran and dwelt there. Logistically, they follow the path of the great Euphrates River. So here's that map again. It's hard to see, but if you look a little bit closer, you see the Euphrates River. They did not go north past the Tigris River. They ventured west but stayed within the safe confines of Mesopotamia, which literally means the land between rivers. I tend to think they enjoy the comfort of the familiar. But to get to Canaan, Terah and others had to walk past the familiar. Leaving behind their comfort zone into the unknown. They have to cross and leave behind the waters of the Euphrates. Remember, it's the Euphrates that made the fertile crescent, the cradle of civilization. Euphrates gave the region its irrigation and agriculture. Euphrates was Terra's lifeline for all of his lifetime. Must have been hard to leave behind. But they had a sense that they weren't there yet. The great preacher, Charles Fergion, had this commentary about Tara and his crew here. They start together for Canaan. So far so good, at least it looks so. The traveling is wearisome, and many are the murmurings. The huge caravan has not gone very far before the proposal is made that they should be satisfied with the move which they had made and remain at Heron. True, it was not Canaan, but it might as do well. Virgin goes on to call this decision halfway obedience. As Abram literally settled, he settled for something less than ideal. At some point, the burning passion and resolve to go to Canaan may have cooled and thawed. Abram followed to a point, but he didn't follow through, at least not yet. I wonder if the he contemplated speaking of that I know we're tired and this place looks nice, but we have to keep going. The Lord didn't give us confirmation. That this is the place. You know, we we don't have permission to stay here. But there's no record of such suggestion or any objection. We're also not sure how long Abram lingered in Haran. We don't know how much time passed between verse 31 and verse 32. I'm guessing at least a few years. But we do know it wasn't until Terah died that Abram made the second half of his faith journey. We'll see that move next time when we get to Genesis 12, 4. Meanwhile, from these two final verses of chapter 11, we find this I would say the second road sign while following God like Abram. Start with uprooting, but be obedient to God to the end. I'll come back for some applications later. But for now, let's move on to the new chapter. A new chapter in Genesis. Moses records in chapter 12, verse 1 to 3, the Lord's call of Abram. This was a life-changing move. God's call is indeed of ending, but we can be assured of his intent to bless us. That's the third road sign on the path to following God. I'll say this again. Um timeline wise, it makes most sense to say that the Lord first called Abram while he was still in Ur of the Chaldeans. Again, in Acts 7, 2 to 4, Stephen confirms this order of events. He began his speech like this, right? The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia before he dwelt in Heran, before he dwelt in Heron. And said to him, Get out of your country and from your relatives and come to a land that I will show you. Then he came out of the land of the Chaldeans and dwelt in Haran. And from there, when his father was dead, he moved him to his this land within which you now dwell. Again, this was a dramatic change in Abram's life. Many of us don't like changes, not even small ones. But if there's anything that shall move us out of our comforts, it's the word of God. Obey Him. So to follow up Abram's example, it's vital that we hear exactly what the Lord had originally said to him. Alan Ross in the Bible Knowledge Commentary does a good job of breaking down the structure of verses 1 to 3. There are two imperatives or commands here. I'll highlight them in color for you. They're in green. The first one in verse 1 is get out. I don't think God said it angrily, but You know. But that's the first command. The second one's at the end of verse two. You shall be a blessing. More literally, God says, be a blessing. And what gets Abram to obey by faith these two imperatives, which is get out and be a blessing, is the faithfulness of God. Look at all the I will spoken by the Lord. Again, here's some color coding. You see it in a different color there, white there. The point in all this highlighting is that we must not think that Abram's great and blessed in and of himself This is not about a man saying, I did that, or I'll do that for myself. God says, I will do this, and I will do that for you, Abraham. Abram at this point. From the very beginning of their relationship, the Lord has granted grace to Abram to trust and obey him. So we start with verse 1 and the first command. Get out of your country, from your family, and from your father's house to a land that I will show you. God's imperative takes Abram out of his comfort zone and out of the familiar. The Lord didn't even tell him where to go at first. I mean, when's the last time you got into your car without knowing your destination? Or typing into your GPS the address. But that's what Abram was asked to do. He's asked to go without knowing. He's called to trust in divine providence over human prudence I like this quote by John Kelvin. As he commented on this passage, he advised it it's better with closed eyes to follow God as our guide than by relying on our own prudence to wander through these. Through those circuitous paths which it devises for us. Again, when we must decide between the two, is it going to be the Lord's providence or our prudence? What weighs more in your decision? God's careful man or man's carefulness. But even if Abram walks without much light, there's enough revelation for him to step forward. He can find stability in the promises that follow in verse 2. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great, the Lord says. Keep in mind that Abram has done nothing to prove he deserves such privileges. It's all God's grace. And because God graciously blesses Abram, he can be a blessing. There's a second imperative at the end of verse 2, and you shall be a blessing, literally, be a blessing. Abram can be a blessing only because God will bless him. And God has blessed him. Abram can be a blessing because of two more I wills in verse 3. I will bless those who bless you. The Lord says, and I will curse them who curses you, he warns. Do this one man. God intends to bless all the families of the earth. So the emphasis on God's blessings is clear. There are some uncertainties in following the Lord for sure. There are demands, yokes, and burdens. God's call is indeed up-ending, but we can be assured of his intent to bless. That's a third road sign to read while following God like Abram. Now, as I close, I'd like to make three applications based on the three points. I'll present these in question form. First, what are some features of your background that might be idolatrous? There are, as Tim Keller puts it, counterfeit gods that influence every culture. The Greeks in Paul's time had their pantheon. The Chaldeans in Abram's time had their moon god. Fast forward to our century and country, Erwin Lutzer, pastor emeritus of Moody Church Identifies at least two idols. One's self-serving spirituality, which is divorced from the truth. Self-serving spirituality, and then the other one is Rampant sexuality determined by yourself, right? Whatever I want sexually, whoever I determin to be in gender. That's what what rules this day And some of these we take from the culture and they become part of the family. They're valued and passed down from one generation to another. I don't pretend that discerning and discarding idols is an easy task. Just remember that in idols, anything That we put above God. It can be good things. Any rival to Him that divides your heart and competes for your devotion and attention. Once you identify them, hiding underneath in our traditions, don't be afraid to leave them behind. Here's a second application question. Is there any part of your spiritual life where you're incomplete in your obedience? I'm of course referring to the fact that Abram's journey was not done as he went from Ur to Haran. He needed to cross the Great River, Euphrates. He had to go down further to Canaan. Now that's a clear-cut case of obedience. You can measure that by distance. Either Abram's going the distance to Canaan or he's not. But you but for you, ask yourself, what will hundred percent obedience look like in your life? There may be unhealthy attachments. There may be unholy behaviors you need to let go. The Lord may be ordering you to put some distance between yourself and specific people and places. You may have to break things to detach yourself from them. You may have to break up with someone. You may need to make radical changes in your life by tossing out physical sources of temptation. As you follow God, take this advice from Martin Luther. Let goods and kindred go. Or maybe instead of letting go, you must go forward. God has granted you some spiritual conversation with an individual Perhaps the next step in relationship there is sharing the gospel in boldness. Or if you feel the Lord is leading you to a full-time ministry here or abroad, maybe it's time to move forward assertively. I'm reminded of the words of Jesus in Matthew 9. 37 that rang in my heart two decades ago as a recent college The harvest truly is plentiful, but the laborers are few. So I went forward. My life has never been the same. Here's the last application question. Are you aware that the blessings of Abram can be yours through Jesus? I assure you, I'm not trying to force the gospel into the sermon, but the flow of scriptures take me from Genesis 12 to Galatians 3. As I connect the Old Testament with the New, I want to connect the gospel to your life. The gospel is the good news of Jesus, but it starts with the bad news of sin. God demands all of us, He wants complete obedience, but we fall short of that standard every single day. We break his law, sinning in thought, word and deed, coveting, lusting, blaspheming the Lord's name. And if we try to hold on to any grandiose delusion of ourselves, the Bible crushes it. I think uh if we think we can be good enough to make it to heaven on our own or that we can put on a balance scale, hoping our good works outweigh our bad works. Here's what Paul wrote to the Galatians, again chapter three, as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, Curse is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. That means if we live with the performance mindset in our relationship with God, we're never gonna make it. If you sign up for law keeping as a way to get right with the Lord, you're not allowed to pick and choose which commands to keep and which ones to ignore. You have to continue to do all things which are written in the book of the law. Now you're under the law's curse. You're separated from God. You're destined for eternity in heaven. So you and I are clearly not good enough, and trying to be good enough only gets us into deeper trouble. Paul goes on to declare then, no one is justified by the law in the sight of God. Meaning, as God is the judge of all, he cannot declare us innocent. Based on our good works. But there is a way to be have a good standing before the Lord by faith. Must place our trust in Jesus to be saved. He's the reason for the season, right? So God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life The Father sent his son, divine and human, distinct yet united in one person, Christ Jesus, lived the perfect life. But the sinless God-man, the great I am who existed before Abraham, The blessed one who comes in the name of the Lord went to the cross. He went there to suffer in our place. He paid the penalty of sin that we should pay. He satisfied the wrath of God, laying down his own life. As it says in Galatians 3, 13 to 14. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, for it is written, Curse is everyone who hangs on a tree. That the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Jesus secured for us the blessings promised to Abram by dying for us. He took on himself the curse of the law that we deserve. He declared his work of redemption finished at the end. cross. We did his last. And then on the third day Jesus rose from the dead. It was impossible for him to be held by the pains of death. The resurrection of Christ proved his soul was not left in Hades, his flesh did not seek corruption, he gave many proofs of his conquest over the grave. Then he ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind. This is the good news of Jesus. It demands a response from us. Repent. Turn from selfishness and self-righteousness. Trust in Jesus only. Place your hope of heaven solely on Him. Eternal life's a gift, not earned or deserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ. You repent and trust in Jesus, then God accepts us. Abram's blessings can be yours. It's not only presented to Jewish Christians, but to all believers, non-Jews, Gentile Christians. God the Father accepts us as his children. The Holy Spirit of promise is ours as guarantee of more future blessings. To enjoy all the blessings of God, come to Jesus, hear his voice, and respond in faith. I pray that this final song becomes your testimony. I heard the voice of Jesus say, I am the dawning light. Look onto me, your moon shall rise, and all your day be bright. I looked to Jesus and I found in him my star, my son. And in that light of life, I'll walk till traveling days are done. Let's pray and sing. So we thank you for the faith of Abraham, a faith that we can also exercise by your grace By the work of the Spirit in our hearts. We know that obviously we are far in timeline ahead of Abraham. But we face many of the same challenges. We live in a world full of temptations and corruption and sexual immorality and idolatry. And Lord, the struggle is still here, but we thank you. That it's not based on our resolve to get better or We're so morally upright people, but because of your grace, because you have determined in your mercy To say, I will do this and I will do that for you. Because of your covenant, because of your promises, that we can step forward in faith. Thank you that you were gracious to Abraham. Abraham, and you are gracious to us. Lord, in a heart of gratitude, may we repent, turn away from sin Turn away, even from good things, that takes our hearts away from you. Give ourselves wholly unto you. Pray that that will be true the rest of our lives, not just because it's that time of the year when we think of our resolution. We pray that it will not be a new resolution, but a life resolution to follow you all of our days, to trust you, to turn away from sin and self-righteousness We thank you, in Christ's name we pray. Amen.