So about a ha month and a half ago, a story came out, and it's not by some liberal journalist with an axe to grind. Um it was a story featured in Christianity today. I'm sad to say that the title of the article will generate some sighs and groans Quote This is the title hundreds accused independent Baptist pastors of abuse. Investigation by Fort World Stars Telegram finds four hundred Allegations against hundred sixty-eight leaders spanning almost two hundred churches and institutions. Now in the article, male headship and pastoral auth authority Are among the key words. Another word is church structure. Now, it might sound a bit boring to study ecclesiology or biblical church structure. Sure. But I can't overstate how important it is. How authority, votes, decisions, discipline, accountability takes place within a a church may seem pedantic at first. It's kinda like the way I felt about my accounting audit courses in University of Maryland. At first it sounded it felt very arcane and dull But it was no laughing matter for employees of Enron and Arthur Anderson in 2003, when Andrew Fastel's abuse of authority was made public. If I may use analogy, expertise in architecture and construction may seem totally uninteresting unless you stayed at Hyatt Regency Kansas City on July 17, 1981. 114 died and 200 were injured that day when the double deck suspended footbridge in hotel interior collapsed. So back to reality here. Similarly reality of the church. Similarly, the world doesn't seem to care about churches until big pastor falls into disgrace with some moral failure. Was there some sort of structural issue? Was there some sort of authority issue? I say that churches that misuse or even misunderstand authority lose authority. You see the far-reaching effects of these tragedies. Terrible pain inflicted upon the victims, distrust from victims' family. and friends. Many fatal ministers and churches who are also dependent Baptists get a bad wrath just by guilt from association. Now to be clear, a faith Bible church has a good system in place. There's no concentration of power in one office or position. There's accountability among the leaders and workers with integrity. We should be thankful for that. But if I may, as you're preaching Here suggests that we be vigilant. Re-examine the church's foundations. Check the blueprints. Test its integrity. The Bible is the proper manual for building our church and maintaining it. Based on His word, we want to properly exercise our God given authority. We're going to turn to Matthew sixteen in a moment. Last time I spoke on Matthew chapter thirteen. You might recall that I was giving a big picture over And I said that chapters eleven to thirteen, there Jesus is rejected as king and the kingdom is now delayed. What is inaugurated is this church age that we are living in. And in the next section, from chapters 14 to 20, Jesus trains his apostles In chapter 16, you might say that Jesus organizes a leadership retreat. Just with his twelve disciples at Caesarea Philippi. Now why get his disciples away from the action? And well you might ask why do we have retreats in the In the first place. Usually retreats are organized and attended so that some important agenda can be discussed with some urgency, energy, and concentration What was so important to Jesus that he pauses his public ministry, takes his disciples 35 miles north of Capernaum, their normal base of operation. And have this talk. Let's read the passage for today. Sixteen, thirteen through twenty When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? So they said, Son of man Some say John the Baptist, some Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood. Has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail. Against it. And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosened Then he commanded his disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ. Amen. Now there's a lot to unpack here. Just Consider with me how momentous this occasion is. He asked his disciples to identify him. For the first time in the New Testament, we see the word church, and even more More significantly, we're talking about what Jesus calls my church. We're talking about Christ, the Father in heaven. Gates of Hades, keys of the heavenly kingdom, binding and losing. That's a lot of things going on in here. Now I'll try not to oversimplify things, but I want to mainly present, as you see in the sermon title. The topic of church's authority. Just as we defined our identity, purpose, and destiny in the era of the church, we ought to also define Our authority. And I want to make three points, generally broad points here. The authoritative church, one, originates from proper confession And that's what we see in verses thirteen to sixteen. The authoritative church originates from the Proper confession. Second, the authoritative church is founded on the proper confessors. And third, the authoritative church makes proper decisions. nineteen and twenty. So to have authority as a church we need one the proper confession, the proper confessors, and three, the proper decisions. And by proper I mean biblical. First we need the proper confession, namely that Jesus is Christ, the Son of the Living. That's the focus of verses 13 to 16. Let me just tell you that when it comes to the person of Christ, it's not enough to be close enough. It's not enough to be close enough. To say that Jesus is a respectable prophet or even a great one is close, but it's not close enough. Jesus certainly shared similarities with John the Baptist, the popular preacher, his forerunner, Elijah who performed amazing miracles, and Jeremiah who wrote great prophecies, but Jesus surpasses them. That's because the Son of God existed before David. Remember Jesus said before Abraham, I am. Because he is In the past, the Spirit of God revealed to the prophets mysteries concerning Christ. He is the very person they were often prophesying about, especially the salvation he will bring through his suffering. We are the beneficiaries of their recorded words, as Peter himself wrote later in his letter, 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 10 to 12. Of this salvation the prophets have inquired and searched carefully for the Who prophesied of the grace that would come to you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicating when he testified beforehand. The sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. To them it was revealed that not to themselves, but to us, they were ministering the things which now have been reported to you. Through those who have preached There's a lot of things going on here, but the prophets didn't know clearly what was gonna take place. And even the angels want to know who will be this prophesied Christ. Now I want to back up just a little bit. What is Christ giving me? I'm sure you guys grew up with the word. I just want to tell you that Christ is the Greek word for anointed one and the Hebrew equivalent is Messiah. In ancient Israel, three offices were anointed, that is, inaugurated with a special ceremony where precious expensive oil is poured over the head of the appointee. And these appointee would serve publicly and in religious services. There were the king, the prophet, and the priest. Here's some Old Testament verses where we see the anointing in Action. You can take a look at them later. Exodus twenty-eight forty-one, first Samuel ten one, first Kings nineteen sixteen. So many appointees were um we see uh emerging in the Bible, but God does not hide in his word how even the most regal, the most fervent, and the most pious Messiahs with the lowercase M Failed. Aaron, who was supposed to be a priest of the one true God, once you know helped build a golden calf King David, often touted as the greatest Israelite king, was a murderer and an adulterer. Prophet Moses lost his temper at work one day and lost his ticket. Yes, the Messiahs came and went, did their job, but failed often. But the Bible is clear that God will send the Messiah or Christ with the capital M or C. He will be perfect in all three anointed offices. He'll be the king, the priest, and the prophet, great This Christ is none other than Jesus, the Son of the Living God. And that's where the authority of the church begins. The proper confession about Jesus Christ. His supremacy. Now some people think that Jesus is just a good teacher, nice first century carpenter. You may want to play it safe and not go as far as confessing Jesus as God. If so, I recommend a resource by Josh McDowell. He wrote a short book entitled More Than a Carpenter. I remember growing up of reading it. We have a truncated version of it. Did I bring it? Yes. Here we go. That looks like this. I feel like I'm giving away something free every week, huh? But it's out there in the stands. Um I recommend you take one for yourselves, your family members. and your unbelieving friends. And the second chapter of the full book is a um is entitled Lord Liar Lunatic. Sins and when he claimed equality with God, and when he declared himself to be the only way to the Father. We must conclude one of these three things. Either he was purposefully deceitful, thus a liar, out of his mind, thus a lunatic, or he is in fact who he claimed to be all along The Lord of all. If we truly take him at his word, we have to come to one of those three conclusions. We can't settle on him just being a good teacher or more moral example. He was divinely better than that. Or, if you may, you can decide that he was demonically worst of all. FBC, State Bible Church believes Jesus is Lord. It's a matter of eternal life and death to get this right. It's a matter of our church's reason for existence. Without the proper confession of Christ, we have no authority. No, did you know that nine out of fifteen lines in our statement of faith either mentions Christ or his works. In fact I included w it's included in your um bulletin for you. You can turn to it right before the by faith him. Follow along with me. Hopefully I can make this statement of faith discussion an exciting one. But imagine if we don't have Christ, we don't have Him, His personhood, His Word. I encourage you to go back and listen to Terry's presentation on this before I arrived, but It's so important to get this right. Line C, we believe in the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ, that He was conceived of the Holy Ghost and born of the Virgin Mary. Line D, we believe when Adam sinned, the human race fell in him. Man without Christ is dead in trespasses and sin. F. We believe that the only way to be saved from the penalty of sin, which is eternal condemnation, is by faith in this blood, sacrifice, death and resurrection of Christ. of Jesus Christ, and that of those who thus become his chief, he says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. One of my favorite verses there. Gee. We believe that the death of Jesus Christ was ordained of God and that it fulfilled and met every demand of the righteousness, justice, and holiness of God and his law. H. We believe though himself sinless, he bore the sins of the world, sin of the world on himself and received the wrath of God in our stead. I, we believe in the physical bodily resurrection of Jesus and that he ascended. Ascended into heaven in the same body, and is now seated at the right hand of the Father and intercedes for all that come to God by him. Skip down to K. We believe that the Church which is the body of Christ is composed of those who have received the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior and have been sealed and indwelt by the Holy Ghost. Down to M. We believe in the blessed hope of the personal premillennial and imminent return of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. If we were to remove Christ from our statement of faith. We wouldn't have a statement to make. It would take the faith out of Faith Bible Church. It would ignore the central message of the Bible, and we would lose our central message Name, the Bible church. We could not be marked up as the body of Christ, the church. We will not have faith Bible church in faith Bible church without this proposition. Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. But if we do have this confession and you believe in it we become confessors. And that's the second thing we need to have to be an authoritative church. Church is not just full of documents, it's people who believe in those documents. And believe in the Bible. Believe in this confession. We need the confessors. So in these verses of uh verses seventeen and eighteen, the focus shifts from the utterance of Peter to Peter himself who made that confession. Read or re read verses seventeen and eighteen. Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my flesh Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. Here we have the first member of the church, the blessed Simon, the son of Jonah, that's what far Jonah means, renamed Peter. But to be clear, it's not anything special in Peter himself. If you don't believe me, just keep reading chapter sixteen and see what happens to him. It's not anything special in Peter. Himself. He is a sinner like you and me. God the Father revealed the truth behind Peter's confession. Now Peter's name means rock, but the phrase this rock that is mentioned in verse uh eighteen. That is distinct from the apostle. Getting all technical here, but in Greek language, uh like Latin and German, uh there are three genders, masculine, feminine, And Luter. Peter the rock is masculine, but this rock, the phrase I'm talking about, is feminine. Now that doesn't really imply anything about you know genders here, but this rock is the truth. But you see how it is impossible To separate these three elements of the church. The confessor has authority from the confession, and the confession has authority in its content. The person of Jesus Christ. Christ. So then with Christ, the confession of Christ, and the confessors of Christ, we have the foundations of the church. And because it is Jesus who builds his church, even the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. These gates have been interpreted uh in vain various ways. Um I think basically what it's saying or implying is the permanence of death. How they are one way doors That have swallowed up countless humans. But church membership and growth will not be stopped by death. It certainly did not stop Christ who conquered that on the third day. And even after long after the twelve apostles have died, the church marches on. And more on this a little bit later. But back to another technical question. It concerns the representative role of Peter. Who does he exactly represent? Does he represent all believers? Or is the pa or is Peter's mantle passed on to the magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church with papal infallibility and formal decisions? Or is it an oligarchy? As in does the authority reside in select few, whether it's the Presbytery, or the bishops, or Or a local church elder or deacons. Now I believe the scriptures teach what's called elder-led congregational rule. I'm getting real technical here, but just to say Peter represents all of us, the true confessors of Christ. And Martin Luther formulized this in what is called The universal priesthood of believers. He realized how all saints have full access to God through Christ. No other mediator needed. That's called, like I said, Universal Priesthood of Believers. We talk about the five solas, but this is also a very important Protestant concept. And so that's why they were so focused on getting the Bible out there in vernacular. So that all believers can possess the Bible, understand the Bible. And exercise their God-given authority. So the authority to rule and govern the church belongs not to an individual or few, but all who profess Jesus to be Christ. Christ. Now God does gift church the church with elders and deacons, but not to give them absolute power, but scriptural leading, what one author calls authority of council. That's why the elders form not a senate. We call ourselves the council. Our job is to point you to the Bible, not to rule over you. We're always subject to Christ and Scriptures. That means that we can be fired. Now, you may have heard of the term anathema as a form of curse And if I was thinking get along, I just like have you read that document? It's not very um they're not saying nice things about us, um, but consider with me Galatians one. Turn to Galatians 1. And the word anathema is found there actually in the original language. Galatians 1, 6 through 9. I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ. to a different gospel. Which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed, let him be anathema. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone preaches another any other gospel to you than what you have received Let him be accursed. See how Paul includes himself? Even if we right were an angel from heaven in that Meaning he could be fired by the church. He is an apostle and in what is probably the one of the earliest anatomas in church history, he's saying if he ever preached to you A false gospel, a false confession, that he should be fired, he should be anathema, he should be cursed He subjects himself to divine revelation and the authority of the local church to disbar him. See how the burden though is placed on the They are the confessors and they must guard a confession with their lives. To be blessed true members of the church, they must curse false teachers who divide the church. If Paul can be cursed, so can I. So if I ever preach a false preaching or confess a false confession, kick me out and please pray for my soul. Confessors of Christ live by their confessions of Christ. But did you know that some confessors of Christ are privileged to die for their confessions. The word martyr comes from martus in Greek, which means witness. How appropriate that witness and dying for the faith became so synonymous that it became one concept there. By bearing witness they have borne their cross at times. Literally. We talk about Peter right now in the final chapter of John and and so we see in extra biblical tradition, we see that Peter became a martyr when he was crucified. Upside down. Consider how other confessors in church history die for their confessions. Their example inspires us and their parting words inflame our hearts. Recognize some of these. Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Lord, do not charge them with this sin. That's in Acts 7 with Stephen Now we're leaving the Bible. You threaten me with the with fire which burns for an hour and is then extinguished, but you know nothing of the fire of the coming judgment. Eternal punishment. Reserved for the ungodly. Why are you waiting? Bring on whatever you want. Polycarp about to be burned at the stake. Which he cannot lose. They could die by their confessions. And because Christ is the object of their confessions, these same confessors will live again. If the Lord wills though that we continue here on earth, we have work to do and church members have authority and they must exercise it. That's why we have verses 19 and 20. The authoritative church makes proper decisions. Now that we have the right confession and the right confessors, We have to rightly exercise our authority. Let's reread the last two verses for today, verses 19 and 20. And I'll give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will be Now verse 19 is a real doozy. Um it's a tough verse, okay. What are the keys of the kingdom? We need all the contextual clues we can get. Now, in the immediate context, we can safely assume that the keys have to do with Jesus' church. I don't think I'm going out on a huge limb by saying that. The word church by definition means congregation, and so the keys are mainly for group activity. Now there of course because groups are formed by individuals, each individual decisions matter, but chiefly, um most important We gotta talk about what we do as a church when we get together. Decisions about those things. Now I want to just Just in case your eyelids are getting heavier and it's getting more difficult, um I want to remind you of the blurb at the beginning how important it is to maintain and understand church. This point guards us against some clearly unbiblical Now imagine for a second that we're not in twenty nineteen, but in the seventies. Okay. We decide that many churches in US suffer from weak commitment, shallow community, and general worldliness. Now, let's say I'm I'm the pastor at that time and And I say, I'm gonna share some of these concerns with some pastors in Florida and and we get together and suggest that we create a system in which every member must join a high school house group. And you guys are like, okay, that's interesting. We're being forced to join a small group. Then later we vote to in enforce what's called covering. The every church member must tell their house group leader, elder or pastor every major decision and sometimes minor ones too. That means you must make your decision Decision um have your decision on where to live and work, whom to marry, and even whether to make doctor's appointment, they need to be covered and approved by the leaders. And then I say all of a sudden up here that I have prophetic authority and access to God's will to make the final call. That's when you fire me, right? Like that's when I went too far, okay? Wrong use of the keys. Now y you may be like is this some kind of fiction um it's not um it really happened. It was called the shepherding movement. And the name is tragic there and few charismatic leaders um And in search of accountability, ironically, created systems of dictatorship. From what I hear, the movement has mutated in So we still need to be vigilant. We always have to check our use of authority with scriptures. This is where it gets a little bit hard So let's go on to the second half of verse nineteen for more contextual clues. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loose in heaven. Now in Greek that word whatever is neuter singular and likely referred to the Greek word for judgment, krima. So whatever judgment we make, heaven will confirm for us. Will back us up. So here's what I think. The proper use of the keys are congregational judgments that bind or loose our membership stipulations and our responsibilities. At the minimum, at the minimum, there's other things, but the congregation can properly discern what constitutes a church. For example, Peter's proper confession as the foundation, and who belongs to the church. Peter, who is the proper confessor, the what and who of the church is what we We must decide. For example, we require in our church covenant of membership that members agree to the statement of faith. Attend church And please Christ. You'll find that in your bulletin as well. Furthermore, Protestants have historically agreed that the for the church to be a true church and use the keys, they must observe the Lord suffer and baptize new believers. So you can see that it's impossible to separate concepts from We have to make judgment about doctrine and faith, but we also have to make decisions about members and non members. Turn with me one more time. This is actually the passage for next week. But chapter 18 of Matthew 15 to 20. Chapter 18. And see how the keys are used there So Matthew eighteen fifteen to twenty By the way, keep your eyes out for the binding and loosing language here. Moreover, if your brother sins against you, this is verse 15, go into Tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Again I say to you that if y two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. My name I am there in the midst of them. Binding and loosing again in verse eighteen of that chapter, after a church passes judgment on an unrepentant member Interestingly, chapter 18, verse 18, the U there is plural. I know it's you can't see it in English, but it's plural there. Unlike the U in chapter 16, verse 19. Which only refers to Peter. So the authority to bind and loose and the keys of the kingdom that comes with it belongs to all church members. Professor Christ, not just one individual. So I'm gonna talk more about that next week. So back to chapter sixteen and verse twenty, Jesus concludes this lesson by commanding his disciples to interestingly hush up about his identity. It's not that she just got shy all of a sudden. Um it's just that he had to be discreet until it was Why does he have to go die on the cross? Because if Jesus will build his church, he must permit the temple of his body. to be destroyed. His body must be broken and the blood shed, so that the body of Christ may be assembled. Now in a few moments we will observe Serve the Lord's Supper, which visibly demonstrates how Jesus gave his life for ours. Turn with me to the final hymn, Behold the Lamb. Which is in near the end there. And look with me at the second half of verse three. Which is in the second line. He drained that's cup that all may enter in to receive the life of God. We can enter because we the confessors confess Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God. And then look at verse 4. As we think about our authority, I pray that it will be in step with what Christ wants. Last word there in verse 4, the second half. Our call to follow in the steps. And blessing. What mercy you've shown us that we might be called children of God. That is who we are. Lord, we thank you for saving us. We thank you for the gospel that was preached to us. We thank you that we can stand here today and say what we Redeemed. But Lord, you didn't just zap us into heaven. You didn't take us to heaven the moment we were saved. You left us here on earth. Lord, we pray that as in our time on earth, as we gather together as a church, Lord, may we say that your Son, Jesus, is The Christ, the Son of the Living God. Lord, may we not be shy about that. May we proclaim it far and wide. Lord, may you give us opportunities this week to share Lord, and as we gather together to decide what we will do as a congregation, How we can make decisions. Pray that we will not take this lightly, but see it as an opportunity to search deep in your scriptures. So that we would encourage and edify one another, provide structures and safety within these walls and within our groups, so that new believers can flourish here. Older believers can discover disciple others and that there's integrity and authority that is being used biblically within our church walls. We thank you for this message. May you just uh help us to meditate on it this week. More and more. All these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.