Alright, so I want you to think for a second about the throne of God. What are the characteristics of the throne of God? Well, when it comes to sort of just labeling sort of coming up with maybe 10 or 12 characteristics and we're not going to go through all these. But just think about this. It's eternal. unmovable, irreplaceable, and irresistible. There's an old Puritan writer, and don't ask me to tell you who he was, because I'm actually quoting another Pastor, one of my former pastors who quoted this Puritan writer, and I've long forgotten which one it is, but he said that the Puritan likened the earth to a ship. And the people on the ship had uh revolt rebelled against the captain, and they had the captain, I don't know, somewhere else. But the problem was and they were running around, all these rebels on the ship were running around. But there was someone controlling that ship and it was moving in one direction. And it didn't matter how m active those rebels were or how fast they ran in the other direction, because the whole ship was moving and it was going to end up Where it's supposed to end up. And that was the way the Puritan kind of illustrated what's happening in this world. Okay, so there's the prince in the power of the air, and he has some authority right now, but there is the highest authority. And there are all these people running around, and they're all rebelling against God and against the anointed one, his Christ. But it's God who spins this planet on its axis. It's God who's working all of history to its final conclusion. Where Christ is all in all, what's all going to be summed up in the Hymn. And so that day will come. But right now you and I are kind of trapped on that ship, and we we We're living in the midst of all that rebellion, and we have a hard time seeing the big picture sometimes. But that throne will not be resisted. And by the way, what did God say about his church? The gates of hell are not going to prevail against the church. That's you. That's me. You feel like that? You feel like a conqueror could take on the gates of hell? Maybe you don't feel that way, but it is the truth. So let's go ahead and pray and then we'll get into this sermon. I just wanted to encourage you. Father, thank you this morning for your word. It's a lamp to our feet and a light unto our paths. Father, we rejoice in your word. We do truly want to obey it, and yet we sense within us sin that's still present with us. So we pray for your grace and mercy and help us to overcome. Our sinful tendencies and practices. Father, we truly want to be a people who have hearts that are good, that are morally upright, that are are with integrity and people that want to cling in faith to every word of God because you have told us that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word of God We thank you and we praise you in Christ's name. Amen. Open your Bibles to Luke chapter 8. Luke chapter 8 this morning. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 15, although 1 to 3 we already read last week. Have you ever had somebody call you a goody two shoes? That's kind of an old statement from my boyhood. Maybe it's from yours. Usually it's said when someone is attempting to do what's right. In the face of authority, and someone else in the crowd says, hey, don't be like this, don't be a goody two shoes, don't be a jerk. Just come along with the crowd and do what the rest of us are doing. And yet that person stands out and has to do what no one else is doing, the right thing. And people who accuse someone of being that term are accusing them of being kind of self-righteous. Who do you think you are? Telling me what to do? What kind of person do you think you are? Who gave you this authority? It's a claim that the other person is self-righteous. But as followers of Christ, we know that self-righteousness is the enemy of Christian love. We know this because Jesus himself taught us that to be self-righteous. If a Christian allows this pride and self-righteousness to creep into their lives, their potential for Christian love will diminish. Self-righteousness is so much the enemy of the Christian. We know that you can't even be saved if you cling to your righteousness that is like filthy rags. If you try to come to God. With a wheelbarrow full of your good works, he's going to say that is junk. That's rubbish. We know John 3. 16 says, For God so loved the world, he loves sinners, but he can't accept their wheelbarrow full of good works. It's all filth to him, because he requires perfect righteousness. Last week we saw the story in Luke chapter 7 of this sinful woman who came in and washed Jesus' feet with her tears, dried his feet with her hair. Jesus said that she loved much. He said that she was a great sinner. And the Pharisee present, it was his home and his dinner, Simon, says question Jesus, even the prophetic nature of Jesus' ministry. But Jesus, if you look at your Bible in verse 41 of chapter 7, He told the parable of the creditor. And he said there were two creditors, one who owed 500 in our eye, and the other 50. And when he told this parable, he was comparing the one who owed much and the one who owed little, and they were both forgiven. And the point that he was making is, to him who is forgiven little, they'll love little. And to him who is forgiven much, they'll love much. And so we know that rather than being self-righteous, we should magnify forgiveness. And that means for you and I, if we want to have a kind of love that is growing, is we should really beware, beware lest false self-righteousness creeps into our Christian life and chokes out our love. That was the message in a nutshell last week. Jesus, in order to deal with this topic, had to come into close proximity to horrible sinners His ministry is different than John the Baptist. He's in town. He's eating with people. He's letting them wash his feet with their tears and their hair. He modeled a kind of ministry where he was close to them. And so we see if you look at your Bible in Luke chapter 8, the first three verses. Luke stepping back and summarizing the tenor of Christ's ministry, it says in Luke 8. 1, now it came to pass afterward that he went through every city and village. preaching and bringing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, and certain women who had been healed of evil spirits. and infirmities, Mary, called Magdalene, out of whom had come seven demons, and Joanna, the wife of Chusah, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others who provided for him from their substance. This might strike us as that controversial a statement, but it is controversial because there is this The fact that women are in his retinue helping him, and that would have been stepping out of cultural line for his day, to have them there. Also pointing out in verse 2 the evil spirits and the infirmities, the nature of having people who had formerly been demon-possessed, and here they are close to him. Jesus walked with sinners. Aren't you glad he did that? What a savior! What a friend! He was no ivory tower theologian. He was someone who bore our sins and then walked with us, can now, present, walk with us. He is the great God who came and lived among us. And this is part of what the gospels teach. And certainly the gospel of Luke as well. When we have Luke contrasting John the Baptist and the ministry of Jesus, and we have Luke giving an illustration of how Jesus was close to sinners, and then we have Luke giving a list of the fact that Women walked with Jesus, and the other gospel writers do not do that. This is part of Luke's emphasis. This morning we're looking at the parable of the soils. And we have to answer the question, why is it as good as he was, and you look at uh what it says in verse one again, that as he went through every city and village every city and village preaching and bringing the glad tidings. And you look at verse 4 as we enter into the next section of Luke and it says when a great multitude had gathered, and they had come to him from every city, we have to ask ourselves as to why so many reject. Why so many that hear the good news laugh at it? Rebel against it, mock it. Why is it, folks, really today, right now, 2016, October, our church, our town, our city, why is it that people aren't just jumping to get this message? It's good news. It's about forgiveness. Is it because we don't have the right method Do we need a better method for sowing the seed? Now I'm not arguing against good methods, but is that the ultimate reason why the kingdom of God is so opposed in this day? Is it because of the politics of our nation? If we only had the right politics and the right president, then boy, then the kingdom of God could really succeed. Is that the truth? Is it because we need a better building or we need to have more money Why is it that the kingdom of God is so often rejected? And here in the Gospels, we're about to see many who will reject the parables and stories of Jesus. Ultimately resulting in the crucifixion of Christ. Why is that? Well, that is what the parable of the soils, among other things, that is one of the reasons that Jesus brings this up. Now How many of you have heard the parable of the soils before? At least once preached. At least twice. Three times. I've heard it probably I've heard it so many times. And you have to. So what we're going to do, stop, ask the Lord to help us to gain not extra biblical insight, not strange wacky insight, but fresh insight to apply it to our lives. Okay? It's the same unchangeable truth, but we need fresh insight. And if you have the Spirit of God inside of you, he will help. So let's pray for a moment. Father, as we look at this Help us to gain fresh insight in applying it to our lives, fresh conviction from your spirit. Help us to not just allow It to go in one ear and out the other, which in effect would be doing exactly what the parable says is shouldn't be done. We would fulfill the parable. So we're praying now that you will help us. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Let's read it. Luke chapter 8, verse 4. Start back there And when a great multitude had gathered and they had come to him from every city, he spoke by a parable. A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and it was trampled down, and the birds of the air devoured it. Some fell on rock, and as soon as it sprang up, it withered away because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns, and a thorn sprang up with it and choked it. But others fell on good ground, sprang up and yielded a crop a hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Now, up to this point in the Gospel of Luke, we do not have an extended parable like this. We do have a parable, we just read one. From last week, the parable of the creditor. It's short, and it is not arguably not as rich in the sense of complexity as the parable of the soils. So it is probably safe to say that this is placed here in Luke chapter 8 as preparation for parables to come. For the reader, it's a warning. Obviously, during his day, it was a warning for those who were present in the ministry of Jesus and heard his words with their ears. What kind of soil do we have? How do we fit into this? I want you to notice first that this is just a common agricultural. When I say common, I don't mean not holy or profane. What I'm saying is the agricultural illustration that Jesus chooses to use would have been very common and understandable. It is a characteristics of a characteristic of parables that they be easy to understand for the audience that's present at that time. There is a sower. A sower in that day would have been someone who had a sack of seeds hoisted up over their back, and they had the ability to get those seeds and to cast them on the ground. There's the seed, which would have been the wheat or whatever it was that they were sowing. There's the ground. How simple can we be with that? There's the fact that fields, verse 5, there's come up against a wayside. They have You have a field, and then you'll have the end of the field, and you might have a road that people walk on. There is also, well, we haven't got the birds of the air, verse 5. They were common in that day, and have you anyone here ever planted something and had birds come and eat the seeds or actually dig them out of the ground? So I have watched birds eat. uh stuff right off of my plants. So birds will come in and do that. Maybe if we were to tell this illustration today we would use squirrels. Any of you ever have squirrels eat stuff out of your garden or groundhogs? But he used birds common to the day. We also he uses the illustration in verse 7 of thorns. thorns uh in that uh they were if if the historian that I read is correct, he described these thorns thorns as a a type of A plant that grew multicolored flowers, that you could pull it out and it would come back the next year, that it was Just almost ever present in the field. I mean, you would sow your seed and the seed would grow, and here comes these thorns coming up right next to it. Very difficult to get them out of the field. Many gardeners here can relate to that. That wasn't just an ancient problem. It's a common one. And then also in this parable, there is the desire to have a good crop. No one wants their crop to fail. And so he is using that desire in all of us to have a good crop to illustrate the story. Now, if you were just in that day and you heard Jesus say this, and that's all he said, how would you respond? Would you have a question in your heart or mind? Would it sound strange to you? Because certainly part of this is it was Strange, they would be used to some stories, but it's just a story at face value. For example, if I were to tell you a modern parable. And I were to talk about a creator who built an fantastic engine. It had pipes and sparks and combustion and it could move. It had legs and And this creator, this wise engineer built this machine and suddenly it could think. And then this machine went out and ran away from its creator. The end. And I told you that story. You would go, that's a really weird story. It is a weird story. But if I left it there There should be a response. If you knew it was a spiritual lesson, if you knew there was something more to it, it's supposed to draw your heart out. On the other hand, if you really don't care. about me or my message, who I am, then you're just going to go, okay, this is just some weird preacher with a weird story. So when they hear this, when the disciples hear it, verse 8, I'm sorry, 9, his disciples are drawn to it and they say, what does this parable mean? I mean, there is nothing in the story that explained the story. And so Jesus in verse 10 gives them a general Reason for all his parables first. That's what he does first. Look at verse 10. To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But to the rest it is given in parables that, and he's quoting from Isaiah, seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. He tells them that there is something they have been given. You have been given to know the mysteries Now, the word mystery there is not talking about a Sherlock Holmes mystery, where the disciples are like Sherlock Holmes. They approach a complex problem, they break it down and solve it through careful logic, an application of intellect. That is not what the word mystery here is talking about. The word here is simply speaking of that which was formerly hidden and now it has been made known. A word that would be close in its meaning to mystery would be revelation. By extension, it's what was not known, but is now revealed. You and I are recipients of revelation in written form. We don't see visions or angels, but we have revelation right here, and there is a sense, folks. in which you have received revelation when you had the Word of God given to you. That is very much true. You have received revelation. And what he's saying here is that to them they have been given revelation concerning the kingdom of God. This is something that they are receiving. Now, how is that so? Well, you'll notice that the disciples have access to Christ because they come to him with questions. They want to know, and they get their questions answered. They have a special privilege in that twelve of them were chosen. And would you agree that if you when you let your eyes go back up, to verses 1 to 3, that all the people mentioned here, the certain women who followed him, Mary and Joanna and Susanna, and and the of course the twelve, that they had been gifted with something quite special. They had been chosen from everyone to walk with him and minister to him. In that sense, they have been given access to revelation that others have not. So they are given certain access to revelation, others are not. But it's the same parable. They're both hearing the same thing. Let me let me try to illustrate it this way. And I have to be careful here because we get into arguments about uh predestination and that kind of thing, and I have no desire, I don't think that's where we're going with this. Here's a modern parallel. A missionary goes in to Indonesia. He contacts a Stone Age group of people who have never had access to revelation before. Never. They've never heard the name Jesus. They've never heard the gospel story. And for the first time, he shares this revelation with them. The revelation of the scriptures. Some of them respond. They take a step towards a missionary and they want to know more, and to them are given. More to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. But among that Stone Age group, there are those who walked backwards. And when they hear the story of Christ, all they hear is a story. All they hear is, if we could put it this way, the parable. So if they heard this parable of the soils, they would hear about a sower and dirt and birds and thorns, and that's all they would receive from it. And in time, and well I'm trying not to get ahead of myself to what Jesus says it means, that would kind of be a modern parallel. Not predestination per se in this passage, but access to revelation and being given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. So he goes on if you look at your Bible in the final section here, and he explains it. He says, now the parable is this: the seed is the word of God. Of course, the first sower of the seed would be Christ Himself. He's referring to himself. The seed is the word of God. And so you have in verse 4, look at it, a great multitude had gathered. They that had come to him from every city. You have a great multitude of hearts, and you have the word of God that's the seed. Verse 12. Those, I'll just read from verses 12 to 15, okay? We'll just capture all of it at once. Those by the wayside are the ones who hear. Then the devil comes and takes away the word of their hearts. out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. But the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy. And these have no root, who believe for a while and in time of temptation fall away. Now the ones that fell among thorns are those who, when they have heard, go out and are choked with cares. riches and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to maturity. But the ones that fell on the good ground are those who, having heard the word with a noble and good heart, keep it and bear fruit with patience. First, the similarities. He's always speaking in terms of their heart They have this kind of heart. They have that kind of heart. The condition of their heart is what is at question. What is the condition of their heart? Secondly, it's the same seed, it never changes in the story. The seed is the Word of God So there's a person, they have a conditioned heart, and the word is sown into that person's heart. That never changes from thing to thing. The first thing after that that he wants to point out in verse 12 is that there is the devil, and he stands in opposition to this process. And he is present during the process. Look at it again in verse 12. Those by the wayside are the ones who hear. Then the devil comes in, and the idea is that just like that bird coming in and snatching it up. So the devil does this. He takes it away, the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. So Jesus wants us to know that when the kingdom of God and the word of God is sown, there is opposition present in the unseen world. Now I've read books folks, some of them ridiculous, and and when I say read, I just skim them because they were so ridiculous. I read one not it was probably it was a while ago, by a man who claimed that he had seen the devil. Face to face. Did he see the devil face to face? Highly unlikely. But nonetheless, does that change the fact that the devil is out there right now? Now he is geographically isolated. He is not omnipresent. There's one devil, and he is one place right now. But who does he have that follows him? The demons. In Revelation, it says the dragon fell from heaven, and with his tail, I mean he swept out a third of the angels, and they became demons. They follow him What does the devil do? Well, from the pastoral epistles, we learn that the devil is the author of bad doctrine and false religion. Heresy and false religion. In Galatians chapter 1, there's a curse pronounced on even an angel that comes down and tries to present a gospel which is really not another gospel. And we know that the doctrine of demons, or the doctrine of devils, as it says in the King James Version, and we know from 1 John that we should test the spirits, because the spirit of Antichrist is already in the world. So we have False religion and heresy that is ever present with us. Now, the heresy is more of a response to good doctrine, but it's there. And so the devil uses this in his battle with us. We also know from the book of Daniel that there is some kind of battle that we cannot see. Where one angelic being can resist another because the prince of Persia resists the angel that is going to come. and give answer to Daniel in his prayers. So there is something happening up there that is conflict, that is battle, that's resistance. And then there's something there's what we see down here, heresy, false religion. We also know from Ephesians, and you know this, why don't you go ahead and turn to Ephesians 6 All right, in Ephesians 6, you're familiar with the armor of God passage. Ephesians 6. 11, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil, the devices, the scheming of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places Now, this this the these terms, principalities, powers, rulers, there is the possibility here that this is, among other things, speaking of some kind of organizational structure. to the devil and his demons. In other words, the devil is not sort of, he's not disorganized. How much wisdom do you think it took for the devil to invent a false religion like Mormonism? How much wisdom and how much patience has he cultivated this false religion, the Church of Jesus Christ. No, it's not. That's not the Church of Jesus Christ. It preaches a false Christ, and yet it names him as the centerpiece of a false system. How much wisdom, how much organization. In Ephesians 6, one of the implications here is that there is organization in this unseen conflict. That results in heresy and false religion. And here is what the devil wants. If you go back to Luke chapter 8, he wants the seed out of the heart. He does not want someone to put their trust. in the gospel of Jesus Christ, the true gospel. And he resists when we work for him. Now I want to be careful with what I say, so I'm going to only pose this in terms of questions to get you to think. When you're telling someone about Christ and a distraction arises immediately from some unseen place, even as simple as people start honking their horns going up and down the road. When you are in the middle of being evangelistic and you're trying to advance the kingdom and something present in the atmosphere is causing a great distraction, could it be? Part of what the devil is doing. When you witness to someone and he's this close to getting saved, but in the week between your last visit and your next visit, the Mormons are knocking at his door. Could that be part of what the devil is doing to resist? The gospel of the kingdom of God, and here we have Jesus telling us that there is There is a heart, verse 12, back in Luke chapter 8, there is a devil who comes and takes away the word of God. Now, how many of you can actually resist the devil? Have you been developed a system? I mean, do you Do you, I don't know, do you talk to them or do you try to just, I don't know, physically grapple with th you can't do that, right? So what is our prior, and what is our prior how do we resist the devil? Primarily through faith and prayer. Faith and prayer. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. And also, good Christian relationships. where conflict is quickly resolved in the church. I don't have time to go there because we're already running out of time. But You remember the Corinthians, and someone's church disciplined, and they're supposed to forgive him and affirm their love, lest they give the devil an opportunity, because we're not ignorant of his devices. Here's a person who can be overwhelmed with too much sorrow, and the devil comes in, and then bitterness builds up, and then the devil can get a foothold in a church. When the church handled the church discipline situation correctly. But they don't affirm their love afterwards, and the devil is able to get in there. How else? Well, in the pastoral epistles, we have Paul writing to Timothy. And he tells Timothy, the elder, that he in 1 Timothy chapter 1, that he is supposed to tell people to stop teaching certain things in the churches there. They're misusing the law. The whole purpose of our instruction is love out of a pure heart and a sound mind and a good conscience. And Timothy, these people are filled up with endless genealogies and all this stuff. Tell them to stop. So, how do you get rid of heresy and false teaching and bad doctrine? Elders have to stand up and say, enough in our assembly, we're not going to say that. The elders practice oversight over the teaching ministry in an assembly. And so these are ways to resist the devil, prayer, faith Ministry. Back to Luke chapter 8. So the devil is there present in the sowing of the word. What's next? Well in verse 13, we have but one on the rock, but the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear, receive Receive the word with joy. So there's this initial joyous reception, but they have no root, who believe for a while, and in time of temptation, and the word could be translated, trials fall away. Now there's a difference between verses 13 and 14. Verse 14 calls out cares, riches, and pleasures. Verse 13 is temptation or trials, and it's probably a reference to being persecuted because of your faith, the little bit you have. There is a distinct kind of persecution for the Christian. One that we endure that others do not. This past week I was shocked to see on a link in sermonaudio. com that in the state of Massachusetts There has been an order gone out to churches to cool it on speaking out against transgenderism. It is the state trying to control what's said here That happened this past week or right around in that area. Look it up online and pray. Do you remember what happened in Texas when there was that whole big blow up over the bathroom walls? And I think it was the mayor of one of the cities, correct me if I'm wrong, but they sent out an order where they wanted to review sermons that the preachers had preached in their own churches to make sure they didn't violate Whatever law they were about to bring about? Folks, when I was growing up in the 80s, we would talk about persecution in China and Russia, and it's still happening there. But make no mistake, it is definitely happening here. You are living in a day and age when persecution is present and could grow And the goal, I'm gonna put it there, it could have the effect that you will walk backwards from your relationship with Christ. Now, this parable Is the person in verse 13 saved or not? Is the person in verse 14 saved or not? I'm not really going to discuss that except to say, once you're saved, you're always saved. But there is something that's happening here where the devil is at work resisting the word, where Where persecution can have an effect so that the word is not a success. No fruit. No fruit. That's the point. And so we have to deal with the trial of life in the sense of persecution. Folks, where will you stand? Where will you stand when someone comes to you and calls you a bigot? Because you simply believe that some things are wrong and some things are right. You don't have to be a jerk. You don't have to thump someone on the head. But you can certainly tell the truth in love. Let the word of God bear fruit in your life Verse 13, trial, persecution. Verse 14 is something that we as Americans are always in danger of in those in other affluent societies. It says here The ones that fell among thorns are those who, when they have heard, go out and are choked with cares, riches, and pleasures of life. Now, this is something that all people, of all religions, of all places struggle with. The cares of this life is simply a reference to the necessity of putting food on the table. Do Christians eat? Yes. Do Muslims eat? Yes. Do Hindus eat? Yes. Hindus eat? Yes. We all have to eat. We all have to pay bills. And sometimes this can be overwhelming. And so someone hears the word, the gospel of the kingdom, or just hearing something from the Bible, and yet they get involved in working. Now, folks, let me be very specific. God will allow your faith to be tested about Sundays. Now I want to be careful. Your ox is in a ditch on Sunday. Go get it out of the ditch. I certainly want doctors and nurses and EMT workers to be on call on the Lord's Day. Right? If I fall down of a heart attack right now, please dial 911. And I'm glad there's going to be a medical professional there to help me. But nonetheless, I have observed as a pastor, and maybe you've observed as well. People who forsake the assembling of themselves together, the church, very easily They don't really value it like they should. And it often is the case where the cares of this life, the necessity of putting food on the table, just overwhelms them. Now, I don't think our goal with those people when they're being overwhelmed is to just grab them by the head and push them under the water. Oh, you're overwhelmed? Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Yeah, you're wrong. I don't think that's necessarily the right thing. I think you should put your hand out, and uh we have in Galatians that the spiritual ought to restore such a one if if they're involved in sin, but there's the exhorting one another so much more as the day we see the day approaching. There is the verbal One another's of encouragement and comfort, saying, Hey brother, God can provide for your needs. Are you sure you have to miss church three out of four Sundays every month so that you can work at Burger King? Are you sure God can't provide for you another job? And I'm just picking Burger King, pick something else. McDonald's. Can't pick Chick-fil-A, I guess. I don't have to. But any any other restaurant. Are you sure that you have to do this? Isn't God powerful enough? Can he not help you? Brother, he helped me. He can help you. See what God will do. And I have found, and this is a pastoral observation, that most of the time people have not even asked God to help them. They just start sinking, blah, blah, blah, and they forget that there's a God who can help them. I'm telling you, folks, God, my personal testimony and years and years of working, all those different jobs I told you about is that God helped me to not have to consistently work on Sunday. Uh a and when the church the when there was the word of God was being preached, he enabled me to go. I'm not saying that because I'm some big somebody. I'm not. I'm nobody. But if he helped me, he can help you. But we all face the cares of life. It also has within it not just the putting of food on the table, but the way that you feel, your health. And then in verse 14, when you move on to the word riches and pleasures, this has to do with the abundance, the superabundance of wealth. That's where we are often in our country. We have more than we need, and it deceives us. And so we begin to covet. It's not enough to have one or two of whatever it is our favorite thing is. We need three. And when we have three, we need four. And suddenly we find ourselves instead of pursuing our gracious and good and loving Father, we're pursuing this. And it's just, and in the context here, instead of the effective working of the word, the seed, which produces verse 15, fruit. We minimize the seed. We walk away from it and we distance ourselves from a fruitful life Because we're pursuing, we're pursuing something that two-thirds of the world would never pursue. Folks, when you're living in Africa and you're wondering where lunch is coming from, you don't have time to develop this extracurricular activity or that one. But here in our country we're all in danger of doing it. And I I I'll confess it I'll confess one of my sins so you know I'm not pointing out it's very strange. I love Bibles. Actual physical Bibles, printed ones, and I really love leather ones. I actually uh there's a company called Cambridge Bible Company. This is not a commercial. They print Bibles and all different kinds of leathers. I mean, you're talking sheep, goat, cow. You can even get an ostrich leather Bible. Ostrich. I don't have one. Don't worry, I didn't buy one. But I love just having Bibles and I I can actually this is going to sound really weird, but I can get a catalog, Christian book distributor catalog. And I'll just look at those Bibles and go, ooh, I wish I had that one. Ooh, a wide margin Bible. You know, I was in Family Christian bookstore the other day. They started printing Bibles with a blank sheet between every page. You can get a nice copy. And when you look at it, it has a folded paper on in it. You know what I started doing? I started just buying Bibles all the time. What? I won't tell you how many Bibles I've had. I think I've told you this story before. I have too many. Too many Bibles But in my flesh, I started lusting after this object, this three-dimensional object, and collecting it and wanting to smell the leather and just have this real cool Bible. What's up with that? Now, if a preacher can do that with Bibles, could you be doing that with something? Could you actually be pursuing riches and the product of wealth? to the point of neglect of the word and that of being sown into your heart? Question yourself. I don't know. It's something you have to explore for yourself. And verse 14, the final thing of pleasure here. It's pleasure sin, biblically. The Lord said, at my right hand are pleasures forevermore. The psalmist said, I delight in your word. Psalm 1 said, Blessed is the man. There's a blessing and there's delight and there's pleasure in the Lord. So it's not pleasure in and of itself, it's a sin. God created pleasure when he put taste buds on your tongue and nerves in your body. It's the misuse of pleasure and the pursuit of pleasure. sinful pleasure that can cause us to neglect the word of God. I liken it to this. Maybe you've seen a scientific show where they do an experiment and they put rats in a maze. And they and maybe you've seen this. They try to test the intelligence of the rat or the mouse. And so some of the rats They have taught that at the end of the maze there's a little button. If they push that button, a treat comes out. And so I can't remember exactly what the final analysis was. But part of it was if there's that pleasure button involved in the test, the rat or the rodent does better than if there isn't. And they also, I read this one story where they they put so much of that button in there that the rat like tripled in size and like died or something because it just kept going over that pleasure button and pushing it, pushing it, pushing it, pushing it, pushing it. Have you ever found yourself doing that, whatever it is? It doesn't have to be food. It could be And you find so much time involved in your own pleasures that you but there's this beautiful word of God. A light to your feet, a lamp to your path. It's more to be desired than gold and honey out of a honeycomb. Something God made for our enjoyment. And so there are these people, and the devil comes and steals the word from their heart in some way we don't completely understand, but he is there present to resist us. And then there are these people and they're shallow and they're not willing to accept the persecution that comes, and so when the trials of life come, they fall away. And then there are those people who are overwhelmed with the bills and their health, and they receive the word, but then they just get overwhelmed by riches and pleasures as well. But there are people who receive it, who accept it. Verse 15 There are the ones who fell on the good ground, are those who, having heard the word with a noble and good heart, keep it and bear fruit with patience. There are three descriptions of the heart built into this verse. Noble and good has to do with the moral quality of the heart. There's a willingness there to listen to the word of God, a sincerity. Then we have the word keep, keep it. It has to do with clinging to it. It even has, as one author said, faith is the foundation of that clinging. They believe it. And so they see the necessity of it, and so they're just holding on to that thing. And then the word patience could also be translated endurance or perseverance. They are sincere as they hear the word and then they just hold on to it because they believe it and they just won't let go over time. And those are the ones, those are the ones who bear fruit. And Jesus is telling his disciples, listen folks, that when they look out at that great multitude In verse 4, that come out from every city to hear him, and they see him preach the word of God, that these kinds of hearts will always be present there. Now we're we're I need to stop. Let me ask you this One of the things that this is teaching us is that is to have hope Because there are going to be some good hearts out there. Now, by the way, having a good heart doesn't mean the person is saved and then they hear the word and get saved. What I'm talking about more is the principle of the word of God and response to the word in a heart. Certainly, in this parable, those who reject the word ultimately are not saved. And those who accept the word, the moment they accept the word, they're saved. And the moment they put their faith in Christ, they're saved, and they never become unsaved. But there's also this principle here of of us, a warning for you and me. I mean, when it comes to persecution and pleasure and riches and cares, I mean you and I, we we so often get caught like flies on fly paper, although you're not a fly. But we get caught. In these traps. Where are you today? If we could apply it that way. Search your own heart. Has the devil been gaining some ground in your life? Is there something in which you're missing out on the fruitful life if you seek me with all your heart? I mean, is there something in you telling me, you know, I need to I need to kind of make some changes here or there in my life. Folks, we're not perfect. You will never When you will to do good, there is a sense in which the flesh is with you and evil is with you, don't wait for yourself to become an angel before you strive to be one. Because you have the righteousness of Christ and the position in him of a justified status. And now you don't have to shrink in guilt. And stay guilty, you can say, Lord, help me. I want to do what's right, but I know I sure want to do what's wrong too. Well, He's going to reach down and help you because He's a God of grace, and because Romans 5 says we have a standing in grace. And the righteous man falls down seven times and he gets back up. And the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, though he fall, he will not be utterly cast down, because the Lord upholds him with his hand. As one preacher said, you have to have kind of a gutsy guilt at moments like this. If you feel guilty, then you've got to work your way to the courage of reminding yourself that you are never outside of Christ and that he loves you. And that your sin as a Christian will never separate you from that love. So run to Him. Confess your sin. He's faithful and just to forgive. And you can walk with this, what a savior, what a savior. He walks with the sinner, he talks with him, he fellowships, and you'll never be perfect. He knows all your sins more than you'll ever know. If you only knew He does. And yet you're indwelt by a spirit because you've been imputed with the righteousness of Christ