C. S. Lewis once talked about this thing called chronological snobbery, where you have this bias for something that's new. You want the new shiny toy? You want something that's different than what's been before? I don't know about you, but as I'm growing older, I'm just realizing I don't know what that hymn says. Give me that old time religion. Want that old rugged cross? It's rediscovering the extraordinary in the ordinary things. Whether it's reading the Bible, whether it's singing hymns Whether it's looking at the Lord's table, the Lord's Supper. Whether it's hearing the baptism testimony, So that's one thing we want to talk to you about today. We're going to talk about uh one of the ordinances What is the Lord's Supper? What we call the Lord's Suffer. And next week I'll talk a little bit about baptism as well. But let's not lose sight of the extraordinary in the ordinary. The ordinary means of grace by which God blesses us and gives us joy So if you haven't following along with us, you'll see that we've skipped over a lot of material in Matthew. We're going all the way to Matthew 26. Last time we were in chapter 18, and that's called the Jesus Community Discourse. And that was delivered in Galilee. In chapter 26, where we are today, we find that now Jesus is in Judea, in the city of Jerusalem. It's Thursday night and the disciples are gathered with him to observe the Passover. We see how Jesus transforms the Passover experience of Israel into a new communion experience of the church. And before we go into the specific passage for today, I want you to know what that each of the four Gospels, how they end with Jesus dying on the cross and rising from the dead. Now let's not take that for granted. I hope that those words never grow old. Whether you've heard that all your life or heard it just now for the first time. We here at Faith Bible Church believe that a first century Jewish man was crucified and rose from the grave. He was more than a man, he is God. He suffered and died on the cross to pay the penalty as a substitute for our sins. We sang about that this morning. And that penalty is eternal judgment in hell. And now if you're here and never gave your life to Jesus, do so right now. It's that urgent. And if you put your faith in yourself in Jesus and not in yourself, your works, your heritage, your intelligence, and throw yourself at God's feet, you too can be saved. Please make that decision today. And believers who have made that decision already gathered together as a congregation to observe what is called Lord's Supper or the Holy Communion. Let's read about that now in Matthew twenty-six. Twenty-six to thirty And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, Take, eat, this is my body. Then he took the cup, gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink from it, all of you. For this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when I drink it new with you in my father's kingdom. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Now this sermon might be the most topical and technical sermon I've delivered thus far. I'll stay close to the text we have for today, but I'll be flipping back to Hebrews and most often to 1 Corinthians. Reading a lot of chunks of material from there. And I'm going to ask four questions that I hope to answer. One What is the relationship of the Lord's Supper to the Old Testament? What is the relationship of the Lord's Supper to the Old Testament? Second, what is the relationship of the supper to the New Testament? It's all gonna start the same, the questions. And then number three, what is the relationship of the supper to Jesus? Number four, what is the relationship of the supper to the local church? So Old Testament, New Testament, Jesus, the local church, what is the relationship of the Lord's Supper for all of those things? First, what is the relationship of the sufferer to the Old Testament The one-word answer, if you want it, is Passover. Perhaps it's better to say that Passover provides the essential link Between the Old Testament and the communion we have today. The Lord's Supper didn't exist in a vacuum. It took place on the first day of what's called the Feast of Unleavened Bread, also known as the Passover Week. The Last Supper coincided with the Passover dinner that commences that week. Apologetics here. Now John, interestingly, in his gospel says that they share the meal before the Passover feast in chapter 13, verse 1. If you ever get someone who wants to I don't know if you run into Bart Ehrman or something who wants to refute the gospels. I won't get into too much details, but if you read Harold Honer's book entitled Chronological Aspects of Life of Christ, technical but a great book. You will find plenty of sources that support the following idea. In first century, Jews in Galilee and Jews in Judea observed different calendars, each reckoning the day of Passover differently. For the northern Galileans, the day began and ended at sunrise. So they could prepare during the day, slaughter the lamb Thursday, 3 to 5 p. m. , and eat before going to bed. For the southern Judeans, the day began and ended at sunset. Practically speaking, they couldn't go out and prepare in utter darkness. They slept and prepared in daylight and slaughtered the lamb Friday three to five PM before the day ended. So Matthew, Mark, and Luke follow the Galilean method, while John followed the Judean method of reckoning. So that explains the difference. So, aside from that difference, much of what Jesus did that Thursday evening was biblical and traditional. They went to Jerusalem, secured a room, ate the Passover. They share wine together, though Exodus 12 says nothing about cups and wine. But they do seem to have followed this custom of several cups that were drank during the Passover year. In fact, if you read Luke 22 closely, you'll find that Jesus took the cup at least twice. First during the meal and the second one after it. This practice is in accordance with rabbinic sources that we have. The second cup is the one we're concerned with, which is the cup of the Lord's Supper. Since the other gospel writers often to narrate that there was just one cup, it seems that the apostles did not find the Jewish use of multiple cups terribly important. But nonetheless, the earliest practices of the communion were Jewish to a large degree. Its participants, obviously, the language, and customs. And I'll talk more about the significance of Passover to Jesus a little bit later. The second question to ask is: what is the relationship of the supper to the New Testament? The easy answer is this. The blessings of the new covenant. And there's much to unpack here, but let's start with what we know We know that Jesus departed from the norm with the words at the end of verse 26. I have my red letter Bible here. Take eat, this is my body. And then at the middle of verse 27 to the end of verse 30. Drink from it all of you, for this is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many, for the remission of sins. But I say to you, I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when I drink it new with you. In my father's kingdom. All of a sudden, the passover arrangement or order, what they call Setter, has been changed from the remembrance of the Exodus. To the commemoration of Jesus' crucifixion. Well, before we talk about the significance of the covenant, let's just go on with the easier task of matching the elements with the reality of Jesus' sacrifice. You only need to read on to chapter 27 to see that he was scourged, stripped, crucified for us. The soldiers took a crown of thorns and pounded it on his head John adds in his gospel that after he died they pierced him with the spear. And Jesus' blood requires some discussion as well. Jesus shed blood ratifies the new covenant as it says there. It was shed for many for the remission of sins. There are many parallels to Exodus twenty-four when Moses confirms the old covenant with animals' blood, and after detailing the commandments, instructions, legislations. Moses built the altar at the Bainai, sacrificed, read the covenant, sprinkled the blood on the altar and on the people. But the sacrifices required by the law could never take away sin. like the new covenant. The bodies and the blood of animals could not accomplish what Christ would do. And here's where just reading the scriptures just gives us the glory of the new covenant. Let's go to Hebrews chapter ten. Hebrews chapter ten, verses one through eighteen Pray that these words will minister to you. Hebrews chapter ten, verses one through eighteen For the law, having a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never with these same sacrifices which they offer continually year by year, make those who approach perfect. For then would they not have ceased to be offered? For the worshippers, once purified, would have had no more consciousness of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sins. Therefore, when he came into the world, he said, Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sins you had no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come in the volume of the book it is written of me to do your will, O God. Previously saying, sacrifice and offering, burnt offerings, and offerings for sin you did not desire, nor had pleasure in them, which are offered according to the law. Then he said, Behold, I come to do your will, O God. He takes away the first that he may establish the second. By that will, we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God. From that time, waiting till his enemies are made his footstool. For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. But the Holy Spirit also witnesses To us. For after he had said before, this is from Jeremiah 31. This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws into their hearts and in their minds I will write them. Then he adds, their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more. Now where there is remission of these, there is no longer an offering for sin. I invite you to just continue to reflect on that this week. Jesus by his death On the cross inaugurates the new covenant. We're made perfect and holy. God has written his laws into our hearts and our minds. Our sins and lawlessness are forgiven through his blood. No, one thing you won't find in the tabernacle or the temple, inside the places where the priests work, you won't find the chair, because their work is never done But Jesus, our high priest, finished the work and sat down at the right hand of God. What Jesus accomplishes for us is so much greater than the old covenant. We don't sacrifice the lamb. We have the sacrificed lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Praise God for that. So do we really need to celebrate Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread? Yes and no Not in the way that we you know the Jewish uh people would do it, but it is done now in the context of the new covenant, salvation and sanctification Not one or you know seven days in a year, but in our whole lives. You might remember that we referred to this last week, but let's go to 1 Corinthians now 5, 6 through 8. You might as well put a marker in First Corinthians. We'll be back here a lot. First Corinthians five. First Corinthians five, six through eight. You might remember this was a a chapter where Paul is urging the Corinthians to discipline someone in their midst. And in the middle of this tirade, this upbraiding, Paul gives the theological reason why they need to Expel this brother. So first Corinthians five, six through eight. Your glory is it glorying is not good Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Therefore, purge out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, since you truly are unleavened. For indeed Christ our Passover was sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Paul is telling these Gentile Christians, you have the Passover, Jesus Christ's sacrifice. You continually celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread by being away from malice and wickedness. That's what new covenant brings us. But here's um where division occurs in Christ's send them. Here's another technical part of my sermon. Who exactly reaps the benefits of the new covenant? There are four views. I have a lot of points with a lot of sub-points and sub-points of subpoints. First, only the church benefits from the new covenant. Second, only Israel benefits from the new covenant. Number three, both the church and Israel through two new covenants. Number four, both Church and Israel through one new covenant. The view that only the church benefits from the new covenant Which many millennialists believe, requires us to jump through some hoops here. You would have to say that the New Testament Church somehow replaced the Old Testament Israel But the problem is this. Certain promises found in the old, such as the regathering in Palestine and the safety given to Israel, that does not apply to the church. The church is spread all over the world to be witnesses. The second view is that the new covenant only applies to Israel in the future. Some premillennialists, such as John Darby, thought that the church does not participate in the covenant in the present. But the problem is that Paul considered himself a member, a minister of the New Covenant, 2 Corinthians 3:6, and quotes Jesus' words of institution to the Gentile church the Corinthians and first Corinthians eleven twenty-five. And he's he quotes the words that says, This is the blood of the new covenant. The writer of Hebrews has no qualms about calling Jesus the mediator of a new covenant in the present tense, Hebrews 8, 6, 9, 15. The church cannot be excluded from the new covenant at this point. The third view is that there are two new covenants that apply to the Church and Israel separately. Lewis Chaffer is a proponent of this view. But Paul or the writer of Hebrews never promotes the idea of two new covenants. Later, the latter, without hesitation, cites Jeremiah 31 in his letter. Paul, while discussing the relationship between Israel and church in Romans 9-11, never mentions two new covenants when it would be the most appropriate to do so. So the fourth view is what I take to be the correct one. There's one new covenant that applies to both the Church and Israel. How does that work? The church has obtained certain specific spiritual blessings of the covenant now in the present age. Later, Israel, there will be a great revival in Israel. They will benefit from both the spiritual and material blessings, the promises made in the Old Testament in the future kingdom for a thousand years. Now you may like, wait, how come these Old Testament passages don't talk about the church then? Well it was a mystery hidden by God back then. So they couldn't know. I like this illustration. It always stuck with me even though it was maybe uh in 2005 or 6 when I first heard it. First of all, the fact that Jesus accomplishes this one new covenant in two stages may sound strange to you, and I'm sure it did to many early Jewish Christians. But here's the illustration. The prophets like Jeremiah and Ezekiel who prophesied this new covenant and this the coming of the Messiah, they were like climbers at the base of a mountain. They looked up and saw from the distance the peak of the mountain. And let's say that peak at the mountain represents the coming of the Messiah. And the apostles at Jesus' time were like the climbers who reached the summit, right there at the peak. But to their surprise, they saw that there is a valley behind the mountain. There was in fact another mountain right behind the first one that was observed observed from the bottom. And that valley that we didn't know about is the current age of the church. And the second peak is the second coming. Our Old Testament brothers and fellow saints didn't understand that there would be two mountains. They only saw the one mountain from the bottom. But we are living in that era between those two peaks. His two advents. And we're receiving the benefits of the new covenant at the present time. But God will keep his promises to Israel. And no matter what era you're from, you look to Jesus by faith and enter into his new covenant by his blood. God has chosen to extend the new covenant to us Gentiles, and we're glad for that. Let's not lose the sight of how extraordinary that is. Look at the results. Believers from Africa, Asia, America, all of us. Of receiving the benefits of the new covenant, the forgiveness of sins. We who are many and diverse eat and drink from the common table. And Luke and Paul made sure to record Jesus command to do this in remembrance of me. And we got a that's right there saying we do that in remembrance of him. There's a common proverb out there, blood is thicker than water. It's understood as family ties are the most important bonds. It doesn't make sense chemically or biologically, right? Um but I guess we sort of just accept it as it is. But I just found out that this thing is actually a truncated version of a proverb with the complete opposite meaning. Here's the full statement. The blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the tomb, of the womb. The blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the womb. So that would actually go directly opposite of blood is thicker than water. So actually this is saying the covenants we enter in our lifetime are more important than the wombs we exited at birth. And there are many covenants we enter. Marriage. Some are built on blood of animals, some on the blood of some great hero. Others are founded on the blood and sweat of our hard work. Well no blood except Jesus can accomplish what we sang earlier. What can make us whole again? Plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stings. I hope you know the power of Jesus' breath. Okay, let's go on to the third question. What is the relationship of the supper to Jesus? You might think this is a no-brainer, but ta-da! More sub points. There are four major views in history. Lot of words with six syllables. Transubstantiation. Consubstantiation. Memorial view and spiritual presence view. First, the transubstantiation. Again, six syllables there. The Roman Catholics believe that the bread retains its outer physical form, but the invisible substance becomes The literal flesh of Jesus Christ. They hold that Jesus is present with the church in body and blood, not just in his divinity. But the problem is, what do we do about passages that say he's at the right hand of the Father? How is he able to return again if he's always here at the Mass? Luther was convinced of the consubstantiation view. When Jesus ascended to heaven, this gets a little bit bizarre, his physical body became omnipresent as his divine attributes mixed with his human attributes. His human nature became ubiquitous, that is present everywhere, including in, within, and under the elements. Hence the prefix con and con substantiation, which means with, as opposed to trans and transubstantiation, which means beyond or across. But again, Jesus is at one place. He's at the Father's side, where Stephen found him when he was martyred The next two views are the most normal views. The third view is the memorial view. The view was developed by Ulrich Zwingli, a chaplain in Swiss Confederacy His military background influences views on baptism and the Lord's Supper. The two ordinances are public demonstrations of allegiance, initially at baptism, and subsequently and repeatedly through the communion. Christ is not present as the bread, in the bread, or even at the table. It was a strong overreaction, I say, against the Roman Catholic and the Lutheran views. The supper is reduced to a memorial without Christ actually being there. And the fourth view is the spiritual presence view. Light swingly, spiritual presence views proponents deny that the elements become or contain the blood and body of Christ. There is a memorial aspect to the supper, but there's a little bit more. But believers actually enjoy true communion with Christ at the table. And one of their most important proof texts is 1 Corinthians 10, 14-22. Here, Paul is arguing against idolatry. One of the problems that the Corinthians faced was attending these feasts where there would be meat and food sacrificed to idols. The question is, are they going to partake in it? Should they partake in it? And this is Paul's answer. 1 Corinthians 10, 14 through 22. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men. Judge for yourselves what I say. The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we, though many, are one bread and one body, for we all partake of that one bread. Observe Israel after the flesh. Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? What am I saying then? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idols is anything? Rather that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice the demons and not to God. And I do not want you to have fellowship with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the Lord's table and of the table of demons. Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? So what seem what Paul seems to be saying is that there's something more going on than just a memorial at the Lord's table. If it's just a memorial that Christ is not present at the table, then his argument here would lack firepower. But if there is a fellowship, a communion, if the cup of the Lord and the Lord's table contrast with the cup of demons and the table of demons, there's something very real about the experience of the Lord's Supper. The Lord has right to be jealous if we go from his table to a table where idols are worshipped and demons stand behind them. So, since Paul appeals to the vertical relational aspect of the Lord's Supper as an argument against idolatry, we've got to give some thought to the spiritual presence view. And if we truly believe that Jesus is really with us during church discipline, as we saw last week in Matthew 18, and Great Commission, which we will see in Matthew 15. twenty eight, I don't think it's a far-fetched idea to consider his presence at the Lord's table. If Christ is with us in our praise, prayer, sermons, and baptism He could also be with us in his supper. But whether you land on the memorial or the spiritual presence view, I hope we don't land on the consubstantiation view. But you would agree with me, I think, that Lord Suffer is a serious matter We're talking about remembering our Savior's death on the cross. You wouldn't appear at a funeral in gym shorts and flip-flops. Here we make the effort to announce beforehand that we are observing the Lord's suffer. And if idolatry is a real sin in our lives, we ought to examine ourselves and repent. So in addition to the vertical aspect, there's the horizontal aspect of the Lord's Supper, which leads to the fourth question. What is the relationship of the supper to the local church? The supper is foundational for our corporate identity and unity. I hate to keep picking on the Corinthians, but they just didn't get it They thought that they could break the church apart and then break bread together. They gathered to respect God and thought they could disrespect each other. Perhaps the rich members thought that since they gave more to the to the funding, they should get more food So they seem to disrespect the poorer members of the church. But a proper view of the Lord Suffer not only properly views Christ's body, but also the body of Christ, the church. Let's read 1 Corinthians 11, a familiar passage to us, but we're going to read from verses 17 to verse 34. Verses seventeen through thirty four, chapter eleven, of first Corinthians Now in giving these instructions I do not paise you, since you come together not for the better, but for the worse. For first of all, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it. For there must also be factions among you that those who are approved may be recognized among you Therefore, when you come together in one place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper. For in eating, each one takes his own supper ahead of others, and one is hungry and another is drunk. What? Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take eat, this is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same manner he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner, will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink Drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep. For if we if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. Therefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. But if anyone is hungry, let them eat at home, lest you come together for judgment, and the rest I will set in order when I come. So we usually just read from verse twenty-three to twenty-eight or twenty-nine, and we forget the pastoral exhortation Paul is giving. the discipline that he wants to instill in the Corinthians. We don't read the context. Now it does seem from what we can infer here that the Corinthians, like Jesus and the twelve, observed the Lord's Supper right after a meal. We don't do that here, but that seems to be the practice of the early church. But God disciplined the Corinthians for taking the supper lightly. Why? Because They took each other lightly. The word for in verse twenty three, which we seem to read during communion, we don't realize that it's connected to the context. We have to ask what for is there for? The Corinthians were in trouble for being members in bad standing. That's why he reminds them, gives them the institution of the Lord's Supper again. So God didn't stand for it, and some members were removed by death. Verse 30 They fell asleep. That's not talking about nice nap. And Paul's conclusion, wait for one another That's why the Lord's Supper shall be taken by believers in good standing with God and each other. So I hope that next time we observe the Lord's Supper, that we appreciate the depth, the new covenant. The history of salvation, where God revealed, starting with Passover, how it would look forward to the sacrifice of Jesus. Jesus Christ. And now we look back at that same sacrifice of Jesus Christ through the Lord's Supper. We recognize Jesus as the Passover. And we celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread by living holy lives, away from malice and wickedness. We recognize that we are remembering a very important thing. And what is done ordinarily once a month. Let's find the extraordinary in the ordinary. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for all the things that we may take for granted. Lord The building we have here, the music we sing, the pianos we have here, and the organ we have here. The things you granted us as a church, the religious liberty we have at the moment, the Bible we have, the hymnals we have in front of us Lord, the fellowship we have, the brothers and sisters around us, Lord, these are what we take to be ordinary, but Lord, these are blessings from you. May we respect all that you have given us, the ordinances, the Lord's suffer. Lord, may we remember properly That these elements are symbols of your son's sacrifice. And Lord, may we realize that through that same sacrifice we have come together as one body. Lord, we pray that even though we celebrate the Lord's Supper once a month, help us to always remember the significance. of the cross, of the resurrection, all that the new covenant brings to us. Through the blood of your Son Jesus. Jesus Christ. We are washed. We are cleansed. Whiter than snow. Oh precious is the floor. We thank you so much, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.