So as I was preparing this week, I read a piece on child development education. The author believes that the most important socialization goal of infants and toddlers is this: quote, a compassionate sense of wonder. A compassionate sense of wonder. The phrase comes in two parts. One, children need a sense of wonder And all in order to have a drive to learn and chase after dreams. Secondly, they also need to learn compassion so that they connect with other humans well. As I was reading this, I asked myself, is it only children that need a compassionate sense of wonder? Do adults kind of grow out of it? Don't we need to care about others and discover the beauties of the universe? I say that to be truly human, all of us need compassion and wonder. So as we continue in this sermon series of Jesus' ministry in Luke, I hope that you are enjoying getting to know our Lord again or for the very first time. He is not to be statically restricted to titles or creeds, but we see him in the narrative, walking, talking, encountering people, having a personality. Now to go back to what I just said, I contend that as Jesus is truly human and the best human that there ever is and was and will be. He had a compassionate sense of wonder that was absolutely perfect. Let's go to today's passage and see how he showed this compassionate um sense of wonder. So we are going to, we're continuing in Luke. We're at Luke chapter 7 and we're going to read the first 17 verses of Luke 7. And you have the passage in the bulletin if you don't have your Bible. Luke seven, one to seventeen. Now when he concluded all his things in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum. And a certain centurion servant, who was dear to him, was sick and ready to die. So when he heard about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to him, pleading with him to come and heal his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they begged him earnestly, saying that the one for whom he should do this was deserving, for he loves our nation and has built to us a synagogue. Then Jesus went with them. And when he was already not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, Lord, do not trouble yourself. For I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof. Therefore I did not even think myself worthy to come to you. But say the word, and my servant will be healed For I also am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me, and I say to one, go, and he goes, and to another, come, and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him and turned around and said to the crowd that followed him, I say to you, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel And those who were sent, returning to the house, found the servant well, who had been sick Now it happened the day after that he went into a city called Nain, and many of his disciples went with him and a large crowd. And when he came near the gate of the city, behold, a deaf man was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a large crowd from the city was with her. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, Do not weep. Then he came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. So he who was dead sat up and began to speak, and he presented him to his mother. Then fear came upon all, and And they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has risen up among us, and God has visited his people. And this report about him went throughout all Judea and all the surrounding region. The passage today neatly divides into two separate miracles. The healing of the centurion servant. And the raising of the widow's son. In both cases, Jesus helps unnamed individuals about to lose or has lost someone dear to him or her. The first event takes place in Capernaum, the second in Maine. From these two accounts, I observe two lessons for us. 1. Jesus is amazed at humble faith. Verses 1 to 10. And 2, Jesus is amazing as a compassionate prophet. Verses eleven to seventeen. First, Jesus is amazed at humble faith. After the sermon on the plain What we saw in chapter 6. Jesus enters Capernaum, his base of ministry operations. Jewish elders come to him, sent by a centurion. Now Matthew in chapter 8 of his gospel presented the account as if the centurion himself went to Jesus. The simple explanation is that Matthew wishes to focus on the ultimate source of the message, not the intermediary messengers. So Luke simply fills in details that Matthew has chosen to leave out. Here's a little background on this Roman centurion. Now, just gonna get into a little bit of the Roman army structure. The Roman army around the time of Jesus was about 300,000 strong. But this total was divided up into 28 legions, and a legion had about 5,500 men in each. A legion consists of ten cohorts with about 500 men in each. Most of these cohorts were further divided into centuries consisting of 80 to 100 men. Furthermore, a century is formed by units of eight men who ate, slept, traveled, and dwelt together. Going from small to large, we have a unit, a century, cohort, legion, and then the army. The centurion, like the one we are talking about today, will lead the unit as part of the centurion with the help of his assistants. Perhaps the modern equivalent of a centurion would be a captain or a major in the U. S. military. Over time and experience, a centurion could rise in the ranks to the top and become the senior centurion who leads the first cohort, which is above all others, in the Legion. What we learn here from Luke is that this centurion is not your typical soldier. Consider how these elders of the Jews were ready and willing to be sent by this Gentile, a Roman no less, a military professional of an empire that was subjugating the Jews. They even earnestly begged Jesus to help the servant because he deserved to have this done for him. They explain in verse 5 that the centurion loves Israel and built them a synagogue. Commentator C. Marvin Tate concludes the following: These considerations suggest that the captain was a god fearer. A Gentile who embraced Israel's God, but who did not undergo circumcision. So this man, this Gentile man, went as far as he could as a Gentile short of converting to Judaism But still, this man is a Roman, and Jews were not allowed to enter the houses of Gentiles, even if they worshiped the same God of Israel. Just to see how much trouble this is, you might want to later look at Acts chapter 10 and 11. How much effort was needed to do away finally with this separation between Jews and Gentiles? In those chapters, Peter shared the gospel with Cornelius, another Roman centurion, like the one here in this passage. But a lot had to happen for that meeting to take place. God sent Peter a heavenly vision three times to work on his heart. From Caesarea, Cornelius sent men to Peter in Joffa. Peter had to take some brethren from Joppa to Cornelius' house as witnesses. God sent an angel who stood in that house as an assurance for Peter. The Holy Spirit descended upon the Gentile believers at Cornelius' house, and it happened visibly as another sign of assurance. And Peter had to defend these evangelistic efforts before the Jews in Jerusalem. That's a lot of things happening. Jesus set the precedent for Peter because in verse 6 he was willing to go and help the Gentiles. But as they neared the house, the centurion sent another group of messengers, his friends. I think it's worth rereading the contents of the message that was sent Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof. Therefore, I did not even think myself worthy to come to you. But say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to one, go, and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it As I was reflecting on this, you might recall recall from the previous chapter, chapter 6, verse 46, the warning of Jesus. He said there, but why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do the things which I say? There are those who profess Jesus as Lord, but really do not desire to treat him that way. They really do not understand Jesus' identity because they do not understand Jesus' authority. Here in this centurion we have the opposite positive example. He truly understands Jesus' identity because he understands Jesus' authority. It is interesting that while the Jewish elders said to Jesus, This man is deserving, in verse 4, this Gentile soldier says here in verses 6 and 7. That he is not worthy to have Jesus enter under his roof. And he did not even think himself worthy to come to Jesus. This humility coupled with faith in Jesus' power. He knew that all that Jesus had to do was say the word and his servant would be healed. Now, where did this man learn such humble faith? Well, as a god fearer, he must have been familiar with the fate of the patriarchs. Moses, David, and other saints in the scriptures. Also the Jewish elders must have taught him the ways of the Israelite religion. But I think there's more. On top of all that, he lived out his faith. Not just on a Saturday at the synagogue. He lived out his faith as a professional soldier on duty. I believe that's why he uses the illustration in verse 8. The centurion answers to a higher earthly authority at work, and he is himself a higher authority over assistants and units and soldiers. Those under him must obey his words. In the same way, the soldier unanswers to the higher heavenly authority of Jesus. Such humble faith gets our Lord excited. We saw last week that Jesus had a sense of humor. Here we gotta have he has a sense of wonder. He marvels at the soldier's faith that was revealed through his words. Jesus was so pleased that he turned around and announced the greatness of this man's faith to the crowds. This unnamed Gentile had a faith that surpassed that of great names like Peter, James, and John. This Roman layman was more exemplary than the Jewish clergyman. When the friends returned home, they found the servant healthy and whole, no doubt back to 100%, at the very moment Jesus granted the miracle. There's much to learn here, much application. I'll just ask three questions for reflection. Just think about it for your personal reflection and devotion. First, the natural question to ask is this, do you have a humble faith? I think many of you have faith, but is your faith humble? We know that without faith it is impossible to please God. Without humility, it is impossible to amaze the Son of God. We too must understand Jesus' authority if we are to understand his identity. From that starting point, we can possess the same humble faith as this centurion. I like what Charles Spurgeon says about this event. Quote, Your fate will not murder your humility. Your humility will not stab at your faith. But the two will go hand in hand to heaven like a brave brother and a fair sister, the one bold as a lion, the other meek as a dove, the one rejoicing in Jesus, and the other blushing at self. Do you have faith that is both brave and fair, bold and meek? Like a lion, yet like a dove. Rejoicing in Jesus and blushing at yourself. Here's a second question. Does your attitude toward earthly authorities reflect your faith? Does your attitude toward earthly authorities reflect your faith? This centurion understood authority and submission to be good ideas. Not just for the sake of order, organization, and stability of his profession and career, authority and submission are wonderful concepts for order, organization, and stability of his faith. This centurion understood the concept of Romans 13, 1-2 many years before Paul wrote them down. I'll just read it for you. Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are appointed by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authority resists the ordinance of God. And those who resist will bring judgment on themselves. Now, I'm sure we could think of exceptions, but very often our attitudes toward our governmental leaders, our bosses, our superiors. Our classroom teachers and our parents reflect our faith in God. That was certainly true with the Israelites and their leaders such as Moses and Samuel It was not being it was not fun being a leader of Israelites then. But you might say to me, Song, you don't understand My manager is terrible. My leader is unreasonable. My professor is insuccorable. Well I'll just give you an example of this guy who really had a bad work situation. Before he became king, David worked for someone who tried to get him killed in battle, pin him to the wall with the spear twice. Chased them around the land as a fugitive. And David had every right, I would say, to fight back. But when he had the chance to avenge himself and seek justice, He refused to harm the Lord's anointed, even when his men were saying, You gotta do it. Now I'm sure your work situation isn't as bad as David's, but Uh but if it is, we should probably talk. Um but let's be thankful for authorities over us. Pray for them and submit to them If for no other reason than to add humility to your faith. The final reflection question to ask ourselves is this. Are we okay with faith that does not look like our faith on the surface? I asked this from the perspective of the crowds following Jesus and the disciples who follow Jesus. Are we okay with faith that does not look like our faith on the surface? No doubt the spectators in Capernaum were shocked by his words. Surely Jesus could find better faith somewhere in Israel, faith that is Jewish. He shouldn't have to look among the Gentiles, among the hated Romans, for an amazing faith The apostles and the disciples were learning that this centurion and soon this uh Syrophoenician mother Are just previews of many Gentiles who would be saved through faith in Jesus. And it's happening still today, all over the world, even as we speak, people are hearing the gospel. and coming to faith. And they will bring their different languages, customs, and traditions into churches. Of course, anything that is contrary to the scriptures shall be left at the door. Missionaries and pastors sent out must have discernment to sort through the baggage. And how about us? As we pray for numerical growth in our church, we should ask ourselves whether we are okay with believers that did not grow up in Maryland, belong to a different political party than yours. And look different than us. As long as they display humble faith and believe in the Bible, I pray they will find a home here at Faith Bible Church. If Jesus marveled at such faith, we should marvel as well Jesus displayed another emotion in another town in Galilee region named Nain, about 25 miles southwest of Capernaum. We will learn from an incident in the city, our second lesson for today. Jesus is amazing as a compassionate prophet. Many of Jesus' disciples and a large crowd followed him from Capernaum to Maine, and there they encountered another large crowd at the entrance. It was a funeral procession of a dead young man, the only son of a widow, without a male close relative, which seems to be the case here, this woman is now completely alone without anyone to provide for her as she grows older. This setting and background prepares us for another miracle of Jesus. But it should be noted carefully that what motivated Jesus was not fame or more followers. but compassion. The inner motive of uh Jesus leads to his outer words of comfort, to not weep. In verse 14 we see him move towards the coffin and touch it. It's interesting, those carrying the corpse stood still, which implies that they must have had faith that Jesus could do something amazing. And that he does with a simple command, Young man, I say to you, arise. Immediately he sat up and began to talk, a sure sign of life. Jesus presented the man alive to the mother. The crowds react in fear and praise as they accept Jesus as a great prophet. and through his ministry saw that God cared for them. The word for visited in verse 16 is the same word used in Matthew 25, 36 and 43. To speak of the care for the naked, the poor, the imprisoned. That same word is found in James 1. 27 to describe care for orphans and of course widows. Parallels to Elijah's miracle of raising the widow's son are notable here. Yet I say the differences are more telling. Now, if you want, you can follow with me to 1 Kings 17. If not, I'll just read it for you. As I read this account of the raising of the widow's son, what Elijah has done in First Kings seventeen. Pay attention to all that Elijah has to do to restore the deceased son to the widow of Zarephath. I'm gonna read from 1 Kings 17, verse 17 to the end of the chapter. Now it happened after these things that the son of the woman who owned the house became sick. So this is where Elijah was staying. And his sickness was so serious that there was no breath left in him. So she said to Elijah, What have I to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to me to bring my sin to remembrance and to kill my son? And he said to her, Give me your son. She so he took him out of her arms and carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his own bed. Then he cried out to the Lord and said, O Lord my God, have you also brought tragedy on the widow with whom I lodge by killing her son? And he stretched himself out on the child three times, and cried out to the Lord and said, O Lord my God, I pray, let this child's soul come back to him. Then the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came back to him. And he revived. And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper room into the house and gave him to his mother. And Elijah said, see, your son lives. Then the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is the truth. See all what that has to take place? Elijah took the son, carried him up to his guest room upstairs. laid him on his bed, cried out to the Lord, stretched himself on the child three times, cried out again, and once the child was revived, took him out of the bed and brought him down to his mother. I imagine that the someone's in quite a shock after a traumatic experience. Maybe a bit drowsy. Elijah's successor, Elisha, performed a similar miracle with another child, a son of a Shunammite woman. He too had to exert much activity to restore the child's life. Now you contrast this with the simple touch and command of Jesus. The son Jesus raised was able to sit up by himself and able to speak. Have you ever recovered from a surgery when you were knocked out? I don't think you could just sit up and speak right out of it And we marvel at medical technology that gets us back on our feet and restores us to normal functional living. What Jesus has done here is amazing beyond all scientific explanation. Jesus is amazing. And we know that in two other occasions Jesus would raise the dead to life. Jesus revived the daughter of Jairus, the synagogue ruler, and Lazarus, the brother of Mary and Martha at Bethany. Like the latter incident at Bethany, this miracle at Nain was quite public and created much commotion. There is a story about D. L. Moody that sort of relates to this passage. Once Moody was asked to conduct a funeral service So he decided to study the gospels to find a funeral sermon delivered by Jesus. But he could not find any because Jesus broke up every funeral he attended, right? So Now you might think that the greatest thing that happened here was that a mother was reunited with his only son. Actually, the best thing that happened here was that these two met Jesus. I know that sounds a bit strange to some of you, but really the best thing that happened here was that these two met Jesus. This miracle here gave proof to them and all of us sitting here today that Jesus can give us eternal life. This miracle proves that he has such authority. And this is the message of the Bible. Death is the consequence of sin, and sin is the root of all human evil and problems. Each of us has turned away from God and now faces wrath. Physical death is the door that leads us to eternal condemnation unless we repent and believe in Jesus. Just as Jesus spoke to the dead and they came to life in these miracles, there is an appointed day in the future when Jesus will empty the graves. Here's what Jesus says in the Gospel of John, chapter 5, verse 28 to 29. Encourage you to look at it. John 5, 28 to 29. Do not marvel at this, for the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves will hear his voice and come forth. Those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of condemnation. Like this widow's son from Nain, all of us will heed the voice of Jesus. Now the question is, will you wake up You know, from this from the slumber of death to dream come true in heaven or eternal living nightmare in hell Follow-up question. How do I make sure I have done good to deserve the resurrection of life? The Bible clearly says all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. If you want to know how to avoid the resurrection of condemnation, just look up a few verses in the same chapter of John 5 to verse 24. Most assuredly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has everlasting life and shall not come into judgment, but has passed from death into life. Through faith in Jesus, you have present tense, everlasting life. Through faith in Jesus, you will not come into future judgment. Through faith in Jesus, you have already passed from death to life. Death is a worry of the past. Because of Jesus, death is now just a door to paradise. It's not because you are a good person that Jesus will raise you up for eternal life. It is because Jesus is more humble than the centurion and more compassionate. Than Elijah. It is because Jesus died and rose from the dead for our sins. As we observe the Lord's Supper today, let us be in awe of Jesus and his mercy on us. Lord, we see in this passage how how your son so delights in our trust in him, in our faith in him. Lord, we pray that we would have such faith, that we would have humility in our faith. And Lord, and as great as the centurion was, may we look At the perfect picture of humility that your son has shown us. And Lord, help us also to see his compassion. And as great as his miracles were, Lord, his compassion is what drove those miracles, what led him to perform these uh miracles for people. Lord, we pray that we would know you through your Son Jesus Christ. That the reality of death would wake us up. Whether it's in Galilee or whether it's in Virginia, whether it's in Maryland, that death is all around us, or that we would see, that we will breed our last. And that the most important thing that we must do as long as we're alive is to know you through your son. So we pray for those who do not know you at this time. Those who may be sitting in the pews, those that we that may be living in our houses, those neighbors that may be living in our um in our street. Lord, may they know you. Lord, may they have faith like the centurions. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.