All right, let's open our Bibles back to Ephesians six, Ephesians chapter six. Ephesians 6, it was printed on the front of your bulletin, but we'll you can read it there, or you can read it in your Bible, Ephesians 6, verse 10. Finally, my brethren. Why did he say finally? Well, in the context, he has just gone through a list of relationships. Are relationships places that can sometimes involve conflict? Well, humans, we wrestle with each other sometimes, but are relationships sometimes the arena of spiritual conflict? Yes, absolutely. There we know that if you look at your Bible and you consider the fact, then chapter 5, verse 22, that he speaks to wives, that he speaks in verse 25, the husbands, that he speaks also to children and to employees or employers, slaves, and masters. That within the context of all those relationships, a spiritual warfare. is taking place. And so his finally is in light of all that he's written, but certainly the previous context of relationships and how we as Christians can be faithful in the context of those relationships. His finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. It's an exhortation to strengthen. Because when you're a wife and you're dealing with an imperfect husband, you need strength. And when you're a husband and you're dealing with an imperfect wife, you need strength And when you're a child and you're trying to learn how to obey your parents, you need strength. And when you're a parent trying to raise children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, you need strength Christians don't live in ivory towers whiling away the days, dreaming about heaven. You and I are in the context of spiritual battle, and we need strength even within the day-to-day routine that we have. If you look at the text very carefully, there is definitely a connect the dots that we can do here because the strength in verse 10 Be strong and the Lord and the power of his might, and the put on, the take up, the whole armor of God. That's the connection. You want the strength, you want the power, you've got to put on the armor. In this particular text, the emphasis is not so much on the control of the spirit or the saturation of your mind with the Word of God, although those certainly are Are attached to this idea of the armor. But it is on the fact that you and I, as Christian soldiers, must habitually get into the practice of putting on the armor. The strength and the power is connected to the armor of God. And the strength and the power, as it's exhibited in the armor, as it's demonstrated, is found if you look at your Bible. And again, in verse 11, it is found in that ye may be able to stand against the wiles, the schemes, the strategies of our opponent, the devil. And not only that, but that we can stand against his minions, if we could put it that way, those who work for him, those that we wrestle against. The principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this age, the spiritual wickedness in the heavenly places. Not just the power to stand against the devil's schemes, but also the power, verse 13, to withstand in the context of a day that is not good. You see that there in verse 13. Uh uh and ver it if you keep reading down past the against principalities and powers and the darkness and so on In verse 13, you take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. So there's the enemy, the opponent of our souls, and then there's the context in which we live the evil day. The power through the armor to resist the devil's devices, to stand up in an evil time And at the end of the day, as it says here in verse 13, to stand. You're still standing It's the morning strapping on that armor. It's the day of battle, and it's the end of the day when you're back in your trench and your armor is on and you've been victorious. Wow, that is what's encapsulated here. You probably have come from a week where you have sensed that life is not neutral. That we are not Christians who live in a pond of tranquility, but we are Christians who are who are in a river trying to swim upstream. There's resistance to our values, to our way of life that we find in our culture, and there's resistance to our desires to do what is right even within ourselves. When we would do good, evil is present with us. And so there is, in a word, conflict. We all agree to that, right? There's no one here today in this room who would say being a Christian is easy. A couple of years ago now you have to excuse me, I'm a little got a cold. A couple of years ago we were witnessing to a man uh Of Duckett's Lane. And he was very quick to pray the sinner's prayer. And so we stopped him. And I said, Sir, before you pray this, do you understand what you're doing? And he really didn't understand. So He agreed amazingly to meet with me and to eat uh to have dinner and to talk about spiritual matters. So I bought him dinner at Denny's. We sat there and we talked. Great fella, policeman. And he said, What does it mean to be a Christian? And I sensed that he probably would be very quick to sign on the dotted line without understanding what it means to trust in Christ. And I sort of did what Jesus did with the rich young ruler. I said, sir, I need to tell you that being Christian is not easy. It really isn't. I mean, if if you are to repent and put your faith in Christ and He transforms your life, and then there's a battle that begins. And are you willing to put your faith and trust in Christ, knowing that being a Christian is not always easy? And he thought about that. He thought about it and he realized that he wasn't ready. And I couldn't force him to say a prayer against his will, because we all know that those convinced against their will are of the same opinion. still. So it's a battle, the connection here. Now let me let me just give to you before we get into our our our actual text and if you look down at your Bible, what we're looking at this morning is verse fourteen, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. We're going to discuss what that is. I'm going to explain to you what that is in a moment. But I want you to see at least pray that my voice holds up. Two implications before we get into that. First, there is the implication of preparation. Alright? There is a day and it's evil And at the end of the day, you want to still be standing. There is a day that involves conflict. There seems to be the progression of time through this passage. When do you want to put the armor on? The beginning of the day or the end of the day? The beginning, right? The implication here, there's an implication of preparation In other words, you anticipate that there will be a battle, and so you have a desire to stand, and so you have, in verse 14, stand therefore having. Girded your waist with truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace. You're taking a stand and you've already previously put the armor on. Now it could be that there's someone here this morning and you are failing in your Christian life because you are putting your armor on at the wrong time. Could it be this simple for some of you this morning? Could it be that if you would just get ready for the day before it hits you? If you would just take that time when you get up, or at that moment when you know there's going to be a period of time of conflict, if you just prepared. That would be the answer for you. Instead of waiting to be knocked down in the field of battle and trying to strap your armor on, I mean, what would a Roman soldier do? He'd be out there, he'd be ready, but how ridiculous would it be if you've got a centurion and he has a bunch of men in his his whatever you call it, his squad, and they're strapping on their armor and the battle is happening all around them. That really is not wise. So there's this implication of preparation. And then there is also this implication of possession. And that is that you have the armor and it's available to you, and it's possible for you to possess it and put it on. Now you should think about that for a second. Some of you in this room feel like you're not a very strong Christian, that you don't have what it takes. Some of you have been saved for years and years, decades, and you know how to put your armor on, but maybe you're a new Christian or you've only been saved a few years, and you think, is this something I can do? Or is it just going to be too hard? Well, because it's a command, and Paul is writing it to the entire church there at Ephesus, it's for every believer. There's this availability to the armor, whether it's A three-year-old Christian or a 50-year-old Christian? When I say three-year-old, I mean from the moment of salvation, three years. From the moment of salvation, 50 years. The armor is there and it's available. You can take possession of it. So there's the implication of preparation and the implication of possession. So where do we go from here? Well, we go down to this expression again of putting on the breastplate of righteousness. Now, in a Roman soldier, a breastplate obviously was that part of the armor that protected his chest. It was usually a sleeveless piece of a leather or a heavy material. Uh it could have been made, one writer said, from the horns of animals or from the hoofs of animals, pieces that were sewn together. The whole purpose of the breastplate was that it was tough And so that a sword could not penetrate as easily or an arrow go through that as easily as if they had no breastplate on. You've got your heart there, you've got your lungs, you have your very vital organs in your chest. And so this piece of armor was to protect the organs that are most vital to you. Now, of course, you have your head, that's vital too. But the idea here of making it into a metaphor is righteousness protecting what is vital to you so that you can function. A Christian who has no breastplate of righteousness is open to the fiery darts of the devil to just come in, or the arrows, and just embed themselves and destroy his life. So, what is this thing called the righteousness of God? What is this? And what I'm going to do is get is explain this first in terms of the imputed righteousness. And let me get you just to turn back to Romans, to Romans chapter 1. All right, now. You and I are born with a problem. We all sin. We are all unrighteous. This means that we do not meet the standard of God. Or if you could put it this way, there's a line of expectation. Or there's a there's a there's a goal, there's something that God is after in our lives. It is perfection This perfection comes out of us in the words, it's supposed to, the words that we say, the actions that we do In Romans 1, we find out that there is this habit that when we are given righteousness, well, I shouldn't say that, when we are, when righteousness and its goals are revealed to us, If you look at verse 18 of Romans 1, Romans 1. 18, it says, The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness. of men who hold down, suppress the truth in unrighteousness. That word unrighteousness is safe to say is sort of the opposite of righteousness. It's that which resists righteousness. So there is this state in which we, by virtue of our sinful nature, suppress righteousness. We do not like it. it. So what what is righteousness? I'm going to come down there and suffer with you down there for a while. Let me how many of you are hot? Okay, hang in there. We had the air on all night, so we did our best. All right, unrighteousness, what does this mean? Well, first, there is the matter of what you've noticed in your kids. Don't raise your hand. Has your child or grandchild ever cussed? And you heard them do that? And they are raised in a Christian family? Saying, not mine, I say, okay, fine, but. Have they ever done that? Or what about this? They heard something somewhere and they come home and they say it and you go, whoa, don't say that. Have they ever lied when they should have told the truth? Truth. Or there's never a time when we should lie. Have they ever smacked, hit, punched, rolled over, or thrown their sibling? Down a hill or an object at their head, or I mean, whatever could be picked up in the general vicinity, it was flying at the sibling. Not in a, you know, they don't aim for feet either, they aim for the head. What else do kids do that they shouldn't do? I mean, as they grow up, it seems like all of us When we were kids, as we grew up, do you remember what you were like when you were a teenager? Do you remember the things that you did that you shouldn't have done? Or the things that you should have done that you didn't do? This is all because we are unrighteous. We lack the kind of character that God intended for people to have when He created Adam and Eve We've fallen into sin, we're born in unrighteousness, and when God presents to us that truth, this particular text says we suppress it. We hold it down. And so when you talk to someone about this, they may say things like this: Well, nobody's perfect. Or what right do you have to tell me I'm wrong? I bet you've done this. There's sort of this defensive nature in us because we don't want to admit to the unrighteous quality of our lives. And so we just kind of go on this way in our lives, unrighteous, day in and day out. This is what happens to us. And so God responds to that, and we won't go through Romans 1 because we've done this many times in the past. I hope you can remember. God responds to that in a certain way, and it's described in a word in verse 18 as wrath. You see, it's like this. If you and I want to have a standing before God, we have to be righteous. Not just for five minutes or five years, but for every minute of every year, our whole lives through. Perfection is what God demands of us. And the problem is, none of us in this room has been If you think you have, you can add self-deluded to the list of sins that you've committed. Because there's no one in this room who is perfect in all their ways. When we come to the law of God, God gives, He has sent down the Ten Commandments, and the Ten Commandments, do they provide righteousness for us? No. I want you to imagine for a second a friend. Maybe you've had a friend like this. They're always correcting your English. Have you ever had a friend? Don't raise your hand. They're really good with languages and English, and they know every single time you have a dangling modifier at the end of a sentence, a run-on sentence. They're just the type of person that's constantly correcting your English. Do you like having someone? like that do that to you? Or or what if there's someone who are constantly correcting your table manners? I have to be careful, my poor kids, I kind of do this sorry. Sorry guys. But I grew up where there were certain table manners, and I have to, you know, constant correction of table manners every time you sit down. No, that's wrong. No, that's wrong. Constant correction of what you say. Or what if you had a friend and every time they look at your car, they go, boy, you don't keep this thing clean, do you? When are you going to wash your car? When's the last time you washed that? Three years ago? Or what if you just had five or ten friends and all they did was follow you around and constantly point out everything you did wrong? Would you like that? That's what the law of God does. The Ten Commandments. They accuse and they condemn, but they don't do it in a little picky thing like eat your peas. Okay, they are completely right in all they say. And so, shouldn't have thought that thought That was wrong. You shouldn't have cheated on your taxes. The word of God says this. The word of God says this. And the Ten Commandments are like a big finger from God pointing out the fact: unrighteous, unrighteous, unrighteous. By nature, we don't like that. We are not reconciled to God, is the theological word. And so, in our opposition to Him, Romans 5 says, we are enemies to that. We are the enemies of God. We are not reconciled to God. We put up our hand and say, I don't want to hear that. And we try to run from it. And so there is no hope for us if all we are left with is the Ten Commandments and the law of God, because we hate them. Because all they do is point out to us what we've done wrong, that we don't meet the standard of righteousness from God. The words from our mouth, the actions that we do with our bodies, so often are tainted with sin. So, what are we to do? Is there any hope for us? Yes, there is much hope for us. Because what we find in chapter 3, verse 21 of Romans, look at this. And we will end up back in Ephesians, and I am going somewhere with this. This is really important. In Romans 3 verse 21, the righteousness of God, this is sort of a very important transitional passage in Romans, the beginning part anyway. Romans 3. 21. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed. Now what Paul is about to write about is You can get the righteousness of God, but it's not found in those ten friends who are following you around, accusing and condemning you. They can't provide it for you. The law of God in pointing out your faults and your sins does not provide it for you. It pushes you toward the truth. Look at verse 21. It's revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God, through faith in Jesus Christ. To all and on all who believe. There is the availability of righteous through Jesus Christ. We don't change We don't say, Lord, guess what? I'm down to three friends today. I only have three people follow me around accusing me today. I had ten yesterday, but That doesn't work. Even if in your mind you had only one accusation against you in one day, you still have a history of accusations you haven't dealt with. It's just faith in Jesus and the cross of Christ. Jesus died in our place. He was nailed there and suffered there. And all the sins of all the people on this world whoever were, are, and will be, were put on him, he that knew no sin. He was made sin before God, and he died, and he paid the penalty for all of the accusations, the just accusations of the law. That we are condemned before God, God condemned his own son in our place, that we might be free from the accusations and the condemnation of the law. And what happens at the moment you believe, at the very moment that you put your faith in the cross of Christ? You are forgiven your debt, and even though you are still practically unrighteous, In other words, even though you still have a propensity to sin and you could literally get saved, go out and lie to someone. Now, you don't do that. You shouldn't do that. But that could still happen. Even though you're still a sinner, you are credited with the righteousness of Christ. You are given his righteousness Look at chapter 4, verse 1, Abraham is given as the example of this. What happened? Well, Abraham our father has found according to the flesh. If Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the Scripture say? Abraham believed God and it was accounted, or the words credited to him for righteousness. In other words, it's like this. You put your faith in the cross, and God says, I'll accept that. You put your faith in me, and I will give you the righteousness of Christ. I will impute or credit or account on your account the very righteousness of my son, he who knew no sin. I will give his righteousness to you. I will account it on your behalf. Look at verse 4. To him who works, the wages are not accounted. accounted as grace but as debt. The more you try to deal with your accusations of the law, the more you dug a hole for yourself. But by putting faith in Christ, you now have the righteousness. of Christ. Folks, this changes everything, and this completely relates to the breastplate of righteousness. Every religion in this world, every religion apart from Christianity, they are trying to work their way to Nirvana, to heaven, to a better reincarnation We've developed perhaps millions of methods of working your way to whatever your goal is. They involve candles. They involve Hail Mary's. They involve a priest sitting in a box and you go and you confess your sins to that priest. They involve dietary plans and whole months when people fast. They involve folks some of the gruesome methods where folks living in India years ago used to put hooks in the flesh of their backs and jump and swing around poles. Hooked by their flesh to those poles to appease their particular deity. You and I, before we come to Christ, we're still doing the same thing with our own little method. We want the righteousness, but we can never get it. Once we're saved, we're no longer attempting to do that. That's over. Here's how it works. Those ten friends who correct your English and how you wash your car, they might still be there. But you say this, yeah, I'm guilty. You're right. I haven't washed my car in three years. No, it's five. Five, ten. I'll be truthful now. Jesus paid the price for my sin. He paid it all. And every time that the law comes down and accuses or condemns you, every single time you can say, It's God that justifies. Who can bring an accusation against God's elect? Jesus paid it all. And you know what? God is satisfied with the death of his son. And so every accusation and every condemnation is baseless and powerless for the Christian. But what about righteousness now? What about don't commit adultery, don't lie What is the attitude of someone who's saved toward those things? Is it like we say, yeah, baby, I'm saved. Now I can just go lie all I want. I've been waiting for this. No? How without even looking at a scripture passage, how would you, if you're here today as a Christian Describe your relationship with the righteous standards of God now that you're no longer attempting to do those to get saved. How would you describe it? Well, here's a word. It's a Bible word. Love Love. You see, now that you have the Spirit of God within you Now that you have God on your side, now that you are no longer afraid of God, Thy word have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin against thee. My heart breaks with longing for thy righteous commandments all the day long. You read those psalmists and what they say about the law of God, it's poetry. It's love poetry. Think about this for a second. Before you were saved, you wanted to get as far away from the Ten Commandments as you could. You hated those accusations After you're saved, you embrace the commands of God because you know they reveal the nature of your loving Heavenly Father. Paul said in Galatians 2, I am crucified with Christ, yet I no longer live. And the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. A Christian's heart attitude toward righteousness is, I hunger and I thirst for it. I don't want to lie. And when I lie, I hate myself. And I repent. And I don't want to look at things I shouldn't look at. And I don't want to think things I shouldn't think. And I want to be faithful to my spouse because I'm a Christian now. The Spirit of God is within me, and I love my God. That's the heart of a regenerated person. Now, what does it mean to have a breastplate made of righteousness? How does that protect the vital you? Well, when we look, if you look, and again, you read Romans 6, 7, and 8, and you'll see everything I just summarized is very true. It's right there. I don't have time to point out the particular verses. But because our attitude has changed, we have this new relationship with righteousness, and it's this new relationship with righteousness that protects us. It enables us to move out into the battle and to resist sin. Turn, for example, to 1 Thessalonians 5. 8. 1 Thessalonians 5. 8. And you'll have to excuse my voice here. First Thessalonians five, eight But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet the hope of salvation. Now, here is the breastplate of faith and love. You put together this idea of righteousness and faith and love, and you see that there's some overlap here to what Paul's trying to communicate. They're related. In Paul's mind, there's a breastplate that involves certain activities of love and a certain attitude of faith and a certain mindset here of soberness. The goal here being that we are, here's the point I'm trying to make. There's a connection here between righteousness and action. Let me give you a couple illustrations. Alright. When Joseph was in Potiphar's house and he did the right thing, did it protect him spiritually? When he ran away from Potiphar's wife, He was using the breastplate of righteousness because he did not want to sin. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Now, granted, the Ten Commandments weren't at that point. that time available to him, but the righteousness of the Lord was something that he had certainly been taught, and he knew it was wrong. How shall I not sin against how shall I sin against God? And Potiphar. He was protected by his right living. When Joseph was in prison, And he decided to be diligent and to do the right thing, even though every muscle, no doubt there were days of discouragement in that young man's life Was there a certain kind of protection that Joseph enjoyed because he was diligent and known as a hard worker and dealt with it? Whatever realm he was in, he was a righteous man. How did this work in the life of Noah? How did this work in the life even of Job, who at the very end would not listen to his wife and curse God and die? But in But with all his heart, he trusted God and would not say what he should not against his God. It protected him in the arena of spiritual conflict. It might not protect you physically. You might die. Because you have the breastplate of righteousness on. But you don't want to be a Samson who took the breastplate of righteousness off repeatedly. And put his head in the lap of a harlot. And at the end of his life, with no breastplate of righteousness, he lost it all. And he was used by God in spite of his horrible mistake. Psalmist said, let integrity and uprightness preserve me. And when you and I develop a lifestyle where we do our best to obey the traffic laws and pay our taxes and be kind to our neighbor and be faithful and loving. There is a certain amount of protection that that affords. And it's harder for the devil to take it out, to take us out. Now, what happens if we don't have that breastplate of righteousness? What is someone like? Where I mentioned Samson, but let's try to talk a little bit more about this when it comes to How that can affect us. Have you ever met someone who walks really close to the line that separates Christianity from paganism? I remember once talking to a man who said that he could go into any bar or any strip club and sit down and witness to someone right there in that club. That's what the man told me. How close to the line is that man walking? Have you ever met someone who plays fast and loose with their Christianity, who doesn't seem to care about sort of protecting? And living the life, walking on the straight and narrow. That's the contrast between those who have the breastplate on and those who don't. The Lord wants us to know in the Gospels that there's a certain way to live. And you and I as Christians love that way. So let me bring it down then to this. Do you love? Do you love righteousness this morning? Do you love it? Where are you in your life and your Christian experience If you're here today as a Christian, I know that you do. That there's something in you that calls out to God and wants to be like Him. And you want to put this breastplate on. You want to cultivate this kind of a lifestyle. If you do this, you will be able to stand. And that's what you want, right? So what can we take out of here this week? And I am wrapping this up Cultivate in your heart a desire. The natural desire you have, the love you have for righteousness. Cultivate that Cling to that and keep the breastplate on so that you can be safe this week