Thank you, and good morning every uh good afternoon. Boy, that's force of habit, isn't it? In uh many years of ministry, I don't know if I've ever preached at 3 o'clock on a Sunday afternoon, so this is a first for me. But uh thank you for inviting me back. It's good to be with you again. Coming up on a big anniversary for me, April 1st, 30 years ago was no April Fool's Day for me. It was on that day that I began a thirty uh thirty-six-month period of Of uh wandering on the backside of the spiritual desert. I was a pastor in a seminary graduate and Through a series of incidents, I found myself out of the ministry and looking for a way to support my family. It only lasted for two and a half years. But it indelibly shaped me and impacted me. It was so influential that I wrote a book about it. And the truth is, when I went into that period of time, I knew very little about the book of Psalms. That's shocking. Looking back as a seminary graduate, but I really was focused much on the New Testament. And in addition, I knew very little about affliction. I had not suffered very much. And so I spent two and a half years struggling, trying to figure out what was God doing. And I basically had two questions. One, what are you doing in my life, God? And two, why are you doing it? And those are very fundamental questions that people tend to ask when they are afflicted. And I'm sure many of us have asked that as well. I'm sure we know whereof I am speaking. Well, my quest took me into the book of Psalms. And I was surprised at that because I had not spent a great deal of time studying the book of Psalms, but I found myself drawn there, and it was a rich experience. And one of the passages I landed in was Psalm 119. You know, that long, long, long chapter, just about in the middle of the Bible. And uh I was surprised to be there, and I was surprised at what I found. Especially since I discovered anew that the word affliction occurred seven times in Psalm 119. I didn't know that. May not be a blockbuster announcement to you, but to me that was something I had not noticed, and I had read Psalm 119 over the years. Of course, you know something about this, I'm sure. If you're looking at a Bible, perhaps, or you've read Psalm 19, you're aware of the fact that it's divided the These 176 verses are divided into eight verse sections. You can see that in your English Bible. And you may have a version, most English versions, put a Hebrew letter at the beginning of every eight verses. So, for instance, before verse 1, you'll see the Hebrew letter Olaf. And then before verse 9, you'll see the Hebrew letter bait. And then before verse 17, you'll see the Hebrew letter Gimel and so forth. All the way through. 22 sections, eight verses each, each with a Hebrew letter, and that's a clue to the amazing tapestry of this Psalm. That's just scratching the surface of the work that went into the composition of Psalm 119. The reason for those Hebrew letters, in case you're not familiar with them, is that each one of the Following eight verses after a Hebrew letter, each one of those verses begins with that letter So verses 1 to 8, every verse begins with the Hebrew letter Aleph. Verses 9 to 16, every verse begins with the Hebrew letter Bait, and so forth So apparently the psalmist was really doing his best to compose something that would be require some work. C. S. Lewis spoke about Psalm 119 and he said these words: it is a pattern, a thing that someone does, like embroidery. Stitch by stitch for long quiet hours for love of the subject And the delight in leisurely, disciplined craftsmanship. In other words, this is a labor of love. It's not just a poem, it's not just a psalm It's a finely crafted psalm, and it centers on one topic Now let me ask you a question. Don't you think for a moment? I don't know if we have any poets here today or not. I don't know anybody here perhaps is accustomed to writing poetry But suppose you were given the assignment that next Sunday, when you return to church, you are to bring with you a poem that you have constructed. And here are the rules. Every verse of this psalm has to be on the same subject And there have to be 176 verses to this poem. And every verse has to have two lines. And every eight verses will begin with the next letter of the Hebrew alphabet, or the English alphabet. I'll make it simple. Make it the English alphabet. Alright, so that's your assignment. So pick your topic. You like fishing, you like hunting, you like music, you like sewing, cooking, you know what You like reading? What is your favorite subject that you feel you have mastery of? Now write 176 verses, two-line verses, only on that topic. And also alphabetized every eight verses. You get an idea of some of the effort that went into this psalm. But we're not going to deal with all 176 verses today. Today, the piece of the tapestry, the piece of the embroidery that I want to focus in on is verses 65 to 72. If you're looking at your Bible, you'll see the letter Teth in front of it. It's the ninth letter of the Hebrew alphabet. Every verse in verses 65 to 72 in the Hebrew will begin with that letter. You don't notice it obviously in English, but it is very clearly there in Hebrew. Why would I pick these eight verses? What is it about these eight verses? What what do they focus on that would make me want to come today to speak about them? And I think the vocabulary in these eight verses answers the question There are three key ideas, three key words that show up in these eight verses. The first one is the English word affliction, twice in these verses, verses 65 to 72. Total seven times in Psalm 119, but just two here. That's the first key idea: affliction. The second key idea is the term goodness. Which actually occurs six times in these eight verses. Now that you might see the word better or the word well or the word good, Or something like that. But that's all the same word. Six times. And then the third word is learning. Affliction, goodness, and learning. And learning may also be teach. You see, in the in the Hebrew vocabulary, Teach and learn are the same word. We use different words to convey different ideas there. To teach something is to administer it. To learn something is to receive it. But it's the same word in the Hebrew Bible. So we have these three words, affliction, goodness, and learning. Now, these three ideas seem perhaps unrelated, but they actually collide in verse 71. It's in that verse, verse 71, all three come together. Notice the verse, and I'm reading from the New American Standard Bible. It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. Notice that. It is good for me. Here's the word good. That I was afflicted, got the word afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. I had never noticed that verse, or at least I'd not paid much attention to it at the time. But as I was dealing with affliction I was drawn to this verse, and therefore to these eight verses that are part of this section. The psalmist is saying that was a good thing that I was afflicted. I don't know if you've ever said that or heard anybody say that or not. But it really speaks to the question of what someone values You see that word that I might learn? That's a result word. It's good for me if that I was afflicted. Because it resulted in something. There's a result from affliction which makes it good Now we might say, if you were going to write that verse, it's good for me that I was afflicted, that with the result, and then blank, you fill in the blank. Think of how you might complete this verse. It's good for me that I was afflicted because I hit the lottery. It's good for me that I was afflicted because I became happy. It's good for me that I was afflicted that I became wealthy. You see, we would put something in there that we value. We can only justify affliction as being good if the result is something we value We wouldn't say it's good for me that I was afflicted because life got worse after it was over. That's not something we value. We want life to improve. We want something positive to come from affliction. So when he says it's good for me that I was afflicted, that he's going to speak of a result that is something that he values. What does he value? It's right there in that verse, that I might learn your statutes. Undergirding, the entire Psalm 119 all 176 verses, is this question: What does the psalmist value? What is important to him? You see, in this verse, still looking at verse 71, the emphasis really is not primarily on God or his goodness. Which is obviously important, and we'll talk about how important it is even in this section. But that's not the point of verse 71 that God was good. That's not the emphasis. Nor is the emphasis on affliction. You see, the goodness of God is the cause. It's because God is good. It's not the affliction, that's the means. It's the result that the psalmist is focused on. And the result is that he learned God's word. It's good, the cause, that I was afflicted, the means. Why? Because the result was so good. I learned God's statute. So here's the idea now in this section Verse 71 kind of is a springboard. We can go forward and backward from that verse. But the basic idea is: God is good and does good, and his law is good. I mean, if God is good and he gives a law, his law must be good also. It's not God is good and his law is awful. No. The good God gives a law and his law is good. So then, if a good God gives his law and his law is good, then it's worth enduring anything if it helps me learn that law. That's what the psalmist is saying. And therefore, the benefit means that whatever I endured has value. Affliction now has value because it produces a benefit. Maybe he didn't know that before he was afflicted. I didn't know that. All of us have endured affliction in one way or another at various stages, going into them, we may not have been consciously thinking this is a really good thing. This this thing that's happening to me, whatever it is, because I know there's going to be a benefit. We don't think that way instinctively. Our initial thought is, how quickly can God get this over? So I'm on the other side of this problem. But looking back now, we can say that was really good. Now, let me give you an example. And I'm making this up. Suppose I'm walking down the street and I'm hit by a bus. And I'm injured. I'm injured enough that I end up in the hospital. And I say, man, I'm so glad I got hit by that bus. That was a good thing. You might immediately call for the doctor to give me some more medicine to calm me down and put me to sleep. But here's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking Amazon laying there in that bed, I met this nurse. And this nurse and I connected and we talked and I kind of got attracted to her. She attracted to me. When I got out of the hospital, I took her out on a date. I married that nurse, and we have had a happy life. So therefore, I am very glad that bus hit me. You see what I would be saying in that example. It's a good thing because if I had not been hit by the bus, I never would have met my wife, and I'm glad that I met my wife. That's an analogy to what the psalmist is saying. Saying in verse 71, the benefit that comes from affliction makes the affliction worthwhile if I value it enough. The question is, how much do we value learning God's statutes? That's what verse 71 is really asking. Now we notice in these verses, in a moment I'm going to walk through each of these eight verses. Just very briefly, but we notice in these verses this idea of goodness. Remember, I said that goodness in one form or another shows up six times in these eight verses Let me give you one example of that where the term occurs twice. Verse 68. Psalm 119 Verse 68, where the psalmist says, You are good and you do good. And what's his response? Teach me your statutes. See the same idea there as we just looked at in verse 71? It's good that I was afflicted. Why? That I might learn your statutes. Verse 68, you are good and do good. How good is he? So good that I want to learn his statutes. In both cases, the learning of the law of God is the outcome. And what he's really saying here in saying God is good is that he's referring to God's character. You are good. This is what we praise God for. We praise Him for who He is. But then He says, and you do good. Notice the difference there. Those are very, very different. Length, but different. Because what when we speak of what God does, we Don't talk about praise so much, but we talk about gratitude and thanksgiving. We praise God for who He is, and we thank God for what He does. And the psalmist clearly distinguishes both of those. That's a very careful distinction that he's making there because he wants us to see both of these. Typically, if we might be asked, what do you think about God, we might respond with something He has done for us. But the psalmist in verse 68 wants us to start with who God is. Because we can't interpret what God does properly if we don't understand who He is. In other words, we cannot make sense of our affliction if we have not first settled in our minds the goodness of God. His actions may not look good unless we have rooted our thinking in the goodness of God's very character. So, goodness is central to all of this. Now, what I'd like to do is just work through these eight verses, and I want to encourage you to have curiosity To look at these eight verses with eyes of discovery. Perhaps your appetite will be wetted. And throughout this coming week, you may want to return to these eight verses. So let's go to Psalm 119 and verse 65. This is the first of the eight verses. The psalmist says, you have dealt well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word. Say he has dealt well is very similar to what we just read in verse 68. That is, you did good. That's a little colloquial, not great English, but It's what he's saying. And in verse 68, the psalmist has said, You do good. So in both cases, we have this idea of God doing good. The psalmist may be saying something like, God, you done good. None of your versions read that way, do they? But that's kind of the idea there. And he says it's according to your word. Now, where is he coming from? Well, we can kind of imagine verses 65 to 72 as a kind of sequence, and the psalmist is climbing this mountain. And he's arrived at the top to have a top-down view of the process that he's been through. He realizes now what God has done. And that it's according to his word that he did it. In other words, you did good, God, but that's what I expect, because that's what I see in your word, is that you do good. So according to your word, you did good. And your word assures me that that's exactly what you would do. So, right at the start of this section, we can see That the psalmist thinks he's been treated pretty well by God. But that's probably because he's looking back upon his experience that he's going to talk about in just a second. So as we climb this mountain, we sit on top and we feel good, and it kind of captures a process. Think of this, these eight verses, as a process. Not necessarily in sequence, but a process of being somewhere you don't want to be and ending up in a place of where you have clarity. On the mountaintop. So, verse 65, you have done well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word. Verse 66, teach me good discernment and knowledge. For I believe in your judgments. And there you see the word good again. So far in these two verses, we've had that key word, good, once in each of those verses. Verse 65, the word well or good. Verse 66, teach me good discernment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. And both of these are related to our confidence in the Word of God. Now, this is an interesting word that we have here. In the New American Standard, it reads, Teach me good discernment and knowledge. Some versions read, Teach me good Me good knowledge and discernment, one way or the other, or something like that. But in our case here, I'm going to take that first of the two terms as discernment. And that's an interesting word because it actually means uh to have taste, to taste something. You have t given me good taste is the idea In our home, uh especially my wife, uh, we watch some cooking shows. And uh I'm not really into it, but sometimes I'm sitting in the same room and I can't help but pick up on it. And there's a variety of shows. But I remember watching some shows and even hearing of people where they would be able without knowing the ingredients of a certain recipe to taste it and identify uh all the various ingredients. They'd smack their lips a little and say, hmm, I taste some cilantra. Hmm, it's got s some t some time in here. Is that is that rosemary I'm tasting and so on and so forth? And they would be able to tell what these are. Well I I don't know about you, I can't do that at all My taste simply says it tastes good or it doesn't taste good. But some can do that. And I find that fabulous. And what that tells me is that they have cultivated their taste buds To have an appreciation for the various elements that are in food. It's an educated palate where you can discern the nuances That are in food. And that's the idea here that he's speaking of. He's saying, God, give me good taste buds that I can taste And tell the differences, the nuances in various kinds of circumstances, so that I will recognize Good situations and bad situations, be able to figure them out. To a degree, this is like having a certain childlike curiosity. It assumes. Notice the assumption that's made in verse 66. When you say to somebody, teach me something, what are you saying? You know something I don't know Okay, and that thing that you know, I'm curious about. And I'm curious enough that I want to discover it, and that's that's the childlike curiosity. That the scriptures speak of as so enduring. When we come to follow the Lord, we join the order of the learner, where we realize how little we've actually discovered and how much there is to learn. And so the psalmist's appetite, his taste buds, his curiosity in verse 66 has been wetted. He wants more. He doesn't know enough. And there's this longing that God would teach him. And then in verse 67, he says, Before I was afflicted, I went astray. Now we're back at the beginning. Of the process. He's thinking back, he's reflecting. There was a day, he's thinking, I went astray. But that was the day before I was afflicted. Something changed. Now I keep your word. Instead of going astray, I guard, I protect your word. Pre-affliction, I strayed. Post-affliction, I guard, I protect, I safeguard, I keep your word. And the reason for that is affliction has accomplished something. This desire to learn has been taught how in the school of affliction So all the silliness that might have been attractive back when he was astray, that's been exposed. He says, wow, that was ridiculous. Why did I think that was so valuable? Why did I go after that? Why did I practice that kind of thing? It's all been stripped away. And now he sees the value of God's word. In a sense, there's a process going on here. Let me explain it like this. This process might have a couple of stages to it. One is we stray. That's kind of where this all begins. Believers who are pulled aside by one thing or another. Part of that straying, second stage of the process, would be that we are afflicted by the arrogant. That will come up in the next couple of verses, verses 69 and 70. And so when we're straying, we have these people That are ignorant and presumptuous, says the psalmist. But then, in that third stage of the process, we learn, we learn something. See, we have to go through the process of straying and being afflicted so that we can learn something, he says. And finally, when our lessons are learned in that fourth stage. We have a deep love for God's word. We guard it, we protect it, we keep it, we obey it So before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. Verse 68. Here's this critical verse. You are good and do good. Teach me your statutes. So this is the second request to be taught. First one in verse 66, the second one in verse 67. He wants to be taught. I'm convinced that's one of the most endearing prayers that we can pray and ask God. To ask God to teach us. Think of your prayer life. And realize there are so many things that are given to us in Scripture that we can pray about. And one of those is simply every day to say, God, teach Me, your statutes. I want to learn your statutes. Don't you think God would be pleased with that kind of prayer request? And that honor Him? He would love to do that. And the frequency with which we do it says, I'm really serious about this, God. I really, really want you to teach me. Well, that gives us an acquired taste. Things taste different when we've been taught by God. And we saw that back in verse 66. Teach me good. When I think of this idea, I think of my daughter, who is an avid April Fool's jokester with her kids. She has four boys, currently ages roughly seven to thirteen or something like that. And uh so every April 1st they know what's coming all day long. It could be surprises the Laura and they never know when to believe her, when not to believe her, and uh and she's always coming up with these things. Anyway, one year when the youngest one was about a year old. She had the boys at lunch sitting at the table and she said, when we're done, I want to give everybody an ice cream cone. So, and she's got this on video now too. So they're all sitting at the table, uh, ages one through six or seven, I guess. and they're eating their toasted cheese sandwiches and she's over uh making these cones. Well, what they didn't know was instead of putting vanilla ice cream in the cone, she was putting mashed potatoes in the cones. That's a big difference, isn't it, when you're expecting a nice vanilla ice cream cone and you get handed a cone with mashed potatoes in it. Anyway She does this and she hands it one to all four boys. Now, here's the the secret. The youngest boy, who was barely a year old, not even a year old, had never tasted ice cream. This was going to be his first exposure to ice cream. The other three knew what it tasted like And so, when she handed these cones to these boys, the third oldest got furious. He was so angry. And he didn't like that ice cream at all. The oldest one licked it a little bit and then kind of put it down. The middle one was rather indifferent about it, but the youngest one, she scanned over to him in his high chair and he's eating it like this is the best thing he's ever had and it probably was at that time. You see, he didn't know what ice cream tasted like, so he didn't know what he was Missing. And I think of that when I read this passage. The psalmist has acquired a new taste. And until you get that taste, you don't know what you've been missing. But see, there is a better taste out there It's found in the statutes, the law, the word of God. When you get a taste of it, the psalmist is saying, you can never go back and be satisfied with mashed potatoes. So he says, teach me your statutes. And this is a really central idea here. He wants to be teaching Teach, taught. He has a hunger for more learning. But then he's going to reflect on where he has been. Verse 60. He says, the arrogant have forged a lie against me. And in verse 70, he says, their heart is covered with fat. So there's these people who had been a part of his affliction, who had gone on this smear campaign against him, verse 69. And in verse 70, he uses terms of disgust to refer to them. And he now recognizes that. Perhaps he's even thinking, I used to be like them. Before I developed my taste buds, my palate was educated about spiritual truth. I was just like that. And now he says that I have a different appreciation of spiritual cuisine. Notice these three words in verse 69. My whole heart, with my whole heart I will observe Your precepts, my whole heart. That occurs about five times in Psalm one nineteen, and it speaks to the very core idea of passion and zeal. This is not a half-hearted thing. I grew up in a Christian home. My parents said you should read your Bible. Well, why should I read my Bible? Because you should read your Bible. You see, I didn't understand the benefit or what it would do, and therefore I I lacked any passion or zeal for reading God's Word. I was doing it because it was a responsibility, it was a task assigned, it was a duty. It still had fruit in my life. But that was not why God wanted me to read his word. He wanted me to read his word with my whole heart. That is, my whole being is hungry for something, zealous for God's truth. And we see this in verse 70 when he says, I delight in your law. That is, I have this passion. It's stronger than delight. It's an intense delight, he says. Think of the thing that gives you intense delight. This is it right here. I have intense delight in your He's not just saying it's it's fun to read your word. I get satisfied when I go through the Bible in a year. No, that's not what he's talking about. Those are okay things. He's talking about intense delight. And finally, in verses 71 and 72, he's going to conclude this section with two uses of this word good. Verse 71: it is good for me. And verse 72: the law of your mouth is better. Word better and good are the same word. And so he's concluding with this idea of goodness. Notice in verse 71. It's this goodness that he thinks has produced affliction, which has produced learning. We went over this earlier, but think of this idea now. How insane is it to say it is good for me that I was afflicted? I think of Paul in 2 Corinthians 7:4, when he says, I am overflowing with joy in all my affliction. I'm overflowing with joy in all of my affliction. Or in Paul in Colossians says, I rejoice in my sufferings. Or to the Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians 1:6, he says, You receive the word in much tribulation with the joy of the Holy Spirit. You see, it's possible in affliction. To experience joy and understand that affliction is good when we realize the benefit. And in verse 71, it is learning God's word. If there's anything we need today, we need a desperate quest, a hunger, a passion, a zeal to learn God's Word. Well, why is it so good, verse 72? Because it's better than being a millionaire. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. He's going to say later earlier in the Psalms, it's going to say it's like honey in the honeycomb. It tastes sweet. The law of God produces those kinds of benefits. So we see in Psalm 119 this wonderful truth held out to us, this hope, this benefit that when we Truly learn the law of God, and when our palate is educated and cultivated to receive spiritual truth, we discover the great benefit. Of the law of God. If you discover that, sometimes I feel like C. S. Lewis, who made a great statement about our passions and desires, and may our passions and desires be different. He said, It would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures. Fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered to us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum Because he cannot comprehend what is meant by the offer of a vacation at the sea. We are far too easily pleased This passage alerts us to the fact that we can be too easily pleased and challenges us to have our palates cultivated and educated so that we We can have a true appreciation for the wonder of God's law. Father, may that be true for me and for each one of us. May we love your word and delight in it with all of our hearts. We pray. Jesus name, Amen. In