As you notice in your cheat sheet, we are in James 5, verses 1 to 6, and I've entitled this section, The Deceitfulness of Riches. And it's just a package of six verses that doesn't seem necessarily to fit what's around it. I was thinking as we were listening to Jesus saying, come home, come home. How that is really where this passage is going. And yet, when James back in chapter 4 talks about Those who are spotted by the world and living for the world. And then in the first six verses, in verses seven to ten, he gives this invitation. With ten commands in it connected with humbling yourself In chapter 5, verses 1 to 6, there really is no invitation. It's just a description of these people who James calls rich. So chapter 5, verse 1 says, Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. So James is talking to a specific group of people. You rich. Whoever they are, they're richer than the regular group. But more importantly, their lives are wrapped up in their stuff. He's describing people who. It's not just that they have a higher income, it's their attitude. Their lives are wrapped up in their stuff. Their treasures are on earth Maybe in a bank. Maybe in a barn. Maybe in a closet. Maybe in a garage. Verse 3 ends with, you have laid up treasure. In the last days. They think that what they need for the future is treasure. A pile of stuff. And James says, weep and howl. Because of your coming miseries. So these are people, James is describing people who are covetous. Covetous. I need to define the word. You need to remember the word. Covetousness is a superstitious attitude toward money and things that instinctively associates them. With happiness. It's a mindset that instantly connects money or things with an exciting life For example, April a year ago, Eliberto Kentu of Lubach, Lubuck, Texas received a check for his winnings in the Mega Millions Lottery. It was for $177 million. Eliberto said, All I can say is we're blessed and keep buying lottery tickets. That's the attitude of covetousness. Big bucks blesses. Big bucks blesses. And probably 90% of the United States thinks that Eliberto Cantu has the rest of his life set up. He's on Happiness Street. And probably 90% of the United States is jealous, wishing it happened to them. You know, that's covetousness that instinctively associates $177 million with happiness. James says that's not the case. I'm reading. Come now, you rich. Weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver are corroded, and their corrosion will be a witness against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have heaped up treasure in the last days. Indeed, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, cry out. And the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of Saba. You have lived on the earth in pleasure and luxury. You have fattened your hearts as in the day of slaughter. You've condemned, you've murdered the just. He does not resist you. Do you see why I've entitled this section, The Deceitfulness of Riches? James addresses rich who have garments in gold and silver are heaping up treasure. That description fits the United States pretty well, don't you think? If you are above the poverty level in the United States, you are probably richer than 90% of the rest of the world. We live in a rich environment. That means we don't have to worry about things like where are we going to get our next meal? How soon we're going to lose our property or our house? What next epidemic is going to wipe out our families? Whether we're going to get attacked and raped by the coming soldiers. These kinds of problems do not hound us like they hound the rest of the world. Take Egypt, for example. What's it like to live in Egypt, December a year and a half ago? A church on a Sunday morning was bombed and 28 people died. Think of what it would be like to have 28 people here die because of the morning service Three months later, two more churches were bombed in Egypt. One church was bombed by a suicide bomber who was sitting on the front row I bet as you came here this morning, you did not worry about bombing. Right? That doesn't cross our mind. We don't think in those terms. Why? We're rich. We don't live on the level as of the rest of the world. Logan Pearson Smith says. To suppose, as we all suppose, that we could be rich and not behave as the rich behave is like supposing that we could drink whiskey all day long and stay sober. Smith is saying that the common effect of living in a rich nation is a change in your mindset and thinking. That's what James is addressing here. He's saying, you rich, your riches have changed your thinking. They've changed your attitude because of what riches do. Jesus talked about the deceitfulness of riches, like believing that you can be rich and not behave like the rich behave. So James commands these rich to weep and howl. Why? Because of the miseries that are coming their way. Their lives are destined to become the opposite of what they think. They think that they're wrapping up their retirement. They're getting everything stored up for the future. They got all the treasures they need so they can say, eat, drink, and be merry. We're all fixed for the future. James says you're going to be surprised when you unwrap that retirement package. It's not what you think at all So let me talk about how covet covetousness, how riches and covetousness changes the way we think. I've got three statements here. Statement number one, main point number one, covetousness turned them into collectors. Covetousness turned them into collectors. They heaped up treasures. They rented multiple storage units. You know, storage units are getting expensive today. Nobody here has had any experience, I can tell. Verse 2, I'm reading verses 2 and 3. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver are corroded. Their corrosion will be a witness against you, will eat your flesh like fire. You have heaped up treasure in the last days. James describes riches like powerful magnets. You know, magnets, you get close and they just jam together. And that's what happens with riches. You you just seem to get A dollar or two and all of a sudden, huomo, you're different. On the way in this morning, Martha and I were listening to the news, and the latest news is, one of the latest pieces of news is that a couple was stranded on the side of the road. Their car had run out of gas. They were stranded on the side of the road. And a homeless man came up and gave them money to buy gas so that they could go on their way. A homeless man. And so they started a GoFundMe to raise money to get him out of his homeless state and give him some place to live They raised in the GoFundMe $400,000. Just this week, the homeless man sued them because he had not received the $400,000. Can you imagine that? He sued them because he thought they were holding back on him. That's the magnetic power of riches, of money, of covetousness. You have to have it So God gave, let's see, I should read Proverbs 23:5, that says, Will you set your eyes on that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings. They fly away like an eagle toward heaven. Setting your eyes on riches is setting your eyes on that which is not. The truth is, money doesn't stay with you. It flees, it runs, it slips, it leaks, it fizzles, it decays, it disappears. I'm waiting for amens, but I don't hear any. So I've got an ABC under there, you'll notice. Three statements to make. A. God gave them riches to be used. To be used. They can't be stored. So you look at their collections here. William Barclay says there are three main sources of wealth back there in the East. And James has a word for the decay of each one of these. There was corn and grain. That's the word corrupted, rotted. Garments represented wealth. That's the word moth-eaten. Then there was gold and silver, thirdly, and James uses the word corroded. We know that gold and silver don't corrode. We also know that the clothes of wealthy people like us don't often get moth-eaten. We take care of them. But James is using metaphors to paint a picture here, resources that are stashed away for the future, disappear. God has given them to us to put them into use. He gave us riches to use them, not store them. Three simple principles that I think James is emphasizing here. Number one, stored stuff decays. Stored stuff decays. The basic reason why people rent storage space is because they don't understand that stuff can't stay in storage. And they always intend to do it temporarily. You know? Something happens inside the bin that reduces the value. Number two, decaying stuff testifies against you Decaying stuff testifies against you. The very presence of rust says it's not being used. It's being stashed. Someday we will be judged by the amount of corrosion in our stuff. If you can't use it, find somebody who can. Because that's its purpose on earth, to be used. Number three, decaying stuff eats our flesh. Eats our flesh. This is verse 3. Their corrosion will eat your flesh like fire. Rust or corrosion has an eating, a destroying power that attacks our bodies. How does it do that, you say? Worry You know? Where do I store it? How do I protect it? What's the stock market doing? How many security companies and devices do I need? You know, all of this kind of stuff eats at us. Ever been there? Nobody's ever been there. Oh, some of you have. You know that I speak from experience because I at one time owned a car and a boat, a speed boat, and an airplane. Okay? And I can testify that I did not own them. They own me. And then I got married. And I realized that I could not own a car and a boat and an airplane and be merry. Too expensive. I was at one time standing on the deck of a 60-foot cabin cruiser in the Chesapeake Bay. And the owner of the 60-foot cabin cruiser, I heard him say, he didn't say it to me, but I heard him say, do you know what this thing is? This is a giant hole into which I have thrown a massive amount of money. That's so true. That is so true. So decaying stuff eats our flesh. Secondly, God calls heapers fools. God's attitude toward people who heap up treasure for the latter days is. That's foolish. And I go to Luke chapter 12, verse 21, because you've got the same word there, the same word heaped up. Luke 12, 21 translates it, so is he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. Lays up is the same word as heaped up. Luke 12 tells a story about the rich fool who was pleasantly surprised by all his income. He didn't know what to do with it, and quickly came to the conclusion, A, that it belonged to him. Therefore, he could do what he wanted to, and B that he needed to store it. So he says in verse 17, what shall I do since I have no room to store my crops? So he said, I will do this. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there I will store all my crops and my goods. See how quickly he made the transfer from being blessed of God to being a heaper. Storing it, piling it up, so that his retirement would be all set up But what did that say about him? It said he could not trust God for the future. He could not trust God. He was worried about his retirement. He had read the literature from Fidelity Money Market that said he needed to collect at least a half a million for his retirement. And his new barns represented his IRA. That's why he said, I have many goods laid up for many years. Eat, drink, and be merry. My retirement is finally set up. And God said. You fool, you idiot, that is stupid What did he mean I have no room to store my crops? Couldn't he hear the cries of the needy people all around him? Didn't he understand that God gave the blessing to him to pass on to others? Did he think the money belonged to him? The crops belonged to him He was foolish. We need to think that way about retirement because we live in a generation that believes that this fool in Luke 12 was a smart investor. And encourages us to be to be the same way And we have people all around us that are saying, be like that fool. And the point in verse 21 is he was not rich toward God. He had the opportunity to be rich toward God. We have the opportunity to be rich toward God. Martha and I talked about this before we retired, which is now six years ago. God supplied our needs so many times when we had way too many children for our income. He was completely faithful. He met our needs. Now we're going to retire with zero income and try to live on Social Security. Can we trust God? And I think every one of us comes to that point. Can we trust God? Does He want us to trust Him? How? How can we trust him instead of heaping, instead of collecting treasure? And then number C, they didn't have forever to invest their possessions. They didn't have forever. This is verse 3. You have heaped up treasure in the last days. In the last days. Messiah's second coming is near. The cutoff date is approaching quickly The picture here is of somebody worrying about his IRA or his portfolio, like a man busy checking and counting his 20-year collection of baseball cards as his house is burning around him. You know, it's the last days. And you're worried about the stock market. There isn't much time to be rich in grace. This is the day to lay up treasure in heaven where moth and rust can't attack. I'm sure you realize that there are Bible students who believe that the feasts in Leviticus 23 are prophetic. The feasts are prophetic. Leviticus 23 lists seven feasts for the nation of Israel, starting with Passover. Which was prophetic of the day Christ died. And first fruits prophetic of resurrection of Christ. And uh I've just had a senior moment. Pentecost. 50 days, thank you. For you those of you who aren't quite here yet to the senior level. Pentecost, when the church began. And then you have this long gap between the first month of the Jewish calendar and the seventh month. On the seventh month, the first day of the month, there is the Feast of Trumpets. Tenth month, Day of Atonement, 15th, 16th through 22nd day of the month, the Feast of Tabernacles. And so there are prophetic Bible students who, there are Bible students who say we're waiting for the feast of trumpets. Which will be when Christ comes back? That Jesus Christ will return on the day of the Feast of Trumpets, which the Jewish people today call. Rash Hashanah. Rash Hashanah. Right. You were going to say that. When is Rosh Hashanah? It's coming sometime around soon, isn't it? No, it's not the end of December. That's too far. September, yeah, it rotates in terms of days. Rosh Hashanah begins next Sunday night. Now just suppose that you knew for sure that Jesus Christ was coming back September 10, Rosh Hashanah, this year. Would that change anything this week? I think God wants us to live in light of the fact that it is the last days. We don't know when he's coming back, and he could be back next Sunday night. He could be back this Sunday night. I'm waiting for another amen. So, secondly, not only covetousness makes them collectors. changes their attitude. But secondly, covetousness insulated them from the problems of the world. It changed their attitudes toward brothers and sisters in the world. It made them Canaanites. It made them more like Cain when he said, Who is my brother? I'm reading verses 4, 5, and 6. Indeed, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields which you kept back by fraud, cry out. And the cries of the reapers have reached the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. You've lived on the earth in pleasure and luxury. You've fattened your hearts as in the day of slaughter. You have condemned, you've murdered the just. He does not resist you. You read this and you say, are these believers or are these unbelievers? Do these people really know Christ? How can believers act this way? When you look at the difference between verse 1 and verse 7, there's a huge contrast. Verse 1 says, you rich. Verse 7 says, therefore be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. It's sort of like verse 7, he's addressing people who are close to him. In verse 1, he's addressing Some people that are pretty distant in another camp. So are they believers or not? It's interesting to read the commentaries. Commentaries argue over this some for quite a while, you know, and they say, well, things like, well, he has address the rich before. Chapter 1, verse 10, he talks about the rich. Chapter 2, verse 5, he talks about the rich. So they are believers Others say, no, they really can't be believers because they're so bad. Others say, well, if you say they're unbelievers, then you let all the Christians off the hook and say, we can relax, because we're not this bad. The interesting thing to me is that it doesn't matter which side of the fence you're on, as far as these commentaries are concerned, they all think that this passage should be applied to us. That somehow it ought to get to us. I think that's absolutely right Right. Sometime it ought to get to us. And we need to realize the huge danger of covetousness. Covetousness is the attitude that tends to distract, disconnect you from other people. It used to be that nobody had enough money to buy, let's say, a lawnmower or a tractor or some other kind of thing, and so you had to borrow, you know And the neighborhood would borrow from people different things. And you would go next door to borrow a cup of milk. And I remember being sent next door to borrow sugar. For my mother and all of this, and what's happened today? What's happened today is everybody has their own tractor, everybody has their own lawnmower. They go out and mow the grass and put it back in the garage and shut the door You know, and we have disconnected because of our wealth. So A under that says they have become blind to their opportunities to help needy people. We become blind. Even their own laborers who mowed their own lawns. Here are people they could have blessed, but somehow that wasn't important to them. They were busy with other things. They didn't want to be distracted by crying needy people. And they said, like we say, switch the channel, you know, go to another's, you know, we don't want to we don't want to see needs. B, they weren't even play paying their employees. They weren't even paying their employees. Apparently at this time laborers didn't have much legal um ability, there weren't any unions, and they didn't have the ability to to pry money out of the employer And the rich often ignored them. So there's an attitude here, an attitude where certain people just are not important, aren't on the computer screen. They just drop out. Whether they're laborers or reapers, or even in verse 5, verse 6, the just. The just. They're not important enough to bother with. Covetousness blinds us to the fact that we are in a family. We are in a family. We are connected. We help as we grow as we help. We live as we live together. And God has put us in this world in such a way that every single one of us has needs. We have different needs from the other person. We have different gifts from the other person. So we can help the other person and they can help us. But it's this attitude of family. In the body of Christ, every person is important. Every person has a gift. Every person has a significant contribution to make. And then see, they condemn the one they should have received. They condemn the one they should have received. James is perhaps thinking here of Judas. Who traded away the most precious person on earth for 30 pieces of silver? What a ridiculous trade What an example of massively misplaced values. The same thing happens to covetous individuals who condemn and murder in the sense of running over, running over people, righteous people. The fact is, the righteous makes him special in God's sight, but the covetous encourages encourages people to see the just person as an easier target. Because he doesn't resist. So the third thing, the third change that covetousness makes in their lives is it encouraged them to live in luxury After all, if you have money to buy new rolls, why drive a Chevy? I'm reading verse 5. You've lived on the earth in pleasure and luxury. You've fattened your hearts as in a day of slaughter. You fattened your hearts in the same way they fatten cows for slaughter. They're making couch potato cows. Riches encourage people to become couch potato cows. Christians getting out of shape not only physically But spiritually and morally in every other way. There's a commentary written by a guy named J. A. Mottyer who I personally happen to like greatly as a commentator. And he says this. He said, it's it's as if James is saying, oh to be a thin beast the day the butcher comes. Such a beast is safe. The slaughterman has no wish to count ribs. Instead, covetousness encourages people to live like the rich man in Luke 16. Who was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. He thought they had everything he needed. Yet a few seconds after death, he found out he didn't have what was most important. He prepared for retirement, he didn't prepare for eternity. Someone has remarked that as churches grow wealthier and more successful, their preferences in hymns change. From this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through to this is my father's world Meaning, let's stay here. We like it with all the money Why do we need to wait for the future when we can put the future on our credit cards right now? The danger here is that covetous interrupt covetousness interrupts and distracts real life. What things do when they come into our lives is they they interrupt and distract us from living life. I refer you to Jack Whitaker, the man in West Virginia who won $300 and some million dollars in a lottery December 2002, and knew that he was blessed of God. And two years later, after the death of his granddaughter and her boyfriend, he had bought her a new car at the age of 16, and she turned to drugs and died, she was the life the the light of his life. Five years later, seven years later, his wife dies. And uh his life has just become this unraveled mess. He was robbed one time of a half a million dollars. He is constantly besieged by people. He's been in and out of court, people suing him. And he was sobbing one day when he talked to a newspaper reporter and he said, I wish I had torn that ticket up. I wish I had torn that ticket up. That's exactly what James is saying. James is saying that all of this stuff takes away your life. Money does not bring happiness or bless life. Our job is life. Build wisely. It's the only life you will ever build. Money, covetousness, simply has the ability To distract all that. So I skip to how do we fight the covetous influence of our culture? How do we fight the covetous influence of our culture? Let me give you four statements that come from 1 Timothy chapter 6. I think 1 Timothy chapter 6 is such. A great chapter to help us think through how we deal with stuff and all the blessings that we have received as Americans. Number one, start with contentment. Start with contentment. First Timothy six, six Now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. Content. Surveys among high-income earners show that no matter how high their incomes, they need at least 50% more income to be happy. Rockefeller is reported to have been asked one day, what do you need? He said, one more dollar. What do you need as you sit here? Are you content as you sit here You know, discontentment is a sign of covetousness. I have to have A, B, C, whatever, to make me content. Ephesians says, God has blessed us with all forms of blessing in the heavenly places. Are you content? Over what God has given you. It starts with contentment Number two, fight with your attraction to money and things Fight with that attraction. My guess is that 90% of you are attracted to these things. My guess is that 92% of you are attracted to these things. Maybe 99% of you. You know? It's normal. You need to fight that attraction. And here's verse 10. 1 Timothy 6. 10. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, from which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Verse 9 says, those who desire to be rich. Doesn't matter how much money they have, those who desire to be rich. Americans who are rich can be content. Poverty-stricken people can desire to be rich. It's the desire that is so dangerous. In verse 10, it's the love of money that is so dangerous. So you fight that attraction. You question yourself and say, wait a minute, do I need that? Wait a minute. Is that what is best? Wait a minute. Do I have a promise from God here? You know, you rein yourself in and fight the attraction. Joe Lewis once said, it doesn't matter if you're rich or poor, as long as you got money. It does matter because money changes you when it gives you that desire. Number three, don't trust your money or what you can collect Don't trust it. This is 1 Timothy 6, 17. Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty. Or trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. That is an amazing verse. That verse has been so helpful to me. Trust those, command those who are rich in this present age. Rich in this present age means who? It means basically all of us. We are rich. So the command is don't trust in uncertain riches. Doesn't matter how much money you have, don't trust in it. Martha has a relative that said to that said to us Single guy, very wealthy, says I'm collecting two million. Once I get two million, then I'm going to retire, because then I'll be okay. He's trusting two million. The verse says, don't trust two million. You want to put your trust in, look at the way it describes it. the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy My guess is that you would tend to ask questions about the word enjoy. Is that the right word? God is interested that we enjoy? Maybe we should use the word blessed. That sounds more spiritual. And joy sounds carnal. You know? God wants us to trust Him. He is the living God who wants to give us richly all things to enjoy. And then number four, learn to trust God with your money and things today. Learn to trust God with your money and things today. Then it will be easier tomorrow. How do you trust God? Give. Give. Give it away. Here's 1 Timothy 6, 18 and 19. Tell them, the rich in this world, to do good. That they be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share, storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life The implication is that when you have money in your hands, you don't have the real thing. You don't have life. Covetousness instinctively says to you, you got life when you got money. No, you don't. You got the fake thing. You got fake news. What you do with that money depends on is the thing that results in real money. When you invest it, when you lay it up. And you'll notice the four things here Tell those who are rich, verse 18, do good, rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share. That's the way to invest in the eternal stock market, which pays dividends forever So where are you? Have I talked to anyone here who says Yeah, I fall in that category. I have those covetous Tendencies. My encouragement is, as Randy prayed earlier, my encouragement is to confess. Confess your sin. Ask God. To reprogram your heart and your mind, that you don't miss out on living with Him just because of money. Amen. Let's pray. Father, thank you that you are the living God who wants to give us richly all things to enjoy. Deliver us from refusing to believe that by spending our time in other areas. I ask in Jesus' name with thanksgiving. Amen.