One of the fruits of outreach at UMBC was uh finding someone like Peyton, of course, was a harp for evangelism. Another uh just good fruit of outreach there was uh meeting a UMBC student named Dan and um his girlfriend and um he is now engaged to his girlfriend so got a chance to get to know uh their name Dan and Abigail the last few months and I'm actually uh they asked me to do their premarital counseling. So that's exciting. I've done this before. Um not that I'm some expert in marriage, but I've relied on the same material Dr. Beo used with me. And E-Ray almost 10 years ago. And just it's sort of fun going through the old pages, the pages of that old book, looking at E-Ray's just workbook answers and looking at mine. And I realized that the same truths still resonate with me, and hopefully with her. And one lesson had to do with the right blueprint for marriage. The world wants us to treat the holy matrimony as a 50-50 relationship. That is, if I do my part and she does her part, we'll meet each other halfway But the Bible calls for something far better. Instead of the world's 50-50 plant, the oneness marriage blueprint is a hundred-hundred plant Both the husband and the wife are to be fully devoted to making the relationship work. They're all in. There's no waiting for the other one to do this or that. Each one gives his or her all. Now that's easier said than done. It's difficult to give all of yourself when your partner's lack of basical. Complacent. And actually giving it your all is difficult in any kind of relationship, even outside of marriage. Think of your relationships in career, academics, or sports. It's hard when no one else at work cares. It's deflating when your classmates or teammates don't put in the effort. Why should I give my 100% when others give 0%? Motivation to keep going I can tell you that God understands that. In fact, as we continue and finish our coverage of Genesis 15, we'll see that God not only desires the 100, 100 principle. He adheres to the 100 principle. He gave his all, expecting nothing from Abram. God's grace makes salvation 100% God's work. You might argue that faith is man's contribution, but that's not the way the Bible defines saving faith. Look again at Romans 4. 16. Salvation is of faith that it might be according to grace So building on that important truth, we continue in Genesis fifteen. Our sermon text is from verse 7 to 21. Let's read. And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to inherit. And he said, Lord God, how shall I know that I will inherit it? So he said to him, Bring me a three-year-old heifer. A three-year-old female goat, a three-year-old ram, a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. Then he brought all these things, all these to him. and cut them in two down the middle and placed each piece opposite the other. But he did not cut the birds in two And when the vultures came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away. Now, when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram. And behold, horror and great darkness fell upon him. Then he said to Abram, Know certainly that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs, and will serve them. And they will afflict them four hundred years. And also the nation whom they serve, I will judge afterward. They shall come out with great possessions. Now as for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace You shall be buried at a good old age, but in the fourth generation they shall return here, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. And it came to pass when the sun went down and it was dark, that behold, there appeared a smoking oven and a burning torch that passed between those trees pieces. On the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given this land from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates. the Kenites, the Kenizites, the Kadmonites, the Hittites, the Perizites, the Raphaim, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Gergashites, and the Jabis There's much to unpack here. A simple outline will get us started. Chronological markers. Help readers follow the scene. Verse 12 speaks of twilight when the sun was going down. Skip down to 17. We fast forward to nighttime when the sun went down and it was dark. So we could proceed through the sermon text according to the three segments of a day. During those three segments, there were three covenant-related events. In verses 7 to 11, we have Abram's preparation for the covenant. In verses 12 to 16, Abram hears the prologue to the covenant. Lastly, in verses 17 to 21, we have God's performance of the covenant. Now we must contextualize these covenantal acts and speech. In light of that famous verse we covered last time, Genesis 15, 6. That way we can talk about Abram's covenantal faith. His faith parallels ours, ours being the new covenant faith, and we are to walk in the steps of Abram's faith. So here are three steps to increase our covenantal faith. First, being justified through faith, grow in assurance. Secondly, awaiting the reward of faith, display endurance. Thirdly, beholding the object of faith, have confidence. 7-11, 12-16, and 17-21 in that outline. So the first step to increase our covenant of faith, being justified through faith, growing assurance. Now that we read it all, we see Genesis 15 is full of divine promises. The first six verses dealt with God's seed promises made to Abram. The rest of the chapter deals with his land promises. Note how verses 1 and 7 are parallel. Earlier God introduces himself as the one who shields and rewards Abram. Now the Lord introduces himself as the one who moved Abram out of his home country to inherit the land of Canaan. Again, there's more emphasis on land in verses 7 to 21. But here's another parallel from the earlier verses as we go on to verse 8. As before, Abram once again respectfully poses a question. Again, he addresses God as Adonai Yahweh. You might recall Adonai means something like master, it's a title that communicates authority, dominance, and power. And again, with due respect, Abram seeks confirmation. Ideally, all of us would take God at his word without any need of confirmation. Honestly, none of us have arrived to some elite status when it comes to faith. Even after we're justified through faith, we are to grow in assurance. Saddam fault Abram for asking, how shall I know that I will inherit it? That is the land. I think I would have done the same. God, I need more assurance. And the Lord is gracious to hear our requests and accommodate us in our weakness. That accommodation starts with the covenant ritual. We might wonder today what all these animals in verse 9 have to do with land promises. But Abram knew exactly what was happening. Abram's preparing something like a formal contract to be signed. And today if we want to make an important agreement, we might call a lawyer. Greater the stakes, weightier the agreement. You can see why a star athlete would hire an agent to negotiate contracts with a team. We're talking millions of dollars. Or think of peace treaties between nations, mergers between companies, marriage covenants between spouses. Lives and livelihoods are at stake. And the idea of important contracts goes back to ancient times and form of covenants. We're shown this custom during Abram's days, in which animals were sacrificed, cut in half through the middle, and laid on the ground. Then the carcasses were arranged wide enough for two parties of the covenant to walk between them. As they did, they were to recite the terms of their agreement. By doing all of this, they're declaring that the one who violates the covenant would end up like the slaughtered animals. This custom was known even in later times in the Bible, in Jeremiah's days. Jeremiah's days, you can find the reference in Jeremiah 34, 17 to 22. So that's how the covenant is made, literally cut. Abram didn't need further instructions on the preparation. He arranged the carcasses in order in verse 10. He left alone the birds because they're too small to be cut in half two. He made sure no scavengers swoop down to eat them. In verse eleven. So that's the preparation for the covenant before twilight. A quick application here is that we should appreciate how gracious God is with us. Again, the Lord accommodated for Abram. He didn't have to perform and participate in this ritual. He could have just said to Abram How shall you know that you inherit the land? Because I said so. You know. Stop asking me for assurance. Don't bring this up again. I have to admit, my wife and I, we lose patience when our kids ask us things multiple times because they just want to be sure. Well God isn't like that. The Lord is not like that with us. He's not like us. He's kind. He's patient. We see his response, and he desires to increase our covenantal faith. So remember, being justified through faith, grow in assurance. What we're doing for the rest of our lives here on earth as we walk with the Lord. As the daylight waned, Abram finished his work with the animals. All is set for the ceremony. So we move from preparation to the prologue to the covenant in verses 12 to 16. There we can learn another step to increasing our covenantal faith. Awaiting the reward of faith. Display endurance. So we'll get to the reward and endurance required of Abram's descendants in a moment. But first in verse 12, we see that Abram's knocked out by sunset. The word for deep sleep is tardema. We saw it earlier in Genesis chapter 2, verse 21. Remember how God, like a surgeon, put Adam under general anesthesia. He did so to take one of his ribs and formed a woman. Later in 1 Samuel 26, 12, the Lord put to deep sleep Saul and his men to prevent them from capturing David. But here I have reasons to think that God Himself put Abram to deep sleep. It wasn't because Abram had a long day of work, though he did. God wanted Abram to sleep. And from the looks of it, he wasn't in a nice dream. Verse 12 ends with mention of horror and great darkness. But then in verse 13, Abram hears the comforting voice of the Lord. Then again, the message he gets is not exactly bright and cheery. Tough times are ahead for his descendants. There will be strangers and slaves outside of Canaan. They'll spend around 400 years in foreign land. 400, it turns out, is a rounded number. Exodus 1240 and Galatians 3:17. Report a more precise higher number, 430. Besides how long we know we also know where Abram's descendants end up, they sojourned. in Egypt. Finally, God had to judge Egypt for enslaving them, according to verse 14. After all their suffering, the Israelites will come out in abundance, plundering their gold, silver, and clothing. You'll see how these predictions are fulfilled in the book of Exodus. As promised the Lord brings them out from under the burdens of the from the burdens of the Egyptians, rescue them according uh from their bondage, and redeems them with an outstretched arm and with great judgments. These dramatic events will take place beyond Abram's lifetime. God explains in verse 2. 15, Abram will live a long life, die and be buried. We'll see what happens later in Genesis after Abram's passing, when his grandson Jacob and his great grandsons leave Canaan to go to. Verse 16 speaks of four generations that span over four hundred years. By the way, the generation in biblical context isn't the same as the culturally defined generation. Of modern sociology. We're not talking about millennials, Gen Z or Gen Alpha. The generation here is just a matter of counting down from the time of, let's say, Levi to the time of Moses. You can turn later, but you can look at Exodus 6, you'll find the genealogy of Moses, who's from the line of Levi. Levi had a son named Kohat. Kohat had a son named Amram. Amram had Aaron and Moses. So that's Levi, Kohat, Amram, and Moses. That's four names corresponding to four generations. Coinciding with the time of Egypt's judgment. As you see there, is the judgment of another people, the Amorites. Now all Amorites can't be bad. After all, Abram worked together with one named Mamre. and his two brothers. But these guys were the exception, not the rule. The Amorite culture in general was wicked. But before you blast them, know that the Amorite culture isn't so different from ours. One parallel is the rampant idolatry in their nation and also found in ours. Another parallel is child sacrifice. We just do it in utero, via abortions in demand. With the rate we're going, we might be worse than the Amorites. Makes me wonder. We're celebrating 250 years of America this year. Do we deserve to make it the four hundred years? I mean, Lord have mercy on us. We're praying for our nation. So we are like the Amorites in many ways. With the Amorites, the Lord was patient, but eventually their judgment day arrived. God would not only judge Egypt to get the Israelites out of foreign land. He would judge the Amorites to get the Israelites into promised land Until then, Abram and his descendants had to persevere and increase their covenantal faith. Like them, we too must follow their example, waiting the reward of faith, display endurance. For quick application, I observe here the need to have a long corporate view of faith. Honestly, at the forefront of my mind are the next 40 years of my life. I'm thinking of myself and more than others. I'm also not thinking about 400 years from now. I'm focused on my ministry career, my retirement, my children's future. Those are good things to consider as responsible adults. But I wonder if my faith and your faith has the bandwidth to consider beyond short-term benefits for yourself and your family What about our spiritual family that will outlive us here? I remind you that in 2027, next year, we'll reach the 70th anniversary of Bay Bible Church. Have we given serious thought about the next 70 years of our church if the Lord tarries? Do we pray fervently that the gospel work would continue and flourish? Are we concerned about the challenges that our later members will face? How can we prepare them to wait on God and endure trials as our nation worsens and the world grows darker? I'm not asking us to be prophets or run for office. I'm just saying we should be like concerned fathers. Just as Paul did, be concerned about afflictions, shaking up churches, as he said in First Thessalonians 3:3. It's not just about him, Paul, finishing the race. He was worried that after the heat departs, there will be savage wolves that do not spare the flock. 29 right covenantal faith looks beyond our own individual faith, the fates of others. That's the kind of concern Abram, the father of faith, had for his seed. While concerned, he didn't lose heart. As Hebrews 11:13 says, Abram would die in faith. not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, he was assured of them. He embraced them. Such perspective leads us to take the next step in increasing our covenantal faith. Beholding the object of faith, have confidence. So now we're done with the preparation for the covenant and the prologue to the covenant. It's time for the performance of the covenant. And normally both parties must pass between the animal pieces. That's what Abram and anyone else in his day would expect in verse 17. The Lord shows up in the middle of the night, he manifests himself in visible form. The smoking oven and the burning torch were emblems of his presence. They make good sense as symbols. Later in Exodus 19, 18, when the Israelites arrived at Mount Sinai, they saw it completely in smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire. Here Abram gets a preview of that. He knew right then that the Lord passed between the pieces. But here's the thing. What about Abram? Shouldn't he be walking through the pathway too? Doesn't he have a part to play in the covenant? Yes, that would be proper in this ritual, ordinarily. But Abram didn't pass through the pieces. He didn't do anything. He just lay there. Got a glimpse of the fire and the smoke. So, why did God exclude Abram from the ritual? Because the Lord is saying to him, I got this. I by myself will perform this covenant. He's making the point that all that's required of Abram is faith, just trusting God and his promises. This is one of the most dramatic depictions of grace in the scripture. The Lord alone passed through the pieces. He alone takes on the burden of fulfilling the promises. For Abram, he must only behold the object of his faith and have confidence. So God's grace and Abram's faith is the basis of this covenant. All things come together within one day. The first half of verse 18 says that the Lord made a covenant. Again, it literally says he cut a covenant. The land promised is spelled out in the second half of the verse. The border stretched from the river of Egypt in the south to the great river Euphrates in the north. By the way, the river of Egypt, also called the Brook of Egypt. In other passages. It's not the famous Nile. This river of Egypt is located in Sinai Peninsula. It's called the Wadi al-Aresh, named after the town of Arish. Arish is near the Mediterranean Sea to which the river flowed. You can look ahead in your Bibles and find that a few times in history the Israelites did claim as much as they were given. Once it was under Solomon's reign in the United Kingdom, according to 1 Kings 8. 65. It's also possible that it happened again later under the reign of Jeroboam II in the divided kingdom, according to 2 Kings 1425. It's kind of sad that God's people so seldom lived up to their fullest potential in possessing the land. But the remnant of Israel will someday possess the promised land in all its extent. That'll take place in the millennial kingdom, according to passages like Isaiah 27, 12. But back to Genesis, we look at those that stand in the way of Abram's descendants. To possess the promised land, they first had to dispossess their enemies of it. Verses 19 to 21 list ten nations or people groups. Canaites were an Arab race that migrated far and wide. Those outside of Canaan, such as Jethro, were friendly to Israel. But evidently not those in Canaan. As for the Kennesites, the most famous Kenesite is Jephune, that's Caliph's father. Likely some or most of them joined the tribe of Judah because we don't hear from them again. And then next to nothing is known concerning the Camanites. Going on to verse twenty, we see more uh familiar names, the Hittites. Um The Hittites were mountain dwellers like the Amorites and the Jebusites. Unlike a few outstanding individuals like Uriah and David's army, their influence was detrimental to Israel. We first met the parasites back in chapter 13, verse 7. I think I mentioned then that some commentators think that the Canaanites were city dwellers from urban contexts While the perizzites were country folks in unwalled cities or villages. We also met the Rephaim earlier in chapter 14, verse 5. There were people in the northern portions of Canaan. Recall they were the first to fall to Ketalaumer and his fellow kings. Finally, in verse 21, we have four more nations that oppose Abram's seed. All are technically descendants of Canaan. These would make up four of the seven nations greater and mightier than Israel, according to Deuteronomy 7. 1. Now I find it interesting that the Lord would take time to list out these ten names. Is it so necessary to spell them out? Why not just sum them all up as your enemies, right? What's the point of listing them one by one? Well, as I look back at all that we covered in Genesis 15, I think there's a challenge for Abram here. He's challenged to behold the object of his faith and have confidence. It might be frightening to think about these ten powerful foes, but they're nothing before God. The Lord is Abram's shield. He brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans to give him this land to inherit it. He alone passed between the pieces in the ritual. So he alone guarantees the fulfillment of his covenant. The only thing left for Abram to do is to to believe. And it's a good thing that believing is all Abram had to do. I'm saying thank God that the covenant was unilateral. Imagine if Abram, his descendants, or any of us were bound in a bilateral covenant I mean that if the relationship between us and God depended on us in any measure, we'd be in serious trouble. In fact, the later history of Israel under the law demonstrates that to be the case. As mentioned earlier, after sojourning in Egypt for centuries, God's people received the law through Moses. The law too was a covenant. But unlike the covenant with Abram, the covenant through Moses was bilateral. In other words, both God and Israel have to meet their end of the bargain. If the people would obey the Lord, they would be blessed. If the people disobey the Lord, they would be cursed. Simple as that. Well, you can guess what happened. God did his part without fail, but the Israelites were like an adulterous spouse. As one prophet puts it, their faithfulness is like a morning cloud, and like the early dew, it goes away. Hosea 6. 4 They broke the law. They deserve the judgment that fell on Egypt, like boils and locusts. They will lose the land that God intended to give them as an inheritance. The Israelites, privileged as they were to have a special relationship with God, messed that up. We too fail repeatedly. We don't meet our end of the bargain. We do not follow the Lord's commands. We're unfaithful to God, we're unfaithful to each other, we lust, we steal, we blaspheme, we lie, we're guilty and deserve to be. be cursed in hell as punishment. So far as it depends on us in our flesh to fulfill the covenant, we're doomed Again, if our treaty with God is bilateral, we're in trouble. We are the weak link in the relationship chain. But thankfully, we can fall back on a unilateral covenant. The promise made to Abram, ultimately fulfilled in Jesus, the seed of Abram, is like a safety net that catches us when we fall from the tightrope. And we will fall from the tightrope. The law of Moses can be broken, but the Abrahamic covenant cannot be broken. It cannot be altered. Paul makes this point in Galatians 3. The law which was introduced centuries later cannot annul the covenant that was confirmed before by God in Christ. It cannot make the earlier promise of no effect. So, why did God give the law in the first place? Paul goes on. It has a complementary purpose to Abram's covenant. The law does not grant us life or righteousness. The law reminds us, though, that we're unrighteous. And the wages of sin is death. The law teaches us that our works are useless. We need faith in God. The law drives us to our knees and awakens our need for Christ. Even Abram looked forward to the birth and life of Jesus. Abram rejoiced to see his day. He saw it and was glad. John 8:56 Jesus was born about two thousand years after Abel. He is God and man at the same time. He lived a perfect life, not one sinning, rather he fulfilled the law and the prophets The Father kept and preserved his son and servant, then Jesus would become a covenant to the people and light to the nations. But like the covenant made with Abram, a sacrifice was required. From the night he was betrayed by one of his own, Jesus observed the Last Supper. There he Spoke of his flesh and blood, the bread distributed represents his broken body. The wine represents the blood of the new covenant shed for many for the remission of sins. And then hours later, Jesus offered himself for our sins, just as he had predicted. He was mocked, scourged, crucified. At the cross, he paid in full the penalty of sin. He satisfied the wrath of God against us. He declared his work finished, and he breeded his last. But then on the third day he rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection for many days. Then he ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now, this good news calls for a response from all. We must repent of our sin, turn from self and self-righteousness. Realize you can't fulfill God's requirements. God alone fulfills the terms of His covenant, the new covenant. Know that only Christ stepped up to die for ungodly sinners like you and me. He by himself cursed our sins. The new covenant of Jesus in line with the Abrahamic covenant is unilateral. There's nothing for you to do, nothing to contribute, only believe as Abram did. And so God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone and Christ alone. Remember what I said at the beginning? Praise the Lord that our relationship with Him is not 50% God and 50% me. So we meet somewhere in the middle. Though God alone passed through the middle course between the parts, we're weak, unreliable, unfaithful. We can't even muster up one percent effort. Thank God that our eternal security is not based on our works. It's all grace. Our final song reminds us of this truth. Those he saves are his delight. Christ will hold me fast. Precious in his holy sight. He will hold me fast. He will not let my soul be lost. His promises shall last. Bought by him at such a cost, he will hold me fast. Let's pray But we thank you for your word. Thank you for your the work you did in the lives of your saints. Just even thousands of years ago. And how the truths that you spoke to them and demonstrated speak to us today. And Lord, how it encourages us to put our faith in you. We're thankful for the truth about your covenant that unlike us, Lord, you are faithful. Unlike us, you do not break your promises. And we pray that each and every day we'll meditate on your promises, and out of gratitude, with thankful hearts, may we serve you, knowing that you have finished the work required for us to get to heaven. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.