Good morning. Good to see everyone. Are you excited today? Well it looks like there's twelve percent excitement here. I noticed in the bulletin, which I don't have, I noticed in the bulletin that You have already prophesied how long my message will be because the congregational vote will take place at twelve o'clock And you know, I'm speaking on prayer, and Randy had that long prayer today. So that's you know that squished my time. So here I'm down. It's it's 1235 already according to this clock. So Yes, good luck. It's great to be back. We uh spent the last week on the road We left Monday and drove to Yorktown, Virginia, spent a couple days with friends, and then drove on Wednesday to Charlotte, North Carolina. To be with my sister who has recently been operated on for pancreatic cancer And drove back yesterday. So I sort of feel this way, you know But it's good to be here. And we're talking about prayer today, as you notice in the title, the importance of prayer. Did everybody get a fill-in-the-blank sheet? Who of you did not get a fill-in-the-blank sheet? Oh, nobody. Everybody. Okay, there are still sheets out in the back, I think. And the questions that you have, the question sheet is to be saved for tonight. I probably shouldn't have passed that out. But You can have it to answer those questions while I'm speaking. So we have this Excellent passage in James that is talking about the importance of prayer And due to the limitation of time, I will not read the passage. I'll just read it as we go But I think James has four statements to make about prayer in this passage. So I'd like to introduce us and just review for some of us these four statements and their significance Statement number one, life's situations, situations should lead us to prayer. Life's situations And I think the way James writes verse 13, he's intending to connect it with any situation in your life. So he says, Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing psalms. You'll notice that the word pray or prayer or praying occurs Seven times in this section, verses 13 to 18. It occurs seven times. I think that's James' theme here, his interest. But I think the idea in James' mind is that there are things that we can do after we pray, but there's not much we can do until we pray. That prayer is essential. And I think God has designed all of our lives to lead us to Him in prayer. So A there says difficulty should lead us to prayer. Difficulty, is anyone suffering? Pray. The word suffering is the word trouble. Anyone in trouble of any kind? It's the word that refers to the evil blows in life. Life that doesn't work right, isn't fair, doesn't include you, doesn't meet your desires, you suffer. It gets to you. You're frustrated. You're emotional. You're discouraged. You're beaten down. You're tired. Let him pray. We got to our my sister's house Wednesday night, and I had communicated her a couple of times on email, but I came to the realization on Wednesday night that my sister was greatly worried about electrical interference in the house. You know, there's this big deal now about RF exposure and electrical pollution and they had this big box sitting out in their backyard that said high voltage, touch not. Green box. And, you know, she's worried about cancer since she has cancer, and she's afraid that that box in her backyard is going to give her more cancer. So Wednesday night I ordered a a meter to read. And I ordered it because it was coming on One day airmail, and I paid $45, she actually paid the $45. I paid the $168 for the meter So we were expecting the meter to come by Friday because we were leaving Saturday. I wanted the meter by Friday. Thursday, I emailed the company in Utah and said, I gotta have this thing by Friday, you know. I'm paying money, I get to get it by Friday. Friday morning I checked my email. We were staying with somebody else ten miles away. Checked my email and the email had a tracking number that said it was going to be delivered promptly on Monday. So I immediately wrote them an email. And it didn't it didn't have the kindest attitude. I wasn't ugly, but I did say you might as well cancel this order. You know, I can't if I can't do it on Friday I can't do it. Get to my sister's house and my sister said You know the thing has arrived already. I said, No. It has. And there it was. You know, I could have prayed more instead of written emails. But there that's the situation. Let him pray. Meaning when these things come into your life, you need to go to God in prayer. This is chapter 1, verse 2. Count it all joy when you fall into these things, these situations. Let him pray. John Calvin says, there is no time in which God does not invite us to pray. Verses 14 and 15 are inviting us to pray. Verse 16 is inviting us to pray. Verses 17 and 18 are inviting us to pray. There is no time when God does not invite us to pray Then, secondly, verse 13 says, Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing psalms. Blessings should lead us to prayer. The word cheerful is a combination of the word well and the word soul. Well soul. Satisfied soul. Peaceful soul, happy soul. So it's the idea of freedom from The difficulties in the earlier part of the verse. It's the good life. So the command is to sing psalms. Sing Psalms. Do you sing Psalms? The word is actually talking about To twang a string. It's talking about plucking a string, whether that's a guitar or a harp. or piano or a harpsichord, but it's talking about plucking a string in order to To make the praise and the thanksgiving to God out loud It's talking about praising God out loud. When God is giving you an honest reason to be happy, and He has given us many reasons to be happy, then we need to praise God out loud, in a way for others to hear. It means to praise the Lord in a musical expression. Whether you sing or blow or twang or whatever, you are praising God You are letting God you're letting people know that God is good. This is the kind of thing, this is the kind of news that travels fast. You know, praise I think praising God is like almost like gossip. You know how gossip travels? Somebody said, did you hear And then that quickly moves on out through the channels. I think the same kind of thing is in mind here, that we praise God. Did you hear what God did for me? Have you heard the amazing answer to prayer that I got? That's the thing that becomes like gossip. And you notice that all the way through Scripture. First Chronicles sixteen First Chronicles sixteen Verse 8. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the people, sing to him, sing praises to him, tell of all his wondrous works. Psalm 145 that we read this morning. Psalm 95, 1 and 2, oh come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us make Make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. How many noises have you made this week to the rock of your salvation? Public noises that other people can hear, at least one other person, or two other people I just thought this song we sang today, the first one, was so impressive. And I don't know that I have sung this more than once in the last 50 years. And maybe not at all in the last fifty years, from every stormy wind that blows, from every swelling tide of woes, There is a calm, a sure retreat. Tis found beneath the mercy seat. There is a scene where spirits blend, where friend holds fellowship with friend, though sundered far. By faith they meet around one common mercy seat I think that's James 5. 13. The answer is at the mercy seat, at the throne of God. Respond to life's situations with prayer. Number two, sickness should lead us to prayer. Sickness should lead us to prayer. This is verses 14, 15, and 16. Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise him up And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Confess your trespasses to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed Now I have found that instead of verse 14, there are people in the world today that promise to do the job and you don't need to go to elders of the church. We call them faith healers. I'm sure you're aware of faith healers. They're on TV. They have big rallies. They have thousands of people. They raise large amounts of money. They have many stories of people who are being healed. When I grew up, we often in the morning before we went to church on Sunday listened to Orl Roberts, you know, and he would tell us to put our hands on the radio, and he'd pray and we'd be healed. And he prayed demanding God to heal them from the top of their head to the from the crown of their head to the sole of their foot. Anyone remember that? Anybody that old? Oh yes, look at that. Let me give you five five statements that faith healers make to justify their raising of money. Number one, healing is a sign from God. A sign from God. Jesus came and healed. It was a sign, as he said in Mark 2. To ten, it was a sign that he was from God. Number two, evangelism should be power-based. We're going against the kingdom of hell. How do you go against the kingdom of hell? You need power. When Jesus sent the ten disciples, twelve disciples out, he sent them out with power. You need power. Number three, God wants his children to be healthy. Gloria Copeland says, Jesus, bore your sicknesses and carried your diseases. at the same time and in the same manner that he bore your sins. You are just as free from sickness and disease as you are free from sin. I'm still quoting Gloria. You should be as quick to refuse sickness and disease in your body as you are to refuse sin. Number four, many are healed and saved through their ministries. You can watch it on TV. And number four, it takes big bucks to run these things. And they raised big bucks. Fifteen years ago, Benny Hinn took in $89 million One year. So how do you view these claims? Answer you can put over the all the top of all of them. They are bogus. They are untrue. Healing, number one, healing is not automatically a sign from God. It is not. Antichrist is going to have power to heal. 1 Thessalonians 2. 9. Jesus says in Matthew 24 that false teachers are going to almost be able to deceive the elect. They have such amazing ability. Number two, evangelism does not depend on power demonstrations. It does not How do I know? If it depended on power demonstrations, Jesus Christ had the most power demonstrations, and all of Israel should have repented. But here's John chapter 10, John chapter 12, verse 37. It says Even after Jesus had done all these miraculous signs in their presence, they still would not believe him. What kind of power does God use today? He uses the power of a testimony, the power of a changed life, the power of the Spirit of God. encouraging somebody to say a word in the middle of a context where people don't like it Number three, God does not guarantee health to all any more than he wants guaranteed wealth for all. When Gloria Copeland claims that Jesus atonement guarantees healing for all who claim it, think of what that means You know, we repent of our sin. Should we repent of our headaches? Should we repent of our hemorrhoids? You know? What does this mean? It's ridiculous. And what happens is when you believe that, then you come to the conclusion that if a person is not healed, They're not healed because they don't have enough faith. And this is the line of false of of uh The the healers. You know, if you're not healed at their ministry, it's because of your lack of faith. Tell that to the Apostle Paul, who prayed that his thorn in the flesh would be taken, and God said, I've got something better. My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. Amen. Number four, not as many people are being healed as they claim. This is one of the really unbelievably sad stories. Way back in the 50s, Oral Roberts was in Washington, D. C. and claimed over whatever it was, two or three weeks he was there, claimed that 2,000 people had been saved or healed during that time. There was a pastor of a church who was in charge of all follow-up, and he and his church followed up, as far as I know, they followed up all 2,000 people. And they came to the conclusion, no one had been healed, and perhaps, perhaps, a 12-year-old girl had gotten saved. And that project so devastated the pastor that he left. He wanted nothing to do with that ministry or whatever it was. Started a church, a small church in Falls Church, Virginia. You read the stories, you know. There's a man who's written a book on 104 cases that he tracked down. As he was knocking on the door of a house of someone who had been healed. The funeral director was carrying the body out of a man who had been healed the night before. So beware of false teachers. Beware of these healers. They are after money, they are liars, they are thieves. You don't want to live near them or base your life on what they teach The good news is God heals. God does heal. In response to prayer. God heals in response to prayer What's the process? Well, James gives us six statements here that guide the process. Here's how God heals. Number one, the sick person requests the church elders to come and pray. The sick person requests it This is the decision made by the person who is suffering. Let him call. And who does he call? He calls the elders. These are just normal guys. These aren't apostles, prophets. These aren't healers. They may have never seen anybody healed in their life. You call the elders At uh Belcroft, when I was there for 16 years, we had two cases where somebody called and said, please bring the elders and pray. And I remember the first one was a extremely serious case of a lady with Huntingtons who was whose her husband had tracked her progress for the last fifteen years, you know. And it was just gradually down and down. If you're familiar with Huntington's disease, the people basically go insane. Tragic disease And she called us, and we were on the way to her house when elders were saying, you know, I really don't feel qualified to do any of this. I'm not a healer, I'm not the son of a healer, I've never. Why are we going? Was that attitude? Call the elders. Number two, the elders come to the sick person. They don't pray from afar, they come to the sick person. Suppose the sick person has something catchy. Well, it's hard to anoint them with oil from outside the house. You go in, this is personal ministry. This is shepherding. You go and meet them where they are So you enter the scene. So the person calls, the elders come and enter the scene. Okay, let me caution you that this is not, you don't do this instead of calling a doctor. If you get appendicitis at 2 in the morning, call a doctor, don't call the elders. The elders probably won't come anyway, but no, I think they would. Number three, the elders are to anoint with oil. Some think this is medicinal oil, which is to be rubbed in, sort of like saying, let the elders come and administer the medicine and pray for healing I don't personally think we're talking about medicinal oil. I just think we're talking about oil. Okay? I've used olive oil. I've threatened to use W D thirty, but but never have It's just oil. I mean, there's nothing special about the oil. It's not holy oil. It's not magic oil. We're not coming as healers with unusual powers. We're coming in obedience to God's direction. To pray. And then the elders are to pray over him. Pray over him. It doesn't say how long they are to pray, even what they're to pray about, although the context mentions sin. And if he has committed sins. They will be forgiven. So this situation is a situation where people confess their sin. The person being anointed confesses sin. The elders confess sin. When we went to the house of this lady, this is 2002. Her name was Lynn. When we went to her house, we decided we were going to fast all day. And then we were going to meet at church and we were going to confess our sins to one another. And then we went over to her house and we prayed, we anointed her with oil, and we prayed. Her husband Uh baked us a cake. We hadn't eaten all day. We were going to go to Bob Evans afterwards, and we hadn't eaten all day, so we devoured the cake and went to Bob Evans. You know, we anointed, we prayed, we cleaned up the cake, and we left So the elders come and they pray. And then it says it's the prayer that saves the sick. It's not the oil. It's not the anointed anointing. It's not the method. It's the prayer that saves the sick. So the leaders come Anoint, a special task. They anoint and they pray. It's the prayer of faith. If you've got the questions, you'll notice there's an important question there in that section that says, what is the prayer of faith? How do you pray the prayer of faith? When you have elders in the room anointing the person with oil and praying, is that the prayer of faith? What is the prayer of faith? Then it says in verse 6, I mean number 6, the Lord will raise him up. The Lord will raise him up So we went to this lady's house, we prayed, we anointed her with oil, we prayed, and we ate the cake, and we left. And we went to Bob Evans. Nothing happened. Didn't look like anything special. She came to the women's Bible study the next morning, declaring that she had been healed. In fact, she was showing off. You know, when you have Huntingtons, you you can't hold things. You can't put things up like this. And she was carrying things around to show people that she she had been healed. From Huntington's. So we rejoiced with her. And we had the same attitude she had in terms of, so how did this happen? You know? What happened? It was God. It wasn't the guise. It wasn't the oil. It wasn't anything we had. It was God's grace. that healed her. But what about the word will? The prayer of faith will save the sick. That's pretty positive, isn't it? Will save the sick. It doesn't say might save the sick. Doesn't say should save the sick Maybe save the sick. If God wills. No, it says will. You'll find the faith healers emphasize this word. They camp on this word. They love this word. They say that this verse gives you permission to demand healing from God. It seems to be an attitude that says, you said you would do it. Demonstrating. You see what happens It becomes an attitude almost of challenging God on the basis of his word. That's the category that Jesus described as testing. God, not trusting God. You said you would. Do it now No, the point is we trust God. God is the one who heals when He desires to do it. So what's outstanding here is that we can ask in faith, we can ask anything that we desire, and God will filter all these things out and give us what is best. You know, if God answered every request you had, you'd have to quit praying. You realize that Because you don't know what's best. There was a time in my life when I was pleading with God that I might be able to marry a certain woman. I knew that was the right woman. And it wasn't. And I am so delighted God said no, even though I wasn't delighted at the time. Ever had that? So you pray and you ask God what you want. You want this person to be healed. And then you say, Thank you, Lord, for what you do. I realize that you are going to answer this request in the way that's best. Alright? So, number three, sin should lead us to prayer. Sin should lead us to prayer. Verse 16: Confess your trespasses one to another and pray for one another that you might be healed. The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. I just noticed it's 106, which means the vote should have taken place. I'm gonna keep going. Yeah, I think this clock is an hour. Ahead. 1206. You know, there's a real there's a real similar, there's a parallel between sin and sickness For example, uh sin gets worse when it's unattended. Just like sickness gets worse when it's unattended. How long do you have to ignore cancer before it's out of control? Sin becomes a monster over time. As we hide it, it becomes more and more powerful. Sin changes the balance of our lives, just like sickness changes the balance of our lives. You know, all of a sudden my my sister's life has been interrupted All of a sudden, everything in her life is connected with cancer. Some of you have experienced that, you know? So you had these plans? Her husband was actually heading for the mission field for a short-term mission trip. He canceled it. And the plans are all interrupted. Number three, it can ruin. It can lead to death. In my sister's case, they think they got the cancer early. But cancer is not a friend. It does not enter your life to enrich you. Neither is pornography. Pornography is not a friend. It does not enter your life to enrich you. Neither does anger. Neither does bitterness. It doesn't enter your life to enrich you. James is saying when you have sin around, things are not normal, and they lead to death. That's James 1. 15. They lead to death. So be under that if you're following along. The only cure starts with confession. The only cure starts with confession. How do you deal with sin? Hide it, grit your teeth, turn over a new leaf, plead with God? Confess it. Admit it. Bring it out. You confess it to God. Verse 16 says, you confess it to somebody else you trust. Confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that you might be healed. So James puts the healing after the confession, after the prayer. The healing. This requires being open with one another, admitting where we are spiritually, praying for one another that we might be forgiven and strengthened And then C says, healing from sin arises from the prayer of others. Healing from sin arises from the prayer of others. James is not talking about confession of sin in isolation. Me and God. It starts there That's where confession starts. You confess it to God. James 1. 9. 1 John 1. 9. If we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all righteousness, all unrighteousness. James is talking about confessing to somebody else. He's not talking about Parading your sins in front of the church. He's not talking about having a service where everybody gets up and confesses their worst sin. That's not it at all. He's talking about admitting to somebody you trust And asking them to pray. You're confessing in order to get somebody to pray. So it's got to be somebody you trust. It's gotta be somebody who knows how to pray. You have any friends like that? Do you have friends that you can tell your deepest, darkest secrets to? And you know that they will handle them with purr. I think that's where verse 16 is going. And I don't think we do it very often. You know? We will confess Sickness, we will ask people to pray for difficulties or tragedies. Do you ask people to pray for sin? Because you want out of it. You want to get free from it. Verse sixteen says, confess your faults and pray for one another that you might. be healed. I remember one night my son had a secret he couldn't tell. He was 16, he was in great disobedience, he was in a terrible mood, and I said to him, Joseph, you're gonna have to move out of this house. I was actually trying to escort him out of the house at 10 o'clock at night. I realized he couldn't be in our house. We got out to the front yard, and it suddenly struck me that my son was afraid of something. He was in a panic. And rather than pushing on him, I asked what the issue was. He wouldn't tell me. I called a friend who was a counselor. Who live nine or ten miles away and said, can we come see you? It's now midnight. Can we come see you? We have got to talk We got to deal with this. So we get to his house and we're talking to Joseph, and Joseph admits the fact that he was at a party a couple of weeks ago and somebody had given him power. This was some kid who was breaking a bed up on the second floor because he had power. He was on the first floor. The bed broke on the second floor. He said, I'll give you this power. I'm going to give you a name. You can't share that name with anybody. You share that name with anybody, you're going to die. He gave him this name. And so this counselor and I said, so what's the name? Tell it, I'm not telling you the name. You know, and he's he's in this situation where he's locked in and it took probably an hour before he ever admitted what the name was. And once he admitted the name, then everything was reduced to all the fear left, you know, and all of a sudden he realized There was nothing but Satan at work. But suppose he had continued living that way. Suppose he went around with this thing gripping him. You know, that's the way sin works. Even though it may not work in a way that's that deadly, it it works in that way. It gets a grip on you, and it leads you to fear, and it gets worse. Do you want to live the rest of your life there? Or you want to get out Confess. Admit. Find somebody you can get to pray for you. All right. I've got one more statement. Everybody still with me, or should I quit? It's 1215 Okay, everybody alright? Maybe some of you are antsy to vote. I'm kidding. Alright, here's number four. National sin should lead us to prayer. National sin. I'm talking about what's going on in America Verse 16, the effective fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours. And he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth produced its fruit. So Elijah is an example of prayer's power. Elijah says, you won't believe the power of prayer until you do it. James says Elijah was like us. The word is he was a man with a nature like ours. How do you read that? A nature like ours. I think Elijah got sleepy when he prayed. I think Elijah got distracted when he prayed. I think Elijah had trouble praying. I think he had all the same kind of stuff that we have. And yet it says he prayed with prayer. He prayed with seriousness. So I'm struck first with this idea of he's righteous, you know? The effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man. And Elijah's the example, which means Elijah is righteous. What do you mean, righteous? Can people today be righteous? Are you righteous? What is righteous? Let me give you a couple observations. I've got four observations here with righteousness. Number one, they confess their sin. What is righteousness? It's confessing sin. You confess your sin. 1 John 1. 9 says, God will not only forgive it. But he will cleanse you from all unrighteousness. That's where righteousness comes from. Confessing, admitting. Getting your sin out on the table with God and with somebody else and admit it. Number two, they have a passion for God's things. They have a passion for God's things. Why did Elijah pray? Because he wanted more money? No, he prayed because he was worried about the sin of the nation. That was part of his life. He belonged to this nation. This nation had a new worship system. They had a new king named Ahab and Jezebel, and they brought in a new system of worship. It was called Baal worship. And it was just, you know, real nice. And everybody enjoyed it. And he was introducing Baal worship, and Elijah was praying, knowing where all this was going. This is where the righteous part comes in. He's admitting his sin, and he's admitting the sin of the people. And then number three, they pray with seriousness. Pray with seriousness. It says in verse 16 he prayed fervently. Verse 17, he prayed earnestly. The word fervent means wholehearted, serious. It was in the attitude of somebody who was getting desperate over the situation. Even the word prayer. In verse 16 suggests seriousness. It's the word that means a petition, a request, even to the point of begging. Lord, would you do something about this situation? Here's Elijah going to God, begging him time and time again to do something about the sin of his people. You ever prayed that way? We prayed that way in emergencies. Do we pray that way over sin? The sin of abortion. The sin of the lesbian-gay agenda. The sin of Christians who aren't interested in church, aren't interested in walking with God? Do we pray over that? Seriously And then D, their requests are sin-centered. Their requests are sin-centered. What was he praying about? Did he want to zap people with a drought? He prayed and it didn't rain. How come he prayed and it didn't rain? Well, God had promised back in Deuteronomy chapter 28, verses 23 and 24, that if Israel, his his people, turned away from him, he would make the heavens like brass, he would make the rain like dust. And nothing would come. I think Elijah prayed and said, Would you fulfill what you said you would fulfill? Would you do Deuteronomy 28, 23, and 24? And he asked God to accomplish what he promised. So, do you see how Elijah was praying in the same way as James directs us to pray in verse 16? He was praying that a nation might be healed. What are you praying for? What's been on your mind in the last week? What's occupied your prayer life? He prayed for our country. He prayed for sin. So James in this section says, your prayers are extremely important. And he he talks about four areas. Life situations should lead us to prayer. Sickness should lead us to prayer. Sin should lead us to prayer. National distress should lead us to prayer Are you praying? I would encourage you. As we have sung this morning. Let's pray. Father, would you strengthen and encourage each one of us in our relationship with you and our response to you? Deliver us from the sin of apathy. Deliver us from the sin of prayerlessness. May we continually come into your presence and find all that is available at the mercy seat. Thank you in Jesus' name, Amen.