Acts chapter 23. Each of you this morning, when you came into this building, brought something with you. I mean, other than your Bible, maybe a pen, a few highlighters, perhaps, or your purse or your whatever's in your purse. Men, maybe a wallet empty or full of money or receipts or whatever. But you also brought with you yourself. Alright, now we're very aware this morning of yourself, probably how you felt physically. Maybe you woke up this morning with a stiff neck. I won't ask you to raise your hand if you've ever woken up with a stiff neck, but it's not very pleasant. Or you woke up this morning with a headache. Or maybe your knees hurt this morning. Or you're just tired. And you and I are very in touch with our physical body. I mean, the Word of God knows this and uses it as a way to exhort husbands To love their wives as they love their own body, the Bible says, because no man hates his own flesh, but he nourishes and cherishes it. We As people are so aware of the way our body feels, we want to nourish and cherish our physicality, if I could call it that. But there's another part of you that you also brought with you this morning, and it's more subtle, and it's often overlooked, and that is you brought your thoughts with you this morning And your feelings, your imagination, you, your will, and your conscience When you walked in the door, all the invisible parts of you walked in with you. It's not like you said, ah, I've left my imagination at home this morning. I'm getting. You know, it's out of control. I'm just going to leave that somewhere. Just kind of like you could leave your shoes somewhere. No, that doesn't happen. And not only have you brought with you your inner self, those things, your imagination, your thoughts, your conscience, but you also brought with you sort of the way you view Your own thought life, your own conscience. The scriptures definitely teach us that as people, we analyze ourselves and come up with conclusions about ourselves. Last week we define conscience in terms of that part of us, according to Romans 2, verses 14 and 15, in writing about Gentiles. That part of us, Paul says, that either accuses or excuses us. And so we know by experience. And if you look at your your handout this morning and you see on the front there that little spreadsheet kind of thing, we looked last week at Psalms 32 and 51, and we saw the effect. of a guilty conscience, a conscience that accuses us in David's life, a guilty conscience. Brought him to a place of physical weakness, emotional deadness, and mental preoccupation. David felt pressured, separated, weak, and unclean. And you know it had nothing to do with a sore neck or a headache or maybe weak knees. It was his way of describing himself when he had a guilty conscience in Psalms 32 and 51. But we also saw from Psalm 7 David expressing himself in a completely different way. We saw that a man who had a clear conscience and yet faced circumstances that overwhelmed him That he was able to bear up in those circumstances. Although, think of this, folks, although David was preoccupied with someone who was saying false things about him. Yet he still was able to have confidence. And in Psalm 7, he was able at the end of the Psalm to rejoice. In God, to praise God. And this sense of innocence, although he was afraid, the fact that his conscience excused him gave him an inner strength An inner ability to bear up under intense consequence, intense circumstantial trial. So this morning, before we even begin part two, which is on the back of this paper, how did your conscience do this week? Do you think, obviously I don't want you to talk out loud, just between you and the Lord, did you spend more time this week feeling guilty or more time this week feeling? Not guilty. Now, having said that, this could be a discouraging message because it's all about feeling guilty or not guilty. And I don't want to leave us with that this morning. So we're going to look this morning, if you turn your page over, at how believers talked about their conscience. Anybody else need a paper? You want to raise your hand? Anybody? We have Nathan's going down. What over there? Here's what we're going to do this morning. Tonight, I hope you come back to church tonight because we're going to look at the Holy Spirit and how he relates to your conscience tonight and to your soul and your spirit But the goal of these messages is right out of 1 Timothy 1, verse 5, where Paul says the goal of our instruction is love out of a good conscience. So we're spending a lot of time. talking about our consciences because evidently that was a priority to Paul when he planted churches and he taught believers he wanted them to be able to love out of a good conscience. So this morning we're going to look first at Acts 23 and 24 and look at the sort of startling way that Paul talked about his own conscience. And the context that he talked about it in. And then we're going to kind of work our way through and come to a conclusion about this. So before we begin, let's pray. Let's pray together. Father, this morning. I just thank you that you are a God who sent Christ to die and pay the ransom, to propitiate your anger, to be a substitute for us. An atonement for our sins. And now there is no need for any other sacrifice. And so now we know that we can have a good conscience And be at peace because of Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross for us. Thank you, Father, this morning for that. And help us now to grow in our understanding and to desire to have a conscience that's void of offense before God and man. And I pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Ananias, son of Nedobias, he was someone who reigned about 11 or 12 years, starting in A. D. 47. He was said to be one of the worst. One historian said he was cruel and violent. Josephus said he stole the tithes from the common priests. beating anyone who resisted him. It is even said that he ended up before Rome and had to give an account before Emperor Claudius What would you do if you had to stand before such a man and talk to him? Because you're now in a courtroom situation. You're being accused of something you did not do. What would you say? In Acts 23, we have an account of Paul's opening remarks. Look at Acts 23, verse 1. It says, Paul earnestly beholding the counsels said Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day. Wow. What a strange thing to say. Of course, he is going to speak of his innocence, but here he is saying this, and it is such a shock. Look at verse 2. And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to smite him on the mouth. What we have in the book of Acts is what we're looking at right now is the way Christians talked about their conscience to other people. And what we see right away is that Christians in the New Testament are not ashamed to talk to non-Christians about their personal experience with their conscience. Imagine standing before a court and facing this kind of pressure, looking your judge in the eyes and saying, I have a clear conscience. Now we know in the New Testament, one man has categorized the state of conscience, and he said, Your conscience, and I won't give you the references for these, but just the words to describe conscience. Your conscience can be weak, wounded, defiled, evil, feared, good, blameless, clear. These are all words, labels to use to describe different Texts, and I can give those to you afterwards if you'd like to look at those. But what Paul is saying here is that his conscience is clear, and he's saying it before a man who didn't like it. But he doesn't just do it once because when you turn over to Acts 24 and you look at verse 16, he says it here again. Here he is before Felix. And he says in Acts 24, verse 16, and herein do I exercise myself to have always a conscience void of offense toward God and toward men. Here we have in two courtroom situations, he says this to lost people. Now let's just think about this for a moment. And think of it in terms of what he what he means by this. If you remember last week and the definitions on the top of the back of this paper, your conscience, and I mentioned at the beginning, your conscience is either accusing or excusing your actions. And it is giving a verdict, guilty or not guilty. When Paul says, I have a clear conscience before God and man, is he saying that he's sinless? That he has never sinned before God and before man? No, he is not saying that at all. Because a conscience, it will tell you guilty or not guilty. And there are times when Paul sinned. We know that. He wrote and he said, I am the blank of sinners. What is the King James says, the chief of sinners? Other translations would be foremost of sinners. And he he looked back at his life before he was a Christian, and he talked about himself as a violent aggressor who persecuted the church. Taking people to jail in chains, he was a sinner. And yet here he is saying this twice in these high-pressure situations. So, what exactly does he mean by that? I'm not going to answer that question yet. I want to keep building on Paul's use of the conscience by asking you to turn to 1 Timothy chapter 3. Not only does Paul talk about his conscience to lost people, he also does this to Christians. In 1 Timothy 3, verse 9. Whoops, I'm in the wrong way. He uh actually put keep your hand there and turn to 2 Timothy 1. 3. And we'll come back to that. We're kind of drawing a straight line before we veer off into Deacons a little bit. 2 Timothy 1:3 He says, I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience. That without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I might be filled with joy. Here's his testimony again. He's talking now to Timothy. He's writing to Timothy, but he is telling Timothy that he still has this practice: I am serving my forefathers with a pure spirit. conscience. My conscience is clear. And then if you flip back to 1 Timothy chapter 3 verse 9, he makes this as one of The necessities of deacons. We'll pick it up at verse 8 and just read 1 Timothy 3, 8 and 9. Likewise must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre, holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. All we're doing is we're seeing a man talk about his conscience to lost people, writing about it to Christian people, saying it's important in the life of a deacon, and thirdly, New Testament writers, biblical writers, not just New Testament, they talk about their conscience and the way they feel to God. And if you recall, and I will ask you to turn back to Psalm 32, and at the end of our sermon, hopefully we'll end up here again, you have David in Psalm 32, and he is talking to God about the way he feels and the guilt that he has. And if you'll recall from last week he's making statements like verse Oh, verse 4, this is Psalm 32, verse 4. Day and night thy hand is heavy upon me, my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. I acknowledged my sin unto thee. There's this pressure, there's this physical aspect to it. He's feeling guilty, and then I'm going to acknowledge. I acknowledged. I acknowledged my sin. So we have him in Psalm 32 and Psalm 51, and certainly in other places, we have him admitting his guilt to God. Now, why am I pointing all this out? Because this is not a minor thing. You can skip down to point two, letter A, circle one. As Christians, our consciences are minor or major parts of our daily experiences. Evidently Our consciences are major parts of our daily experience. I mean, you have the apostle, and the first thing out of his mouth to Ananias is, I have a clear conscience. And you have Felix and he's saying, hey, I'm serving my fathers with a clear conscience. It's hey Timothy, the way my ministry works, I work out of a pure conscience. Hey, deacons, you need to make sure you practice with a clear conscience. David, Lord, I feel my sin. There's this guilt. He's crying out. In the midst of a guilty conscience, although the word conscience is not specifically mentioned there Here's a really good question. Think about this now. Be honest with yourself before the Lord. When's the last time you ever talked to anyone about your conscience? I had to think about that and I'm going, wow. I don't know. Maybe to my wife, but I I I don't know that I talk very much about it. And so I look at what I do and I compare it to what New Testament writers and biblical characters did, and I go, hmm. Maybe I should talk more about this. And maybe God's people should talk more about this as well. Because evidently, and this is point two B. Your conscience, and this is taken right out of Psalm 32, 51, and Psalm 7, it will either weaken you or strengthen you. Folks, you have David falsely accused in fear of his life, and he is not going to lift his hand against the Lord's anointed. And his conscience is clear. So for years he labors on the anointed king, the next king of Israel, anointed by Samuel. He knows the throne is his. He's persecuted by Saul and he bears up and he bears up. Now he makes mistakes. He sins as Paul did. He pretends madness before the Philistines. He loses his temper and he's going to kill a man because he just thinks he's a fool, that the man's a fool, and he's just going to go wipe him out. He sins. But there are these moments like in Psalm 7, and then after he becomes king, when he has this strength of character that comes from a clear conscience. This just leads me to the fact that you and I as Christians. We need to adequately learn to sort of manage our conscience on a daily basis. Now, how do we do that? How do we take care of our conscience? What do we do? Now, this message is kind of all over the place, so I'm going to come down. How do we do this? Here's one. Let me tell you first how not to do it. In Psalm 32, David went a period of time after he murdered Uriah, where he did not what with his guilt? Confess. He said, the hand of the Lord was heavy upon me night and day. And he just can he just went about his kingly duties. He went to court. And whatever it was that David did, he just did, and he did not confess. And what you have is a man who is under intense pressure, and yet he is trying to resist The conviction of his guilt. In other words, he's suppressing, if we could put it this way, suppressing the guilt. Now in Romans 1, there is the idea of the ungodly suppressing in unrighteousness the knowledge of God. He's putting it down, he's resisting it. Now don't raise your hand if you've ever done that. That. I would say I have. Felt guilty, didn't want to deal with it. I read a story once of how small things, now I'm not talking necessarily big sins. But a small sin that weighed on an author. The author was talking about how he was working in his backyard and there was a tree. And the tree, he hated it. And he wanted to cut it down. And so he was looking at it, and it was right, he was looking at his property map, and there was a little sliver sliver of land that the county owned. And it came up against his property, and this tree, it was kind of more in the county property than in his. So he wasn't sure legally if he could cut the tree down. But one Saturday he just for whatever reason he was tired of the tree raking the leaves, whatever. He took his chainsaw and he said, I don't care. And he went out and he just cut that tree down, boom, it fell, he got rid of it. Now it was a stump. But it was a stump on county property. Because when he looked at it, it really wasn't his tree to cut down. So he was writing in this how how guilty he started to feel about this tree and it was m it was I don't know weeks and weeks and weeks and he would just keep telling himself, oh, for crying out loudest It's just a tree. It's a tree, God. What am I supposed to do? I cut it down, so what? And just suppressing it, suppressing it, suppressing it. Finally, he could not take it. Conviction over a tree. He called up the county and said, look, I want to tell you guys, I think I cut down one of your trees. He felt ridiculous And the county response was, they came out and looked at it, or they just told them over the phone, I don't remember which. Oh, who cares? We don't care. Big deal. We'll let it go. It's not a big deal. So he there were no repercussions from him cutting that tree down. Now in Howard County, I don't know what would happen. Okay. Don't cut down any trees in Howard County. But sorry, I grew up in Maryland, Harford County, so I'm I love Maryland. But but that was the effect of that one little thing on his conscience. That's how powerful his conscience. I mean, he's going to bed at night thinking about a tree. Has that ever happened? Could it be, folks, that some of you in this room are not happy and it has nothing to do with how much money is in your bank account? It actually only has to do with how guilty you're feeling over some infraction. And that is why we need to, how are we going to to deal with our conscious? Number one, we have to inform it and teach it. Alright, now when I say it, it kind of separates it out like your conscience is this creature living inside of you. That's not it at all. Your conscience is you You are your conscience, not equals you, but it's a part of you. So when I say you have to teach your conscience, I'm saying you have to teach who? Yourself. And there are essentially three things that you need to teach yourself because your conscience could be weak. Alright, and and and I'll uh boy, I don't know if I have time to do this, but I will try. If you'll go ahead and turn to 1 Corinthians 8 Could go to another one, but let's see here. First Corinthians eight verse seven Now, we won't approach this inductively. I'll just state it. So here's what you need to teach yourself: what is truly wrong and what is truly right What is really a sin and what is not a sin? And then there's a third category. What is simply a matter of wisdom? What is simply a matter of wisdom? It sounds easy, isn't it, doesn't it? It's not always that easy. First Corinthians eight verse seven. You know what? We're going to have to read verses 1 to 7. So let's read this through so you can get the context. Now, it's about idols. Chapter 8, verse 1. Now, as touching things offered unto idols. Wow, okay. This is a moral issue, right? Idolatry. Some things involved in this are wrong. That would kind of be our response to reading it. We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but charity edifieth. And if any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet, as he ought to know. But if any man love God, the same is known of him As concerning, therefore, the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other but God but one. For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, as there be gods many and lords many, but to us there's but one God, the Father. Of whom are all things and we in him, and our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. There's knowledge. Everyone here knows. Is Zeus real? Is Thor real? Is Apollos real? They're all fake, and every Christian in here knows they're fantasy. They're not real. We know that. Howbeit, verse 7, there is not in every man that knowledge, for some with conscience of the idol, unto this hour eat it. as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. But meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, neither if we eat not are we the worse. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. All right. Here's the situation. Does eating a steak Okay, is there anything within the substance of a stake that is holy or not holy? We could use the cup. Is this a holy cup or an unholy cup? Is this a cup of sin or is it a cup of sinlessness? Is this a moral issue? No, it's a styrofoam cup with water in it. If I drink it, I don't sin. If I choose not to drink it, I don't sin. The point Paul is making is that meat is of the same thing. Folks, we who have our consciences strong know that within the things of this world, There dwelleth not sin. To believe that is to believe in magic. This, by virtue of its substance, Is sin and thus has a power over me. And I had best be careful not to have this in my house, lest it control me. Where does sin come from? Where did Jesus say sin comes from? Out of the heart, right? If your conscience is well taught, you know that. And And so if you eat a piece of meat and it's sacrificed to an idol, he's saying, you know, there are no idols, there are no gods, it's all fake. So you have liberty, he uses the word there and look at it again. If you look down at verse 9, liberty of yours. We have liberty, those of us who have a strong conscience, to eat the meat, knowing that we won't suddenly become Apollos worshippers and it'll ruin our whole spiritual life because we ate a hunk of cow. Okay, on the other hand, there are those who have a weak conscience. And when they eat that meat, they are concerned. That somehow, spiritually, something could happen to them. Now, what is he telling the ones who have the strong conscience to do? Well, you go all the way back up to verse 1. Knowledge puffs up, but charity loves. Edify. So the people with the strong conscience should look out for the people with the weak conscience. I don't want to cause my brother to sin. Even if he thinks it's a sin and it's not a sin, I want to be careful to love my brother. The point that I'm pulling out of this, however, is that there is what's described here in verse 7. If you look at it again, it says, we'll pick it up with this hour, eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. The solution for the weak conscience is knowledge, but we must be careful because knowledge will puff us up. We have to love one another, but the solution is a conscience that is taught and informed. The New Testament tells us our conscience is not infallible. It's not perfect. It is a guide, but it must be taught and informed through this book. There are things that you and I do that if we really knew how sinful they were, we would strive to never do them again. You know, it's interesting how consciences change. Spurgeon was a man who truly enjoyed a good cigar. He smoked them. And at that time, in Britain, there was no medical knowledge that cigars cause cancer or that smoking was bad for you. And so in the Christian culture, evidently, no one ever went up to Spurgeon and accused him of sinning for smoking a cigar. And yet now, what would you do? I wish I had gotten a cigar. Put it out. What would you do if I got a cigar and started smoking on it? Would you think I was sinning or not sinning? And that leads me then to: okay, we inform our consciences with what is right, not guilty, but also what is guilty, what is sin. Here's something that is, let me get you to, let me just tell you. We live in a world of absolute sexual promiscuity. It's it's everywhere. It is people the last report I read on marriage that was was a very extensive report. It studied all demographics, all socioeconomic classes And it said that there's a huge trend, divorce went down because cohabitation is way up. People don't get married, they live together, and then they end up not getting married. I mean what I mean is people don't get divorced as much because They don't get married as much. It is now a common thing for the average young person to go out and to shack up with someone else It makes sense, right? I want to learn who this person is before I make this giant commitment. Yikes! I mean you test drive a car before you buy it. I mean you need to make sure that this is going to work before you commit. It's logical. It kind of makes sense, doesn't it? I mean In a sort of a worldly way, it does kind of make sense. But the scriptures just kind of come down like a sledgehammer on that. Do not be deceived. It is because of these things that the wrath of God is coming upon the children of disobedience. So culturally, our consciences would tend to be freed. Biblically, what does the Word of God do to your conscience? Don't be deceived. We could be deceived into thinking it's okay. They're consenting adults for crying out loud. The wrath of God, folks, you might think the wrath of God is coming because of genocide and abuse and all those things, and certainly it is. And it would be better for a millstone to be tied around your neck than for you to hurt one of these little ones. But nonetheless, there's this statement: sexual immorality is bringing the wrath of God upon a people. Wow. And so what we do is inform our conscience of what is right, what is wrong, and then what is wise Now this is where I think there are lots of different places we could go to, but for the sake of simplicity, just turn to James 1. You and I don't live in a laboratory under perfect circumstances, sort of this clinical environment where we test out the Word of God and live our Christian lives. No, James 1, verse 2, we live in a world where we can fall into various temptations. We just run right into it. And you might run right into one this week. Unanticipated. You didn't invite it. There it is. And so we know, verse 3, this is James 1, verse 3, we know that it's going to, we need to let our faith work Patience into us. And we need to let patience have time to work, verse 4, so that we can be complete. There's a goal in our trials and tribulations. But in the midst of it, verse 5, we are going to cry out for wisdom. We need wisdom. Now, the emphasis here, wisdom is the correct application of knowledge. It's beyond facts, it's into lifestyle. We know the Bible says this. How do I live it? And so it doesn't always, it's not always black or white. Now, please don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying all Christianity is in this sort of vague gray area But what we're talking about is what is the wisest choice? I mean, have you ever met someone who, well He was trying to decide if he was going to get married. Is this girl the best girl for me? This woman, the one Or a woman who's about to get married or or engaged and she has a proposal and you know the guy's on his knees in front of her and she should have known by now he was gonna propose, but let's just pretend for a moment that that they're eating and there he is and will you marry me and she ha ha ha ha What is she going to say? Is he the best? We have to pray for wisdom so that we can try the things that differ, so that we can approve the things that are excellent. I mean, there is good, better, and best. And our conscience will help us because we have to teach ourselves to allow for wisdom. It's okay sometimes to make a hard choice based on the Word of God. I was talking to someone the other day, or actually Yeah, I don't think he wrote this in an article. I was talking directly to him. He he had a friend who was a submarine, uh, worked in a submarine, and we have uh a brother here who was in a submarine. It's not this brother It's someone else who was a Christian and he was in the Navy and he worked in a submarine. And one day they they hooked up with another submarine, or I think it was another I think it was another submarine, and they both surfaced on a Sunday. And the Christians in both submarines wanted to get together and have a worship service because it was the Lord's day. But unfortunately, in the midst of those Christians, some of them belonged to liberal denominations. They were believers, but they belonged to a denomination that had liberalism within it. This young Christian had been taught that you should never associate with people from liberal denominations. And so now he began to think about it: what do I do? Because the scriptures command me not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. I'm commanded to be in church. On the other hand, I should separate from disobedient brethren. What do I do? There's no verse that says, if you're in a submarine and it's the Lord's Day, and another submarine parks beside your submarine, this is what you're supposed to do. Folks, that requires wisdom. And you know what I found in Christian life? If I could make a pastoral observation. It is somewhat childish to always view everything as an issue of right and wrong. That's what our kids do, right? When we grow up, now please don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying that there is no right and wrong, and I'm not talking about situational ethics where we change our ethics to fit a situation. All I'm talking about is biblical wisdom. It's hard to have biblical wisdom. It takes work. But our conscience has to be informed. It has to be released to have biblical wisdom. I'll give you one more illustration. So there are a variety of mission boards out there who translate the scriptures. And they translate the scriptures into the indigenous language. I know of a mission board who made the decision because they believed that the King James Version was inspired by God above the original Greek and Hebrew. They made the decision to translate directly from the King James Version into English into the indigenous language because they thought it was a sin not to. Folks, they need to teach their conscience. They need to be informed about what this book says and does not say. Where does that lead us? That leads us then to this. That, that, guilty, not guilty, matter of wisdom. This is somewhat simplistic, okay I'm just sort of giving this to you in a sort of a system to help you to think. That leads us to the idea that we must pray. We must pray. None of us can do this well without God's help. Right? I have met very few men or women in my short lifetime who are a natural at this, and we need God's word. And so in Paul's prayers, He was praying for people. They would receive a spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of him. He was praying that they would have love within the context of growing knowledge and wisdom. He was always praying this for other people. And that's point B in in uh number three there. And so turn to 1 Timothy and we'll wrap this up then, because that's what got all this started. 1 Timothy chapter 1. First Timothy chapter one, verse five, says, The end of the commandment Or the purpose of our instruction, the goal of what we do, Timothy, is love out of a pure heart and out of a good conscience. A biblically informed and taught conscience, a sensitive conscience, love is To come out of that. That is to be the goal of our teaching, Timothy. And what does that look like? What does that feel like? Well, Imagine that you are ministering to someone in a wana, or as a deacon, or as an elder. And your conscience is so you you you confess your sins to God, and we'll talk some more about this tonight. I hope you come back. The Holy Spirit and then personal confession. You have such a clear conscience that when you love people, you see them. You're not distracted by all of this internal agony There's, if we could put it this way, there's sort of a silence in your soul. In Psalm 32, it's the restoration of your joy and gladness in the Lord. It is in your spirit a peace. comes from the Holy Spirit. And it's like having your glasses, if I could illustrate it this way, really clean. And so when you look at someone, you're not internally focused, Psalm 32 and Psalm 51, but you are externally focused, Psalm 7. You're looking at people and you're perceiving them because you're not distracted. Your conscience is clear and good. That's what 1 Timothy 1:5 is about. Folks, Paul says this is our goal as Christian preachers and teachers. That we would teach people to love out of that kind of a conscience. If every person in this room had a clear conscience today, and again, I'm not I have nobody in mind. I'm not preaching at you. I don't have any name in my brain right now. But if every person in here had such a walk with God that they they keep short accounts with God and they They confessed their sins to God and they looked at their loving Savior. That would affect our love. That would affect what we do with one another and with our God. That's the point of First Timothy chapter one, verse five, among other things. That's a direct that's a good application of that.