What does it mean to be a disciple of Christ? How costly is it to follow him? For one German pastor in nineteen thirty-three, it meant rebuking on live radio the cult of Hitler. The leader or the Fuhrer, mocking him as Furfuhrer, which means misleader or seducer It meant raising his voice against the tide of anti-Semit Semiticism, urging believers that they must not simply bandage the victims under the wheel. But jam a spoke in the wheel itself. It meant standing up against official statements like the Aryan paragraph was stipulated that only those of Aryan descent, i. e. without Jewish parents or grandparents, could be employed in the civil service. It meant, leaving behind his familiar church compromised by Nazi ideology, to join the confessing church Proclaiming in one declaration that the church is solely Christ's property, and that it lives and wants to live solely from his comfort and from his His direction, in the expectation of his appearance. In the midst of all this activism, Dietrich Bahnhoffer was grounded in a biblical understanding of grace. He understood God's free gift of grace, but surely free does not mean cheap. He wrote in his classic work, The Cost of Discipleship. Chief Grace is the preaching of forgiveness without requiring repentance, baptism without church discipline, communion without confession, chief grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without Jesus Christ, living and incarnate. On the other hand, costly grace confronts us as a gracious call to follow Jesus. It comes as a word of forgiveness to the broken spirit and the contrite heart. It is costly because it compels a man to submit to the yoke of Christ and follow him. It is grace because Jesus says, My yoke is easy. My burden is light. We've been studying the travel narratives of Luke And we're in the midst of a section that helps us answer the crucial question, who will participate in the kingdom? The simple answer is those who follow Jesus as his disciples. But as we see in the life of Bonhoeffer, we see that simple is not necessarily easy, and free is not necessarily cheap. We have in Bonhoeffer someone who understands the cost of discipleship. And he understood that cost because he read the scriptures. Especially portions like today's passage. Luke chapter 14, verses 25 to 35. Let's turn there now. Now great multitudes went with him, and he turned and said to them, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and s sisters, yes, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. And whoever does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple For which of you intending to build a tower does not sit down first and count the cost, whether he has enough to finish it, lest after he has laid the foundation and is not able to finish finish, all who see it began to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king going to make war against another king Does not sit down first and consider whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand Or else, while the other is still a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks conditions of peace. So likewise, whoever of you does not forsake all that he has, cannot be my disciple. Salt is good, but if the salt has lost its flavor, how shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land nor for the dunghill, but men throw it out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear Discipleship is costly because it demands much from us At the same time, following Christ is God's amazing grace, a divine gift and privilege. We see in today's passage three characteristics of someone who follows Christ. Folllows Jesus. He is he or she is a one self-denying disciple. That's verses twenty-five to thirty. twenty seven, two, all forsaking disciple, verses twenty eight to thirty-three, and three Christ relying disciple, verses thirty-four First, we must be self denying disciples It is evident from verse 25 that we moved on from the house of the ruler of the Pharisees. Saturday has passed, and Jesus is on the road. again. He set it to Jerusalem and crowds of people followed him. We're used to seeing multitudes from every city listening to To Jesus, marveling and rejoicing in the glorious things done by Him. If I was Jesus, I would do all that I can to keep this entourage by my side Imagine how many followers I would have on social media. Jesus, however, is no crowd pleaser. In chapter twelve, he first warned them of hypocrisy, but then later in the same chapter, he directly called them hypocrites. Even from the first, the early part of his ministry, Jesus never committed himself to crowds who claimed loyalty to him. He knew the fitfulness of crowds, how they could turn on him at any given moment. So we read in John chapter 2, verses 24 to 25. Jesus did not commit himself to them, because he knew all men, and had no need that anyone should testify of man, for he knew what was in man. Knowing one was in man, our Lord speaks directly into their hearts to say what they needed to hear, not necessarily what they wanted to hear. Jesus turns and doles out some hard teachings in verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. What our Lord has to say shook the very foundations of their identity. Consider how important our parents to our identity. Our surnames are determined from birth. Consider how important our spouses and children are to us. My life has changed forever in October 2016. In February 2021. And I can't say this from personal experience, but next to parents and immediate family, how important are siblings to our identity? Yet Jesus calls us to be self-denying disciples. All these relationships are important, but now Jesus asks us to relativize them. What I mean by relativize is that Jesus becomes the highest priority, and everything else falls below. The next most important relationship must be in a distant second place God's Son becomes the shining sun in our system, and everything now revolves around Him. I like the way Bonhoeffer puts it. Jesus stands between us and God. And for that very reason, he stands between us and all other men and things. Between father and son, husband and wife, the individual and the nation, stands Christ the mediator. For every immediacy, Whether we realize it or not means hatred of Christ. There are no direct relationships, not even between soul and soul. Jesus, the God man, is so important that he stands between us and all human and earthly ties. That means we love Christ so much that our love of family looks like hate. Our Lord is not contradicting commands to honor our parents or love our wives. Our Lord is not undermining the biblical assumption that we're all created in God's image and we should love ourselves. Don't misunderstand hate as an absolute emotional term. But understand it as a relative one. Charles Spurgeon explains, quote, It is only in a comparative sense, and not literally, that the term can possibly be used. And to make this very clear, Christ said that we are to hate our own life. This is my earnest plea. More love for Christ to thee. That's what we must do as self-denying disciples Jesus further explains self-denial and self-hate. Now you could say that verse 26 emphasizes what's behind us. Whereas verse twenty-seven emphasizes what's ahead of us. It's the way of the cross. We have to let verse 27 sink in. How shocking it would have been to hear this. We're not talking about wearing nice golden cross jewelry around our necks. Or affixing polished wooden crosses on our walls. We're talking about the cruelest form of capital punishment. Nails piercing the wrists. And the feet, muscles aching and cramping, pushing against the nails to rise up for air, wounds on the back scraping against the rough wood Extreme thirst and loss of blood, heart failure and exhaustion. Unlike the guillotine and the hangman's noose Crucifixion is designed to extend suffering for hours. Unlike the lethal injection or the electric chair, crucifixion took place as a complete public spectacle. All came to watch your shame and dishonor on full display. There's no way around the horrors of the cross. We should not soften the blow of Jesus' declaration. Norble Geldenheis is right when he refuses Such attempts. The general idea that these words of Jesus about bearing the cross refer to passive submission to all kinds of afflictions like disappointments, pain, sickness, and grief that come upon man in life is totally wrong. Only a person who, for the sake of his service, surrenders all self-seeking and abandons all striving after his own interests and be his disciple. If you want glory on earth, honor before men, comfortable and safe life. We won't get them by following Jesus. We must completely deny ourselves to be his disciples. That's what the earliest followers of Jesus did. Now I'm not saying that every single individual saint it faces extreme suffering. And shame. But we should not think that comfort and ease are normal parts of the Christian walk Paul wrote to the Christians in Corinth about what it means to be an apostle at the front line of God's work in the early church. This is chapter 4 of 1 Corinthians I think that God has displayed us, the apostles, last, as men condemned to death. For we have been made a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. To the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and we are poorly clothed, and beaten and homeless, and we labor working with our own hands, being reviled, we bless. Being persecuted, we endure. Being defamed, we entreat. We have been made as the filth of the world, the off-scouering of all things until now. Peter wrote later to other saints. This is First Peter chapter four. Beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. But rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ And we handle this kind of self-denial and treatment. After my in-laws Chang and Hishim got married, they sensed the Lord Lord, leading them overseas to missions. But Chang's mother was not saved at the time and very possessive of her son Since Chang was the eldest son in the family, it was his duty to take care of the parents as they aged. But once the decision was made to go abroad, Cheng's mother started to blame Chang's wife Hishim, calling her a witch, who seduced her son away from her. Thankfully she later converted, but those were some tough times. But that's what self-denial looks like. Personally, and less dramatically for me, self-denial means letting go of the desire to be liked by everyone. My tendency is to look for some middle ground or tight space where I can minimize offense My past roles as minister, I've been told by some, I see you more as a friend than a pastor or something like that. Now I'm glad to be a friend, be there for others and be someone to lean on. But my calling is to love Christ above all and be a friend of Jesus and obey Him before I'm a friend to others. That's what John 15, 14 to 15 says, right? That means saying and doing things that ruffles feathers leaves at least some dissatisfied. When's the last time you denied yourself and put your cherished relationships online on the line? Jesus gives us more cause to consider in the next few verses with two illustrations. That leads us to the second characteristic of a disciple. It's easy to misread Verses 28 to 33. We might simply read these two stories as an underdog narrative or a lesson on hard work. But I don't think that's the point It's best to start with verse 33 and work backwards. Whoever of you does not forsake all that he has cannot be my disciple. Here's a quick note on that verb forsake. We saw it earlier in chapter 9, verse 61, when a would-be disciple requested Jesus Lord, I will follow you, but let me first go and bid them farewell who are at my house. Forsake in chapter 14, verse 35 It's the same verb as bid them farewell in chapter 9, verse 61. So a disciple of Jesus is one who says to all that he owns. So long, farewell, adieu, adieu to you and you. Good-bye. To be an all-forsaking disciple You must bid all farewell. Verse thirty-three is the conclusion that comes out of verses twenty-eight to thirty-five. 32. Note the beginning phrase, so likewise. I believe that both the tower builder and the warring king are faced with the same dilemma that leads to the same conclusion. Forsake all of it. The builder and the king, each one sits down first. Note the repetition in verses twenty-eight. What do they both realize? They are faced with basically the same set of choices They can either one rely on his inadequate resources and ultimately fail, or two, give up and spare himself the humiliation The tower builder must realize that though he has enough for the foundation, he won't finish the levels above it. The beleaguered king must realize that though he has enough for the initial onslaught, he won't outlast his rival. Here's one commentary summary. Quote: The point is that no matter what calculus one uses, no matter what resources one believes one can bring to bear, those assets will be insufficient to Alternative and decisive action is thus required for everyone. So count, consider, and conclude that one's life does not consist in the abundance of things he possesses. Count, consider, and conclude that whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for his sake and the gospels will save it. Save it. Count, consider, and conclude that everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands for his name's sake Shall receive a hundredfold and inherit eternal life. Will you count, consider and conclude That you must forsake all for Christ. All to Jesus I surrender. All to Him I freely give. Now what does this mean practically? First I speak to those who have not placed your hope of eternal life In Christ. Know that you're in the predicament of verse 32. Let me read a portion of it. While the other is still a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks conditions of peace Please understand that you're that king who's far too outnumbered and in great danger. Jesus is the King of kings and the Lord of Lords, the true God, the living God and the everlasting King. As God's son, his father could provide him with more than twelve legions of angels. It's not too late for you to send a delegation and ask conditions of peace. The king's wrath is like the roaring of a lion, but his His favor is like dew on the grass. Proverbs nineteen twelve. Avoid his fury, fiery wrath at all costs Seek his refreshing favor while you still have the chance. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Though it may seem like he's still a great way off, he's coming quickly. You may think you'll live forever, but there is but a step between you and death. It is appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment. Surrender now Here are the conditions of peace. Our King is merciful. He has made the provision for us. Your sins, Jesus the King, though innocent and pure, died on the cross for our sins, taking the place of shame and condemnation where we should have been He rose again from the dead and proved himself to be alive. He ascended to heaven and now awaits that day of return to reward those loyal to him. And punish those who resist him. Surrender to him now in repentance and faith Repent, deny yourself, forsake all that you think to be merits for heaven. Turn away from self-reliance and self-indulgence. Trust in Jesus and claim the merits of the city. These are the conditions of peace with God. Forsake all for the sake of Christ. Is a sweet surrender. Losing to Jesus is actually winning. Subtraction for him is exponential increase for you. Here's how one missionary puts it. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep, gain what he cannot lose. Live as Paul did, for to mean To live is Christ, to die is gain. Hallelujah. All I have is Christ. Hallelujah Jesus is my life. In Christ gets us to the next life, but also gets us through this life. And because Jesus didn't transport us to heaven the moment of conversion, He has a mission for us here. In verses thirty-four and thirty-five, we see what it means to be effective for the kingdom by being a Christ-relying disciple. Now, on its own, the salt illustration is not overly difficult to comprehend. Next time you shake table salt in your bland soup, imagine it being tasteless. Also, before refrigerators and freezers, we relied more on salt to preserve meat. Asalt is important even outside the dining room and the kitchen, literally at the grassroots level. Farmers across time and civilizations have turned to certain minerals and manure to enhance their soil fertility. This agricultural application of salt is most relevant to this passage. Commentator Alfred Plummer helpfully summarizes Many things which have deteriorated or become corrupt are useful as manure or to mix with manure. Savorless salt is not even of this much use. And disciples without the spirit of this self-devotion are like it. For even more clarity on this self-illustration, it's helpful, useful to go back and look at the previous two. Gospels, Matthew and Mark. We see how Jesus used the same illustration in two different contexts. Gospels. First we go to the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5, 13. Jesus calls his disciples salt of the earth. In the following verses, verses 14 to 15. fifteen. You have a better idea of what that means. The salt of the earth is parallel to the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill, a lamp that's not under the basket, but on a lampstand. Finally, Jesus says in verse sixteen sixteen. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven So at least one aspect of being salt is to do good works that are visible to a dark and decadent world. In Mark nine fifty, chapter nine fifty, there's another lesson using the same salt imagery. While privately instructing his twelve disciples, Jesus stresses the importance of childlike humility and innocence in the community. So now the application is geared towards internal unity of believers. Our Lord commands: have salt in yourselves and have peace with one. So if Matthew 5 is about being salt of the earth and in the world, Mark 9 is about being salt of the church and among the saints. Now back to Luke 14. Here, unlike Matthew 5, Jesus is not emphasizing our witness and fourteen is even more foundational at the center of our identity. Picture with me three concentric circles Yes, the function of the soul eventually relates to the outside world, the outermost circle, and fellow believers, the inner circle But the core idea of being salt comes from a genuine relationship with Christ. That's the innermost circle. And that genuine relationship with Christ consists of forsaking all, bearing our crosses, and following Jesus. Remember, Jesus is speaking with crowds who could potentially become his disciples. They weren't truly his disciples yet. They may think That a superficial relationship is enough. They may think that being a Sunday Christian is enough. It isn't. He who has ears to hear. Let him hear. Do you truly rely on Christ? Elsewhere Jesus taught that we cannot be fruitful branches without Christ the vine, for without him we can do nothing. On our own we cannot be God's children, shining among a crooked and perverse generation. We need God's Son shining as true light, which gives light to every man coming into the world. Alone we cannot be preservatives with good works, without faith alone in God who preserves us. He is our Lord, our goodness is nothing apart from him. Now we with this interpretation we might be tempted to overthink and dwell on whether we can lose salvation as we lose our saltiness. I don't really think that's the point of this passage, but I will say succinctly. Even with all of his or her imperfections, a genuine Christian will be will bear fruit over time and be salty over time. That's the consequence of being a Christ-relying disciple. For that purpose, abiding in Christ is essential. Back to John 15. How do we know we're abiding in Christ? We see in John 15, verse 7 Do the words of Christ abide in you? How do we know Christ's word is abiding in us? We see in John 15, 9-10. Do we obey Jesus' commands and thus abide in Christ's love? So follow this link. Christ, obedience, love. Be sure you got all three. Then As we see in verse eight there, you'll glorify the Father, bear much fruit, and be disciples of Jesus Here's another application from Colossians four six. Let your speech always be with grace. With salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one. When the world encounters you, the Christian, do they hear someone whose speech is constantly gracious? They hear someone whose speech is purifying and holy. Adam Clark comments, quote, Let all your conversation be such A harsh method of proposing or defending the doctrines of Christianity only serves to repel men from those doctrines and from the way of salvation. Let's pray that this week we will have some conversations seasoned with salt. The world needs to see and hear what it means to be a disciple of Jesus. It doesn't mean we're perfect, but it does mean we're willing to deny ourselves, forsake all, and rely on Christ Let's make our last song our prayer. Jesus, I my cross have taken, all to leave and follow thee. Destitute, despised, forsaken. Thou from hence my all shall be. Let's pray Lord, we thank you that your son has saved us By walking the way of the cross, that he bore the cross for our sin. Now he asks us to bear our cross and follow him But we know that we can't do this on our own. We are weak. In many ways, we are like Peter, who denied your son. But Lord, we ask for the power of the Holy Spirit. Will the Spirit fill us this week so that we can go out and be the light of the world, the salt of the earth? Thank you, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.