So, it just seems to me, as I was thinking about this, that today's section of James is a perfect section. You know? The value of patience. You probably are saying, yeah, I can see that The value of patience. Last month, which seems a very long time ago, But it was the first Sunday in September when I was here. We spoke about James 5, 1 to 6. Do you remember the section? It started with, come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries that are coming upon you. Today's section is strikingly different. I'm reading from verse 7. Therefore be patient, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and later rain. Ladder reign. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. You'll notice that both of these sections are speaking about outcomes, what happens afterwards. Verse 1 speaks of miseries that are coming upon you. Verse 7, the farmer is waiting for the precious fruit of the earth. In verse 1, James says, you might as well weep and howl now because your treasure is in the wrong place, and you will be surprised at the outcome. You won't like it. Verse 7 says, be patient. Don't be in a hurry. What you have as an outcome is precious fruit. It's a contrast between laid-up treasure in the first section and waiting for the precious fruit in the second section. One has it and is storing and protecting it in the first section. The other one doesn't have it, doesn't see it, and may wonder whether it's worth waiting for. The contrast isn't just between rich and poor, but between those whose money is their God and those who are living. For Christ, waiting for God to fulfill his promises. Maybe that's why the contrast is between you rich and brothers. The you rich may be brothers. It's not clear. You know, are they believers or are they not believers? It's not clear. But they may be brothers But they're not the kind of brothers that James admires. He wants to plant fear in their hearts. So the first section tells us that covetousness brings misery. Today's section tells us that patience in the Christian life is a treasure Covetousness brings misery. Patience in the Christian life is a treasure. The first section speaks to those who are laying up treasure on earth, piling it up, renting storage units. And describes in verse 1, miseries that are coming upon you. Verse 2, rotted, moth-eaten. Verse 3, corroded. Eat your flesh like fire. Verse 4, wages crying out against you. The second section speaks of those waiting for God to work and says in verse 11, You will love the outcome. Just wait till the Lord reveals Himself in fullness. So you will notice that the overall command here is be patient. Patience. You see it in verse 7, verse 8, verse 10, verse 11 It's the key command. James is saying, don't quit. Don't give up. Don't stop living for Jesus Christ. Don't stop living by faith, even though it seems that nothing is coming from all you invested. The idea of be patient occurs eight times in this passage. Four different Greek words here. See if you can pick them up as I read these six verses. I'm going to read starting in verse 7. Therefore, be patient, brother, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and latter rain. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Do not grumble against one another, brethren, lest you be condemned. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. My brethren, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord as an example of suffering and patience. Indeed, we count them blessed who endure. You've heard of the perseverance of Job and have seen the end intended by the Lord, that the Lord is very compassionate and merciful. But above all, my brethren, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth, or with any other oath, but let your yes be yes, and your no no. Lest you fall into judgment. So did you see the synonyms for patience and patience and patient? Verse 7 has three of them. Be patient is macrothumeo. The farmer waits is ekdecami, to wait expectantly. And waiting patiently is the same Greek word as be patient, macrothama. Verse 8 has makrothum'o. Again, be patient. Verse 10 has suffering, which is kakopathya. And patience, bacrophimia again, this time the noun. Verse 11 uses the word endure twice. That's the Greek word hupameno, which means to stay under when it gets hot, to stand firm no matter what's happening So here's the emphasis in the passage. The emphasis is on stay there. Don't quit. Stand firm. If you are trusting God, if you're resting in his word, don't let all everything else shake you from that. So let me deal with this overall command from two perspectives. Let me show you James' answer to the question why, and then his answer to the question how. Number one is don't quit why not. And number two is don't quit how Okay? So we're in why not? Why not? And James has three answers. Three reasons why we should not quit. A. The fruit is not quite ripe. The fruit is not quite ripe. Verse 7, see how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently for it until it receives the early and latter rain. You have to think like a farmer. Successful Christian living is thinking like a farmer. You strengthen your heart to wait. Some things you can't speed up. The farmer cannot make his crops produce any faster. There's no instant fertilizer that can produce fruit in half the time. The farmer knows that the process of growing fruit includes an early and a later rain. You didn't quit after the early rain. Now in Israel the early rains came about October, October, November, and then they would plant after that, and the latter rain came in April. So you're talking about a five-month wait in here, depending on when you plant, and so on I'm sure you're all farmers, but I thought I would bring some seeds with me. Here are burpee brandywine pink tomato seeds that I planted this year. And the harvest is to come in 88 days. Okay? Which means it really doesn't matter what I do to speed it up. 88 days. And uh watermelon. I planted watermelon, got nothing. Eighty days, you're supposed to have watermelon. All right. And I don't know where my uh where my onion w onions went. Onions are 115 days. But these are the peppers that I planted, Marconi peppers, and they are supposed to germinate in 10 to 14 days, and they did not. It took 25 days for these things to get started. I think I did it wrong. And then they are to harvest in 72 days. All right, 72 days was probably the middle of July. I got nothing. Absolutely nothing. And long in September I got a couple of pepper plants, a couple pepper peppers. I am now getting all kinds of peppers. I was told by a local farmer that there's a fly that eats the blossoms. Is this right? There's a fly that eats the blossoms of pepper plants. And I think I had that fly. And he probably has gone south or something for the winter, and now I'm getting all kinds of peppers. But the point is you don't speed this up. They'll tell you how long it's going to take, supposedly. And you don't take any you don't make it go any faster. It takes that long. And the point is You gotta wait. So what kind of patience does a farmer have? Is he enduring persecution? Is he being burned at the stake? No. He's waiting. He's waiting patiently. The hardships he may suffer in the process are those of everyday life. The readers are not necessarily facing life-threatening situations, but they need endurance. It's waiting. So the command is don't give up. I gave you the Greek word makrothymia because that is just a very interesting word. And it's interesting that the Greeks don't use that word. So if you look in classical Greek, that word is not used. Even in later Greek, the word is not used very much. It's only in the Bible that it's used. It's really a Bible term, even though it's a Greek term. And it means two things. It's used in two different two different ways. Number one, it's a steadfast spirit that will never give up. The farmer needs a steadfast spirit. It was because Abraham patiently endured that he received the promise. It's the patience of the prophets in this verse who never gave up their hope in God. It's your patience in waiting for a pastor and saying and not saying, I'm checking out of here, they're never going to get one. It's that patience. The second use of the word is it's patient, it's a patient attitude toward others So it's a it's a kindness kind of word that can wait while others misbehave and treat them with kindness Now the Greeks had a substitute virtue for this. They didn't think that this kind of patience had any virtue to it. In their view of virtue was a Greek word called megalopsucha. And Aristotle defined this as the refusal to tolerate any insult or injury. For a Greek, it was right to go all out for vengeance. They didn't tolerate insult or injury. So the Greeks had no patience for this word patience. And this is the idea. The second use is the idea in verse 9 and 12. You know, when verse 9 says, don't grumble against each other. We're talking about this kind of patience. When verse 12 says, don't swear, we're talking about this kind of patience that is honest and truthful and doesn't have to guarantee its words. So the point is that you and I are farmers. We are planting seeds. We're expecting to reap fruit. We plant every day by the things we do and say. We sow seeds of encouragement. Correction, caution, joy, peace, control carefulness by our responses. And these seeds are going to bear fruit. And you may wonder why days to harvest is taking more than 88 days. But you can't shorten the fruit production process. It's designed that way from the beginning by the Creator So Hebrews 12. 11 says, no discipline seems pleasant at the moment, but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace to those who have been trained by it. Later on is the key. So patience is the ability to see my present circumstances in light of the coming fruit, to live for the harvest. And wait through the difficulty. So why wait? Number one, the fruit's not ripe. Number two, the Lord is at hand. Why quit the day before Christ shows up? Why give up a hundred yards before the finish line? The Lord is at hand means the time is very short Prophetic events on the calendar are much closer than we think. What motivates farmers is the harvest. When Christ returns, we will see the harvest. So this is what we continually need to remind ourselves of. We see it so often in Scripture. The writers are encouraging us to run with endurance, to not faint, to encourage one another Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, 58, therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. I've been made aware again this past month of the shortness of life I mentioned last time I was here that two days before we had been to funerals. Last Sunday we were at another funeral of a young lady who was a student of mine. Died way too early. And then we just got the announcement two weeks ago that my sister has pancreatic cancer. And the first doctor she visited gave her a 20% chance of survival. Second doctor gave her a 40% chance. But the first thing I thought when I heard the news was, I'm next. And it wasn't a bad thought. And then I think the Lord corrected that and said, what do you mean you're next? Christ could come back tonight. You know? And I think I s I, and I'm not blaming you, I so easily live in terms of the fact that I'm here forever. You know? I need to continually remind myself of the fact. The Lord is at hand. He's at the door. There's going to be a knock. Very soon. I need to live in light of the fact that the Lord is at hand So why quit? When the grapes are just coming in. The third thing is our Lord has yet to reveal his incredible beauty. This is verse 11. You have heard of the perseverance of Job, have seen the end intended by the Lord, that the Lord is very compassionate and merciful. Our Lord's incredible beauty is shown in these two marvelous words, compassionate and merciful. Compassion means that from the deepest parts of God's inner being, Come love and sympathy and concern Think of the parable of the Good Samaritan. You know, a Jewish man went from Jericho down to Jerusalem. Fell among thieves, was beat up and left by the side of the road. The fact that he was laying on the side of the road meant that he had no power. No ability to influence anyone. If anyone was influenced, it was because of what was inside. Not because of this man. So the priest comes by. He's the guy who's paid to respond to these kind of situations when Jewish people are in trouble The Levite comes by. Then comes a Samaritan. The Samaritan was a national enemy. If this Jewish guy had been strong enough, he would have spit at the Samaritan, because they hated Samaritans. And verse 33 of Luke chapter 10 says, he had compassion. He had compassion. That's the same word as we have in James. Meaning there was nothing that the man made him do. The situation was set up in such a way that it was purely a revelation of what was in the man's heart. It was a revelation of what was in the heart of the priest and the Levite. Even though they were religious leaders, there was nothing in their hearts that showed compassion. But here's a Samaritan who is moved with compassion. That's the picture of Jesus Christ. That's the picture of God. I don't know if you've ever pictured God as having compassion oozing out all his pores. Now I know God doesn't have pores But I don't know if you've ever pictured God that way. This is just a marvelous word. And it's it's It's a combination of two words in Greek. It's not only the word compassion, but it has a word in front of it. That's the word all. Full of. Our translation says very full of compassion So the point James is making is you do not want to quit because what God is doing in this process is He's introducing you to His love and compassion. You will see how unbelievably compassionate God is Merciful speaks of his sympathy and generosity and forgiveness. God is full of sympathy. He desires to share our difficulty and our grief. And the verse says, You have heard of the patience of Job. You have heard of the patience of Job. Perhaps you wouldn't think of Job as one who had perseverance Even though he started well and worshipped God in chapter 1 when he had lost everything, and in chapter 2 he did not sin, even when his wife came and encouraged him to curse God and die. But when his three friends showed up and started talking and charged him with great sin, nobody can be in your situation unless he is an awful sinner. Job had difficulty with that. So Job didn't die at the stake. To him, it was living another day in pain. He wasn't crucified on a cross. He was dialoguing with three friends. He's not persecuted for his faith except at the hand of his friends. His persecution was from friendly fire. These were the saints who were shooting at him and making life more miserable. The interesting thing is in reading through Job that he did not see God's compassion until the end. He didn't see it in chapter 3 when he cursed the day of his birth. He didn't see it in chapter 6 when he said God was shooting poisoned arrows at him He didn't see it in chapter 9 when he said, if I summoned him and he responded, I do not believe he would give me a hearing. He would crush me with a storm and multiply my wounds for no reason. He would not let me regain my breath, but would overwhelm me with misery. What kind of talk is that? Is Job persevering? Is he saying you are so compassionate and merciful? You ever said that kind of thing? You ever been in that situation? You can admit it. The thing is that even though Job was there, he didn't quit. You know? Job could have kicked out his three friends. He could have he could have gotten rid of them, he could have obeyed his wife and cursed God and died. And never come to understand the incredible mercy and compassion of God. When you get to Vertic Traffic 42 The change begins in 38, but when you get to chapter 42, verse 5, Job is the one who says, I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you. Completely different attitude. Why? He met God So the lesson that we see in Job, I've actually got two lessons. I think I've got two lessons listed there. Two things about Job. He only, number A, he only met God through the difficulty. Through the difficulty. Suppose Job had given up in chapter 9 or chapter 16 It was Job's patience and endurance and perseverance that allowed God to finish ripening the fruit. God wants to bless us by revealing himself to us. And he can only do it through the process of difficulty. And B, the second thing we can see from Job is that this was designed from the beginning. It's the word end, end, in verse 11. You have seen the end. That's the word purpose. From the beginning, when God allowed Satan to touch Job and bring the painful disasters, and then when Job was afflicted with this disease, God had a purpose, God had a goal. It wasn't just an accident. It wasn't just a weak escape from what would have been a bad ending. It was designed It was God's plan from the beginning that Job would through this difficulty meet God in a new way. Understand his compassion, his mercy in a new way. I think that this is one of James's fundamental goals in this epistle. He's writing to people, he's writing to Christians, verse 1 says, of the dispersion. These are Christians who have come to Christ, and because they have come to Christ, their lives are worse. They haven't gotten better. Maybe they did for a while. But now they've gone they've they've experienced this persecution that is that has caused them to lose their job, lose their homes, lose their lands, they're dispersed now, they're refugees. They're gypsies, and James is writing to them to say, do you understand the purpose of all of this? Do you understand where all of this is going? Do you understand that God from the beginning has had this incredible goal that through this you are going to meet the one who's infinite? And find out he loves you in a way that you could not believe. That's why he said, count it all joy when you fall into difficult circumstances. Determined to go through it the right way so you don't miss the blessing that God has designed. For you. Verse five, ask for wisdom. And God will give it. We must go on. I want to stop there and tell two illustrations, but I don't. So we're in main point number two. Be patient. Don't quit. How. This is the how part. There are four commands. I've listed them for you. Don't grumble. Take for an example. Don't swear. I missed the first one. Establish your hearts. Establish your hearts, verse 8. Don't grumble, verse 9. Take for an example, verse 10, and don't swear, verse 12. I believe that these four commands are helping us understand how to be patient. So verse 7 and 8 list the word, the command, patience, three times, and then now he's talking about, with four commands, talking about how. How do you do it? So the first one is strengthen your heart. Verse 8. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. The word establish means to strengthen, to make firm, to set. Set your heart. How do you do that? One way. Exercise. Exercise. I said exercise If you're going to run in an Iron Man race, you need to strengthen your heart so it will keep beating at 180 beats a minute for 10 hours. Can you imagine 180 beats a minute for 10 hours? If your heart can't continue pumping 25 liters of blood each minute for 10 hours, you're not ready for the Iron Man. That's your literal physical heart. But there's another kind of heart. It's displayed by people who are worn out at the end of the ten hours and they collapse. And then they crawl to the finish line. What's that? That's heart. That's the kind James is talking about. He's talking about a metaphorical heart. He wants us to strengthen that heart. How do you do that Well, how does an Ironman runner train? He talks himself into another inch, another block, another mile, another ten miles, a faster time. He's talking to himself. He's convincing his body that he can do what he says he can do, so that on the day of the race, when he says I'm going to go another mile. His body responds. You strengthen it by talking to it, by encouraging it We strengthen our hearts by what we believe, while we repeatedly practice saying to ourselves what God says. James wants us to repeat to ourselves, the fruit is not ready yet. The Lord is at the door. Why quit? And the end of the Lord is beautiful, compassionate, and merciful. So you remind your heart of verse 11, we count them blessed who endure. I think personally that this is one reason why memorizing scripture is so valuable. How many of you have finished memorizing James? Anyone finished memorizing James? Not yet. We have almost. Yes? Affirmative? Hundred percent No. I thought I saw a hand back here. Have you guys finished memorizing as you walk? You just haven't walked far enough, that's all. How many of you have done chapter one? Good. I even got my wife on that. She she raised her hand. Yeah. You will find tremendous value in memorizing. You say, I can't memorize. You can. Memorizing is like using a muscle. It's like strengthening your heart. The more you use it, the easier it is to use it. The worst thing you can say to yourself is, I can't do it. You know, that's like saying I can't get up out of this chair You can get out of this chair. You have to make yourself do it. And there's such a great value to memorizing God's Word And then B here says, strengthening others. Strengthen others. This is verse 9. Do not grumble against one another, brethren, lest you be condemned. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. The word grumble means to groan against someone. I don't think the word grumble is simply the word complain, although it involves complaining and grumbling and you know, criticizing and those kinds of things. But it's a stronger kind of word. It means to express discontentment in a in fa in an emphatic way. It's dissatisfaction with a person, and by extension, dissatisfaction with God. And it's the kind of question that attacks the whole project. Why is this person here? For crying out loud, who let him in the door? Why does this person have this job? Who set that up? You know, it's that kind of complaint, that kind of grumbling that attacks that attacks the project. I had an example of this very clearly when I took our two of our grandkids' twins Uh they were eight years old at the time. I brought them to West Virginia to see our house when it was under construction. They were digging the basement and they had the big, you know, the big backhoe and bulldozer there and I thought they'd like to crawl all over those and see those. And I had talked to the kid, there was a, I thought he was an 18-year-old kid that was running these things, found out he was actually 19. But he was extremely skillful, very good at it. And so I drove them two hours up to Shepherdstown, West Virginia. The kid had gone for lunch. He said, sure, let him. So they crawled all over these things and so on. And and they were complaining So they talked about how long it was, and then it was hot, you know, and then it was lunchtime, and where's lunch? But I think the real grumbling came when Stella said to me, Can we go home? You know, that question attacked the whole project. Why did you bring us up here? I think that's where this word is going. This word is a word that is questioning the whole project in terms of this person So it says, shut that down. Why? Because this kind of grumbling invites the judgment of the Lord. Why does it invite the judgment of the Lord? Because that other person is his child. That other person has been predestined to be holy and without blame. That other person is a valuable part of Christ's body. And you're trying to mess up God's arrangement by grumbling against his project. So the condemnation may not be necessarily God bringing condemnation in As much as I am bringing condemnation in, you know. It's the kind of thing that you are cutting off what God's put together. You're chopping up what God has has molded together. It's like cutting off your arm. What do you do when you cut off your arm? Well, you suffer for it. Here's a person in the body of Christ, and you don't think they belong in the body of Christ. Guess who gets hurt? You do My picture is that God often chooses the person to come into our lives who is best equipped to help us grow. He chooses the person That we don't initially get impressed with. You know And he stands in front of us slobbering and sounding like a four-year-old. And our attitude, we gotta watch our attitude. Because we could hurt ourselves as well as the body of Christ, as well as that person. So watch what you say, watch your attitude. As James said two chapters earlier, the fruit that comes as righteousness is planted in peace by those who make peace. Chapter 3, verse 18. C, study success stories. My brethren, verse 10, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord as an example of suffering and patience. Indeed, we count them blessed to endure. What were their lives like? James wants us to be encouraged by remembering Old Testament success stories. Like Elijah. Remember Elijah? He bails Al. He's seen God do great things in 1 Kings chapter 18. Chapter 19, he realizes that he's He's standing in the crosshairs of Jezebel's rifle. And he bails out. And he runs. Like a scared deer all the way down to Beersheba. He's laying under a juniper tree and he's crying to the Lord to let him die. And God's answer to him was, just like James, it's too early. Too early for you to die. Don't you think that the one who kept the rain away for three and a half years, who answered your prayer so spectacularly on Mount Carmel and burned up the soaking wet sacrifice, can take care of Jezebel? What's your problem? If I allow you to leave Earth at this moment, you're going to miss half the fruit. You're going to miss nine-tenths of the blessing. You're not alone. I still have 4,000 people who have not bowed the knee to Baal. And besides, I have more for you to do. And besides, I have an ending planned for your life that no one has ever experienced or seen. A trip to eternity in a chariot of fire. Talk about King's Dominion. I am giving you heavenly kind of king's dominion. It's too early to quit. Get on the ball. That's what God says to Elijah. So we count them blessed who endure. And you see that time and time and time again in the prophets. They have their problems. They argue with God. They cry. They weep, but they endure. And then D says, speak truth. Verse 12, above all, my brethren, do not swear either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let yes be yes. Nobody know, lest you fall into a judgment. What's the problem? James, when he uses the word do not swear, is not talking about cussing. He's not saying don't cuss. He's saying do not add guarantees to your speech. They swear, we swear, to make it sound like our speech is going to be honest at this point. You know, I swear to God, I swear on a stack of Bibles. I promise, promise, cross my heart, hope to die. All of that is swearing. Anytime you have to do that, that's an indication of the fact that you don't think you always have to be honest. So now, I swear to God, I'm going to be honest. James says, eliminate that. You make every time you say yes, absolutely yes. You make every time you say no, absolutely no. You're familiar with how children can fudge and enhance yeses or no's. You been out? No. You've been seeing so-and-so? Hmm. No. Not today. You know? And you can say yes in a hundred different ways that have exceptions to them. And James says, as Jesus said in Matthew chapter five, you've got to eliminate all of that. You cannot build strength. You cannot endure when you're lying because you lie to others, you lie to yourself. You don't build strength on lies. You build a fantasy world on lies. And reality always brings it down. So let your yes be yes, your no be no. Application. I've got four statements. Number one, don't quit. The best is yet to come. Think in terms of what strengthens me in my relationship with God. Instead of quitting, my attitude needs to be, what strengthens me? What passages? I can remember years ago when I found out there was a certain record, this was a 33 and a third. Plastic record. Glen Jorian singing on a record that was so encouraging to me when I was depressed. I'd play that record. The question is, what strengthens you? Don't quit. B. Two, number two, realize that you may be the reason for someone else not quitting. Strengthen others, verse 9. You may say the encouraging word to someone ready to give up. You may make the phone call That encourages them to get on the ball. Saturday, a week ago, we had a reunion of students from the Washington Bible College And one of the students at the reunion said to me that he was ready to quit school until one day he walked into chapel And he heard a speaker speak on 1 Corinthians 15, 58. And he was so encouraged by that verse that he never quit school and he graduated. Somebody gave him. 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Number three, live in gratefulness for what God has done for you. Live in gratefulness for what God has done. Remember the former days, the incredible blessing of salvation in Christ? Paul never forgot that Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 1, we don't faint. We don't faint. He prefaced that by this little phrase. Having received mercy, we don't faint. It's a great statement. All Paul had to do was think about what God had done in his life. Having received mercy, we don't think And number four, confess and embarrass yourself. Every time you catch yourself embellishing the truth or lying, you cannot tolerate lying. Confess it. Confess it. Admit it. I didn't say that right. I lied. To get it out of your system. When it comes to line living Soren Kierkegaard said, most of us are like the schoolboy who stole his teacher's answer sheet before a math exam. His aim was to memorize the answers for each of the problems, score a 100 on the exam, and make an A on the course. Kierkegaard said. The answers acquired that way are no answers at all. Except in a technical sense. An A in a course is no A in a course at all, except in a technical sense. Kierkegaard said, to truly have the answers, we must work through the problems. James agrees. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would encourage us. To be patient, to endure, to strengthen our hearts, to strengthen others, realizing that we count those blessed who endure Thank you for this precious word. May it go with us and encourage us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.