All right, today we have our Lord's Table service, and I'd like to invite you to turn this morning to 1 John 1 John. We're going to have a Lord's table service message where we focus in on Christ and on what he has done for us. So turn to 1 John. We'll be looking at the first section there in In 1 John 1 to chapter 2, verse 2, we have John laying the groundwork for his entire epistle. He begins, if you could divide up these verses this way, he begins by explaining that he is a witness. That's the first few verses. You'll notice as you look at your Bible that he says things like, which we have heard, which we have seen, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled concerning certain things. So he is letting them know that he is a witness. He has a testimony, as it were, to share with them. This testimony has to do not only with a message, it has to do with the one who had the message. It has to do with the word of life, verse 1 says. The life part certainly partly is a reference to the incarnation, the word part with the message that he who became incarnate gave. What is that message? Well, then we get into verse 5, the second section here, and he says, this is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you. And then he gives what the message is. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. So there is John telling the reader that he is a witness. And actually, he along with others are witnesses. He uses the word we, which we have looked upon. Then there is the message: God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. But then there is sort of an incorrect way of looking at that message and a correct way of looking at it. The incorrect way is verse 6. If we say certain things and yet don't do other things, there's sort of this incorrect way of looking at God is light and in him is no darkness at all. Verse 8: If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. Self-deception, saying certain things. That's the incorrect response to the message, to the testimony that John brings. But there is also a correct response. Verse 9: if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just. So we have an incorrect response and a correct response to the message. And finally, in the section, we have sort of the connecting of the book or the book ends. There is this in verse 4: These things we write to you that your joy may be full. And then there is what is in chapter 2, verse 2, he himself is the propitiation for our sins. And there is what is in verse 9 of chapter 1. He is faithful and just to forgive. So there is this connection between, oh, and I forgot, if you look at the first section there, you have verse 3. At the end there, that we we declare to you that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. So there's this fellowship between us and God the Father and God the Son and the Apostle John in a sense because we're all sharing something and then there's this full joy and then there's this Cleansing, and then there's this propitiation that Christ provided for our sins and the sins of the whole world. So there's John, the witness, there's the message that he brings, there's an incorrect and a correct way of responding, and then there's this wonderful joy and fellowship and cleansing that is part of the message too. That's where he's headed so that we can have joy. It's a wonderful kind of a message for a Lord's Day service when we're going to We're going to break the unwell the already broken unleavened bread and drink this juice that represents the blood of Christ, the broken body of Christ, to consider what He has done for us. So let's look then first at this first section. John the witness. Well, I want you to look here and notice that he just piles on the words that he is a witness in a certain sense. He is a witness, if you look at your Bible at verse 1, we'll just read some of this, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard. So he has heard certain things, and you might be tempted to think that it's just He goes beyond saying that he heard about someone who heard about the truth, but we have seen with our eyes. And what do we call someone who says, I saw that happen? What kind of a witness is that? That's an eyewitness, right? That's someone who saw. and someone who heard. He goes on in verse 1 and says that we have looked upon or scrutinized. It's not just sort of seeing it from afar, but there's this approach where we've come and we've looked And our look, verse 1 says, our hands have handled concerning the word of life. The life was manifested, and we have seen. and bear witness and declare to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you. You could just see he's piling it on over and over again, over and over again. We heard, we saw, we came close and scrutinized, we touched. And again, you notice that this is in the plural. We, not just John, but he's putting himself in the group of apostolic witness to the life of Jesus Christ. This is very important for the reliability and historicity of our Christian faith. Let me give you a contrast. I have a book called The Challenge of the Cults, and in it is a whole section on the Mormon church and the roots of the Mormon Church. Where did this all come from? Well, in 1832, Joseph Smith claimed that he had a vision of Christ, that Christ came to him, and he was the only one who saw Christ. No one else saw him, but he saw him. He later claimed in a later version that he saw both the Father and the Son. And later on, there was an angel that came to him, and the angel told him that there were plates. Hidden somewhere, and he could go and find those plates. I'm not saying dinner plates, I'm saying plates with language on it, the hidden language of Reformed Egyptian. Ever hear of that? Probably not, because it's all made up. It doesn't exist. But that's what the angel said. And so he went and he found these plates. It says Moroni appeared again to Smith three times in the same night, once the following day, and annually for the next four years. Only Joseph Smith Solomon. The angel had warned him that he was not yet spiritually mature enough to take custody of the gold plates, but one day would be. Smith was told that when he was finally permitted to retrieve the plates, he must not reveal them to anyone except to those to whom he would be commanded to show them lest he be destroyed. In 1827, nine months after Smith married Emma Hale, Moroni, that's the angel, allowed him to retrieve the plates with the charge to keep them safe until the angel should call for them Smith then translated the sacred records from Reformed Egyptian into English. Exciting stuff. Jesus comes, says, hey. I have something for you to do. God the Father and Jesus then come. Then this angel reappears three times in the same year. No one else sees it but Joseph saw it. I So how did he translate these plates? Have you ever actually looked up what the Mormon teach the Mormon church teaches itself Like looked at its own literature. Let me read to you how this happened. Joseph Smith would put the sear stone, he had a sear stone, S-E-E-R. That's like a magic stone that gives you the ability to do something you don't naturally have. He put it into a hat. And he put his face in the hat. Drawing it closely around his face to exclude the light, and in the darkness the spiritual light would shine. A piece of something resembling a parchment would appear, and on that appeared the writing. One character at a time would appear, and under it was the interpretation in English. Brother Joseph would read off the English to Oliver Cowdery. who was his principal scribe, and when it was written down and repeated to Brother Joseph to see if it was correct, then it would disappear. And another character from the interpretation would appear. Thus the Book of Mormon was translated by the gift and power of God, and not by any power of man. This is something that a man named David Whitmer included in his Address to All Believers in Christ. I believe that is a Mormon publication Now, what kind of a contrast are we talking about here? We're talking about a religion that started inside of some dude's dirty hat. With a rock that looked real shiny and good that he picked up, and he and only he could see what was in that hat and then translate to someone else who wrote it down. The other person couldn't see the words, the other person couldn't see the plates, and to this day, those plates have never been produced by any man, woman, child, or angel. They're gone. We could go on further and say that in the history of the Mormon Church, they have invented an entire Myth about a life where Jesus came to the Americas and preached the gospel to Native Americans and all this stuff, and there's just no evidence. What am I trying to say? That is sort of a stark contrast. To the incarnation. John's point here is we heard, we looked, we scrutinized, we handled, we We investigated and we are declaring to you something that is completely reliable and attestable. You've got Luke. And what he writes there, talking about carefully following, let me just quickly get you to turn there and build on this very briefly, back to Luke 1 and just read again what the testimony of others were. Luke himself not being there for a lot of what happened during the life of Christ, but he is a faithful doctor and historian. In Luke chapter 1, what's often called the prologue here or the introduction, verse 1. Inasmuch as many have taken in hand to set in order a narrative of those things which have been fulfilled among us. Just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the Word delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write to you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus, that you may know the certainty of those things in which you were instructed. I mean in John's way of saying things, he is saying, look, I want you to know the certainty, and he's showing that by, I saw it, I touched it, I heard it, this is the word of life. And Luke's way of saying it is. I'm a careful historian. I've listened to eyewitness accounts. I'm laying it out very carefully. But the point is, it's reliable. It really happened. Their conviction was Jesus Christ was and is the Son of God. Later on, we have Peter who says that he did not follow cunningly devised fables. When he made known to them that Jesus Christ, because he was an eyewitness on the Mount of Transfiguration when Jesus Glowed with internal power and light. He saw that. And so what we have here is John saying, I witnessed this. I heard this, you need to know what I say I firmly believe in, and it's accurate. So what that that would sort of include the incarnation Remember when Thomas touched Jesus' side? And Jesus said, Look at the prince in my hands and my side. Touch and see. So the handling part, do you remember when Mary grabbed Jesus by the feet after He rose from the dead. Sort of this empirical, I watched it, I saw it. But the hearing part goes beyond just hearing the words of Jesus. It has to do back in 1 John chapter 1 with the fact that there was a word. To the whole thing, that there is a message which we have heard from him. So their testimony is not just that they saw God walking the streets of Jerusalem, but that God had a message. And they are now giving that message out. And John is saying, I'm telling you the message that I heard directly from the Son of God. Not just a testimony to the incarnation, but a testimony to the message of the incarnation. You know what Jesus said in the Gospel of John? Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And here we have John talking about Jesus as the word of life. But we could read that text another way and emphasize it a little differently. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life Jesus had some things to say, and that is what John is saying in his witness to these people Now for a moment we're just going to leave, uh sort of leave behind the fellowship idea in verse 3 and the joy in verse 4 and get to that message, and then we'll come back. To the fellowship and the joy idea, okay? So, what is the message? Look at verse five. This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you that God is. Now wait, stop for a second. What would you say? I mean don't answer out loud, but would you would you say that's important? What he's going to say next is sort of Vital to this whole God thing. I mean, here he's gonna say God is. I mean, you think today about all the different ideas about God. Think about this. I mean You've got the Buddhists and you've got the Hindus and you've got the Muslims and then you've got Americans who kind of take it all and put it in a pot and make the New Age philosophy soup up. I mean you've got You've got people on TV that believe in self-help. I mean, what what would you expect? What would you expect to be said here? What is said is very binary, if I could put it that way. God is this, he is not this. It's very simple and profound and far-reaching. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Say, wow, that's Confused. I'm not sure I completely understand what that means. Well, to look for the meaning of, just look at the context for a second. All right, look, look at verse 6. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. So what is that saying? Well, it's saying that there is a complete incompatibility between the darkness and the light, and that in order to Be on God's side, the light side, we can't walk in the dark side, in the darkness As a matter of fact, if we were to say, I'm walking in the darkness, but I'm fellowshipping with God, we're actually lying and not practicing the truth. Now, the word lie and the word truth Those are morality words. Those are not just philosophical words or like real erudite words that you throw around in some philosophy book. Those are down-to-earth. word. Some things are true and some things are not. And a lie is to intentionally say something that is not true. So here is so this idea of light and darkness, it has to do with morality. It has to do with uh if you look down at your Bible again at verse 6, the practicing of truth as opposed to lying and walking in the darkness. So, as we go down through the passage, the message that God is light has to do with his sinless nature. God does not sin. He is perfectly holy and righteous. There is nothing in him. The Bible says that God cannot even lie. He is not able to lie. He is faithful and true and dependable. And so if we are to walk with him. Now, look down at verse 6 again. We see the message. It's simple. God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. And I mentioned the correct way of responding and the incorrect way. So here's the incorrect way. You say I'm fellowshipping with God who is light, but you are living a lifestyle in the dark. That is an incorrect assumption. Now, let me give you a couple of illustrations. Have you ever talked to anyone about sin or thought about sin? And you talk to someone and you say, you know what? The Bible says that we're all sinners, and that person says, Yeah, yeah, yeah, I guess that's right, but I'm doing the best I can. I'm doing the best I can. And you say to them, well, God has an expectation. And it's it's somewhere. I mean, it's on the scale. I mean, he expects something out of us. How do you think you're doing? And he says, Well, I'm doing all right. I'm not as bad as that guy over there. I'm being pretty faithful to my husband or wife. I'm taking care of my kids. Or maybe I'm not married now, but I'm working hard at work. If I were to ask you to go to Bylow, what am I saying? That doesn't even exist up here. If I were to ask you to go to Green Valley Food Store and to get me one pound of Ham. I said, I need exactly and precisely one pound of ham. And so I sent three people to do that. The first person comes back and and it's only three-quarters pound. Did they fulfill my requirement of one pound? Did they get me what I really wanted? Well, the next person comes back and says, and they only have half a pound. Did they fulfill the requirement? The final person comes back and they've got like a quarter of a pound. Now the person who bought the brought the three-quarter pounds, they can look at the person who brought the The quarter pound, and they can say, hey, I brought more ham than you did. I fulfilled my obligation better than you did. And they would sort of be right, wouldn't they? But they can't look at me and say, I really fulfilled your obligation. I did exactly what you told me to do. Now God is light, and in him is no darkness at all, so what he requires of you and me is 100% light. One pound of ham. Terrible illustration, but you get what I'm saying? He requires 100%. And you might go to the store and get more than the other guy, but it's still not 100%. Unless you're the one person here who might be willing to say, my entire life, night and day, over and over, I've only done what is right perpetually. In my thoughts, in my actions, in my dreams, and in my intentions, I've been holy 100% of the time. If you're, I don't, I think you're all honest enough that you're not going to raise your hand and say that's you. So the question is: whether you're a quarter of a pound or three-quarters of a pound, walking in the light means accepting the fact that, well, Something's wrong here. Look at verse eight. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. And this idea is generally speaking. Being in the category of someone who does sin. Incorrect idea. Walking in the light. I don't sin. That's an incorrect idea. If we say we have no sins. So The first step of walking in the light is just to admit that you don't meet God's 100% requirement, that you are, in fact, a sinner. Now, you might think when I become a Christian, I won't sin anymore. No, that's not the case. Now, a whole lot happens when you become a Christian You're born again, you're transformed on the inside. The Spirit of God comes to live inside of you, and your life is changed, and your feet are pointed in the right direction, and you grow. There is the spiritual growth idea. But there is something inherently broken in all of us. The Bible says all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. The Bible says that it teaches in Genesis that when Adam and Eve sinned, A whole race of sinners was created. It has nothing to do with where you're from or the color of your skin. We're all in it together as people who sin by choice and we're sinners by birth. Something is broken. And so we have to just admit, well, I am in the category of sinners. Verse 9, and I know I'm jumping around, but I'm trying to lay this out to to make it clear for the sake of verbal communication. If we confess our sins, now there's the plural, so you're it's talking about actually confessing an individual sin. That is hard for all of us to do, isn't it? It's one thing to say, I'm a sinner. It's another thing to say, when someone comes up to you and says, You sinned against me, to actually say, You're right, I sinned against you by doing this. By saying this, or by not including you in this, or by, I don't know, whatever. It's hard to say an actual sin. You know, I was talking to someone, uh A couple weeks ago, not too long ago, it might have been last week, when they were talking about the whole idea of going to a Catholic priest and getting your sins forgiven. And I ask them, how do you get rid of your sins? And they go and they go to the Catholic priest in the confessional and they have a list and they read off the sins. I I did this. I lied to my mother. I was a bad husband. Whatever. They actually read a list. Folks, the problem is what can a man do for you in that situation? Can a man get rid of your guilt? Can he suddenly say I receive this confession? No, but there is something to this idea of being honest about the different things you do. Verse 9. And I'm leaving the rest of the verse for a moment. If we confess our sins. Correct response. Incorrect response. Verse 10. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. In other words, his word will convict us of sin. You know the Ten Commandments. Thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet. You're supposed to worship the Lord your God and Him only, not make idols. God actually says certain things are sins And if we say that, no, no, I have not sinned in that way, that is that that's not a sin, then we're actually calling God a liar. Now, listen. Listen here for a second. God is light, and you and I have a problem. Every person in this room, we are not 100% light. We are born in darkness, as it were, and we are sinners. And so the correct response, if you look at your Bible, just look at these words. The correct response is verse 9. Confess our sins to God. The correct response, jump back up to verse 8. If we say we have no sin, no, say that you are a sinner. The correct response is, I am a sinner, and there are different things I've done to sin. And the and verse 10, the correct response is, you know what? When God calls something a sin and I do it, I have sinned. I'm not going to call him a liar. I want to know his word. This is the correct response. Response. Now, that is tough, but you can't get to the joy, the fellowship, and the cleansing without it. You can't get to the good news without journeying through the rough terrain of the bad news. Folks, what God is a judge? And he judges us by that strict 100% standard. But 1 John also tells us that God is love. We learn from this wonderful, wonderful epistle all about love. Here's the amazing thing about God Even though you and I have sinned, even though we are sinners, even though we sometimes call him a liar, he still loves us. For God so loved the world, you've heard it so many times, that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. What is it to love someone who loves you back? Jesus taught his disciples this. So what? What good does it do you to be kind to someone who's kind to you? Jesus said, love your enemies. And the reason he said that is because that's what God does to us. He loved his enemies. Romans 5 tells us we were without strength. When we were sinners, Christ died for us. That is spectacular love. It's one thing to love someone who loves you. It's another thing to love someone who crucified you. And that is what Jesus has. There on the cross, he said, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. After he was resurrected, he sent his followers out to proclaim the good news. And what is that good news? Well, look at your Bible again. Verse 7, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, and that, folks, part of that is admission, confession of sin. Then the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanses us from all sin. Verse 9, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now, John is not writing this to you to encourage you to sin or to minimize sin. Chapter 2, verse 1. My little children, these things I write to you so that you may not sin. I mean, he's not writing these because he wants them to sin, but he wants them to get to the place of confession and transparency with God so that they can get that cleansing. Now, how is the cleansing possible? I mean, what does God do with the guilt of our sin? What can He possibly do to remove the guilt from our sin? I I don't know if if uh years ago they used to have all these programs on TV about judges, and they were kind of ludicrous. I remember growing up watching something like Judge Judy, is that one? I remember I don't know. They but they were these people on T V and they would they were like people would come before them and the judge would make a ruling and and I always like to see the judge throw the book at him. It might have been sort of my uh I don't know, sort of I don't know, I wouldn't say my evil side, but it was kind of good to see justice served. Let's put it that way. Do you like to see justice served? Somebody breaks into your house, throw the book at them So the full extent of the law. Somebody somebody keys your car. How anybody have their car keyed in here? Not good. I've seen it done. I haven't seen it done, but I've seen the marks on cars. How would you feel if somebody did that to your car and they caught him? Yes. What about when you're standing before the judge and you went over the speed limit? Mercy! What's happening here? Throw the book at that guy, but boy, I want some grace. You see how inconsistent we are sometimes? God is a good judge, and because he's a good judge, he has to, he has to say, when someone is guilty, they're guilty What do we call it if a judge calls someone who is not guilt who is guilty not guilty? We call that injustice. We call that that's wrong. Now someone the judge could say guilty and give you a lighter sentence. So we understand that the pronouncement of guilt and the sentencing are somewhat different in our court system today, but to say not guilty when that person is the murderer. When that person did do the wrong thing. That is a bad judge. And so here we have this. John is saying to this people, look, you've got to respond to the message the correct way. You've got to confess your sins, your sinfulness, and accept what the Word of God says about sin. What how can God give us that cleansing? It's all wrapped up in verse 2 of chapter 2. And it's a word we're not familiar with, but look at chapter 2, verse 2, and we'll wrap this up. He says, and he himself That is Jesus Christ, the righteous. He himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the whole world That word propitiation has to do with satisfaction and appeasement of God. God looks down on us and he says, we're guilty. We can't meet that hundred percent. We've all have different levels, but we're all guilty. And so God's judgment of guilt upon us has to be satisfied. How is that possible? Well, he sends Jesus. To die on the cross in our place, to take our guilt upon himself, and to rise from the dead. And when God the Father looks on his Son, Jesus Christ the righteous, He says, and and on his son's death, I'm satisfied. There's no need for any other sacrifice. Now I can look at sinners, and just like I pronounced Jesus guilty when he wasn't guilty. And he died in their place on the cross. Now I can pronounce sinners guiltless. I can redeem them because of what Christ did on the cross. I can look upon them as not no longer being guilty before me. I can save them now. Because I and my anger against sinners has been satisfied. It has been propitiated. Because there is this advocate, Jesus Christ. The righteous. Folks, salvation has nothing to do with you cleaning up your life, getting rid of your bad habits Being nicer to your husband or wife or boyfriend or girlfriend, it has nothing to do with anything that you can earn or merit or work. It has everything to do with what God did for Himself. Because he loves you. He sent Christ to die for you. And 4, verse 2: the whole world. The joy that can be full. The joy is this fellowship that we can have with God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ. Our guilt taken away, our sins cleansed. I mean, look at verse 7 again. Let it sink into your soul. But if we walk in the light, that's the light of confession and truth, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sins. Verse 9. He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I said it before, I'll say it again. It comes down to this: for God the Father, not to save someone. Would mean that he would have to say about the cross that it was not complete. It was not adequate. That would be unjust. That would not be faithful to his son. And because Jesus finished the work of Calvary, because salvation has been done, remember Jesus said, it is finished Because he rose from the dead victorious. The Father will always faithfully, because he is just and faithful, forgive. And forgive and forgive the sins of those who have put their faith in Jesus. He'll do that all the way to the time that you and I are in heaven because of Christ. It's amazing. Verse 4. These things we write to you that your joy may be full. Do you want that kind of a joy this morning? Now, this is kind of a salvation message, but certainly there is more application here for believers because the epistle goes on and it has a lot to say to Christians. It has some things to say to people who aren't Christians. But for the Christian, the greater joy is just exalting in the fact that you are forgiven. Making use of the joy of confession to God, not a priest in a box, but the God of the universe, saying, Lord, I confess, I sinned, I need that fresh sense of cleansing. And for the person here who's not a Christian, Maybe you would experience for the first time the joy of knowing your sins are forgiven, that all that guilt is cleansed away. And that God no longer looks at you as guilty and condemns you, but He will come and fellowship with you. Imagine this: the God who was previously angry with you now wants to come and be a part of your life. He wants you. He wants to have a relationship with you. Wow. That is what John wants us to know So that we can have fellowship along with him. And truly, verse 3 says, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. So let me ask you this morning. Are you a Christian? Do you know Christ as your Savior? What are you waiting for? It's not about joining a church or fixing your life up. It's just about Repenting and putting your faith and trust in the cross of Jesus Christ. There's nothing that should hold you back. He really does love you in spite of all the things that you have done and all the things that you will yet do. He doesn't expect you to stop sinning so that he can then save you. He says, I've already taken care of the guilt of all your sin by dying on that cross, by sending Christ to die in your place. Salvation is simply a matter of confession, admission of the truth, repentance, saying, changing your mind about what this whole thing is about, and putting your faith in Christ. Folks, you can know what it's like to have your sins forgiven by God