Um Well, yeah. Yeah, it's very much problem. Yeah. Good morning and welcome to Faith Bible Church. We're glad you're here. Please stand and take your hymnals and turn to number six in your hymnal. Sing praise to God who reigns above. Let's stand together and sing together number six Sing praise to God who reigns above God of all creation. La God of High, the God of love, the God of our salvation, with healing bombs all he paid. And every faithless murmur steals to God all praise and glory. One comes almighty. My morning glow or evening shade is wash more. You got all praise and glory. The Lord is never far away, but through our dreams. Distressing and ever press happens day on peace and joy and blessing as we With our first underhand, he beats his own sand to God of grace and glory. Thus for my soul some way along I sing aloud his praises that man may hear. Give a grateful song, my voice on we reason. Be joyful in the Lord, my heart for me. Soul soul and bony bear your part to God all praise and glory. Please be seated. Good morning. Just a few announcements this morning. Uh coming up on Tuesday at 6 p. m. is a Lady Salad Supper at Marilyn Bailey's. There is a sign up in the Narsex, a sign up to let them know you're coming and uh whether you can bring a salad or a soup. On the, well actually on Friday, this Friday, so be in prayer for us as the Grand Prix for Iwana's on Friday. There will be lots of children, lots of parents. John Plasterer will be here giving a special presentation as part of that as well. And just begin prayer for the workers. The Grand Prix I think is probably the the hardest day for the workers. That's the most work because we'll be in prayer for Mark and other people that are h heading that up and for everybody that will be there. Uh there will be there often is the day where we have a lot of parents, not all of whom are saved. That comes, so be in prayer for that. Then there is a church uh the men's prayer breakfast and church works day on Saturday. And on the seventeenth, uh we'll have our s our normal morning service, but it'll be followed by a luncheon. That's uh kind of brown bag lunch to bring your own food. We'll hang out together downstairs and then that'll be followed by a mid-quarterly members meeting, which is a new thing. So we'll see what that's uh about. Pastor Cho apparently wants more feedback. He's a glutton for punishment, so we'll give him some on the 17th. That's all my announcements. Let's worship God together. Our scripture reading today is taken from Psalm 139, verses 1 through 12. You'll find it in your bulletin. Psalm 139. O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know my sitting down and my rising up. You understand my thought afar off. You comprehend my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word on my tongue, but behold, O Lord You know it altogether. You have hedged me behind and before and laid your hand upon me Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain it. Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend into heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the othermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall leave me, and your right hand shall hold me. If I say, surely the darkness shall fall on me, even the night shall be light about me. Indeed, the darkness shall not hide me from you But the night shines as the day. The darkness and the light are both alike to you. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come to you today in utter amazement at the fact of your Omniscience. Lord, how you know everything perfectly, completely, totally, always. We think about creation, how you have created everything. We see your handiwork in the skies, in the universe, stars without number. Beyond numbering. And we're amazed. We look at our creation, all the things that you have made, birds, flowers, rocks, trees, even our human body. And we stand amazed at your unbelievable wisdom and intelligence. How you could create everything. There is no end to your knowledge. And today we stand before you and we thank you and praise you for who you are. We are grateful, Lord, for your power. That with that power, which is always under your control, not out of control, You keep us, and you watch over us, and you protect us. And for that we are grateful We're so thankful that you brought the message of salvation to us through Jesus Christ. And that by your grace, through faith, we have become children of God. That one day we will be with you in glory in heaven forever and ever and ever. Never-ending, always to be able to behold your beauty, to see your wisdom, the opportunity to be with fellow saints of all ages. To be with our Savior Jesus Christ, to bow down in worship and say, behold our God. It's songs like that that make us want to brag and boast about who you are. Behold our God. How wonderful, how great. So today we thank you for everything you've given to us, but Lord, we we just want to say we stand in awe today of who you are and in everything we say and do in song and giving and in the word. We lift it up to you as a praise and a testimony, and we bow our knees before you today and say, Thank you, Almighty God. Amen. Please take your hand once again and turn to number 58, number 58, and then stand together and sing, This is my father's world. Let's stand together and sing. This is my father's world, and to my listening ears, all nature sings and round me rings the music. Music of us peace. This is my father's world. I rest in the fine of rocks and trees of sky. And seas is and the wonders wrong. This is my father's world, the birthday Carol's race. The morning life, the lily white, declares praise. This is my father's world He shines. In all that spare in the rustling grass I hear him pass, he speaks to me everywhere This is my father's word. Oh, let me never forget that though the wrong seems all so wrong, God is This is my father's work, but all is not done, Jesus who died yet. Be satisfied and other than that be one. Please be seated. So now let us take our prayers to our Father. Let's go to the Lord. Lord, you spoke to your son. If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who seek him? Father, we are so thankful your giving, loving Father. Lord That even whether we had good fathers on earth or bad fathers on earth or never had a father, we thank you that you are a faithful father who loves us. And you want us to come before you and ask. Ask according to your will. We pray that if there's any pride in us Lord we pray that we would repent of it right now. That as if we could do things on our own, as if we are self-sufficient. We repent of any pride in us. If there's any lack of faith in us, in your benevolence, in your goodness, in your kindness, Lord, may you break that down as well Lord, we bring individual saints before you. We pray for Mark and Lauren Conrad. We pray for their marriage. We pray for their work. Uh we pray for their witness this week. Lord, we pray for as they uh as they serve together this week in Iwana, Lord. Pray that you will bear much fruit to their ministry here. We pray for Linda and Chuck Custer. We pray for their marriage. We thank you for all that they do here at FBC. And we thank you how they care for others. And I pray that you'll give them good witness this week. And Lord, may they continue to serve you faithfully. Lord, we pray for Doris Bailey. Lord, we thank you for all that encouragement she has given us. We thank you for her faithful prayers and her desire and hunger for your word. We pray that we would learn from her example. And I pray that you would encourage her this morning as she seeks you. We thank you for her sons and just all those who are willing to help her, members from this church. Pray that she would be encouraged this morning. We thank you for the church that meets right in Charlestown Retirement Center, the Charlestown United Protestant Church. We thank you for Gary Hayack. And for his faithful evangelical witness at the retirement center. Thank you for saving him. Thank you for using him. Thank you for ordaining him into ministry. And as he preaches this morning, I pray that you would encourage him. Pray that you would speak through him. Pray that many people in that community will come to know you through the gospel. No, we pray for other local ministries. We pray for Pastor Jun Oh at Grace Hubinen Church as they meet in Shantilly later this afternoon. Pray that he will be a good pastor, a good minister. A good friend, and I pray that he will be a good husband to his wife Samwa. Pray for Pastor Nick Roark at Bronconia Baptist Church. Pray for his wife Allison and their three children. Thank you for Pastor Nick for just the way he encouraged me before I came here, giving me his advice and charge to preach the word, just as Dr. Beal has given me. We pray for local missionaries like Bill Bianco. Thank you for the longtime friendship that we had with him and the partnership we had with him. We pray that you will provide for all his needs, spiritual and material, that as he continues to raise support, that you would just convict churches in the area to support him. And pray that as he travels to various sites that you'll give him safe commutes. Pray that as he is a father to two sons, I pray that he will be a good role model, an example of faith. Lord, we pray for overseas mission. Lord, we pray for the the government in Haiti, which is full of corruption, and the economy, which is in a bad shape. We pray that the Christians there will be able to have good faithful witness in spreading the gospel there. We know that some Christians, like John Plaster's son, Stephen, is not able to return there at this moment. We pray for the local Christians there that they will be faithful in meeting together and sharing the gospel to others and praising you. We thank you for all these things. We thank you for hearing our prayers. We pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Let's stay seated as we take our bulletins and turn to, oh great God, listen together. Oh great God of my self, occupy my low heart, for it all that reigns a breed. Conquer every rebel bond Let no vice or sin remain That resist your holy war You have loved and purchased me. Make me yours forever. I was blinded by my sin, had no ears to hear your voice, did not know your love within. Had no taste for heaven's choice Then your spirit came to me Open up your word to me Through the gospel of your son, give me endless hope and peace. Help me now to live a life that's depending on your grace. Keep my heart and guide my soul. From the evils that I face. You are worthy to be praised with my every thought and Indeed, oh great God, glorify your name through me. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for uh the day you've given us a day to uh Bring glory to you, Lord, through our singing or praising you and our uh study of your word. uh the giving of from our hearts to you. We pray, Lord, that the uh offerings this morning would contribute to uh sustaining The gospel in our community by way of our church workers and members in our daily lives this week. And also to uh aid the the needs and to support our missionaries around the world. And uh We thank you, Lord, for them. We pray, Lord, that this offering would uh be sufficient and beyond sufficient to uh To help those around us who are Christians to proclaim the gospel throughout the world. And we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. No screen. As we prepare for the message, let's stand and sing once again from your bulletins, O Father, you are sovereign. Oh Father, you are sovereign in all the world you made. Your mighty word has spoken ever. My life life obey your voice command the seasons and bounty ocean set stars within. And their courses and still the tempest roll O Father you are sovereign in all affairs of man. No powers of death or darkness can forge your perfect plan All chance that change transcending Supreme and time and space You hold your trusting children secure in your embrace. O Father, you are suffering from art of human pain, transmuting earthly zaros to God. Your love pursuit. Oh father, you are sovereign, we see you timbling now, but soon before your triumph. Every knee shall bow with this bad hope before us, our face brings up anew. Our sovereign Lord and Savior, we trust and worship you. Amen. Please be seated. Just blends in so well. All right. So someone once said that a cynic is a man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. A man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. Do you consider yourself a cynic? Even if we don't label ourselves as cynics, there are of course times and seasons when we fall into cynicism. You may keep your faith in God on Sundays, but there must be times when you lost all faith in humanity on weekdays. You may try to let go of preconceived notions of people only to find life reinforcing them again. Try to muster some optimism to engage the world and find yourself withdrawing from it. So then our preferences and favoritism sort of harden like invisible walls that separate us from the lost. I think we can be spiritual cynics sometimes. We see the price of loving our neighbors, but not the value We see the cost of supporting missions, but not the word of God's image bearers. Like I said last week, the Great Commission can often become the Great Omission. And that omission is a sin often caused by fear of men, what they might think of us if we share our faith, but there's also a hatred of men or indifference to them, what we think of them, not what they think of us. Both cowardice and prejudice prevent us from sharing our faith, evangelizing, loving others. You may act on this even subconsciously. I remember once walking through the University of Maryland, through Stamp Union. It's still there, just I don't know if people are wondering. Where students socialize and dine. I took a few evangelism exposure questionnaires to approach strangers, and as I was walking around looking for prospects, a girl with the hijab caught my eye. For some reason that day, I told myself she's a Muslim and she's not gonna believe anyways. Now I eventually did go up to her But the question is, why did I harbor such futile human thoughts rather than trusting in God's sovereign grace? How did I become so spiritually cynical that the price of time began outweighing the value of a lost soul? I repent of this. The Bible tells us of sinners who are guilty of this kind of cynicism. If we are guilty of racism, hatred, xenophobia, or general lack of compassion for others. You should know that the struggle is not new. We're going to start today a sermon series on Jonah, who I label as a reluctant prophet. Today we're going to see that he is a cynical prophet who becomes a prodigal prophet. So let's turn to Jonah 1 and read that chapter together. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh. that great city, and cry out against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. But Jonah arose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went down to Japah and found the ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare and went down into it to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. But the Lord sent out a great wind on the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea. so that the ship was about to be broken up. Then the mariners were afraid, and every man cried out to his God, and threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea, to line the load But Jonah had gone down into the lowest parts of the ship, had lain down, and was fast asleep. So the captain came to him and said to him, What do you mean, sleeper? Arise, call on your God. Perhaps your God will consider us, so that we may not perish. And they said to one another, Come, let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this trouble has come upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then they said to him, Please tell us, for whose cause is this trouble upon us? What is your occupation? And where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you So he said to them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, Why have you done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Then they said to him, What shall we do to you that the sea may be calm for us? For the sea was growing more tempestuous. And he said to them, Pick me up and throw me into the sea. Then the sea will become calm for you. For I know that this great tempest is because of me. Nevertheless, the men rode hard to return to land, but they could not, for the sea continued to grow more tempestuous against them. Therefore, they cried out to the Lord and said, We pray, O Lord, please do not let us perish for this man's life, and do not charge us with innocent blood, for you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging. Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly and offered a sacrifice to the Lord and took vows. Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. So I want to talk to you today about five characteristics of disobedience. First, disobedience distances us from God. That's in verses one two three Disobedience distances us from God. Let's try to say that fast. Second, disobedience distances us from others. That's his that's verses four to six. They all sort of have These here. Disobedience distresses others. That's verses 7 through 10. Fourthly, disobedience distresses us. So it returns back to us. Verses 11 through 15. Fifthly, disobedience does not stop God's plan. Verses 16 through 17. I'll repeat those as I go along. But first, disobedience distances us from God. That's verses 1 to 3. There are several locations implied and listed here. According to 2 Kings 14, 25, Jonah hails from Gath Hepher, a city of Zebulon, a few miles north of Nazareth. That locates him in the northern kingdom of Israel in 8th century during the prosperous reign of Jeroboam II, the son of Jehoash. During this king's reign and his father's reign before that, God granted Israel victory over the oppressive Aram to the north, and it was a great time in general for the northern kingdom of Israel. Not spiritually, but at least materially. Jonah was likely at his hometown, Gath Hepher, when he received the command to go preach to Nineveh. And what was so hard about that? Was it the distance? Well Nineveh was situated on the east side of Tigris River, about 550 miles northeast of Samaria. It would take about uh it would take actually more than a month if Jonah traveled at the standard pace of 15 to 20 miles per day. It was founded by Nimrod and Genesis 10 and Senakrib and his successor, Sargon II, established Nineveh as the Assyrian capital. The city was second in size only to Babylon and today it's in modern-day Iraq, opposite the modern town of Masul. But the distance and size of the city wasn't the issue that Jonah had. Remember that Jonah would go to Japah 35 miles away to board a ship destined for Tarshish. Tarshus is in modern-day Spain. That's 2500 miles away. 500 miles eastward on land to Nineveh. Compare that to estimated 2,500 miles maritime journey westward to Tarshish. Instead of saying to God, I will go to the ends of the earth for you, Jonah is saying, I will go to the ends of the earth against you. So if it's not the travel, what is it? What was the beat that Jonah had? Who did Nineveh? Well it was their wickedness. In verse 2, the Lord Himself tells Jonah, their wickedness has come up before me. Later in chapter 3 verse 8 we learn that they're evil about their evil and violence. Zephaniah 2. 15, you can look at these later, but it condemns their arrogant false sense of security. Nahum 3 adds lies, robbery, harlotries, and sorceries to the list of their vices. Even in extra-biblical literature and archaeology, their brutalities and idolatries were well known. So last thing Jonah wanted was to see their conversion, to see their salvation. We read in verse 4, uh chapter 4, verse 2. That Jonah knew exactly what God would do because of who he is. A gracious, merciful, slow to anger, abundant in loving kindness, and yes One who relents from doing harm. That's not what he wanted to see. He was more afraid of God's grace than God's wrath. He couldn't risk saying a word to them because what if they repented and God didn't destroy them? What if he had to witness their conversion? So he goes to Japan, then goes to Tarshish, south and west respectively, opposite in direction from Nineveh, northeast of Israel. He went southwest and said, I want to get away. Right. And one pastor compares it to this following scenario. Imagine a Jewish man in New York during World War Two hearing God say, I'm going to bring terrible judgment on Germany. I want you to go to Berlin and tell Nazi Germany to repent. Instead of doing it, the man heads for San Francisco and then hops on a boat for Hong Kong. So that's sort of like the analogy here. Jonah's itinerary portrays his spiritual distance from God. So as he's moving westward, as he's moving away from his destination, it shows you that he has a problem relating to the God who is above in heaven. Now I've been taught that priests take us to God with sacrifices. Prophets bring God to us with His Word. Priests from earth to heaven, prophets from heaven to earth. It's sort of a simple way to differentiate between prophet and priest. But by abandoning his mission of salvation, Jonah has turned away from God. Listen to these verses from Isaiah 59, verses 1 to 3. I'll just read them for you. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot say, nor his ear heavy, that it cannot hear. God is everywhere. God is sovereign. But your iniquities have separated you from your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you so that he will not hear. For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity, your lips have spoken lies, your tongue has muttered perversity. Or consider Proverbs 15, 29. The Lord is far from the wicked. But he hears the prayer of the righteous. Are you distant from God? Being here is a great start. But you know you could still come here and sit in the pews, listen to the word and sing hymns, talk with the saints, and be distant from God. So that's why you need to examine yourself. Follow Paul's imperative to examine yourself as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourself. Do you not Know yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you unless indeed you are disqualified. 2 Corinthians 13, 5. You know, the apostle wrote not to heathens, he wrote that to a church. To a bunch of professing Christians. As we talked about a few weeks ago, if see if there's some unrepentant sin that needs to be brought to light. Before the Lord's supper today, ask the Spirit to reveal to you thoughts, words, and acts that displease him. Confess them before our merciful Father. Now what happens if we don't repent and persist in our disobedience? Eventually the disobedience that we persist in distances us from others. That's verses 4 to 6. Like the prodigal son, Jonah leaves his home country. Why does he do that? He wants to get away from any reminders of his duties, all tricks of conscience. Inside the ship, we find that he's turned in his badge, put away his mantle, caught it a career. Look at Jonah's location as the storm approaches. He's at the lowest parts of the ship, away from all human contact. This isn't just major introverting. This is sin causing us to separate ourselves from others. Jonah, the one called prophet, spurns the prophetic calling. The awaker of souls is now the sleeper. It's a shame that a heathen had to preach to a man of God in verse six. What do you mean, sleeper? Arise, call on your God. Perhaps your God will consider us so that we may not perish. And look at this opportunity that Jo Jonah was missing. Imagine if hundreds of unsaved people pack this building next Sunday and they're in panic about some death. Some disease, whatever it may be. Let's say, however, I live this week in complete disobedience, prepare no sermon, and hide in my basin on Sunday morning. You will be wondering what's wrong with Song, right? Doesn't he see this opportunity, these people in desperate need of the gospel? Why isn't he fulfilling his ministry? Well you would just say some is living in disobedience. What kind of disobedience though? J. I. Packer wrote that, quote, there are in fact two motives that should spur us constantly to evangelize. The first is love of God and concern for his glory. The second is love of man and concern for his welfare When we fail in that first commandment to love God, when we are distant from Him, it won't be long before we fail in the second commandment to love our neighbor. In verses 7 to 10, we see how disobedience distresses others. The men restore Jonah out of his self-imposed exile. All hands on deck here. This was no ordinary Mediterranean school. After much prayer, the men decided to cast lots to find the culprit as the storm showed no sign of abating. Now casting of lots was not a hedon practice against God's will. We read in Proverbs 1633, the lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the Lord. We see the practice in identifying the guilty Achan in Joshua 7, Jonathan's trespass in 1 Samuel 14. dividing up land in Joshua 15 and choosing up Judas' replacement in Matthias in Acts chapter 1. After the day of Pentecost, however, we no longer uh read about the lot for the believer. It seems that now, and I believe this to be true, that the indwelling spirit is the all-sufficient guidance for the church who makes decision according to God's revealed word. So once Jonah is identified, the sailors pummel him with questions in verse 8. Please tell us, for whose cause is this trouble upon us? What is your occupation? Where do you come from? And what is your country? And of what people are you? And now we have Jonah's first recorded words in this book. I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. And with that confession, the men respond in fear. Back in verse 5, we already saw them afraid. Now we read here, literally, that the men feared a great fear. As one commentator, Charles Feinberg writes, the storm proclaims the omnipotence of God better than Jonah could. See, I said earlier that prophets bring God to people. This was the worst possible way for Jonah to do that. And these hidden men were more alarmed by Jonah's disobedience than he was. But even if Jonah's desensitized to his own sin, he won't be long. We learn from verses 11 to 15 that disobedience distresses us. It always has a way of coming back to haunt us. I can say this confidently. Even if you don't have any pangs of conscience, shame, or embarrassment about your sin at the moment, Our disobedience either distresses us in this life or the next. Guaranteed. Like a boomerang. I pray for all of us here that our sins distress us now in this lifetime, not in eternity to come. That we will weep over our sins now on earth rather than weep over them later outside of heaven. So to w awake from his own spiritual slumber, Jonah needed a rude awakening, a cold splash of water, literally. And I mean a lot of it. When the ask when the man asked him what should be done in verse eleven, his response in verse twelve is, Pick me up and throw me into the sea, then the sea will become calm for you. For I know that this great tempest is because of me. We sense here that Jonah is returning to his senses. Feinberg, who I quoted earlier, comments, quote, The answer of Jonah reveals him in a better light than anywhere else in the entire book. It took real courage to advise him as he did. Note that he did not throw himself into the sea, for there is a vast difference between an awakened conscience and a despairing conscience. Jonah confesses he is worthy of death and is willing to endure the punishment. He's turning himself in. He's realizing the weight of his sin. He knows he distanced himself from God. He tried wrongfully to distance himself from others. He regrets how he jeopardized their lives because of his rebellion. And for that he is finally distressed. He needed his light to crumble around them like a house of cards, people repenting. In his mind, his last act on earth would be to die for these men who would have died because of him. As we observe Jonah recovering his faith in Yahweh, the Gentile men with him revealed their growing faith in Yahweh. They do all that they could to get back to dry land so that Jonah doesn't have to drown, but to know Baal. So they cry, as we see there, we pray, O Lord, please do not let us perish for this man's life, and do not charge us with innocent blood. For you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you. Let's not miss the significance of this prayer. These heathens are now calling on Yahweh just as the true Israelites did. They were valuing a man's life, revealing how much they fear God. They recognize God of Israel as sovereign over all. He's the one who orchestrated the storm, the lot, and the word of the prophet. And now all that was left for them to do was to obey God who spoke to the disobedient prophet. And the result was that they were saved from the storm. Now the last two verses of this chapter teaches us that disobedience does not stop God's plan. Verses 16 and 17. From the beginning, he intended to bring salvation to the Gentiles. Salvation belongs to our sovereign God who will save those he intends to save. He intended to save that ship and the men on it. And now they're not only saved from the depths of seawater, but from depths of hellfire. Their souls were converted. And here's how I believe this took place. Look how in first in verse 5 they were afraid. Then in verse 10, they were exceedingly afraid. Now here in verse 16, praise God, then the men feared the Lord exceedingly. I believe the genuineness of their faith is proven by their sacrifice and vows made to Yahweh. And what about God's plan to have Jonah preach to Nineveh? That's still going to happen. The Lord of the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land, had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah. One philosopher wrote that coincidences are spiritual puns. We'd be better calling them providence. There are plenty of fish in the sea, but one that was just the right fit for Jonah. There's much room to swim in, but this one just happened to roam near the prophet. There's a lot of prey to eat, but it swallowed a praying man. This is nothing short of a miracle. Jesus himself called it a sign in Matthew 12, 39. And there are plenty of parallels between Jonah's ordeal and Jesus' death and resurrection. We read in Luke 12, 50 that like Jonah, Jesus had to undergo a terrible baptism. Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. And according to rabbinic sources and New Testament, the phrase three days and three nights could refer to 72 hours or any portion of three days. So we know that Jesus died on Friday afternoon and rose from the dead Sunday morning. More interesting are the differences between Jonah and Jesus, the one greater than Jonah. Jonah sinned and put others in danger. Jesus was innocent and cared for his flock. Jonah was rightfully thrown into the deep for his own sin. Jesus went through deep suffering for our sins. Jonah was in a sense buried alive. Jesus was buried dead. Jonah was restored to preach to a pagan city. Jesus rose from the dead to be the light to the Gentiles, God's salvation to the ends of the earth Whether it's in Jonah's life or Jesus' life, God's plan cannot be halted. He will have his message, his messenger. Delivered and sent to those he has appointed to be saved. Are you like Jonah today? Have you run away from God To board a ship to a Tarsish of your own making. Have you shirked from your calling, your duties, your responsibilities? You don't have to be a vocational prophet to be like Jonah. God called you to be a husband, a wife, a child, a student, an employee, a teacher, a pastor. And we all stumble in many ways. And we flee from his presence. Our disobedience puts our family, our workplace, our friends, our church in danger. And if you have never heard this kind of message before, if you have never asked Jesus to save you, if the Lord is convicting you at this moment, do not resist. Fight nor flight will work. You won't win or escape. Like I said earlier, you'll pay for your sins this life or next. Turn back to the Lord. And if the Lord is convicting you right now, know that this building, this pulpit, this pew, he arranged it all for your restoration, your repentance. He has sought you out like a lost sheep. Whether you are like the heathen sailors or come from a religious family like Jonah, God has you exactly where he wants you. Whether you you are repenting for the first time or this is one of your many failures, his plan has always been to confront you and deal with sin. And he has already paid the price for sin. Because he sent his son Jesus Christ to die for us. He has provided a way. And if you have already received this gift, praise God. If not, the gift is available for you. We have Jonah and we have other examples of sinners in the Bible. You don't have to go through the afflictions that Jonah went through But sadly, many of us will need that. We read in Psalm 119, 71 through 72. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of coins of gold and silver. Don't wait for affliction to happen before turning back to the Lord. And for those who are already saved, don't despair if the Lord is disciplining you. It means he loves you as a father. Hebrews twelve five through six says, My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him, for whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. O take and seal it. Seal it for thy course above. Lord, we all come as prodigals. We all come as rebels. At one point or another we have turned away from your presence and we have tried to run away. Lord, we pray that as we look at this passage, as we look at the scriptures, Lord, may we not wait too long before repenting and confessing. If we have never turned to you in faith, we pray that you would convict the hearts of those who are not saved at this moment. And for us who may be hiding some sin, I pray that we would just open ourselves before you and confess them. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Okay. Ladies choir is going to sing a song and invite your attention to the insert with the words as usual. Simple song, but I I really appreciate it. Jesus, thank you. Every line reminds me of a scripture. Let me just uh maybe share. Alright, my iPad. If you look at the uh chorus, your blood has washed away my sin, Jesus, thank you. The Father's wrath completely satisfied, once your enemy, now seated at your table.