Good morning. Good to be with you this morning. Will you take your Bibles and turn with me, please, to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter number 13? Matthew 13. While you're turning there, I'll give a brief update on uh something good. You say, did he say something good? Yes, something good is happening at the bottom one. Rescue mission. We've had our trials and uh we continue to have them, lots of challenges. But um after interviewing eight different individuals For the possibility of having an assistant director again one day. Our brother Mel Griasley retired two weeks ago this past Friday. Uh he was there for exactly twenty years. He retired on his seventieth birthday this And uh he did give me two years' warning. I kept trying to talk to him, but he said no, that's what we're gonna do. So it's done. And uh So as if I didn't have a little bit to do, now I have a little bit more to do, you know, trying to fill in all the gaps. But uh the Lord is able to help and my wife certainly is is doing all she can to help as well. And the staff. I don't want you to think that they are uh not not uh Willing to help and not able to help. We have 18 men on staff and four ladies and uh working together to do all that we have to do, the Lord's able to. to keep it going and even move it forward. But the good news is is that oh uh last January when we were down uh at uh on the board down at the college, as you know, down at Pensacola. And we were at a meeting down there, and my son-in-law, who works on the maintenance staff, he uh Married her daughter Barbara, by the way, this Tuesday, uh she's getting ready to have her fourth little boy. I say that tongue in cheek. Uh her first one was like ten 10-5, the next one was 11-6. You know, she doesn't have little ones, so anyway, her her first, her fourth child, whatever he's gonna be, but anyway, um And so we're looking forward to being there for that, and I'm also going to be down there for commencement with the college and everything. And uh so we uh we were down there in uh January. And my son in law said, Hey, uh, you know, I'm working with a guy on the maintenance staff. He's a graduate student. And uh, Lord willing, next week he'll be getting his Masters of Divinity uh from the seminary down there. And he said, the guy's really sharp, and he said he's a hard worker. And he said he has a servant's heart. That's huge. Okay, that's probably one of the biggest credentials he told me about. The guy really loves loves the Lord and wants to He said he's just willing to do anything to serve the Lord and and seems to be uh very sincere. And uh so we we talked to him when we were down there in January, had lunch with him and And I liked what I saw and I asked him a bunch of questions and so came back to Maryland and talked to our board of directors and uh said, hey, I think I got a possibility. Would you be willing to to talk to him and they said, sure, get him up here. So we flew him up. And he was here over Easter and uh got up here, was it Thursday night? And we met with him Friday morning, good Friday morning, and uh had a great meeting with him, grilled good and hard, doctrinally. Brother Timmy'd appreciate that. And uh make sure that he had his uh eyes dotted and his t's crossed right and checked a lot of things out on him personally and so he uh he was called by the board of directors And uh about a week later he called me back and said I accept the call. So we're excited about that. Uh pray with us on this one little issue. He he is under contract with the school Until July of next year. That's a long time. But they do sometimes release people from their contracts if they're coming to another ministry. And so uh pray for that that uh they would release him early. He has put in a request for that with the powers that be down there. So we're praying the Lord will move their hearts to release him very, very soon after graduation. In the meantime. We're working to uh fill in the gap and do the best that we can to see things go forward. So if you keep that in prayer, the lawsuits pending still uh and the the water situation. We're making progress on it. I have it in the hands of an attorney, and we're working on that, but they are two issues that are still up in the air And so if you'll keep us in prayer on those as well. All right. I want to talk to you this morning a little bit about our enemy. Our enemy. And you know who he is. And he's found in our text in Matthew chapter 13, verse number 36. Jesus is speaking here one of five parables that he gives as recorded in chapter 13. of Matthew. He's already given the parable. Now he's giving the the explanation of it or the interpretation of it to his disciples. And he says in verse 36, then Jesus sent the multitude away and went into the house, and his disciples came unto him, saying, declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field. He answered and said unto them, He that soweth a good seed is the Son of Man The field is the world. The good seed are the children of the kingdom. But the tares are the children of the wicked one. It's another name for him, isn't it? The wicked one. The enemy that sowed them is the devil. So we don't have to guess what he's talking about, do we? He has Interpreted the parable for us, we don't have to try to figure out what he's talking about. Very, very clear. The enemy is the devil. And he says, uh Let me see if I can get back here to where I was. The field is the world, verse 38, the good seed are the children of The kingdom, the terrors of the children of the wicked one, the enemy that sowed them is the devil, the harvest is the end of the world, and the reapers are the angels. As therefore the tares are gathered and burned into the fire, so shall it be in the end of this world. The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend. And them which do dis do iniquity, and shall cast them into a furnace of fire, there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father who hath ears to hear, let him hear. Shall we pray together as we begin? Our Heavenly Father, we hear in every place we go. Where God's people are gathered together, long lists of prayer requests. Often many people who are sick and suffering. Other people who are lacking things, they have tremendous needs. Some with great family difficulties, and on and on the list goes. Lord, we say we are Christians, we love you. Why do we have to go through this? Well, first of all, we we know we're living under a curse. The wages of sin is death, and we're all dying. And the Bible says that along with that curse comes pain and suffering. And along with that comes one who adds gasoline to the fire of the suffering. And he is our enemy. He's the enemy of God, but he's also our enemy. And the devil can't make us do anything, but he tempts us and he tries us and he tests us. And you allow him. You allow him to do that to test our faith. And to let us see our own weaknesses so oftentimes that we're not as strong as we think we are, and how very desperately we need you for everything. Now help us today, we pray. Satan's always, always looking to see who he who he can trip up, who he can get to fall, who he can get discouraged and want to quit. What he'd really like to do is kill us. And some people, he discourages some people so much that they do that to themselves. But yet we have one that is in us who can overpower our enemy. So we are not without hope and without help. Now teach us some things. Oh, maybe remind us of some things that we already know, but there may be some things here that may turn on a little light in our mind and in our heart. And say, hey, that that may help me. That may help me. So Lord, be our teacher. May the Holy Spirit of God direct us in your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Now, if you'll turn to Genesis chapter 3, this is not going to be an exhaustive study. It cannot be If you took a whole semester in a Bible class on the devil, one semester probably wouldn't be sufficient to cover the subject But we're going to cover some. Try to hit across some highlights, but I think the most important thing to begin with is the beginning. And Satan has always been the enemy of God. He has declared war on God. It started in heaven as Lucifer. He lost that battle very quickly, and God threw him out of heaven along with a third of the angels. How many was that? Well, the Bible says there was an innumerable number of angels, so you can't count them. So a third of whatever an innumerable number of angels is, that's how many demons had fallen with him. The Bible says some are reserved down in the center part of the earth in a place called Tartarus. I can't imagine how wicked that crowd must be down there. Because I know the ones that he allowed to roam the earth with Satan are more horrible than imaginable. But some of them have been reserved for their judgment, and God isn't even letting them loose at this point. But then we find that Satan is the God of this world, small g, and he has An army, if you will, of demons, fallen angels, who are there to do his bidding. All of different rank, all of different power. They're not all the same. We see that in Ephesians 6. So I want us to look now in verse number one of Genesis chapter 3. The serpent was more subtle, and that's one of his key strategies is to use subtlety. On man, more subtle than any beast of the field, which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the tree fruit of the trees of the garden. But of the fruit of the tree of the which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall you touch it lest you die. And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die. So first he puts doubt, and then he denies the word of God altogether. Verse 5, but God doth know in that day ye eat thereof, ye shall, then shall your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as God small g. knowing good and evil. And the woman, when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, it was pleasant to the eyes, a tree to make to uh to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof Did eat, gave also their husband with her, and he did eat, and mankind was fallen The eyes of them both were opened. They knew they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. I won't take the time because of time today to read the rest of that chapter. But I think this is, if not the most, one of the most sad. And heartbreaking chapters in the Bible because it depicts the very fall of man. And everything that's ever happened to mankind in a negative way has happened as a result of this chapter. This chapter right here. We find that Satan himself is cursed. In verse number 14, the Lord God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed. Above all cattle and above every beast of the field, upon thy belly shalt thou go, thus shalt thou eat and all the days of thy life. And they we see that the earth is cursed. Verse 17, and unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for thy sake In sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Cursed. So we're living under a curse. And you wonder why things are always going backwards. You wonder why somebody came up with trying to define it by calling it Murphy's Law. What can go wrong will go wrong. Why every time you do your best, why every time you decide and you determine by the grace of God you're going to do better And by the grace of God, you're going to try to be the kind of Christian God wants you to be. And by the grace of God, you're going to try to raise the family the way God wants you to raise the family. And by the grace of God You want to band together and have the kind of church God wants you to have. You wonder why things don't go your way? It's not bad luck. It's your enemy. You have an enemy. He hates you. He hates you. He despises you because you were trying to live for God and God has already disowned him because he tried to override God in heaven. We have a battle, friends. More than a battle, we have a war. We have battles with the devil pretty much every day, he or his crowd. But we have a fight that is a mortal conflict unto death. I didn't say retirement, I said unto death Read the Bible, and you'll find out many of the patriarchs in the Bible had their greatest tests, their greatest times of difficulty in their lives in their later years. In their later years. Oh, many have been tested all throughout their lives. Look at Joseph and many others. But many of them. Had their greatest tests late in life. So you're never too old to be a target of the devil. You've never gotten to the point where the devil's not interested in destroying you. He's always been doing that. So first of all, we see here that he's subtle. Look with me in 2 Corinthians chapter 11. Now, I'm going to do more teaching than preaching, I hope. That's my intent, but it doesn't mean it won't come out the other way. 2 Corinthians chapter 11, would you look with me down in verse number 13? It says, for such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. He's subtle, remember? He's subtle. He doesn't always come at you as a roaring lion. He doesn't always come at you with a baseball back or a flaming sword. Verse 14, and no marvel. For Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Now, how can something that God calls the epitome of darkness, and darkness is called sin in the Bible? How could something like that be transformed into an angel of light? To where you would look at him and say, why, he's a good guy. Why, he's saying the truth. Verse 15, therefore, therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers, his servants, the demons also be transformed as ministers of righteousness whose end shall be according to the ministers of righteousness. Again, we won't go to Ephesians 6. You already know about the whole armor of God. I don't have to teach that here But the Bible says we do battle against principalities and powers, against rulers in high places. We battle not against flesh and blood, because flesh and blood It's not the problem, it's what's behind the flesh and blood. The Devoniac of Gedeira was a nice guy once he got the devil out of him, wasn't he? I mean, while while he had all those demons in him, he was cutting himself and howling like a wolf all night long and was a crazy man and and you know just went nuts because he was nuts Because the devil was tormenting him. But once Jesus threw the demons out of him, he said, clothing in his right mind at the feet of Jesus and wanted to be with Jesus. There was nothing wrong with the demoniac of Gadera once you got the devil out of him. You know, that's the way it is with the world, isn't it? The world wouldn't be such a bad place if you got rid of the devil. Well that's not going to happen for a while, is it? At least for seven years. I mean, I hope and pray the Lord raptures us before I Get to eat lunch today, because I'm sure mana in heaven is going to be better than anything I buy this afternoon. And we don't know when that's going to be, but it's going to be a while before Satan is finally destroyed. Now, we find that his strategy is that he is kind of like a roaring lion. It talks about in 2 Corinthians how that Satan would destroy anyone he could. He his mark is on everybody. His desire is to defeat Christians. He can't keep Christians from going to heaven, but he can keep them from being useful to God here on earth. So it says that that Satan don't don't don't be surprised if people who come at you and and they look as if they're really good people, as if they really are maybe even godly type people, if you find out that they are really nothing more than deceivers, because that's one of the key tools that Satan has in his arsenal. He's also the tempter. In Matthew 4. 1, I'll just read this for you. It says, Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit to be tempted of the devil. Matthew 4. 1 If the devil tempted Jesus, are you surprised that he tempts you? Do you think that somehow you've become so spiritual that now you don't have to worry about ever being tempted again? Boy, is that a deceitful thought. If Jesus could literally be tempted of the devil, and the Bible says he was tempted of the devil, then you can be tempted of the devil. You can be tempted of the devil. What did Jesus use to defeat that temptation? The word of God. We know it is said three times, it is written. You have the same word of God he had, only you have the completed word of God here. Of course, he knew that already, because he's the author of it. But we have the word of God that's used to be able to defeat the wiles of the devil. He's a murderer. And a liar, John 8. 44, ye are of your father the devil. He didn't say that to people that We're on his side. They were religious. Remember that he was talking to the Pharisees and the Sadducees, the Sanhedrin, the Jewish religious elite, if you would please He said to them, to the religious crowd, but by the way, John the Baptist told them the same thing basically when they came to him out in the wilderness to hear him preach and couldn't understand how how some uneducated vagabond was out in the middle of the wilderness preaching the word of God and people were coming out from Jerusalem to hear him and getting saved and getting baptized. And John said to that religious ministerial group that came from the Sanhedrin out of Jerusalem, and he called them a generation of vipers. And Jesus called them a generation. He called them weighted supplers. Jesus called them weighted supplers. He said, You are the father, you are of your father the devil. And the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. Do you know that every time the devil tells you something, it's a lie? Do you know that? Every time the devil says something to you, you can mark it down. It's a lie. So what you need to do is have discernment to know the difference between truth and error. He was a murderer from the beginning, abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. He is a liar. And when you hear a lie, it's from the devil. I don't care if a Christian's telling you it. If a Christian tells you a lie, he's not possessed of the devil. But he is being manipulated at that point by the devil. And by the way, you can be a pawn in the hand of the devil just as well. You can There is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. He's a murderer and a liar. He's a tempter. He's subtle. And he fills our hearts with fear. Matthew chapter 26. Would you turn back to Matthew? Matthew 26. Fear, phobas, phobia. Okay? Fear of water, fear of heights, fear of crowds. Fear of germs, a lot of those things going around today. Everywhere I go, there's a hand sanitizer. I don't know what we did without those things. I guess we all got sick and died early. Is that it? I mean, really? Is it going to really help? I don't know. Anyway, we won't get into that story Matthew 26, fear. Do you know what it is? Fear on steroids. A panic attack. A panic attack. Many of us have them. Most of us wouldn't ever admit to it. Your heart starts racing. Your stomach starts turning upside down You become paranoid. You're absolutely paralyzed emotionally. Could be that you're afraid you're going to lose your job Could be that you went to the doctor's for your annual checkup and got the blood work back. And he told you the thing that you feared the most would happen to you. He tells you that's what you have now. Fear. Fear that your kids are gonna get a car accident and die Fear. Satan uses that as a tool. Matthew 26, he takes Jesus' disciples, his apostles, who are with him. In the garden. And they've all vowed along with Peter that they would never forsake him. They'd follow him to jail even unto death. Matthew 26, verse 56, but all this was done that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him and fled. And they that had laid their hands on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. But Peter followed him afar off. There there's there's a good indicator of of Peter Peter's spirituality. and his faithfulness. He followed him afar off. He didn't want to be identified with him. Under the high priest's palace and went in and sat with the servants to see the end. Whose servants were he sitting with? Servants of the high priest, not the servants of God. Got in the wrong crowd because he wasn't walking with God. Down in verse 73, and after a while came unto him They that stood by and said to Peter, Surely thou art one of them, for thy speech betrayeth thee. Then began he to curse and to swear, the cussing preacher. Hmm? The cussing preacher. He is a preacher. He was the head dog of the apostles. He was the head of the inner circle, Peter, James, and John He was the spokesman. The spokesman's now cursing and swearing, denying that Jesus even was his friend He began to curse and square, I know not the man, and immediately the cock crow. Peter remembered the words of Jesus which which uh which said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice, and he went out and wept bitterly. He went out and wept bitterly. His fear caused his sorrow. We just read Hebrews. 2, 4 through 15 today, so I'm not going to turn there, but it talked about how Satan has the power over death. Had it. Had it. Past tense. He that had power over death and kept us in bondage of fear and death all of our lives. Praise God for salvation. Amen. I'll tell you what, folks, he can't take that from you. That's a wonderful doctrinal pillar of our faith. No matter where I die or when I die or how I die, I will not die alone. He's promised never to leave me. Or forsake me. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. He's going to be there. He's going to be there. In Revelation chapter 118, would you look there with me, please? You see, the Lord Jesus Christ, and you know this as well as me, but I'm just giving this as a really as a word of encouragement. Revelation 118, I am he that liveth and was dead. Wow. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death. Satan's powerful. He's not omnipotent. He's not all powerful. He's more powerful than you. He's more powerful than me, but he's not more powerful than God. He is the accuser of the brethren. He's a murderer and a liar. He's a tempter. He's subtle. He fills our heart with fear. Because we get our eyes off of Jesus. He's an accuser of the brethren, Revelation 12, 10. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now has come salvation and strength in the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accuse them before our God day and night. He never lets up. Never let's up on you. Here's the thing you need to work at. Not giving him anything to accuse you of. I don't like being lied about. I have been lied about. Maybe you have too. I have been lied about. I've had people lie on me. Tell tell people that I did things or I said things that I had not done. Before God in heaven, I know that I hadn't done those things or said those things. I can't keep people from saying something about me. That's not true. But I can make sure that they don't say anything bad about me that is true. Amen? That's up to me. That's up to me So that if they do say something that's bad about me, I can at least have peace in my heart to know it's a lie, and I know where that lie came from, and it didn't come from them, it came from my enemy. Because he's accusing me again. Not only does he accuse me before you, but he accuses me before God in heaven. He accuses me before God in heaven, and he doesn't care whether it's day or night when he does it. He's an accuser of the brethren. So you see his strategies. I won't reiterate them, but you see how we tried to point them out a little bit. Now take a look at his weaponry. Mark 16. Mark sixteen. He uses demons. He uses demons. The President of the United States is not only the chief executive, he is also the commander-in-chief. He has at his disposal All of the arsenals of America's military, including manpower, including technology, everything That goes with it. He has at his disposal. He is the commander in chief. And I want to tell you something. When it comes to spiritual warfare, the devil, the devil, our enemy. Is the commander in chief of evil. He is the commander in chief. The Bible says there were about a thousand a thousand uh uh swine, pigs that ran down into the water and drown themselves that day. If one if one man can be the home of over a thousand demons There's plenty around for you and me. Now, no, we won't be possessed, but there's plenty around to harass us And to try to keep us from being affected for the Lord. In Mark sixteen, verse nine, it says, Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils. For the lost they can be possessed. But when you get saved, you can be delivered. But Mary Magdalene had seven devils, seven demons tormenting her. I don't know if there are demons that have certain characteristics. There are some uh that that feel like, you know, well that person's got the demon of lying and that person's got the demon of murder and that person's got the demon of lust. I don't know about all that. I I don't see that in the Bible What I do though, though, is that demons are the emissaries of the devil, and he uses them to harass Saved people and to possess unsaved people. Ephesians 6:12, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers rulers of the darkness of this world against spiritual wickedness in high places. So demons are used to influence human beings. Again, they can possess the lost, but in the case of a saved person, they can be used to influence us and tempt us To do wrong or not to do right. I want to read 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse number 7. Paul said, a saved man, this was not Saul, this was Paul And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, a demon. There was given to him. Merry Christmas, Paul. Now you have a demon to bother you, to buffet me. Didn't indulge him, but it was to buffet him. The messenger of Satan. God makes it very specific. To buffet me, why would God allow or even send a demon? Didn't God sick the devil on Job? Is that not biblical? Yes, God sick the devil on Job. God said to the devil, Have you considered my servant Job? And the devil took up the challenge. There was sent to Paul, a demon, to buffet him, to slow him down. Why? To humble him. Lest I should be exalted above measure. That's pride. Well, look at all the the devil comes up to him and says, Well, look at all the word of God you God gives you to write. Man, you must be something special, Paul. And Paul started buying it. Maybe. I don't know. He must have been at least on the verge of buying it because God sent him a messenger of Satan to buffet him. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice. He said, Lord, I can't handle this. Lord, this is slowing me down. Lord, you know what I want to do, but I can't do it. My strength is made perfect in weakness, God said. Most gladly, therefore, Paul said, Well, I'd rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. He said, I'd rather have a thorn in the flesh. And be limited, that the power of Christ may be seen in me, rather than be completely whole, and people say, Well, isn't Paul a great guy? I don't get all shook up when I can't do what I did when I was younger, if I think about it in the right way You see the truth of the matter is now I'm not planning on hanging around forever where somebody's gotta say, well b will will somebody please tell Chuck Bittner it's time to hang it up. I don't want to do it that long, but I don't think I'm there yet. I asked my wife, please let me know when it's time. If I don't have enough sense to figure it out. And just because I limp a little bit doesn't mean it's time, by the way. I ain't quitting that easy. But uh Paul said, My weakness is God's opportunity to show his power, and so God can use something even Satan allows or sends his way to slow him down to glorify God. I hope all this is making a little bit of sense to you this morning. You see, God wants us to be dependent upon Him. And sometimes He uses some strange ways of doing it. In uh Second Corinthians chapter twelve, down in verse number seven. He says there three times. He says three times in verse number eight that God would deliver him from this, and God chose not to deliver him. So we see his strategy, we see his weaponry, and finally we see his defeat In Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 22, the Bible says, Be angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil, neither give place to the devil. God is not interested in us giving one inch of ground to Satan. Not one inch. Not one inch. Lest the camel get his nose under the tent and take over the tent. And all you have to do is compromise with the devil. He'll be glad to compromise with you, by the way. He'll be glad to give you 90% of the deal if you'll give him 10. Because after a while he's going to pick up another ten. And after a while he's going to pick up another ten. He's got plenty of time. You think you won because you you you you won 90% of the compromise. You're all you're only you're only you're only letting him in a little bit. There was a preacher, I can't remember the song, he wrote a song, fairly local in the state of Maryland, on the eastern shore. That's as far as I'm going to tell you. And he would preach in different pastors' meetings I'd gone to. And by the way, you realize I've been going to these preachers' meetings meetings almost 40 years. Now. So it's been a little while. And he got into internet pornography. Was married, had kids, had a nice church. At a nice church. And then all of a sudden he got on the chat room. Beware of social media. I'm not saying it's all wicked. I'm just saying beware of it. Be careful. Be careful with that stuff. He got on social media and met a lady who needed some counseling. They ended up doing their counseling in the hotel room. He lost it all. Lost it all. Got found out. Got found out. Lost his wife and his kids and his testimony and his Ministry. Don't ask me where he is now. I have no idea. He's not anywhere around here, I don't think. How could it happen? How did that happen? Well the devil said You know, if you take and click this button, it'll take you here. That's the compromise, gentlemen. By the way, I I I think I read some statistics last time about how large a percentage of women are using internet pornography now. We were at a lady's house uh the night before a preacher's meeting on the eastern shore. We she she's got a little prophet said we with her house and she lets us stay there with her. We'll call her up and say, hey, rather than have to fight the work traffic in the morning, can we come and spend the night? And she always has us there. She was telling me about some of her friends. She's 80 years old. Listen to me. Listen to me. She's eighty years old, and she's telling me some about some of her girlfriends that on the weekend look at hardcore pornography, and I'm talking about senior citizen ladies. Christians that have their fun on the weekend getting together looking at hardcore pornography. Don't tell me it's just men. It's not just men. And so you see Don't give place to the devil. It starts out with that little that one that one more click. You say, well, I think I know where that's going. So you click that. And then it gives you another opportunity to make another click and do another another whole avenue. Well, I wonder if I if I hit that clip. Where that would take me. It's called curiosity. Call it curiosity. And we justify ourselves and we say, well, it's not all that bad. Oh yeah. Yeah, right. Neither give place to the devil. 1 Peter 5. 8 says, Well, let's look at it. I want you to see the last part of that verse real well. I want you to see it with your eyeballs. Be sober, be serious. Wake up. Be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil. Isn't that an enemy? Your adversary is the enemy. The enemy, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. That tells me some encouraging words. He can't have all of us. And he doesn't have to have you. Okay? The devil didn't make you do it. He just suggested it would be kind of fun if you did, because there is pleasure in sin for a season. Seeking whom he may devour. Whom resist. You ever thought about saying no to some of this mess? You ever thought about that? Just plain no. Do whatever you gotta do to put guards around yourself. I don't care if it has to do with lying. I don't care if it has being malicious and wishing evil on other people. I don't care. If it's the fact that you've got to be in control all the time. And if you're not in control, you're going to make life miserable for everybody. Man, we got some people that we know on both sides of our family. I'll be honest with you Christians, been Christians for 30 and 40 years. Control freaks. They got to run everybody's life. By the way, God didn't call you to run everybody's life. Huh That's a sin, you know that? Trying to put your thumb on everybody's life And making it making it miserable for them if they won't do it, if they won't jump through your hoops. I never preached that before. I kind of like that. I have to do that again sometime. It's the biblical John 316. Seeking whom he may devour. Can he can he devour you? Can can he? 1 John 4, 4, I'm done. Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome the world, because greater is He that is in you. than he is in the world. You have not been left defenseless and weaponless in spiritual warfare. You have a spiritual atomic bomb. He's called the Holy Spirit. He is greater than the devil because he's God. Put on, therefore, the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand the wiles of the devil Resist. Resist. Resist. You don't know. I don't know. I I I I kind of love military history And I've read about a lot of wars and a lot of battles. But I gotta tell you, I tell I gotta tell you, folks, so many, so many, so many, so many times. So many times the battle has been won. Lawrence Chamberlain Commander of a of a little band of men on top of a place called Little Round Top, not too many miles from here. Lawrence Chamberlain. When the Southern Army was coming up the mountainous terrain of Little Roundtop, they were coming up to flank the Union Army. If they could have set their guns on top of that hill. If they'd have taken Little Round Top and taken Big Round Top, they could have set their guns up there and they could have devastated the Union Army. And Lawrence Chamberlain, he knew that. They fought head to head, to the death, outnumbered, and ran out of ammunition. And he called for them to fix baynuts. And charged downhill in the face of blazing guns. And defeated the enemy that day and saved the Union Army and maybe saved the war. Why? He didn't turn and run. He didn't say, the enemy is too powerful for me. The enemy's too strong for me. We're tired. We're worn out. We can't take it anymore. They were all tired, wore out, didn't even have any ammunition. And most of them were bleeding and wounded. And they charged down that hill and took over. Resist when he comes to you. Resist when he says no one else will know. No one else will find out. It's just between us. Resist when you what do you think it means when the Bible says When Jesus suffered being tempted. Have you ever really resisted temptation? It does hurt. But you can resist. And in resisting by the power of God, you can win. Father, bless your word, I pray, this day. May it encourage our hearts. May we realize we do not have to be a puppet in the hand of the devil. That we have one who is stronger than our adversary and our enemy. Help us to cling to him and help us to resist in his name. Lord, that you might use us for your glory. Heads are bowed, no one's looking. I would be remiss, I feel, today, if I did not ask you, are you saved? By that I mean, are you a Christian? By that I mean have you turned to Christ. With your sins, confessing them is wrong, and that you are weak and unable to save yourself And that only through the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross of Calvary can you receive forgiveness and redemption. You say, Well, I'm not sure. Friend, you can be sure just as sure as you're sitting in that view today. Here's how it could go. Would you pray? If you're not sure you're saved this day. You could pray something like this, if you mean it in your heart, Dear Lord, I know I'm a sinner. Please forgive me. I know I cannot save myself. But I believe that Jesus died on the cross, paid the price of my sin, the wages of sin is death. He paid it for me. And if by putting my faith and trust in his finished work for my salvation, I'm trusting him to take me to heaven when I die. If that's you today, you prayed it and you meant it. Heads are bowed, no one looking. You prayed it and you meant it. Would you lift your hand and take it down? That was me. I prayed and I meant it. Anyone like that? Father, bless your word to our hearts this day. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. God bless you.