It's a humbling thing to approach God's Word and to see some of the things that are very difficult really to when you face them honestly. Uh the they're very much not natural. It's not natural. It it goes against the flesh, a lot of what we we're dealing with here. And uh so let's just pray and ask the Lord to help us today as we think about the battle that the Lord's called. us to. Father, we need your help. We need your Holy Spirit to minister your word to us and to uh so that we might be enabled uh To be to to stand in a day, to stand in an evil day, Father. Guard my words, Father. May they be faithful to your word and careful to encourage and challenge. Uh Father, we uh thank you for enabling us thus far to go on in the work and to continue to appreciate the gospel. And Father, we just pray that your Son will be glorified and lifted up this morning as we look in your word. For we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. James chapter four says, uh you don't need to turn there, but whereas you know that you shall not be on uh You shall not uh whereas ye know not, shall be on the morrow, for what is your life, it is even a vapor, appears for a little time and vanishes away. Psalm 144 says, man is like a breath. His days are like a passing shadow. And sometimes that's the way I feel in Ireland. I'm just a shadow over there, you know, and I'm having very little effect. I know the psalmist is speaking about that shadow in time, but sometimes I feel like I'm not having much of an effect over there, you know. And so and that's been probably going on for a long time. And so then the encouragement is, well, you know, you need to reevaluate your strategy. Okay. Need to reevaluate your strategies. And of course, most local churches in Ireland in the States are evaluating their strategies, trying to figure out how are we going to grow. And uh and yet as you go back to the scriptures and when we think about the brevity of life and and what really brings an impact upon people. You know, I'm convinced of this that the most effective missionary evangelist in the New Testament, without a doubt, is the Apostle Paul. And you ask yourself why. You asked yourself, why was the Apostle Paul so effective? And as I look at him I just marvel that it was in the context of extreme persecution that Paul was willing to face That none stopped him. And it was all about Jesus accomplishing power and victory in the Apostle Paul to preach the gospel And I and I would say to you today, friends, uh, we're just a bunch of old clay pots, and some of us call it, some people would call us crack pots, you know? But uh we're just a bunch of weak vessels, aren't we? And it doesn't take a lot for us to pass away like that shadow. But when we open ourselves up to the Lord Jesus and we say, Lord, I can't do this. Can't do it. And when we and when we're honest with him about that, when we go forth in weakness, it doesn't matter what the world says, or what the world does to us, or what people say about us. We know that Jesus is accomplishing his witness in and through us. And that's where I'd like to take you to today, just some of the passages on the Apostle Paul. Just encourage you a little bit in Acts chapter 9. And then later on towards the end of the sermon, we'll talk a little bit about what gives us that ability to stand. Paul stood from day one and it's just amazing. I I mean I just I I just can't y you just can't see more of it in in the in our dear brother uh the one who was persecuting the church. And now all of a sudden what's he doing? He's doing just the opposite. He's uh taking the persecution himself. And so in John in Acts chapter 9, you pick up at verse 10, he says By this time, of course, the Lord Jesus has already appeared to Paul, but now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and to him the Lord said in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Here I am, Lord. So the Lord said to him, Arise and go to the street called straight, and inquire at the house of Judas, for one called Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he is praying. And in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him so he might receive his sight. Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much harm he has done to your saints in Jerusalem And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who call on your name. But the Lord said to him. Go, for he is a chosen vessel of mine, to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel, for I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake. What a wonderful challenge. Imagine having that in your testimony. The Lord showed me I'm going to suffer a whole lot of things for the sake of Jesus, for the sake of his name. Quite a testimony, isn't it? Quite an example, really. Paul says, become an imitator of me. I noticed that in the scriptures this morning where I was reading at 1 Corinthians 11. Follow me as I follow Christ. You know, what a picture of suffering here. And I think Saul is saved. In the midst of uh persecuting the saints, he's saved from that, and before salvation, now Saul is sold out. Uh before he was sold out to the extermination of Christianity, and now he's saved in that context. And I think that impacted on Paul the concept that, you know, persecution is the norm of being a Christian. Persecution is the norm. If we can accept it as being the norm, even as you look back there in chapter 5, where the apostles come away from a beating. Rejoicing that they had been counted worthy to suffer for the name of the Lord. And you'll notice that in Acts chapter 5. Again, it was as if it was a stamp of approval. It was God's stamp of approval that they were doing what they were supposed to be doing. Uh I think we need more of that mentality. Uh as we I preach in the streets sometimes and people will come up I remember one time, and it's kind of like this church, sometimes we go through those times when it's really hard to go on because Major changes, we're back on our own. We don't have anybody with us now. We're in another church plant. We're starting from square one. And you know, uh And the prompting is, Lord, yes, I need to be down on the streets preaching, you know. So and there's nobody to go with me. Okay, so Those are the real times when you just go out by faith and you say, okay, Lord, and go out and preach and uh Yeah, a bunch of these agnostics come up and start shouting back at me right there in front of me, just upset with me, you know. And I thought, well, you know. Why should it be any different? You'd think on that day the Lord would give me a special encouragement because I was having a down day, but no, the opposition got more fierce. And uh I was able to just Go through that and as I went home I said, Thank you, Lord. You were with me. No physical problems. Ah, a little bit of emotional struggle with that being rebuked by these atheists. But Came home stronger and and rejoicing and realizing it's good to go out and to step out in faith by oneself and preach the gospel. For each of us here, you know the churches are shrinking. And I would encourage you, uh, it's a wonderful thing to go out there to your neighbors. to the people around you that you know are there and to say and to think of it this way one guy introduced it to me this way he says imagine That your neighbors are upset with you in hell forever because you didn't share the gospel with them. Think about that That's a serious thought, isn't it? It's a little easier then to go and say, well, they can be upset with me now because I give them the truth and I and I can take it, you know. And that's kind of been my mentality in Limerick because, you know, when you first go to the mission field, it's all about relationships. You know, we're all trying to gather people in and trying to develop a relationship, earn the right to be heard, you know, we got all of that stuff. From the mystiologists. But you know, when you look at the Apostle Paul, you don't see any of that. Almost immediately, as we as we press on here, we see Paul is in Damascus for a few days. He's fellowshipping with these people that he he was trying to seeking to persecute. Uh and it's not long before Brother Saul is And you notice Ananias identifies him as brother Saul. We won't deal with that, but he accepts him as brother Saul. And then Verse 19 he says, so when he had received food, he was strengthened. Then Saul spent some days with the disciples at Damascus. In verse 20, still in Damascus, immediately he preached the Christ in the synagogues. And you notice it's plural. He went to the synagogues. It's a lot like Daniel going into the lion's den, okay? And you'd think he'd soften the message, but what does he say? He says, the Christ is the Son of God. Well, he couldn't have gone against Judaism in any more confrontive and direct way. And he did it in these synagogues. I tell you, that's some kind of boldness. Then all who heard were amazed and said, Is not this he who destroyed those who called on his name in Jerusalem? and has come here for the purpose so that he might bring them bound to the chief priests. But Saul increased all the more in strength and confounded the Jews who dwelt in Damascus, proving that this Jesus is the Christ. He is the Messiah. Interesting thing there, a lot of scholars think verse 21 is, between 21 and 22 is when the apostle had his stint in. Arabia and got special help from the Lord Jesus as Galatians talks about. And uh so when he came back, guess what Saul was full of? He was full of the Old Testament messianic passages that would confound the Jews And confront them seriously. And you notice he's strengthened there so that he really put those lads in disarray. He really did. He really confused them. And you know I find when you Talk to dear Catholic people and you say, look, the Bible says that you're not to bow down to the statues. The Bible says there's no human priesthood today. The Bible says there's not an ongoing sacrifice of the Mass. When you preach those things in the open air and people get confused. They get confounded. They're a bit upset. And you know, isn't that the way it should be? Paul wasn't afraid to do that. And we shouldn't be afraid to up be afraid to upset people because in being confounded, in being upset, what happens? The person has a chance to think. Why am I upset? Is it because I've been fed lies and not realize that they were lies? Because that's really what it's about. Some man does a baptism and says, now you're a child of God? What kind of malarchy is that? It's not According to the scriptures. And so as we expose those lies and as we do these things, people are confounded. And uh, of course, there's a consequence. And so verse 23 says the Jews were out to kill him, right? From day one, from early days, Paul is at the mercy of these men. They think they're going to do away with him, but we know the sovereign Lord protects brother Saul and and he becomes the Paul that we know in the New Testament. And so uh I think uh we just need to re be reminded of the of the power of the Word of God. And its ability to take uh these uh these uh false religion down, and Judaism is a false was a false system that had moved away from the truth of God's word. And um There's a there's a little quote I'd like to take from uh with regard to that confounding aspect of it in verse um 21, uh sorry, 22, where he confounded the Jews. Uh A. T. Robertson said, here Saul took the various items of the life of Jesus of Nazareth. and found in them the proof that he was really the Messiah. This method of argument Paul continued to use with the Jews It was an irresistible argument and spread consternation among the Jews. It was the most powerful piece of artillery in the Jewish camp that was suddenly turned around upon them. And apparently the Jews had a similar method of reasoning, of argumentation. Paul took that method and used it to confront the Jews with the deception that they were under about Jesus. And so uh it's so important for us to not be afraid of that. I I love to see my friend David out there, you know. He I do have a disciple now, and he goes with me a lot, and it's great to have him on the streets, and he teaches me things. Like he's got a little notebook and And he's got a page for the Mormons, you know, and he's got things written out for them, and a page for the Jehovah's Witnesses, and a page for the Muslims. And so when he's short of preaching material, he'll consult one of those pages and and then begin to preach in the open air on that particular subject, maybe confronting the false prophet uh Muhammad or whatever And uh but it it just uh amazes me how that David is not afraid to confront not just his the the Catholic religion, but Whatever else is happening in front of us out there in the streets and every once in a while we have to deal with those things. And I and I think too See that ability to confront and confound in a gracious way. We we need to do it. It's not easy. And I have to admit, and I struggle with it at times. You can get overbearing and obnoxious in your contendee. And and and that that's where the idea of striving, the scripture says, the serve of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle. There needs to be a gentleness in appealing to people about the lies that they're under. And so that's one of the tensions that we're always under. We're contending for the faith, but we're being gentle and gracious in how we reason with people. And uh and I've made some errors there down through the years, and the Lord's had to correct me on that. But it's wonderful when people are confounded and confused with regard to their faith system, so that they might take another look at it. In verses 23 to 31 Of course, we touched on that. Again, Paul is busy. He's preaching. He's And in verse you'll notice there uh now after many days were passed, the Jews plotted to kill him, but their plot became known to Saul, and they watched the gates. day and night to kill him. Then the disciples took him by night and led him down through the wall in a large basket. And then and when Saul had come to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him. and did not believe that he was a disciple. But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles, and declared to him how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that he had spoken to him, and how he preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus. Now here's a wonderful little phrase. He preached boldly. That word you'll see consistently is used of the Apostle Paul. Eight times uh that verb is used eight times in the New Testament. Uh pare siadsumai, it's a little bit hard to pronounce, but It means to be uh to speak freely, to speak confidently, uh, to be uh bold in speech. Now here's Barnabas. Witnessing before the disciples, this fellow is really speaking openly and boldly about the Messiah, about Christ. Well, what kind of wind did that take out of the sails of these men who were making accusations against Paul? Barnabas stood by Paul, and that little word, speaking boldly and freely, is what I'd like to focus on this morning because I think it's so important for us to realize that As we are dependent on the Holy Spirit and on the Lord Jesus, and as we fill ourselves with the Word of God, He empowers us to speak clearly and boldly. And we'll follow in the steps of the apostle. And yes, you have friends, you have neighbors, you have relationships. But the big problem is we need to pray for each other that we'll speak boldly in those relationships. Because those relationships you're you can hold that person's hand right into hell and they'll walk right into hell. without telling them the gospel. But we need to pray for each other that we'll be like the apostle and speak boldly as we ought to speak. Well as we as we look at uh Paul's ministry um He reminds uh I'd like you to go to 1 Thessalonians 2. 2 just to see how this is all carried out. I know we don't have a huge amount of time this morning and there's a whole load of references. Like you said, there's eight of them that are used of the Apostle Paul. And uh I won't give them all to you this morning, but Just a little Bible quiz. As far as you understand, who's the most what is the most effective, or what which is the most effective church uh for reaching out with the gospel in the in the in the New Testament. You Bible scholars probably know it, and I won't make you raise a hand because this isn't a Sunday school class, but you know, it's The church of Thessalonica. And I'd like you to turn there. And the reason I think is they're an example, they're a model. of what Paul's life accomplished amongst themselves. Paul nails it there rather early when he picks up on these verses in 1 Thessalonians. chapter 2 verse 2 and he's really commending the Thessalonians because you'll see in here that the gospel is spread everywhere Paul says, as a result of the ministry, the witness of the Thessalonian church. But there's a re that one of the reasons for it is this, and uh we'll just read these verses just for a second. He says, For you yourselves know, brethren, that our coming to you was not in vain, but even after we had suffered before, That was back in Philippi, and we're spitefully treated at Philippi. As you know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God in much conflict. I believe it's very possible that the scars were very much evident in Paul from the beating he'd taken at Philippi when he walked into Thessalonica. And Beyond that, the Thessalonians watch Paul get in a lot of trouble in Thessalonica as well. Let's read the next verses here. I just uh read in chapter two. Uh uh let's see uh let's see, two thirteen Yeah, chapter 2, verse 13. For this reason we also thank God without ceasing, because when you receive the word of God which you heard from us, You welcomed it not as the word of man, but as it is in truth the word of God, which also effectively works in you who believe For you, brethren, became imitators of the churches of God, which are on Judea, in Christ Jesus, for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen, just as you did from the Judeans. You see, Paul was a model of suffering for the truth of the gospel. What happens? They observe it in his life, and they become a model church. for suffering as they followed the Judeans who suffered for the cause of the gospel. So as you see, this willingness to be persecuted, this willingness to take suffering for the for the for the Lord Jesus. is all part of the model that the Lord has to show the effectiveness of the Word of God. Today when you hear about India, you hear about churches growing in India, Very weak situations, but what do you hear? You hear the Hindus rising up and persecuting, burning the buildings. But what happens? The church is growing The church is growing. Because people are saying, why are these people standing up for the truth? And it doesn't seem to matter what comes against them, the truth is more important to them. than the fact that they don't have a comfortable lifestyle anymore. Okay? They're in a battle for the truth, just as a good soldier is And so I think it's just a wonderful illustration. The Thessalonian Church, and Paul commends them for becoming imitators of the churches of God. As a church, we can set an example. As a church that's willing to stand for the truth, or as a church who is willing who will maybe downplay it and get comfortable in the culture And that's the option, isn't it? We can get comfortable in the culture or we can stand for the truth. Well, I need to get to the important part, and that's how so then? What's the secret to being bold? Uh so what? You know, if if if this is what Jesus wants to accomplish through us, as he did through the Apostle Paul, how can we do this And as you turn to Ephesians, it's not automatic. It's something that every day we have a choice. And so Paul encourages us in Ephesians 6. He says in verse 10, he says Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. And of course we were singing those very words this morning. And notice it's be strong in the power of my self-discipline. No, it doesn't say that. It doesn't have to do with my self-discipline self-discipline or my strength, physical strength. No, it's in the power of his might. In the power of his might. We are unable. We are not able for this. You know The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. And so one of the things we need to confess to the Lord regularly is: Lord, I'm not able for this. But I know you are. I know you are. And may the Lord help us to realize that. That when we step out in faith and say, Lord, I feel very weak right now. But I know you are able. And then Paul shows us how we put on this power of his might. How do we put on the power of the might of the Lord on us? And you'll notice, first of all, it says, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. Satan has all these schemes. He has false religion. He has the idea that you can take somebody to heaven by being a friend of them. And maybe avoiding sharing the gospel with them. Well, that's a scheme of the devil. But you know, when you get a hold of the truth of the Word of God, it says, no, I I need to speak this truth I need to share this truth. I need to realize that hell is there, the lake of fire is there, everlasting punishment is there. I need to realize my friend is approaching, that my friend is still on the broad road. And so I need to sit down with my neighbor Miney and get down to brass tacks. Brass tacks. And I talked to him one day and he got real upset with me because I tried to convince him that he was a sinner. And he thought he was a good person. And I'll tell you more about that story later, but a man who has a perfect house, perfect garden. Perfect driveway. You know, everything's clean and spotless, and he always wears a tie, and he's always everything's outwardly is perfect. And yet, uh mining it I know he's not perfect, but he he thinks he's a good person And so as you go through the law he's upset with me and he says, Are you telling me my parents were not good people? And then are you telling my parents are not in heaven because of what you're telling me? You know, he's putting the pieces together and At that point he was reading the Bible, and then all of a sudden the Bible gets closed because of truth. Looks like it shut shut everything down. Okay. Now I could have felt real guilty about that, but I said, no, there comes a point in time where A person has to face the reality of the lies that they're believing in, that their religion can get them into heaven, that a priest can make a way for them so that they can uh be accepted by God. These are all things that Miney has to face. And it's hard because his wife died a few years ago. And where is she? Of course, that's another issue as well. Keep praying for mining. Well, as we're strong in the Lord and we think about the armor, we think about the wiles of the devil. We're wrestling against spiritual entities, verse 12, and we won't go into that, but you know, that's where all this religion, the apparitions, all these things, they come from Satan. They come from the spirit world. But we need to take up the armor of God, verse 13, so that we'll be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. A soldier is no good. If he's running and hiding, he needs to stand. So he says in verse 14, have the waist girded with truth and put on the breastplate of righteousness. Are we in the Word every day? And is the Word working on us to help us stand? When that Word gets into us, And when it begins to uh become part of our thought process, well then uh the word supports us. Now the belt as you know, was around the waist of the soldier. And you're real weak in the middle when you're swinging a sword, right? And so to support the loins, this special belt was there to make the soldier so he could really swing that sword. And you know, the truth of God makes us strong. It makes us strong. It supports us so that we'll speak the truth. But truth has to consume us. It has to take over our thinking. And that's what putting the belt on is, it has to take over. Our salvation, you know, the helmet. It has to take over. I'm saved. I love it when David gets up there and preaches because here's a man who was in religion and now he knows he's saved from that false religion. And you can't stop him. See, he's got that helmet on. You see, he's got his salvation on. And everybody he sees, he says, they may not know. my Savior. I need to talk to them about it. And so when you see these different bits of the armor, just realize that it has to do with truth, it has to do with the breastplate of righteousness. Of course, how are we going to be righteous before God? It's only the righteousness of Christ that protects me and makes me acceptable to Him. And they all think that they're going to be acceptable to God by their own righteousness. And so there's another lie we have to confront. And so this is all part of putting on the armor, realizing we're right in Christ, we have this position in Christ. We're fully accepted by him. We're accepted in the beloved. We have the gospel of peace. We're at peace with God. We don't fear him anymore. We're at peace with him. We're reconciled by the blood of Christ. And so we have this gospel of peace that can make them have peace with God, bring them to peace with God as well. He says, putting on the the shield of faith, uh which will be able to quench all the fiery doubts of the wicked. And you know, as our as the word of God is built up within us, our faith is in Christ. It's the object of our faith. Faith is not in my how well I got on with my wife this week. Now I get on with my wife well, you know, but you know It's not always perfect, but it's it's 99. 9% for for my marriage, praise the Lord. But uh it's not about how how how well I'm doing in my life, because you know your conscience can plague you so that you don't witness. And so it's good to confess those things and to get out there and and apologize to my wife when I've done something. something wrong and and make relationships right. But the the issue is uh the shield of faith is about putting our trust in Christ and relying upon him He said he's never going to put another sin on the list against me. Romans chapter four. Never gonna David says, How blessed is the man to whom God does not impute. Sin. Does it get any better than that? As a child of God, because you are in Christ, God's never going to put another sin on the list against you. Now You may not be rewarded in the days to come, but the blood of Christ covers every sin of the believer. And so we we need to remember that we can uh we don't have to, our faith is in Christ and what he will do through us. What Jesus will do through us. Galatians 2. 20 is that one that the crucified person who Paul said he's crucified with Christ, so that Jesus could live his life through him. That's the essence of that verse. And that's how we put the armor on, is when I'm going down there and say, Lord Jesus, I need you to speak to me today. I can't do it myself. And that that gives you a little bit of courage, because you remember he said he's not going to leave us. And so that gives us a little courage to put on the armor of dependence on Christ. Our faith is in him. And yeah, the enemy is going to attack us and accuse us, but we know the one who's covered all our sin. And of course the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit. The word is needs to be memorized. We need to have it in our heart so that then we can use it. And then also verse 18, praying always with all prayer. Prayer is a is a process for the believer. to be able to stand. That's the resource. Calling on the Lord, thinking about Him, depending upon Him, praying always. With all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, being watchful to this end, with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. And then Paul says something in verse 19 that helps me connect this back with when he first started his Christian life. He says, And for me that utterance may be given to me, that I may open my mouth boldly. That's that same word. to speak freely and openly, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel. Paul had no more boldness at that point in time that he had we see it tremendously all the way through the book of Acts, but 12 to 14 years later, what is Paul saying? Pray for me that I will speak boldly. In other words, that boldness and that ability to speak freely is not some some kind of commodity that we get One time we have it ongoing, but it's just as we go on by faith, we say, Lord, let's pray for each other. That we will speak openly and freely with those around us. And so that we might and not worry about the consequences. And here Paul is saying it now as an apostle in chains. Now his witness was going to be to the guards, and we know the gospel moved through them as he spoke boldly the gospel to the soldiers that were he was chained to. But we see that he still needed that boldness, and he still asked prayer for that boldness, much further on in his ministry. And so I just encourage us that we are weak vessels, friends, and yet it's wonderful to know that Brother Paul, our example, Had victory and a strong witness right to the end. And it was because of the boldness that he had in the Lord Jesus Christ. To speak openly and freely and plainly the precious gospel of the Lord Jesus. And so as we think of these things, as you pray for us, We have the same prayer request. Pray for me. Pray for this guy. Because I I have it, but then, you know, sometimes I'll lay it down and don't do as much preaching. Well, go back over there It's back into the battle again. Pray for me that I'll speak openly and boldly. And I got some neighbors around me, like Liam Judge and some of these fellows that are sophisticated and have all the wealthy friends around them, you know, the kind I'm talking about. It's a whole lot harder. You gotta listen to a whole lot of talk and you don't have much chance to say much. I need prayer to know how to get the sword of the Spirit in there with him too, because he's got blood lymphoma cancer. And he's on chemo regularly and and I've given him tracks and I've tried to talk to him, but it's still a battle for me too. And so I ask for your prayers for myself and this ongoing battle for, and I know for you as well, because We need to see the Lord uh build his church and continue to establish it. Let's pray, shall we? Father, we thank you so much for the fact that we can labor together for the gospel, and we thank you that it is. truly the your indwelling son that empowers us as we yield to him and submit to him and lean upon him to to know the power of the truth, that it moves in and through us, and it gives us, and you give us that ability, Father, to speak the truth Thank you for those opportunities he gave me recently with a man, Father. Thank you for that little encouragement just to be able to contend for the faith as he asks so many questions. And Father, may you each bring each of us to those places, to people who are who are who have laid down their religion and are apathetic. And Father, may we be able to turn them to your precious Son. And that they might yield to Christ, that they might truly be born again. And we pray for anyone here today who Does not know for sure that they have the righteousness of Christ, that they have that imputed forgiveness that comes by trusting only in the precious work of Christ. Father, may today be that day of salvation where they come to Him and believe upon Him and thereafter know that they've been saved. Oh Father, we pray if there's anyone here this morning. We pray that today may be the day that they might come to know Christ and then be able to stand for Him. Father, we thank you for your encouraging word today. Thank you that the battle is not ours, but it is indeed your battle as we yield to you and submit to your Lordship. And so we thank you for this time in Jesus' precious name. Amen.