Good morning. It's good to be back here again to see you all and uh worship with you today. It's always good to be at Faith Bible Church. A lot of good memories here and uh a lot of friendly faces. So this morning, open your Bibles to 2 Timothy chapter 1. The Lord has given us a great furlough. We got here the second week of June. We'll be leaving in about 10 days or 9 days, depending on how you count it. And uh looking forward to getting back to Hong Kong, looking forward to living in one place, not bouncing all around. Although it has been a great couple of months here, the Lord has given us Uh safe travels, although sometimes a little more exciting than we like. I've used my hazard lights more often in the last three months than in my entire life. Seems like every time I get in the car there's a storm. and uh sometimes hail. So it's been an exciting, exciting summer, uh driving wise. Um but it's been good. Uh the Lord has blessed us with many uh faithful supporting churches. And it's been an encouragement as we have traveled. We're in 2 Timothy today, 2 Timothy chapter 1. And we'll be looking basically at one verse today, chap verse 7. But before we do that, let's open the message in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your goodness to us. Thank you for Uh being a God who is always the same, you never change. You're a God who's worthy of our trust. You're always faithful. Thank you for that, Lord. You're a rock in a world that that is always moving, always unstable. And uh Lord, thank you for the salvation you've given to us. We know that with apart from you, we would have no hope. But you sent your son to die for us on the cross, taking our punishment, and then rising from the dead, proving his power over sin and over death Lord, thank you for sending us a Savior. Thank you for being our God. This morning, as we look at this passage, Lord, I pray that you'd encourage us. Help us, Lord, to To recognize areas in our lives that need to change, encourage us where we are going well to do even better and to draw even closer to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. It had been a long day. Jesus was weary. His disciples were weary. It was time to get away. The crowds had been around him, and they were going to go somewhere quiet. A place where many of his disciples loved to be. the sea. Many of them were were fishermen, so going to the sea that that's that's just, you know, that's it's like going home. They get out on the boat. Jesus got out there too and before long he was sleeping and the disciples were having a nice conversation. Then all of a sudden a storm came up. Maybe they had to put hazard lights on that boat, I don't know. But a big a big storm came up and you know the disciples shouldn't have been too worried about that. Many of them were fishermen, and the ones that weren't fishermen should trust the ones that are fishermen because they know what they're doing. But suddenly all twelve of the disciples were very afraid. This was a much worse storm than normal, and on the Sea of Galilee they can come up quite quickly. And so that's what happened. And they were fearing for their lives and thinking the boat was going to sink, and so they woke up Jesus and they said, Jesus, don't you care? We're going to drown. And Jesus looked at them, Oh you little faith And he stood up and he told the wind and the waves to be quiet. And they immediately were quiet. And the disciples looked at each other and they said, What kind of person is this that even the wind and the waves obey him? The disciples were amazed. Their fear turned to amazement. But why were they afraid? Did Jesus tell them to get in the boat? Doesn't Jesus know everything? Didn't he know a storm was coming? Was Jesus in the boat with them? They should not have been afraid. Our pastor today talks about fear. 2 Timothy 1, verse 7. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. God has not given us the spirit of fear. What is the spirit of fear? This is not a good kind of fear. This is a bad kind of fear. This is not when you talk about the fear of God where you have a reverential fear of him. You're awed by how great God is. That's not this kind of fear. The spirit of fear is a shameful state of fear from lack of courage. It's cowardice. It's timidity. It's always used in a bad sense. Instead of standing and fighting, you run and you hide. That's the spirit of fear. Why do we fear? Everybody faces this. I face it You face it? There are many reasons why why we fear. The disciples, why did they fear? They looked at the situation around them, the giant wave, the storm, the situation, the circumstances caused them to fear. Maybe a couple of disciples weren't so fearful at first, but when they saw every el ev everybody else being fearful, suddenly They kind of caught it. It's contagious. They're afraid. Why am I not afraid? I think I'm time to be afraid now. I'm afraid because they're afraid. And fear spreads. What do we fear? You fear losing your job? 2008, when the economy went down, a lot of people had that fear. Do you fear not having enough money to pay the bills? Do you fear that your health is gonna suddenly go bad? Or maybe you know it's already kind of bad and it's gonna get worse. Do you fear what your kids are going to face when they grow up? Or maybe you fear what they're facing right now and the decisions they're making, and you're not in control. They are making their own decisions. And you fear what the consequences will be. What happens when you're afraid? It can lead to paralysis. It can lead to pessimism. It can lead you to thinking that, well, we just can't do this It can make you give up or want to quit. It'll make you not want to commit to anything. Because why would I commit? If I commit, I could lose something. But if I don't commit, I can't lose anything. And fear can keep you from committing to something you should be committed to. Our passage today says: God has not given us the spirit of fear. We must quench the spirit of fear. The spirit of fear is sin. It's rooted in lack of faith. And the book of James very clearly says: whatsoever is not of faith is sin. I'm aware that sometimes there's medical conditions that cause you to fear kind of irrationally. This passage is not talking about that kind of thing Last year I had a little bit of experience with that. Those kind of things you sometimes need to take medicine for. But often most of our fears is not that kind of stuff. Most of our fears, it's because we're not trusting God as we should We've forgotten who our God is. We've forgotten how great He is. We lack faith. As Jesus said to his disciples, why are you afraid? Fear comes when you're not using what God has given you. Fear comes when you leave God out of the equation. Fear comes when you fail to realize how great your God is. God has not given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. We must quench the spirit of fear. How do you do that? Well, with these three things that God has given us: the spirit of power, the spirit of love, and a sound mind. This morning, let's look at these three things that can help us to calm our fears. Because God has given us what we need. He knows that we are weak people. He knows that sometimes we find ourselves in situations Where we begin to fear. He knows that if other people are fearing, we might start fearing too. And so he's given us what we need We have the spirit of power, he says. What is the spirit of power? This word power just means ability. You can do something. It's the power residing in a thing by virtue of its nature. Because of what it is, it has power. We are children of God, and God has given us capability. He's given us power. This word for power is a Greek word. The Greek word is, you've probably heard this before, dunamis, the word dynamite. The Greek word is the root of the word, the English word dynamite. And when we think of dynamite, we think of great destructive power. Well this last week uh was my my my wife's uh wedding anniversary. And uh because we had the unique situation where we had babysitting, something we don't ever have in Hong Kong. We decided even though it's a 14th anniversary and not a 15th anniversary, the 15th anniversary is not going to be any babysitting. So 14th anniversary, we have babysitting, so we will do a special trip. And originally we thought, let's go out west. I've never been out west to see like the geysers at Yellowstone and uh the cool rock formations out there. Or maybe we go out to Yosemite, find a place that's not too expensive to get to, and yeah, I discovered they all were quite expensive to get to. And um so I thought, well, let's let's forget east, let's let's let's forget west, let's look east. What's east? There's kind of an ocean east. But there's a little island in that ocean, Iceland. And last week we went to Iceland, somewhere I never thought I'd ever go to. And I ended up standing on an active volcano. Something I had really not planned to do when I planned the trip, but it turns out one of the trips we took was to a volcano. And so I'm standing there and you could see the results of the of the volcano's destructive power. That's not what this word for power here means. It's not talking about destructive power. There's another kind of power. When I was in Iceland, we saw it everywhere we went-just steam coming up out of the ground, the geothermal energy that's there. Yes, it can be destructive, but it also can be very, very helpful, very, very useful. In Iceland, they harness the power of that magma not too far under the surface. And with it they heat all the homes. They heat the water and pipe it to all the houses. Electricity is really, really cheap because this island has this power source. This ability that they could use. That's what he's talking about here. Not destructive power, but useful power. God has given us the spirit of power power, something that's useful, constructive, that can help us in the face of fear, when times are difficult, when other people are losing it and don't know what to do, we can stand strong. Why Because God has given us the spirit of power. Now the focus of this power Or ability is what God has called you to. It's not just power to do anything. God has given us the spirit of power, so whatever I can think of, I can achieve. No, that's not what he's saying. You can read books that say that, but that's not the Bible. That's kind of egocentric. You don't have to look for the power within you that that that That's not going to work because the Bible clearly teaches us that we don't have power within us. The power that we have, any power, any strength we have, comes from God as we rely upon Him. He's given us the spirit of power, and that ability is an ability that God gives us to do what he's called us to do. You look in 1 Thessalonians, and he says, Faithful is he who calls you, who also will do it. In the context of our passage today, 2 Timothy, this book was written by the Apostle Paul to, obviously, Timothy, a man he had led to the Lord. He was Paul's son in the faith. Timothy had been sent back to Ephesus, a church that Paul had originally planted. The church had problems, had some leadership struggles, and so He had to go back there and kind of put things back in into place. There was some false doctrine that was there, so he had to stand up against that. Probably some pretty strong personalities there. Sometimes I think he felt like he was timid. He was stepping back. He was giving in to this spirit of fear. In fact, look at the context here. 1 Timothy chapter 1, verse 6. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. I'm not exactly sure what this gift was, the passage is not clear there, but he had some ability given by God, and Paul says, use it. Don't be fearful. God's not giving you the spirit of fear. He's giving you the spirit of power. You have what you need. Don't step back. Use what God has given to you. Verse 8. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but be thou a partaker of the affliction of the gospel according to the power of God Don't be ashamed. Don't be embarrassed that you believe the gospel, that you're associated with Paul, who's suffering for the gospel. Don't be fearful The gospel is the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. Be strong. Remember what God has given you. He's given you the spirit of power, not the power to do anything. But the power to do what God has called you to do. What has God called you to do? Well the Bible is very, very clear. We're not looking for something something abstract. It's very clear God has called you as a believer to be holy. God has called you to be faithful. God has called you to serve him. God has called you to reach your local area with the gospel. God has called you to send missionaries. God has called you to disciple and to train men and women. God has called you to serve in his church. And if he's called you to do these things, he will give you the ability to do them. Don't be afraid. Don't say we don't have what we need. No, God says you have what you need. I've given you the spirit of power. Don't be afraid. Don't be timid. Go forward. The source of this power, it's not in yourself. It's in God. God gave us the spirit of power, and accessing that power comes from dependence. upon him. When we realize that we don't have the ability in ourselves, then we can latch onto the ability that God has given to us. I think the first time I preached this summer in June, I quoted this verse, 2 Corinthians 12, 9, is the testimony of the Apostle Paul. It says, And he, as Jesus, said to me, Paul, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities, but the power of Christ may rest upon me. His infirmities did not make him fear. Did not make him step back. He said, no, this is an opportunity for God's power to work through me. And when God is working through me, God gets the glory, not myself. Paul writes again in 1 Corinthians 1, verse 26 to 31. For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble noble are called But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not. to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, that according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory In the Lord. We must rely on God's strength. He is the one who gives us the spirit of power. And this God-given spirit of power quenches. The spirit of fear. Paul writes, I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. I will glory in my affirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. God has given us what we need. 2 Peter 1, verse 3 says, according as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that has called us to glory and virtue. Get to know Christ. Get to know his word. And you'll find that God has given you what you need in the face of fear. The spirit of power quenches the spirit of fear. Don't look at what you don't have. Look at what God has given you. We can't reach our neighborhood with the gospel. We can't disciple people. Right now we're temporarily between pastors. We gotta hold off doing these things that God has called us to until the pastor comes. No. That's not the case. God has given us what we need. Don't look at what you don't have. Look at what you do have. God has given us the spirit of power. A couple weeks ago, actually maybe now it's a month or two ago, we had a meeting up in uh Pennsylvania. And it was a Wednesday night meeting, and on our way up there we we stopped. At Gettysburg, very, very briefly. I've been to Gettysburg a lot of times growing up. And so I thought we'll just drop in there, show my kids a little bit around there. And so we popped the address into the GPS and uh off we went. So when we got to the visitor center, I did not recognize it at all. In fact, I'm pretty sure it was in a different place than the the last time I had been there. It was much bigger and much fancier and But it was totally different. If you've been to Gettysburg recently, you know that's it's quite a bit and maybe not even recently. I think it was oh eight or nine that they they redid it. But we went there And walk through the a little bit of the visitor center there. And I wish we had more time to walk on the battlefield and see everything. I love studying history. Civil War history is quite interesting. And uh and that battle was a big turning point in the Civil War. The general, General George Meade, had only been the general for a couple of weeks. And he had a big job. Face Robert E. Lee, who was an experienced general, who had been the general quite a long time of the main Confederate Army there. I believe it was the Army of the Potomac. And the big battle occurred. There were great losses on both sides. And as a result, Robert E. Lee took the Confederate army and back down towards the South. It was a great victory. Everybody should have been quite happy, even though there were great losses because the the the the Confederates couldn't keep going north. Meade, the new general, he had the victory, and yet President Lincoln was not too happy with him. He said, you should have you you had the resources. You should have pursued Lee. You could have ended this war two years early. You had what you need, but you didn't use it. Now, experts disagree whether or not me did the right thing or the wrong thing. But from Lincoln's perspective, he said, hey, you have what you need. We could have finished this. Don't stand back. Don't be afraid. Don't be timid. Use what you have. And that's what God says to us today. Use what you have. I've given you the spirit of power, but I've also given you another thing to help you to quench the spirit of fear. That's the spirit of love. For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love. Turn in your Bibles to 1 John. When we talk about love, there's a lot of passages in the Bible about love. Because God Himself, He is love. What is the spirit of love? 1 Peter, I mean 1 John, sorry, 1 John chapter 4. I'm going to read a little bit of this passage as God describes to us what love is. Not a feeling. Not merely an emotion, although there's definitely an emotional aspect to it many times. 1 John chapter 4, verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love And this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Here in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his spirit. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him because he first. Loved us. This passage is describing God's love, his love for us, the love that we should have towards other people. And when we are living in the spirit of love, we're not going to be afraid. First of all, this spirit of love is referring to love for God. When Jesus was asked, what's the greatest commandment? He answered, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy heart, thy soul, thy strength, and thy mind. Our love for God can cast out fear. When we remember our God loves us, why do we love him? Well the passage is very clear. We love him because he first loved us. And because we're in that love, we are secure. We know that God not only loves us, but He's looking out for us. If God be for us, who can be against us? Who can separate us from the love of God? Nothing. When we remember God's love for us, it helps us to quench the spirit of fear. But also when we're showing love to others, that also can help to quench that spirit of fear. Because love at its very core is selflessness. It's selfless giving for the good of other people. It's putting others in front of ourselves. Love allows us to put them ahead of us. Fear often is self-centered. Fear is, I'm afraid of what's going to happen to me. I'm afraid I'm going to lose something. It's very, very self-centered. But love is the exact opposite. So if you're being loving, you're not going to be afraid. Or maybe even though you're afraid, you'll still do what you know you should do. Helps you overcome those feelings, those fears, those emotions. Because there's a stronger principal principle overruling it. The principle of love. We've heard stories about people who did things that they normally would be afraid of because they love someone. For example, there's a story in 2004 of a mother. She and her three kids, her husband and her father, went to Colorado. They were doing some hiking. They were having a vacation. They'd driven their their their vehicle away out into the wilderness somewhere in Colorado And as they came back to their vehicle, the kids all ran, jumped in the c into the SUV and slammed the door and kind of jarred the vehicle, and all of a sudden it started rolling forward. And it was sort of rolling towards a cliff. A deep canyon was there and there was nothing between the vehicle and the canyon. The car was obviously going to go over. The kids were gonna die. And so the mother ran towards that vehicle. I'm sure she was afraid, but her love for her children overruled that fear, and she jumped in front of that vehicle. She tried to stop it and slow it down And she did that. She slowed it down enough for her father to run and get to the driver's seat and put the emergency brake up on and stop the vehicle just before it went over the edge. Her love cancelled out her fear. Of course, since she was the thing slowing the vehicle down. She suffered some severe injuries. In fact, uh they thought she had died, but she hadn't. But her children, they were saved. You see here stories about that uh from time to time. And It's an example of what we have here. There's no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. The spirit, how do you quench the spirit of fear? Love. First of all, love for God. Remembering that He is a God who loves you. You love Him, He loves you. His love for you is great, and He's sovereign. He's in control. You're in his hand. He will not let you go. Yes, bad things may happen. Yes, we may suffer. But our God knows what he's doing, and we remember his sovereign control. It helps us not to fear. Love for others also helps us to quench the spirit of fear. Fear is self-centered. Fear puts the focus on us and what we could lose. But we're looking at others. It helps us. And we're loving them. It helps us to quench that spirit of fear Willingness to sacrifice eliminates the fear of personal loss. Loving trust eliminates the fear of the unknown, because we know God is in control. God has not called us to be afraid. God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love. And finally, of a sound mind. What does this word a sound mind mean? Literally it means sound judgment, the ability to make good decisions. It's often translated self-control or being moderate You're not out of control. You're not completely losing it. You don't know what to do. I'm afraid. And you're just kind of No, that's not what it is. It's the opposite of that. God has given us a sound mind. How do you have a sound mind? When things are out of control, when you're not sure what to do, how do you think clearly and make wise decisions? This word for sound mind, the root of it is often translated sober. We find it many times in Titus chapter 2. And so let's go to Titus chapter 2. Please turn there, Titus chapter 2. God wants us to have a sound mind. He wants us to be sober. The Greek word literally is a compound of two words meaning wise thinking. How do we think that way? When we're afraid. Fear actually causes us to panic, which is the opposite of Having a sound mind. How do you have the opposite response to fear? How do you think clearly? How do you make wise decisions in fearful times? How do you be sober? In Titus chapter two, verse eleven and twelve it says this. It says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. There's a lot in these verses, but I want to focus in on that word That we should live soberly, because that word soberly comes from the same root word as the word sound mind. It says the grace of God that brings salvation hath appeared to all men. So we have God's grace, undeserved favor towards us. It's appeared to everyone. Does it does does does this grace of God that brings salvation allow us to be saved from the punishment of our sin? But it also teaches us something. It teaches us that we should Deny ungodliness and worldly lusts. We should not live like the world around us. We should not be desiring the things the world around us desires, but instead we should live soberly. The grace of God teaches us this. And so we see in this verse that a sound mind is a taught mind, a mind that's taught by the grace of God. It's not natural in fearful times to think clearly and make wise decisions. A sound mind is a taught mind, a mind that's been trained in the Word of God. It's a sober mind. Who is supposed to be sober? Who's supposed to have a sound mind? This word for sober, this word for sound mind appears over and over in this passage. Look at verse 2. Let the aged men be sober. It means self-discipline. Have a sound mind. So the older men, you're supposed to be sober. Who else is supposed to be sober? Well, verse 3 to 5. The aged woman likewise, that they be in behavior as could become in holiness. not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things, and there's a whole list here. And then verse 5 is continuing talking about the elder woman. It says that they be discreet. This word discreet, guess what it is? Not sure why they translated it differently, but it's the same word, root word meaning sober. So older men, be sober, have a sound mind. Older women, be sober, have a sound mind. How about young men and women? Let's take a look at verse 4. The older women are supposed to teach the young woman to be sober. So, younger woman, you're supposed to be sober too. How about the young men? Verse 4. Down that's the young woman. Verse 6. Young men likewise exhort to be sober-minded. So who's supposed to be sober-minded? Who's supposed to have a sound mind? Every believer, no matter man, woman, old, young, we're supposed to have a sound mind. We're supposed to be sober, be self-disciplined, a sound mind. How do you get there? A sound mind is a taught mind, a disciplined mind, trained in the Word of God. The grace of God that brings us salvation teaches us that we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. A sound mind is a taught mind. If you don't know what the Word of God says, if you're not familiar with the promises of God, when the fearful time comes, you are not going to have sound thinking. You'll just do what people around you are doing. Hey, they're panicking. I'm gonna panic too, because that's what everybody's doing A sound mind is a taught mind. We need to know the word of God. Know God's promises. Because when those trials come, when those hard times come and you're not sure what to do, you need to rest upon God's word. Rest upon his promises. That's a sure foundation. That's where our hope lies. A sound mind is a taught mind. I'm told that when an astronaut is being trained, they have to sit in a special chair. Now I saw this in a movie one time, so I I looked up on NASA's website just to make sure this thing actually exists, and it does. Um it's a gyro chair. It has another name that I don't remember. But it's pretty much a giant gyroscope with a seat in the middle. And uh it's to simulate it's for uh astronauts to simulate if you're out of control in a in a in a spaceship scurdling through. Hurtling through space that they can still do what they need to do. And so they spin them all around pretty bad and make them ridiculously dizzy. Probably sick too, I I imagine. I think if I was in that thing I'd I'd be sick. But um they still have to do accomplish whatever attacks they're doing while they're spinning all around like that. Sometimes life feels like you're sitting in a gyro chair. It's fearful. But if we've been taught and trained and grounded in the Word of God and we know the promises of God, even when the world is topsy-turvy, We'll be able to have a sound mind and make right decisions. A sound mind is a taught mind. A sound mind is also a humble mind. In Romans chapter 12, verse 3, it says this. For I say through the grace given unto me to every man that's among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God had dealt to every man the measure of faith. We're supposed to think soberly. There's a contrast in this verse between, it uses the same root word of about thinking, wise thinking, it's soberly, that's sound mind, and high thinking, which is Not this is unsound thinking. This is prideful. If you're prideful, if you have prideful thinking, that's the opposite of having sound thinking. Your thinking is going to be off because you're too high in your own estimation. A sound mind is a humble mind. God resists the proud. He gives grace to the humble. When times are fearful, we need the grace of God. We must be humble. And when we're humble, that helps us to have a sound mind A sound mind is a trained mind. A sound mind is a humble mind. A sound mind is a trusting mind. James chapter 1, verse 5 to 8 says this. It has a contrast here between having a sound mind, being wise, and be and having an unsound mind, being wavering, being un uh unstable. James chapter one, five verse five If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that gives to all men liberally, and abraideth not, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. A sound mind is not double-minded. A sound mind Is wise. And where does that wisdom come from? God Himself. A sound mind is a trusting mind. I lack wisdom, Lord, so I'm going to you. I'm trusting you. I'm looking to your wisdom. That sound thinking. A sound mind also has the end in mind. 1 Peter 4, verse 7 says this, but the end of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Be sober. Be disciplined. Have a sound mind. Why? Because you know that this world is going to come to an end. Whatever problem you're facing right now, whatever's causing you to fear, it's not going to be there forever. When you're in the middle of it, it definitely feels like it's going to be there forever. But a sound mind says, no, this is temporary. Even if it's from now to the end of my life, that's still temporary. When you look at eternity, that's a whole lot longer than the trial I'm facing now. It's a whole lot longer than whatever is causing me to fear. A sound mind has the end in mind. It sees the bigger picture. It doesn't become obsessed with just the slice of time you're in right now. And a sound mind prays. He says, be sober and watch unto prayer. A sound mind quenches fear. A sound mind is what? It's a taught mind. It's a humble mind. It's a trusting mind. It has the end in mind. It's not distracted by fear from doing what should be done. It overcomes. That doesn't mean all your emotions are going to be in order. Sometimes doing the right thing means you do it in spite of the fact that you are feeling Things that make you uncomfortable. But you still do it. And you know what? As you do it. God gives you peace. Jesus says this in John 14, 27: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. You have a choice. He says, don't let it be afraid. He's not saying you can't control that emotion. No, he says, I'm giving you peace. Don't be afraid. Remember who I am. John 16, 33. Jesus says this again. Both of these verses happen the night before Jesus is to be crucified. The next day the disciples are definitely going to be afraid. These things I've spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Says, hey, you're gonna have trouble. I guarantee you're gonna have trouble. Things are not going to go smoothly all the time. You're going to face situations that cause you to fear where you don't know what to do, whether to turn right, turn to left, go straight, turn around. You're gonna have tribulation, but be of good cheer. Why? Have hope. Why? He says, I have overcome the world. He has the victory. Look to him. Remember who wins in the end. A sound mind will do that. Remember that he has overcome. So when we begin to fear, stop and think it through. What has God promised in the Word of God? If you don't know, you need more training in the Word of God. Because a sound mind is a trained mind, a taught mind. What has God promised in his word? What promises can I cling to? Because I know God is a God who cannot lie. My circumstances may be changing all the time, maybe daunting. I don't know what's going to happen next, but I know one thing. God will do what he says And I can rest on this promise. And because of that, have peace in a turbulent time. When we begin to fear, stop. Think it through. What has God promised? Secondly, am I thinking pridefully? Am I thinking only my way will work? If it doesn't happen this way, Lord, it's never going to be fixed. That's actually a prideful thought. You said, my way is the best. You probably don't feel like you're saying that when you're saying that, but that that's that's what You're saying, I know what's best in this situation, and it's not happening that way, so I really I really have some good reasons why I should be afraid. And at that point, if we're thinking that way, we can probably list them. So we should ask ourselves when we begin to fear, am I thinking pridefully? Am I thinking that I'm the only one that has the answer to this situation? When you begin to fear, stop and think it through. Am I trusting God or am I doubting? Do I remember who God is Do we remember his character? He's a God who never changes, who's always faithful. If we're fearing, we're forgetting who God is and what he is like. And finally, when we begin to fear, stop and think it through, am I seeing the big picture or am I just focusing, obsessing about the small period of time? We must quench the spirit of fear. Fear is a poison, but God has given us the antidote to fear. His spirit is not a spirit of fear, it's a spirit of power, of love, and of a sound mind. We must quench the spirit of fear. God has given us what we need. We should use it. We all are going to face times of fear. Times where we're not sure what to do. Times of worry. Times where we think this is never going to change. But God has given us what we need to handle those kinds of emotions, to combat those kind of thoughts. We just must quench the spirit of fear. The spirit of power, what is it? It's a can-do kind of attitude. I because of Christ, because of his power, I can do this. It's not pessimistic, it's optimistic. The spirit of love, that's more of a can help kind of attitude. I can step in. I can put other people first. I care about other people. A sound mind, that's a can cope kind of attitude. I'm not I don't have to lose it. I can have peace. Maybe other people aren't having peace, but I can have peace because I'm resting upon God and upon his promises. Christ has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. I'm not alone in what I'm going through. Maybe nobody else understands. Maybe nobody else has experienced what you have experienced. But you're still not alone He says, I'm with you always, even to the end of the world. We must quench the spirit of fear. The disciples got into the boat that day. They had no idea they were about to get really scared. They had no idea the storm was about to come up while Jesus was sleeping in the back of the boat. But when that fearful time came, They were afraid. Did Jesus tell them to get in the boat? Is Jesus God? Does he know what's going to happen? That storm is going to come up. Was Jesus in the bolt with them? They should not have been afraid. And neither should we, as we face fearful times as a church, as a family, as an individual, in your job. We must quench the spirit of fear. God has given us what we need. He says in this passage here, for God has not given us the spirit of fear. If you're still feeling fear, that didn't come from God. There's only another one other option. That didn't come from God. What comes from God? The spirit of power and of love and of a sound mind. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for being our God. Thank you for Being a God who understands us. You know that we are weak. You know that we face fearful times. You know what emotions we experience. You know that sometimes we feel helpless, that we have nowhere to turn. But Lord, help us to remember that you are our rock. Help us to remember that you do have the answers when we don't. Help us to remember that when we're afraid, you're always there. We can run to you. You're our high tower. You're a refuge. And Lord, I don't know what everybody's facing here today. But I know that if we're not currently in a situation where we have fear, we will once again, sometime in the future, face this. Lord, help us to face it in faith. Help us to look to you. Help us to remember your promises and in them find hope and peace And Lord, I pray today that if there's anyone here who's never trusted you as their Savior, and they don't have these options of turning to you, Lord, because they're not your child yet. Lord, I pray that you would work in their hearts, help them to see their need for you. And maybe even through fear, through trials, through trouble, they would see their need for salvation. In Jesus' name. Amen.