I invite you to open your Bibles to Luke chapter 6. Luke chapter 6. I want you to consider for a moment a kind of reverse prodigal son. And when I say reverse, what I mean is I'm going to take the facts and turn them backwards to make a point. And get you to think for a second about your position before God in an effort to prepare you for some hard-hitting things from the mouth of Jesus today. I want you to think for a second on that day when the prodigal returned home. But rather than the father being out in the fields anxiously waiting and wondering of his son, the father's in the barn. He practically doesn't remember his son. He's busy doing his chores, careless about his son, thoughtless about his son. The son walks through the fields of the Father, whatever it is they have planted there, grain, wheat. He gets to the old homestead. He looks in the house, the father's not there. He looks around and asks the servants. Finally, no one recognizes him. No one knows who he is. He's Thin, hasn't been eating well, dirty, smells like he's been hanging out with pigs. He has Finally, the son goes to the barn and there he is. The father looks up, doesn't even recognize his son. Standing there, filthy, before him. Finally, the son breaks the ice and says, Dad, it's me. It's me. And the father says, prove it. He said, well, it's me because look, look, don't you recognize me? And he reaches into a bucket of water and washes his face off. Look, look, I'm getting this dirt off so you can see it's me. And the father says, no son of mine would ever get that dirty. And where have you been? I mean, you look like you haven't eaten in weeks. I don't really know who you are. And then the son has to prove himself by saying, I I know the name of your wife. I I know these details about your life, Dad. It's me. I've come back. The father just looks at him and says, well, what can you do? What are your skills? Did you learn anything out there? The son says, well, I. I can feed pigs. And the father says, we don't have pigs, but which is disgusting. I can't believe you even did that. But we do have some animals. You can why don't you sleep in the hay? Why don't you feed our goats? And you can do that for a few weeks, and I'll decide if I want you to stay. Can you imagine if that was the story of the prodigal son, how horrible that would be? The story of the prodigal son was something that Jesus told to illustrate the goodness of God and his response to the repentant heart. You and I look to the story of the prodigal son for those moments in our lives, not when we succeed in our Christian walk, but when we fail. And so we should, because in the letter to the Romans we have this theology that teaches us that once we are saved, we are always saved. We are the elect. We are the chosen of God. I'll just leave it at that without defining that this moment. We are those that have been adopted as the sons of God, brought into the family of God. And so once we're a part of the family of God, we never have to prove that we are part of the family of God again. Because it had nothing to do with us, and we performed no meritorious work. And I mean, we didn't stand before the Father and wash our faces. And say, look, it's me. We didn't have to hear the father say, what work can you do for me? We didn't have to hear the father say, I don't recognize you. Folks, the truth is that as Christians, when we sin or when we have a sense that things aren't right and we need to make changes, In those moments, we ought always to remember the fact that God is inclined toward us. His heart is open to us. If we are regenerated, if we are a child of God, his heart is bursting with anticipation to hear those words, Father, I repent. Will you accept me back? I'll just be a slave. And his response, kill the fatted calf. Because God is good. And he who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not, along with him, freely give us all things? And if God is for us, who could be against us? And these are all the kinds of things we need to bring to mind at those moments in our lives when we face the conviction of the Spirit of God. In today's passage, we have Jesus being very blunt. Very convicting. Look at it. Let's just read Luke chapter 6, verses 46 to 49. Now he does soften the blow a little. It's a question, not a statement. He says in verse 46, but why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not do the things which I say? Whoever comes to me and hears my sayings and does them, I will show you whom he is like. He's like a man building a house who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock And when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently against that house and could not shake it, for it was founded on the rock. But he who heard and did nothing is like a man who built a house on the earth without a foundation, against which the stream beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. I already mentioned at the beginning of the service that we have in Luke chapter 6 a transition for Dr. Luke in his writing. He is giving us a lot more data about the teaching of Jesus, what Jesus said. what his message was. And so we have here in verses 29 all the way through to verse 45, the direct teaching of Jesus. And then suddenly we kind of hit this bump in the road. We don't learn anything new in verses 46 down to 49. There's really nothing new. It's sort of a comparison, a little Word picture that he is using to illustrate something that is not really a new teaching. We have instead this warning This sort of Jesus moving back from the crowd and saying, all right, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and don't do the things that I say? It's a challenge. It's sort of a rebuke in the form of a question, and also a warning and a promise, the house on the sand, which won't last, and the house on the rock, which will last. So it's Jesus sort of pushing his teaching down, what he's already said on the people before him. All right, now wait, wait. Are you calling me Lord, Lord? Do what I say. And it's sort of getting the reader, Luke wants the reader to think back about what Jesus already said. What he already said is what is in chapter 6. And so what I want us to do is follow the intent of Jesus Christ in this moment and go back And expand a little bit on the three sections, the Beatitudes, the Love Your Enemies, the Do Not Judge in order to condemn. And sort of expand that a little bit, and I want you to really be hard on yourself for a second Why do you call him Lord, Lord, and you don't change your values? Why do you call him Lord? Lord, and you don't love your enemies? Why do you call him Lord, Lord? And yet you continue to judge and condemn your brother and sister, offering no mercy. No forgiveness. Those are convicting questions, and I think we need to explore those. And this can be a kind of preparation for prayer, and there are going to be those moments when we have to be hard on ourselves. And we have to say, Lord, where am I with you? What am I doing? Rather than just hearing. Because the danger is that you and I, as Christians, can become self-deceived. There's no worse state. There's no worse state than for a believer to think that they're on the right track when they're on the wrong track. So what do we see in the Beatitudes by way of reminder and expansion and hopefully encouragement as well? Well, you remember we have this word, blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed. Rejoice. These blessings are not made because Of just a person's actions or activities, but they include a person's state of being as well as activities. It's blessed are the poor. It's blessed are those who are weeping now. That's sort of an activity. It's blessed are those who are persecuted. So what he's talking about is a group of people who are really, in the world's eyes, in bad shape. I mean if you were to start a reality TV show where here's what we're going to do folks, we're going to follow poor, hungry, sad people around. And our reality TV show is going to trace the lives of people that everyone else hates. How successful in the eyes of the world would a reality TV show like that be? And there are a lot of reality TV shows out there, aren't there? And they're not really reality. What we have here is someone who is fundamentally empty in the present life. And the promise is that they are blessed, even though they are in this current state of emptiness. They are blessed because in the future the entire thing is going to turn around. They're in a state of emptiness, but they will be filled. On the other hand, in these first few verses here, in the second section, verses 24 to 26, there are those in the present reality who are full. They're rich, verse 24, full, verse 25, and lot to eat. And men speak well of them, so they're happy, they're not persecuted. And it's woe, woe, and woe to them. Sort of a curse or Not so much God cursing them, but the final result of that person, if they don't enter the kingdom of God, is going to be emptiness. They're full now, but they will be empty. Woe to them. Blessed to this person who's empty now, he'll be full, but blessed to this person who's full now, he'll be empty. Can I get you quickly to turn to Luke chapter 16? And remind you in one of the best illustrations of this in the parable, well I don't think this is a parable, of the rich man in Lazarus, Lazarus, in Luke chapter 16, verse 19. The condition of these two men is completely different in this life. If you look at Luke 16, verse 19. It says there was a certain rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. He had whatever he wanted to eat. And it back in the day, by the way, in the time of Jesus, if you owned one garment, that was in good repair, that was good. You were doing well. If you own two, you were doing really well. If you own three, you were exceptional. You might have been rich. And if your garment was dyed in something that was as colorful as a purple dye, you were very rich. But there was, look at verse 20. But there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, full of sores, who was laid at the gate, his gate, desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. Wow, you can't get more of a contrast than this The one who is full, the rich man, dressed in purple, eats whatever he wishes to eat, and the one who is poor doesn't even have hardly any clothes. His physical body is racked with sores. The dogs surround him and These aren't friendly dogs. If they could, they probably would kill him and eat him if they had that opportunity. One is full and one is rich. But you know the story. At the end, at the very end, you have, well, let's just read what happens. So it look verse 22. So it was that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. That's a term describing the place of paradise. The rich man also died and was buried. And being in torments, I mean it's it's like the moment from death to life. The one is carried in angels' hands, the other being in torments. In Hades, he lifted up his eyes, and that's a term describing hell at that time, and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. Who is empty and who is full here? Well, you know how the story goes. The rich man goes to hell and the poor man to heaven. Folks, what do you think about heaven How do you value it? What kind of value do you place on that place as opposed to what is happening now? And if you were to face that moment when you were persecuted for your faith, Would you have the strength to say, it doesn't matter? I am blessed. I still believe this. What do you value if you call him Lord, Lord? Do you have his value when it comes to eternity? You know, when we had different people who had the right kind of values and you heard it come out of their mouths at different moments. If I get you to turn to Acts chapter 7, what happens when you take an individual who has the right values? who really accepts the beatitudes and those woes as truth, what happens when he is part of a church and he's dragged into the streets and and he's about to be killed, and there's that final moment when the stones are literally crushing his skull And he is in the throes of death. What escapes the mouth of someone in a horrible suffering moment like that? Well, you have in Acts chapter 7 the death of Stephen the martyr. And you have in chapter 7, verse 34, the people, when they heard these things, they heard Stephen's sermon, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth. They grinded their teeth at him. But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God and said, Look, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. You know what happened in the following verses there. They finished them off, and they laid their coats at the feet of Saul. This is what happens. They look up into the heavens, and at this moment, God let Stephen see heaven before he died. Folks, think about this. Physically, his body had been bruised and beaten. He was facing a mob. He would you not feel overwhelmed by physical exhaustion and pain at that moment? And yet the sight of heaven is so enrapturing to the man, and he's so full of the spirit, he is just riveted in his moment of agony and death, his spirit is riveted on that scene. He values it so much. He sees, who does he see? The Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Who is that? He sees Jesus. One look at Jesus, and the pain is, he just despises the shame. Just like Jesus did on the cross. That's what comes out of a man who has the right values. Of course, this is only one moment. There was the preceding boldness in his testimony before these people What else happens? Well, you might have someone like Paul in 2 Corinthians 12, 1 to 4. Turn there. And let these themes play out in your mind. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, 1 to 4. Now, Paul in 2 Corinthians has to defend his apostleship to these people. And he makes a lot of bold statements to try to get them to see the proper perspective and to listen to his authority and his words. And in chapter 12, verses 1 to 4, he talks about a man who was carried away into the third heavens. And most people believe this is, and I think it's true, him talking about himself. In 2 Corinthians 12, 1, it says, It is doubtful, not profitable for me to boast. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ who 14 years ago Whether in the body I do not know, or whether out of the body I do not know, God knows. Such a one was called up into the third heaven. And I know such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows How he was caught up into paradise and heard inexpressible words, which is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such a one I will boast, yet of myself I will not boast. except in my infirmities. For though I might desire to boast, I will not be a fool, for I will speak the truth. Well, the context is I'm not trying to boast so that you'll think I'm some great man and listen to my words and authority. But nonetheless, this is something that took place in my life. He says that he saw paradise and heard words that were inexpressible, and he was not allowed to say anything about it. It wasn't time yet to say a whole lot about heaven. But here was his experience. And so when someone has seen heaven, And they come back and they say something like The present sufferings of this world are nothing compared to this inexpressible weight of glory that is to come. Shouldn't we listen to him? That's a man with the right values in mind. And then folks, you remember in Revelation 21, when finally it was time. For someone to look right into heaven and to see it, and he's commanded, write it in a book. Write this down, John. And so John in Revelation 21, turn there. You've got to read it yet again and see this. to be encouraged. He sees it. And he writes down this final climactic scene of all things being made new in Revelation 21 verse 1 and he says, I saw. Think of this. Paul couldn't write about what he saw. John 10, I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. There was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bridegroom, as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold! The tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes There shall be no more death, no nor sorrow, nor crime. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. Verse 5. Behold, I make all things new. Just picking a phrase out of verse 5. And the scene of the city and the streets of gold and the throne and the rainbow over the throne and the river of life flowing out of that throne. He gets to see all that and write it down for you and for me. It's amazing, truly Why would we call him Lord, Lord and not change our values? Why would we ever Fall into worldliness. What is worldliness? Well, in 1 John, John defines it. The same man Under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, with the authority of God backing him up, he says, all that is in the world, and he doesn't speak of rocks and trees and rainbows, he doesn't speak of God's creation. He speaks in terms of desire, lust, the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life. It's of the world. It's not of the Father. And all that is of the world is, do you remember what he says? Passing away. But he that does the will of the Father It's going to abide forever, remain forever. So, on the one hand, you have these kingdom citizens, these disciples of Christ, and they have to change their values because they're suffering, but Jesus says, No, blessed. And on the other hand, you have these worldly folks, and they are in a life of desire, of grasping, and just trying to hold on to it for the brief, brief, brief moment that they have it. They're kind of like, if I could say this in sort of a parable, they're like a man who's falling down a well that's really deep. Let's say it's two miles deep, maybe three. That's impossible, but this is sort of a parable. So the man is falling down the well, and on the sides of that well there are little troves of treasure, and there's beautiful trinkets. He knows the well that he's going to hit bottom eventually, so he's just grasping at this treasure and his desires are going out, and he's just trying to grab what he can until that last moment when it's all over. But you and I we're so different. Because we know at that last moment there's the new Jerusalem on the other side. And the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. And so we're not falling, but we will face death, but we won't see it in the same way they will. Why would we call him Lord, Lord and not adopt these values, kingdom values? Jesus says, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and don't do the things that I say? Blessed woe. We have to change our values. The second path, if you go back to Luke chapter 6, when it comes to what else he said. He moves then into this very hard command, and you know we went through that in verses 27 to 35 about loving our enemies. And so to turn Jesus' question around, why would we call him Lord, Lord and not love our enemies? What does it look like when you take men out and you put them on a journey and they're supposed to love the very people that hate them? How bad are the enemies of the Lord? Do you remember Herod in the book of Acts? He takes James and he kills them. He sees that it pleases the people, so he grabs Peter and he's going to kill him too, probably. And so the whole church in Jerusalem knew that they had an enemy and that he wanted them dead. Herod had chosen to make himself their enemy through his words and political clout. What do you do with a man like that? Do you rise up and revolt against him? That's not what they chose to do. They just kept going about their duties Peter was released by an angel, and what did he do? He just went right back out to evangelize. And it doesn't mean they put their neck in the noose, but they kept going. They kept preaching, and that was a kind of loving their enemies. What do you do when you end up in jail and you're beaten and you're there with your friend and you're in the stocks? And you're surrounded by your enemies. They put you there. You're in between them. They would kill you if you tried to escape. And there's a guy standing or sitting. or just sleeping out there, the guard, the big guy, the big man who kind of runs the place. And he he would kill you too if you tried to escape. Because he has a mandate. If anyone escapes, his life is forfeit. Life for life. What do you do when you're surrounded by your enemies and you know what I'm referring to? Acts 16, turn back there again and leave your your finger in Luke 6. What do we do? In Acts 16, we have the amazing story, of course, of Paul and Silas in jail. And they're singing. Folks, they're not cursing the men that just beat them. They're not bitter They're not praying in precatory prayers about the men that are hurting them. They're not glaring at the jailer The keeper out there in that room, if they could see him through the bars, I don't know what the jail would have looked like or the wall would have looked like, but if they could, they're not intense and hateful. They're singing. And so, look at verse 25. At midnight, this is Acts 16, verse 25. Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everybody's chains were loosed, and the keeper of the prison, awaking from sleep, and seeing the prison doors open. Supposing that the prisoners had fled, drew his sword and was about to kill himself, but Paul called out with a loud voice, Aim for the heart. It's quicker. Stop, do yourself no harm, for we're all here. Folks, when it comes down to the final analysis, Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton are just a man and a woman made in the image of God. Every day they have to get up with achy joints. And go out and kind of stumble into their morning routine as they age. Sit down and eat their breakfast and drink their coffee and listen to all these advisors. Hillary has a history. She was a little girl once. And she had such an upbringing, and I don't know what it is, but she's just a woman. And she's getting older. And Donald is just a man. I mean, if you take away all his money and you just sit on your back porch and drink tea with him, he's just a man And the fact is that in a few short years, Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton will burn in hell. If they do not put their faith and trust in Christ, just like every other person who does not put their faith and trust in Christ. Why is it that our heart, depending on your political proclivities, would say, thank God, I'll be glad when they're gone. Does your heart ever respond that way when it comes to who's on the other side of the fence politically from you? Is that how Paul's heart responded when the chains came off? and the opportunity arose and his enemy is going to kill himself, he says, stop. Because that jailer was made in the image of God, and Jesus died on the cross for that jailer, and he goes out there. And in this moment of love, your enemies, Paul preaches the gospel to him. What must I do to be saved? And you know the story. The man gets saved in his whole household. Why would we call Jesus Lord, Lord? Why do we call him that and we hate our enemies? We hate the people that are even against us politically. We desire their death in our blogs and in our emails. You say, I'd never write that. But you know what I'm saying? I'm not maybe not literally, but You know, there's a lot of talk about Hillary's health. And I hear people saying, oh, flippantly, boy, that'd be great. You know, almost like, I hope she dies. And I've heard that from Democrats about Republicans and back and forth. Folks, take the politics away. Pray for kings and all those who are in authority, for it's the will of God. 1 Timothy chapter 2, the first four verses, that men be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. One of the gifts you can give God this political season is at moments separate yourself from the politics and just pray for the people. Like you were praying for your own kids. And see what God will do. Paul never could anticipate the jailer being saved. Saul himself becoming Paul. Who could have foreseen that? Nobody did. They didn't even believe it after it happened. Took Barnabas to bring him in and say, yeah, it's true, he got saved. Who could get saved this political season? How? Why? Why would we call him Lord, Lord, and not love our enemies? Folks, God takes care of his enemies. Vengeance is mine. I will repay the bad things that people do. It will catch up with them. If not in this life, then in hell. Herod was what? He gets up there in his shining robe and he's eaten by worms. Haman in the Old Testament, he wants to kill all the Jews, and what happens to him? He gets killed on his own implement of death. There's a translational difference there. Some translate it as a pike that he gets stuck on, others as a gallows that he gets hung on, but the point is he's dead. Saddam Hussein hung on a gallows. Do evil men in the end get cut off? Yes, but you say, well, I know somebody who didn't happen in this life. Hell is a long time, folks. Vengeance is mine, I will repay. It's our job to intercede on behalf of Gentile rulers. and kings for their salvation. Let's love our enemies. Let's call him Lord and let's do good to our enemies. Let's be like our Father is in heaven And that leads me then to this, and this is perhaps the most difficult one, if you go back to Luke again as we try to bring this to home. Why in Luke chapter 6, the section there from verses 37 all the way down to verse 45. Why would we call in Lord, Lord, and maintain a judging and condemning kind of a spirit, offering our brother no mercy or forgiveness? Now in the Bible, forgiveness is not something you bestow if the individual is not requesting it or desiring it. We are supposed to be tender-hearted, kind to one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven us. If you don't repent and put your faith in Christ, does God forgive you? Nope. That's why you'll end up in hell. So there are certain conditions on forgiveness mentioned in the New Testament. One is repentance. In Luke, it says, if your brother repents, forgive him. And it's built into the New Testament. The concept of repentance in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, which gives a good definition of what repentance is. And John the Baptist exhorted his folks, the people who came to his baptism of Repentance to bring forth fruit that was suitable to repentance. So when it says here, do not judge and condemn, make sure you forgive, we're not divorcing this command to forgive from the entirety of the rest of the Bible. What we're talking about is you confront someone in an effort to restore them, and they repent. And they say, please forgive me, I want to do right. What should you do then? Well, if you go to 2 Corinthians chapter 2, I will show you precisely what you should do if someone has repented. and they're serious about it. Now, I hasten to say this. If someone doesn't repent, you can't be bitter against them. If someone has sinned against you and they never repent, you don't hold a grudge against them the rest of their life and hate their guts. Your appeal to them should be repent and you should love them anyway. Don't give in to bitterness. It's a root that will spring up and defile many But here's what you do if they repent. In 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 3 to 11 is the passage dealing with this man who had sinned and he had been church disciplined. And so Paul writes this. Look, he says This is 2 Corinthians 2 verse 3. I wrote this very thing to you, lest when I come I should have sorrow over those whom I ought to have joy. Having confidence in you all that my joy is the joy of you all, for out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears. Alright, so he's he's couching what he's about to say in the fact that he loves them and he's sorry sorrowful over them and he doesn't have a desire to hurt them. Verse five, if anyone has caused grief, he has not grieved me. but all of you to some extent, not to be too severe. This punishment which was inflicted by the majority is sufficient for such a man So that on the contrary, you ought rather to forgive and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one be swallowed up with too much sorrow. Therefore, I urge you to reaffirm your love to him For to this end I also wrote that I might put you to the test whether you are obedient in all things. Now whom you forgive anything, I also forgive. For if indeed I have forgiven anything, I have forgiven that one for your sakes in the presence of Christ, lest Satan should take advantage of us, for we're not ignorant of his device. What do we have here? We have someone who has committed a sin and repented and he has been, well, he committed the sin, he was confronted, he repented, and now Forgive and affirm your love to him. Don't allow him to be overwhelmed by his guilt and sin and the things that he did. It's not a judge and condemn here. They're not supposed to judge and condemn. It is, as you remember from the sermon last week, Galatians 6, 1 to 4, it's it's restore. Someone has been taken in a trespass. Restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness, a spirit of love. Why would we call him Lord, Lord, and not offer our brother mercy and forgiveness when they repent? What would possibly cause us to do that? Back in Luke chapter 6, why would you call him Lord, Lord, and be absolutely distracted by the speck in your brother's eye? When there are planks hanging out of your own eyes, why would you and I do that? First, we need to make sure we get the plank out of our own eye. I hesitate to do this, but I want to tell you another kind of a parable here that I've been thinking a lot about lately in reference to this. Can you imagine for a second there was a father and two sons? And the father is a good man, and he has some skills and some that are not, he's not very good at. He has his strengths and he has his weaknesses. The one son has developed sort of an attitude about one of the father's weaknesses. And so, on a regular basis, this son will have discussions with the other son about the weaknesses of the father. And particularly one weakness, the one area that the father's not very good at, and that's just fixing cars. Just can't fix cars. It's not mechanically inclined. One time the father left the uh, you know, did something to the car and it actually broke down because the father failed in what he was doing. Meanwhile, the second son starts to develop a really serious problem in his life. A problem that's so bad that the father has to intercede on that problem and help. But because the discussion between the two sons has been so that the one son has criticized the father in this one area to the other son, that other son has a huge excuse now to disregard everything the father said. And so now, sad to say, when when the father moves in to help the one son, he can't help him, and the son is resistant because he's heard the criticism from the other son. And the house has been torn down. You know, in the book of Proverbs, it says that a wise woman builds her house, but a foolish woman tears it down with her hands. And you might not hear, a wise woman builds her house. A marriage is a shared house between a husband and a wife. A family, no one lives to himself and no one dies to himself. There's that mutual unity there. And when when you criticize or hurt, for example, if if a wife criticizes the husband in front of the kids, the kids end up disrespecting who? Not just the husband. the wife as well. And so you have this this danger in all of us where we have to be so careful at noticing these moats and make sure that we We can get the planks out of our own eyes. And how does the illustration go? If the planks are out, you can do what better? You can see. And maybe that moat is not what you thought it was. Because your whole focus has been, you know, you've got the planks and you're trying to see that moat and you're and and it's just you're not seeing it right. In the parable I'm telling you of the sons, the house was torn down. And we don't want to do that here. Why would we call him Lord, Lord? And do not the things that he says. Where does this lead us? All right, hang in there. Here's where we we at All of this is very convicting to me. I don't know about you, but it's it's convicting to me. And it makes me want to just take a moment and pray to my to God. About anything that comes to mind, a moment of confession. So that when we go down there in a while to eat and then pray, we have clear consciences, and maybe even you need to go talk to someone before you pray. And make things right about something. I don't know. I don't have anything in mind here. Just trying to apply this to our lives. And so I would like to, in a moment, just give us a moment of silence where we can talk to God, okay? And then we'll be done and we'll go eat. But let me Now this has been a lot of reading and a lot of you know sort of explanation and it's been long. Let me say one more thing before we pray. If you're a Christian Be bold with your sin before God. Say, whoa, that doesn't sound right. What I mean is be bold to confess it. Walk in the light. Because the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses you from all sin. Be willing to say, Lord, I blew it. And He'll say, I'll help you with that. Just be open to God because you have the freedom to do that, because you are a justified sinner. You are not just a sinner, you are justified in Christ Jesus. And when you develop that habit, wow, you will start growing. So let's take a moment and let's pray about these things and ask God to search our hearts, and then we'll conclude. Okay? Thank you for paying attention to this. Let's pray silently.