Well good morning. It's good to be with you again. I'm honored that you had me back. That's a good sign, I think. And I will be praying for you as a congregation as you go through this time. You know, I I I might have said this last time, but one of the things that blesses my heart as a chaplain is when I have to be away for a few weeks and I come back and the men are still growing in the Word and reading the Word every day. It's a blessing to see the body of Christ. It's more than just the pastor. You know what I mean? It's everybody's got to be connected, doing their part in the body of Christ. And uh sometimes it's exciting to see people step forward and fill in the gaps and do things. Uh And so I will be praying though for your upcoming decision. I um Again I have with me a new newsletter today and pictures. If you want to see any of that, I won't go through all that again, but Let's just have a brief word of prayer before we get into God's Word. Father, as we open your word now, speak to our hearts, convict us, encourage us, rebuke us. Most of all, Lord, we want to see Jesus. uh comprehend the height and depth and breadth of love that was manifest through Christ as he entered this sinful world, endured the contradiction of sinners. That whole mission, Lord, is beyond our grasp, and we're dull of learning, Lord, and slow to comprehend the truths that you have for us. So we ask your Spirit to guide us and And open our minds today to stir us anew to see things about you. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to go to the Gospel of John chapter 1 today, a very familiar passage, but one that I Kind of go to a lot in the jail ministry, and as the message unfolds today, you'll see why. While you're finding the Gospel of John, though, I'd like to just give a real brief introduction to the Gospel of John. You know, you have four accounts in the Bible of Jesus' life, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Matthew, Mark, and Luke, they call the synoptic gospels because they they follow a very similar pattern. They tell a lot of the same stories. And most scholars believe that those Gospels were written earlier than the Gospel of John. And it seems almost as if when John wrote his Gospel that he had all knowledge of those other accounts. and sort of purposely uh included details that the others did not include. Because even when he includes the same stories, like in John 6 where he all four Gospels mention the feeding of the 5,000, John includes a lot of information of what happened after Word. He doesn't contradict in any way what the other gospel writers say, but he includes details that the others didn't. And he tells us ahead of time the purpose of his writing this account. He told us in John chapter 20, 30 and 31. I can't quote the verses exactly, but he said there was more things that Jesus did. than what he wrote about. But the things that he included, he wrote these things so that we would know that Jesus is the Christ and believe that, and in believing, have life through his name. That's the purpose of the gospel. And uh so with that in mind, uh let's read. I'd like to read the whole passage. That's the way I like to do things, uh, verses 1 through 18, and then come back and look at it. Piece by piece. John chapter 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the dark man sent from God, whose name was John. This man came for a witness to to bear witness of the light that all through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light which gives light to every man coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God to those who believe in his name who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness of him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, he who comes after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness we have all received, and grace for grace. For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. Verse 1 sounds like a contradiction. The word was with God, and the word was God. But that contradiction actually explains a lot of things, and it's one of the clearest references in the Bible to the doctrine of what we call the Trinity. And uh as people who deny that doctrine like to say, well that word Trinity isn't even in the Bible. And usually when people tell me that I say, well actually the word Bible isn't in the Bible either, at least not in English. But it's a concept that is there. It describes something that is in the Bible. And so I'd like to take a little time to look at that today. It sounds like a contradiction. But who is this word and what is he talking about? Well, verse 14 makes it clear that the word is Jesus. Verse 14 says, the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory. The glory is of the only begotten of the Father. This clearly couldn't be anybody but Jesus. But um putting Jesus' name in there, then, we could read verse one. In the beginning was Jesus, and Jesus was with God, and Jesus was God. Now, Jesus, of course, was the name given him at his birth, so it would be maybe not appropriate to put it there as before he was incarnate. Uh you know, there he was the beloved son throughout eternity. But what about this seeming contradiction here? Well, first of all, whenever you're studying things in the Bible, especially things about God, You have to be careful not to confine the limits of what you believe or what you accept to the limits of our understanding. And here's what I mean by that. Does anybody, can anybody explain how God knows the future when it seems like today we're still deciding what we're doing and things could go any which way? Nobody can explain that. But we know it's true because in God's Word there's prophecies, detailed prophecies, where God, who says about himself, he knows the beginning from the end. Uh we know that's true. We believe it because it was what was revealed about him. What about how does God know everything that's going on and uh even what we're thinking? Nobody can explain. That. But we believe it's true because it's what God's Word reveals. And so when it comes to the person of God, that the Word was God and uh and was with God and was God. We've got to be careful not to distort what the Scripture has revealed to the limits of our own understanding. In fact, in the book of Jude, verse 10, it clearly says that false teachers, I'm paraphrasing here, whatever they don't understand, they distort. That's a characteristic of false teachers. And so when we're talking about the being of God, we don't even understand everything about creation. You know, I'm not a physicist, but uh, you know, I'm I'm told that there's theories about this, but you know, look at an atom. Uh protons are positively charged, but they're clumped together in the middle of an atom. Shouldn't those positively charged things repel each other? Well, you know, they talk about weak nuclear forces, strong nuclear forces, but what I'm saying is this, that if something doesn't seem to make sense And it's something that God has revealed. We should honor God enough to believe what it says. And that's not the same as saying that we should believe contradictory nonsense, that everything is true. Uh i i it's saying that God may know things about himself and things about reality that we can't quite comprehend, things that might seem contradictory to us. So then what does this mean? Well, again, if you look at the Jehovah's Witness Bible, they'll say the word was a God. Uh ironically, the verse that they get their title from disproves that because the verse that they get their title from, uh Jehovah's Witnesses, is Isaiah 43, 10, which Which says there was no God created before Jehovah and no God created after him. So if that were true, how could he be a God? But this isn't the only place in the scripture where it seems like God is with or speaking to God. And and that's significant because you know when God created man, he made him in his own image. And uh he made people male and female in his own image, and that was a way of of of uh uh revealing things about himself. Because it says that of course when a man and woman are married, they become one flesh and and uh Not that we're a perfect reflection of God, but but here's the thing about that. When God revealed himself about, you know, there being And he created people. He created people with the ability to interact, to speak, to be sociable. Did God have that ability before he created people? I think he did. I think he had it throughout eternity. It wasn't that he had to wait to create someone, to create people and angels before he had someone to have the ability to interact with. It existed throughout eternity. And it's what's reflected in us today. And so the word was with God and the word was God. As I said, it's not the only place in the Scripture Uh when you go back in the Old Testament at the time of creation, God says, Let us make man in our image. Who is us and our. He wasn't making man in the image of God and angels. He was making angels. him in the image of God. And so there was this fellowship, this sociability within the one true God before creation existed. And uh if you're more interested in this, come back tonight because I want to go through some scriptures that I use uh when people challenge this. Just to give you some background, occasionally Muslims have said to me, Well, we believe in the Old Testament, but we don't believe in the New Testament. So once or two times I've asked why, one of them said to me, uh, uh, well, the New Testament talks about this, Son of God. He said, that's that's a Roman idea. Uh, you know, uh that's where the the gods come down and fornicate with women and and you know then there's this son of God. And I you know I said, well first of all, that's kind of a blasphemous thing because the Bible describes a virgin birth that was a miracle, uh, not Mary fornicating with uh, you know, somebody. Uh so but in any case, there's a lot of support in the Old Testament of of teachings that Support the things that we're going to talk about today and I'd like to kind of walk through some of that. That's just a little tickler for the evening message if you're inclined to come back for that. But so we should accept what it says without extorting it. The word was with God and the word was God. And let's read some other things that it says about the word here. The first thing it mentions in both verse 1 and 2 that he was in the beginning with God. That too is supported through the Old Testament. Remember Micah 5, 2, You Bethlehem, out of you will come me whose origins are from of old. Even from all eternity. He was in the beginning with God. Verse 3: all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. That too is confirmed in verses like I already mentioned with the creation of man. Let us make man in our image. And it's also affirmed throughout the New Testament in places like Colossians 1. Where it says that Jesus made all things visible and invisible. And it even lists out the invisible things, thrones, principalities, powers, dominions, talking about angelic beings. All things were made through him and and and for him and it says in Colossians 1, uh verses 15 and 16. By the way, uh I I this that verse mentions Jesus as the firstborn of creation. And uh, you know, I I anytime that I get into detailed conversations with a Jehovah's Witness, they'll say, they'll go to that verse and say, See, he was the first one born. He was the first thing created. And then they'll go over to Proverbs 8 and talk about wisdom. You know, see, Jesus was that wisdom with the Father. And uh the only problem is that in Proverbs 8, wisdom is referred to as a she consistently all the way from the beginning of Proverbs 8 to the end beginning of Proverbs 9. So that couldn't be talking about Jesus, referring to him as a she. And the the thing about the firstborn is this When you're talking about firstborn in the Bible, it's not always the first one born. For example, Esau and Jacob, which one was the first one born? Esau, which had the rights of the firstborn? It was Jacob. Why? Because that was a title of the one that would inherit the father's position as head of the family. Adam literally the firstborn of the human race, but the firstborn over all creation is elder. Uh the ref Psalms it talks about uh the Messiah being uh his his firstborn. Uh uh the reference for that uh his I can't put them born over all creation. So the Word was with God. The Word was God. He was in the beginning. He existed throughout eternity. Wasn't created. No God has created him. He was uh all things were made through him, and without him nothing was made, it was made. In him was life, and it was a light of it. What does that mean, though? You're alive, I'm alive. If we're reading this, we're alive. Well, actually, they're dead in trespasses and sins. That's what it says in Ephesians 2. 1. He says, You were all dead in trespasses and sins. Until Christ made you alive. Well, how did we get that way? Well, when you go back to the Garden of Eden, and it told when God told Adam and Eve, the day you eat of that fruit, you'll surely die. He wasn't talking about physical death, though that was eventually a consequence of that, but physically Adam didn't die that day. What did happen that day was a spiritual death, a separation from God. Our sin separates us from God. Death in the Bible is always a separation, by the way. You know, when you die physically, it isn't that your body doesn't exist, it isn't that your soul doesn't exist, it's that they're not together anymore. And uh the people, uh when Adam and Eve sinned, they were separated from God, their bodies began to age, and Returned to the dust of the ground, but they they lived long enough to have children. That's why we're all here today. But their children were born outside of the garden. They didn't have to go back to the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. They started sinning all by themselves, following their their Father's footsteps, and that makes us dead in trespasses and sins. That wasn't true of Jesus. Jesus was the holy Son of God and and had he he makes statements throughout the gospel uh that he and the Father did everything together. There was never a time except for the time on the cross where he was burying our sins. when he he wasn't complete full fellowship with God. Now, when I say that exception, I'm saying when he was bearing our sins, he was accepting our death penalty. Uh not that he was in any way sinner himself, but in him was life. And that life was the light of men You know, it it it in John 16 it says one of the reasons that the Spirit of God has come after Jesus ascended to heaven is because after he ascended he would convict of sin and righteousness and judgment. Because he went to the Father and people would see him no more. He showed us what it was like to have a life that was in constant fellowship with God. His life was the light of men. And it tells us the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. Now, that light shining in the darkness and the comprehension, the word comprehend there, some translations say did not overcome it. And there's I I kind of like the word comprehend, and here's why, because in context, verse 5, the light is shining in the darkness, and it uh and whatever it didn't overcome didn't comprehend it. And then he goes into a little section about John the Baptist here, bearing witness to the light, and he comes right back to verse 10 and says that he was in the world, the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. Well that suggests that that uh uh this he that he they didn't didn't understand who he was. Now again there's Scholars, most scholars I think actually go down on the side of that should be translated uh uh over overcome, that the light shines and the darkness couldn't extinguish the light. But I think it has more to do with the darkness of people's hearts not comprehending it. Part of the reason I think that is because of what he says about John bearing witness to the light. Let's read verse 6 There was a man sent from God whose name was John. This man came for a witness to bear witness of the light that all through him might believe He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light which gives light to every man coming into the world. When John bore witness of the light, how did he go about that? What did he do? As I said, he he John in his gospel here doesn't rem uh go through the detailed account of that the other gospel writers do of what John's preaching was like. But the other writers tell us that the main message that he had was repent for the kingdom of heaven was at hand. Well, how was that bearing witness to the light? Well, the kingdom of heaven, the people would have understood that for the kingdom of heaven, the king, the Messiah, had to be here at hand. But to bear witness to the light, his command was to repent. Why? Because the nature of people is to suppress the truth and unrighteousness. The nature of of of people is to turn from the light and and it was something that they had to to acknowledge their sinfulness, their need, uh, and that was part of John the Baptist's mis mission. He would not baptize people like the Pharisees who came to just do it as a quote, you know, religious ritual. Another good deed to put on your notch of things. He would only baptize people who were willing to confess their sins to acknowledge that they were a sinner in need of a savior. And that was one of the ways that he bore witness to the light, uh, to pre to prepare the people to receive the light. Later it says of the Pharisees and Luke that they rejected God's purpose for them because they wouldn't receive John's teaching. So John the Baptist prepared the way for Jesus, and all these things were special things about the Word, about the Word. He was with God, he was God. He created all things. He was in the beginning throughout eternity. He had life. He had that connection with the Father that nobody else had. uh unbroken fellowship with God. His life was a light of men, and he was introduced by John the Baptist. And then in verse 10 he says this. He was in the world. And the world was made through him, and the world did not know him. You know, the the power and wisdom manifest in creating the world is an amazing thing. We sang about it this morning. And and did you ever stop and think, you know, sometimes when people use talk about God, I I was one time trying to witness to a lady who was into new age things. And I pointed out to her that when the Son of God walked the earth, he did miracles to show that he had the power over nature. And she said something to me like this. She said, She said, yeah, there's a power out there and we can all lay hold of it if we just uh uh do the right things or or you know she she was talking about new age practices. And I don't remember what I said to her, uh how I answered that, but uh but could anybody really believe that new age practices would enable a person to do the kind of miracles that Jesus did? I don't think so. What Jesus manifest was the power of God. You know, to create the world, it takes more than just raw power. There is a tremendous amount of power displayed in creation. The fact that, you know, to make an what to create a single atom, what does it take? It takes a lot of power because if you split an atom you get a nuclear explosion. That power, but it also takes intelligence to put everything into delicate balance. You know when you take even a high school chemistry course Atoms are hard for us to split, but they're really delicately balanced. They're they're it it took some finesse, some some intelligence. to make the building blocks of creation. And it took a whole lot more intelligence to take all those building blocks and form them into proteins and proteins into molecules and into RNA and DNA and cellular machinery. But that was the word that was becoming flesh and dwelling among us. Could you imagine Uh y you know a w a a an important person that you didn't realize who it was? You're welcome into your business. So suppose you work for a company and you don't know the founder of the company, but he's somebody important and and then one day he comes to the company and you don't realize who he is. And you do something that's embarrassing, you treat them the wrong way, wouldn't that be a tremendous, you know, embarrassment Jesus, the word that was with God, the word that was God, the wisdom, the power, all manifest in this person of Christ, was in the world. The world was made through him, and the world did not know him. Why? Because of their hardness of heart, because of the sinfulness of people, and also because his glory was veiled in flesh. Verse 11. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. Well, who was his own? In this context, I think it has to be talking about the children of Israel. Uh, you know, it could be anybody in creation, it could be the whole world, really, but Jesus was specifically the King of the Jews, the promised Messiah. We're going to look at some of that stuff tonight that talks about that. But when you go back in the Old Testament, especially to Exodus 19, Uh you know, the children of Abraham were supposed to be God's special nation. That's what he had revealed to Abraham. But when they came out of Egypt, when he had parted to sea and brought them to Mount Sinai, He said, if you want to be my special people, I'm going to make a covenant with you. And the people said, We will do everything you say. And then he gave them the old covenant. And he said, You'll be a nation unlike any other nation of the world. You'll be my people, even though the whole world is mine, you're going to be my special nation. That's Exodus 19. And so he came to his own and his own did not receive him. What does it mean they didn't receive him? Well, there were people who believed in him and received in him. But the leaders of the Jews rejected him. When he was on trial before them, they said, we have no king but Caesar. That was not only a rejection of Jesus as an individual. That was a rejection of the whole promise that God was the leader of Israel because it was The so many prophecies about Jesus being the King of the Jews, and to say we have no king but Caesar. In fact, the Old Testament says that the Lord was the King of Israel That was a very blatant rejection of not just the man Jesus, but of the word that became flesh and dwelt among us. Jesus himself told a parable where he said that the son went away to be crowned king, and the people sent a delegation saying, We won't have this man to rule over us. Verse 12, but as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God. To those who believe in his name. As many as received him, he gave the right to become children of God. Well, what does that mean? You didn't have to knock on your own house door unless somebody locked you out. You just barged right in. You didn't do that in anybody's home When you were a child and even as a grown-up, you don't normally you go to your parents' house and you eat a meal, you know, you kind of just expect you're there or you're fed, right? Your your parents uh are in fact if you don't, if parents don't provide meals and clothing for their children, uh they can be in trouble with the law We have rights as a child. And those who receive him have rights as a child of God. What a privileged position that is. In Ephesians, he talks about walking worthy of the calling to which we're called. As a child in your home, you had to follow the standards of your family. But uh before I get too far afield, how do we he he says in verse twelve, as many as received him, he gave the right to become children of God. Well how does that happen? How does a person receive Jesus? He's not here today physically. It says to those who believe in his name. Well, what does that mean? Well, you know Jesus' name means Jehovah is salvation. And to believe in his name isn't just believing that he existed. You know how we know that? If if you're looking, flip back a few pages to chapter 8, I can Kind of recite the verses to you, but let me read them, it'll be even better. Again, Jesus' name means Jehovah is salvation. John chapter 8. Verses 23 and 24, Jesus is having a little debate with the Pharisees here, and he says, You are from beneath, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins, for if you do not believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. Now clearly there he couldn't be. They couldn't it they they had to believe that he existed. They were talking to him. They had to believe a lot of things about him that But he was saying, you don't believe in me, and if you don't believe in me, you're going to die in your sins. Well, who does he claim to be? Well, by the end of that chapter in verse 58. He says, before Abraham was, I am. And that word I am is the he he he was making reference to the name Jehovah. We know that because the people took up stones to stone him. And so Jesus was claiming to be the Father, but what is it about his name? You know that sometimes people, when we study the Christmas story, They asked me why in Matthew does it say, I think it's verse 21, it says that, in one verse it says that The angel told him, Call his name Jesus, because he'll save his people from their sins. And then in the very next verse it says, This fulfilled the prophecy that said, A child will be born, and they'll call his name Emmanuel. How come they didn't call him Emmanuel, you know, if it was fulfilling the prophecy that said he should be called Emmanuel, which means God with us? And I had to look at that for a while, but you know what I concluded? Jewish people ascribe a lot of significance to the meaning of names. And the word Emmanuel means God with us. So we use that word in English, but we don't uh we don't use the word Jesus because out of reverence for Jesus. I don't know that I've ever met a Jewish person named Emmanuel. Uh, you know, it doesn't seem like a very Jewish thing to do. But here's how that naming him Jesus fulfilled that prophecy. Because the angel not only said, name him Jesus, but he also said that this child will save his people from their sins. Well, if the name Jesus means Jehovah is salvation, and this person, this child is going to save his people from their sins, what does that make this child? Again, if the name Jesus means Jehovah is salvation, and the child is going to save his people from their sins, who does that make the child? Makes him Jehovah, God with us. And so believing in his name is not just believing that he exists, not just believing a you can believe a lot of things about Jesus, but it's believing that Jehovah is salvation. And uh that's the opposite of saying there are many ways to God. It's the same as saying that he's the way, the truth, and the life. Verse 13. What happens when those who receive him believe in his name? Verse 13, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Believing in his name, coming to Christ and saying, I know that you are the Savior, and acknowledging that all that he did on the cross was for my sins because again that John the Baptist told him you had to repent and he introduced Jesus. You know you know one of the strange things after saying that this one coming after me, he's not worthy, I'm not even worthy to loose his shoes. And and on and talking about how great he would be, you know what he said when he introduced Jesus? Behold, the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. How does that compute? What what does that have to do with him being so high and holy that he couldn't even, you know, wasn't worthy to untie his shoe? Because that was his mission. That's what the Spirit of God prompted him to respond as. That was his mission in his first coming. And that, in fact, is a title that one day the hosts of heaven will sing, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. And who redeemed us to God by his blood. When you go to Revelation, that's the that's the crescendo of the chorus of heaven. Of praise for God and and and God's Son. That's the praise of the word that became flesh. But as many as received him, he gave the right to become children of God to those who believe in his name, who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor the will of man, but of God. The this new birth, and he elaborates on it. This this section of John covers a lot of things that are covered in more detail later in the the text. Things about the light, things about in him was life, things about Being born again here. Of course, the classic dissertation of that was what he gave to Nicodemus in chapter 3. But notice being born is not something you do for yourself. It's something physically that your mother does the labor. Spiritually, it's what God does for to bring about his the birth of his children. And that's not something that happens by blood. I take that to mean family line or the will of the flesh. That's not something that people just do for themselves out of their own. Desires, nor is it something that other people collaborate on, the will of man that uh we we uh do this together, but of God Jesus came to do something that we couldn't do for ourselves. And it's very foolish for people to think that they can do for themselves what Christ came to do for us. Verse 14, the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness of him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness we have all received, and grace for grace. For the law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. When the word became flesh, it tells us in verse 14 that we beheld his glory, full of grace and truth. You know, the glory of God is manifest in many different ways. The Bible says that the heavens declare the glory of God, because when you look at the grandeur of the heavens and realize that God spoke and it happened. That glorifies God. When God gave the law on Mount Sinai, there was a manifestation of the glory of God, and if any sinful thing came near God, they were consumed by God, because God is like a consuming fire. But when Jesus became flesh and dwelt among us, he displayed another kind of glory. A glory full of grace and truth. It's a glory of the beauty of his character. And what he mentions here, I'm going to skip over a few things because we're running out of time here, but I want to make this final point. The law was given through Moses, he says in verse 17, but grace and truth, that manifestation of God's glory, came through Jesus Christ. And when he says in verse 18, no one has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. Why does he word it that way? Did Jesus did he he walked and showed himself to man? Why is he he worded it it kind of in a strange way there? No one has seen God, but but Jesus has declared him. I think he does that because he's alluding to something in the Old Testament. And I want to turn there and look at it briefly. Go to Exodus chapter 33. Exodus chapter 33. We're going to look at how God's glory was manifest and declared, even though people can't see God with their physical eyes. Exodus chapter thirty three The context here, uh back in chapter twenty, God spoke the Ten Commandments from the mountain, and the people said, Man, this is so scary hearing God speak. Moses, you go up and get the command commandments from God. Go up the mountain and and we'll listen to what you say. And God said, You know what? That's a good thing. Uh and and so Moses went up the mountain. He stayed there forty days. In the meantime, the people said, We don't know what happened to Moses. They made a golden calf. They started having their wild idolatry celebration, worship, celebration, whatever you want to call it. for the for the golden calves. Uh and then they Moses comes down the mountain. He's so upset he throws down the ki the the the tablets. I'm I'm hurrying through this. You're familiar with the story. That's the context. And now he's interceding for them. And he tells them, you know, if you don't go with us, don't send us up from here because we want to be your people. And the people mourn and they agree. But in the middle of all that, go to chapter 33, verse 18. And let's read verse 18 through 20. And he, that's Moses, said, please show me your glory. Now wait a minute. Moses had just been up the mountain that looked like it was burning like fire. He saw and spoke to something up there. It was some manifestation of God. It wasn't God in all of his glory. But what is he asking? He's already seen more of God's glory than most people. Well, the answer makes it clear what he was looking for. Verse 19. Then he that's God said, I will make all my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the Lord before you I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I'll have compassion on whom I'll have compassion. But he said, You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live. And then Moses prepares and goes up the mountain. Skip over to 34, chapter 34, verse 5. Now the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth. Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty. Now wait a minute. Sounds like a contradiction again here. But here's the thing. What was Moses asking for? He was asking to see the goodness of God. He already saw the judgment of God. They would get some more manifestations of that before they were done going through the wilderness. He understood a lot of things about God's glory, but what he needed to see now was God's shepherd heart, his his tender heart that would forgive his people in spite of their folly and rebellion. And these verses are quoted in part, usually not in an entirety, throughout the Old Testament. Every time the Israelites once again did something that was totally ridiculous and totally You know, they had just forty days earlier said, We're not going to worship any idols, and now they're bowing down to idols. Later it in I think it's Numbers 14, after another disaster happened, Moses interceded with God. And he recited part of this, but God, you're merciful and gracious, and you forgive iniquity and transgression in sin. That's Numbers 14, 18. We don't have time to turn there. In a time of Nehemiah, when the Israels had just experienced 70 years of captivity, they come back to the land and what happens? They start intermarrying with the foreigners and Nehemiah has to intercede. And says, but God, you're merciful and gracious. You forgive iniquity, transgression, and sin. He quotes part of this verse. It's also recited in the Psalms. But when you get to the New Testament, it's only alluded to once. You know why? Because in Christ was manifest, he declared, he did what Moses was looking for. When he walked this earth and gave his life as an offering for sin, he gave a clearer manifestation of God's grace and truth than was given there on Mount. when when Moses was coming down from Mount Sinai. And that is what should sustain our hearts that as we go about our lives day by day, week by week. We love him because he first loved us. And these things, you know, we did a lot of things today that were kind of doctrinal, talking about how do we believe the Trinity and things. But don't miss this point. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. It was a very humbling thing, but it manifests God's glory full of grace and truth. And you understand that if you if when you first come to salvation you realize what kind of sinner you are because uh the the The Spirit of God has shown you things about yourself that you wouldn't have ever recognized otherwise. But as a believer, we need to daily just walk with God and and and and and as we do that Deal with whatever sins, whatever, knowing that God is full of grace and mercy. It's the grace of God that teaches us to live godly and upright lives. Christ Jesus. Let's close with a word of prayer. Father, thank you again for the tremendous fact of the incarnation. And Lord, we pray that you would impress upon our hearts these truths. Lord, if there's any here who do not know you, help them to realize that it's You are the Savior. It's it's faith in you, not in anything that we could do. It's not of us or our family line or anything like that. And for those of us who know you, Lord, I pray again that you would impress upon our hearts anew that glory full of grace and truth. That we would be willing to deal with whatever it is that is hindering us from enjoying fellowship with you, that uh People would turn to you and walk with you day by day to give you the honor and glory you deserve as the father of our family. uh as a child of God. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen