I mean, with names like Eriok, Kedolaumer and Beraf, she might be on to something. I could have at least made a passing reference to one of Tolkien's novels, for fair enough, and it's better late than never But I feel like I need to go deeper into full token nerd mode. And you just brace yourself for some extreme gear But let me make some more analogies between non-fiction Genesis and fiction token Perhaps Lot is like the Hobbit, Bilbo Baggins, whose tukish side led him to venture out into the uncertain world. Maybe Abram's like Gandalf, older and wiser, just as Gandalf rescues Bilbo, Abram rescues Lot. Let's keep going as we open up to today's passage. If Lot is like Bilbo and Abrams like Gandalf, then today we're meeting someone who resembles Tom Bombardil. For those who have not read The Lord of the Rings, Tom Bombadil's A Mysterious Character of Tolkien's Legendarium. He's omitted from radio adaptations, the animated film, and for many of us we were familiar with the Peter Jackson trilogy, but he's not in there either. Most know Tom Bombardil from reading the books themselves. But even in the trilogy, there's much we don't know about him. His origins and roles are unclear. What we do know is that is that he's a benevolent character, a supporting character. Bombadil saves the hobbits out of traps. He and his wife Goldberry show them hospitality. During their stay, the Hobbits learned that the one ring has no power over Bambadil, which is very interesting, and that certainly peaks The interest of every reader, right? And then even scholars are talking about this. They're debating and arguing about Bombadil. But in one of his letters, the author Tolkien himself reveals he intended the character to be an enigma. Not everything needs explanation, even in fantasy lore. We have what we need in the main storyline. All that to say is we conclude our coverage of Genesis 14. Today we have someone who matches Bombadil, Tom Bombadil, and his intrigue and mystique. Except he's real. His name is Melchizedek. He appears seemingly out of nowhere. He shares a meal and worships with Abram. He's not seen or heard from again. We find his name once more in the Old Testament in one of David's Psalms. And then it's not until the New Testament that the writer of Hebrews, we read about him earlier, discusses his significance. But if we proceed in order, we'll encounter him for the first time in today's passage. So let's read Genesis 14, 17 to 24. MS fourteen, seventeen to twenty four. And the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the valley of Shabe, that is the king's valley, after his return from the defeat of Kedolaumer and the king's were with him. Then Melchizedek, King of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was the priest of God most high. And he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abram of God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be God most high who has delivered your enemies into your hand. And he gave him a tenth a tithe of all. Now the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the persons and Take the goods for yourself. But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have raised my hand to the Lord God most high, the possessor of heaven and earth, that I will take nothing from a thread to a sand. And that I will not take anything that is yours, lest you should say, I have made Abram rich. Except only what the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who went with me, Anir, Eshko, and Mamre, let them take their portion. If I may summarize today's passage in two sentences, I'd say Abram gave to Salem's king a tithe, a tenth of all. Abram took from Sodom's king zero, none at all. He extends his hands forward to give to one ruler. He raises his hand upward to refuse another. That's just what happened after Abram battled the four kings of the East and rescued Lot, yes. But it's more complex than that. Why Abram behaved as he did is important. So the outline is simple. There's one scene with the king of Salem and another with the king of Sodom. So we approach the text in two parts. First we look at Genesis fourteen, seventeen to twenty, Abram's dealings with Melchizedek. Secondly, we look at twenty-one to twenty-four, Abram's dealing with Bera. But then later in the sermon, I'll take it a step further. I can't help but look beyond today's text and look ahead to the New Testament. I'll look forward to the one Melchizedek foreshadows. priestly king, Christ Jesus. We've already been singing about it, so we'll not talk about that. And so that's the agenda for today. First, we get back to our today's passage, where there we learn a thing or two from Abram's dealings with the two kings. And because we as saints are called a royal priesthood, we can even imitate Melchizedek. the royal priest to some degree. So they're up there in one and two. Here are two kingly conducts befitting a royal priesthood. Pay homage to those who bless you and your God most high. That's 17 to 20. And two, put distance from those who sin wickedly against the Lord. That's 21-20. 24. The first pay homage to those who bless you and your God most high. The good news of Abram's victory over the Mesopotamian kings. Traveled fast. You can read about that earlier in the chapter in Genesis 14. I'm sure the five Jordanian kings were quite impressed and amazed by what Abram Just accomplished. Since Bera the king of Sodom looks to be their leader of those five Jordanian kings, as he's consistently listed first among them, it made sense for him to go out to meet Abram. congratulate him. That's what we see in verse 17. It's already up there. They met at the valley of Shave or the King's Valley. It's near Jerusalem, formerly as you can see, called Salem. It's commonly identified the valley as the Kidron Valley, separating the city from the Mount of Olives. It's a place of importance in biblical history. Just keep going in the Bible and you'll see how important Kidron Valley is. And you'll see that it's important starting in this chapter. Behara had plans to greet Abram there and lavish him with praise and gifts. Any other day, the king of Sodom would be the highlight of the event. He'd take a spotlight on most occasions, but not on this day Verse 18 says that another king took the limelight, Melchizedek. As young folks like to say, he's him. I don't get that. that statement but yeah he's important all right uh we read the best commentary on Melchizedek earlier again from Hebrews 7 Hebrews 7. 1 summarizes what we just read. Verse 2 goes on to define his name and title. Melchizedek means king of righteousness. King of Salem means king of peace. By the way, you can just Go through the handout and see um we're gonna be referring to Hebrews 7 a lot. And then in verse 3 of Hebrews 7, things get interesting It says Melchizedek, without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, remains a priest continually. Like what's that supposed to mean? He got no parents? Is he not human? Is he an angel? If so, since when did angels become priests? Maybe Melchizedek, some say, is actually the son of God himself. Not that he's, you know, word of God made flesh in Jesus. We're about 2,000 years early. Too early, but some identify Melchizedek as what's called a theophany or Christophany, like appearance of God or appearance of Christ before He was incarnated, right? So that is Melchizedek might be the preincarnate manifestation of Christ. It is true that the Lord, the second person of the Trinity, appears like this, in visible form to his saints. It happens to Abram later in Genesis 18. Jacob has a more dramatic encounter in chapter 32. wrestling with God himself. So I can't rule out the possibility here in chapter 14. Well in my view I tend to take uh Melchizedek as just a human figure. But even that has some diversity of interpretations. Ancient Jewish traditions believe Melchizedek was actually Shem, one of Noah's sons. Who actually ends up outliving Abram? I don't take that view. I think that he's a Canaanite. But unlike most Canaanites, he's exceptional because of his faith. But not much else can be ascertained. He's mysterious. He enters and exits the scene. He's here. Then he's gone just like that. It's as if he's immortal. Not that he really is. He's made like the Son of God. Not that he really literally is the Son of God. He's imperfect. Like us. He's shadowy. He's not Christ. Yet he's the perfect foreshadowing of Christ. That's the point here I'll have more to say about Melchizedek's connection to Jesus later, but for now let's stay close to the text at hand. As we continue, Genesis 14:18 tells us that he's not only a king, he's a priest. In the land of many gods, he worships the one and only God whom Abram serves Their shared meal with bread and wine reminds us of the Lord's suffer that we observe in churches today, but there's no need to believe this is the ordinance taking place. The point here is that Melchizedek and Abram share intimate table fellowship. In verse 19, we see that during that meal, the king blesses the patriarch. As the writer of Hebrews says, the better one, Melchizedek, blesses the lesser one, Abram. But it wouldn't be a proper blessing without giving credit to whom it is due. The attention shifts quickly to Abram's God, God most high. He's the possessor of heaven and earth. The Lord created all. So he owns it all. The land, the goods, the people, even this victory ultimately belongs to God Most High. In verse 20, Melchizedek spells that out, blessing God most high. Now do keep in mind, blessing God doesn't mean that Melchizedek as the blesser stands above God. To bless God here and elsewhere in the Bible means to give him the praise and honor that he rightly deserves. Now we don't have a verbal reaction from Abram here, but he does let his wallet do the talking. If you get what I'm saying. Imagine visiting another church on a Sunday. Let's say the welcome teams are you know, very warm and caring. The worship's amazing. The sermon's moving. I once heard a joke where a five-year-old boy asks his father as he puts his offering into the plate, can we get a refund if the sermon isn't good? Well it turned it turns out the message is good. It's better than good the one in Melchizedek, right? It's great. You're blown away, right? You're so impressed by this experience that during the offering time You give as much as you can, you're writing a big check, you give online the same amount. Kinda like that. Abram decided right then to give Melchizedek a tenth of the spoils. Now we have here the first clear instance of tiding in the Bible, giving the tent. Keep in mind, this is centuries before the law of Moses demands it from Israel. So one can make the argument that tithing is a principle for all times, without with or without obligation. Abram gives out of his heart voluntarily. He's so impressed by the ministry of Melchizedek, he's compelled to give. As a writer of Hebrew says, consider how great this man was, to whom even the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the spoils. So we We too must pay homage to those who bless us and our God most high. So let's stop for a quick application Here's a helpful commentary from Alan Ross, one of my favorite Old Testament scholars. Abram's tithing, quote, shows how unthreatened and humble Abram was, even after a victory. He recognized that God's revelation was not limited to him. While the reader's attention is focused on Abram, carrying the whole spiritual hope of the world, There emerged out of an obscure Canaanite valley a man nearer to God than Abram was, who blessed Abraham. So we can learn from this. Even today, even though you've been saved for decades, you've read the Bible many times, and you're a spiritual standout among your peers. You've got to realize there are men and women of faith better than us. Are you unthreatened and humble enough, like Abram, to acknowledge such ones? Or consider a community application. No, we're we're doing great things as a congregation, doing a lot of outreach and helping others. But we're not the only church that God is using. That's why we make it a practice to pray for other churches in the area. That are faithful to the gospel as we are. So let's not get arrogant. One time Apostle Paul had to remind the Corinthians, a church with all kinds of issues. That the word of God did not come originally from them, nor was it them only that it reached. 1 Corinthians 14, 36. So both corporately and individually, let's follow Abram's example, pay homage to those who bless us, and our God most high. Now we cannot extend the right hand of fellowship to all c everyone we meet, right? Not to all kings and rulers. By all means be subject to governing authorities, honor them and pray for them, as the Bible tells us. But it's key That we withdraw at times. We must draw the line somewhere with some. For example, you might belong to the same political party with many past presidents But if you're sound in faith, you won't belong to the same local church with most of them. I hope not. I hope that's not a controversial take. Well that leads us to the second kingly conduct befitting a royal priesthood for distance from those who sin wickedly against the Lord. So we turn our attention back to Bera, the king of Sodom. Remember in verse 17, he came out to meet Abraham. at the Valley of Shabe. But then it's as if he was bumped to the back of the line. It's as if Bera had to wait outside the doors in the lobby until Abram and Melchizedek were done with their party. It's pretty remarkable. Materially speaking, the king of Sodom had much more to offer Abram. The king of Salem brought out only bread and wine and took from Abram. King of Sodom was willing to give to Abram much more, as you see in verse 21. But Abram did not want anything from him, according to verse 22. He raises his hand to swear an oath to the Lord. Notice how Abram asks to the name of the Lord, God Most High, and the possessor of heaven and earth. He's echoing what Melchizedek said earlier. It it's as if he was so impressed with his experience with Melchizedek, Abram mimics him. He borrows his words from verse nineteen. Moving on to verse 23, we see what Abram has sworn. He won't take a penny in modern parlance from Bera, not the smallest thread or sandal strap. He's too polite to say why, but we know why. Remember from Genesis thirteen, thirteen, the men of Sodom were exceedingly wicked and said sinful against the Lords. And if that's true of the citizens of Sodom, how much more their king? But Abraham's not strict to the point he refuses some of uh some fair compensation. Look at verse 24 Remember those three hundred eighteen trained servants born in his own house who went with Abram? It's only right that they're fed after expending all their energy He he's also okay with Mamre and his two brothers, Anair and Eshko, receiving their portion of the spoil. These are men who led uh This war with with Abram. It's as if Abram saying, My oath is a matter of my own conscience not to be imposed on others. But do consider this. There may come a time when, like Abram, we too must make a choice. We too must put distance from those who sin wickedly against the Lord. Now to practice what I call this kingly conduct, we'll need wisdom and discernment. It's easier said than done. But it can be done. And I think there are some details in this passage that help with application. I'll make two observations. First, notice how Abram demonstrates the key personal evangelism principle. I learned years ago that you must plant the flag early. What does that mean? Just as Abram immediately told the king of Sodom about his relationship with God, we need to tell new friends early on in our relationships that we follow Jesus. There's no guessing from your social media or piecing it together for your from your clean language or your you know your Christian t-shirts or something. Don't hide it, just say it. I follow Jesus. This is easier for me to say I'm a pastor vocationally. Well, how about you? Will people be able to tell because you're an engineer or you know you work in the business world that you're a Christian? Not from just that. You've got to tell them something else. How will you get around to telling others you're a Christian? sooner than later. Secondly, you make a statement about your faith, not only by saying yes, but also by saying no. I'm saying that in addition to planting your Christian identity flag early, be quick to draw a firm line on the ground. In a world of moral relativism and idolatry of tolerance, this might be a harder task. Refusing King Bera's generosity was a risky move for Abram. What if Abram's in want or need of financial assistance later? Isn't it better to stay friendly with people in high places? What if later they could help Abram get ahead in life? No matter, we must say no to certain relationships and activities. Now you can meditate on 2 Corinthians 6, 14 and 14. Or you may need to stop being a consumer of certain goods. When it calls purposefully, directly, and obviously promotes sin, close your wallets and cancel your subscriptions. I'm thinking of businesses and industries that promote prostitution, monetize pornography, exploit minors, etc. Don't give them a penny Also remember that in the current internet age and the world of social media, mouse clicks and like buttons are like currency. Time spent browsing and visiting websites and pages are cash in what's called attention economy today. So don't give them even a single click. Don't pay them a single visit online. Let's go even further. We should also cut ties with religious organizations that adhere to to heresy, most obvious are cults, but there are also those who subtly deny the central tenets of the gospel, of the true gospel. That requires more careful study. You might like some of the things they do, you might like their music, you might like their charity, you might like their branding, you might like the people that belong to these. It all sounds good and appealing, but dig just a little bit deeper and you'll find that it's better to just associate with distance. But to review these are the two kingly conducts befitting a royal priesthood, pay homage to those who bless you and your God most high. Put distance from those who sin wickedly against the Lord. I tie these conducts to Abram, the father of our faith. He's our example, he's our model. We can relate to him in our spiritual journey. But as we read the scriptures through gospel lens, we soon realize and admit this. We are not good at conducting ourselves according to scripture. We're not good at these principles. We don't pay homage to those who bless us and our God most high. We don't put distance from those who sin wickedly against the Lord. So, you know, this gets into the gospel, the good news. It turns out that left to ourselves, apart from God's grace, we're not really like Abram We're not even close to Melchizedek. We're more like the king and citizens of Sodom. That might sound harsh, but it's true I shared before how Prophet Ezekiel, I know it's later in the Bible, but kind of retrospectively, exposes Sodom's sins and ties it to the sins of the people of his side. Now you can meditate on Ezekiel 16, but I'll just summarize here. You'll see how close Sodom's sins are close to You know, Israelite sins about in the past and our sins today in our society. It's not just about the sexual sins. It's we're certainly guilty of pride, right? We stuff ourselves with food as we give little or nothing to the poor and the hungry. Then there's the most obnoxious sins of Sodom, the most infamous ones, sexual immorality, premarital, extramarital, heterosexual, homosexual. There are many more ways we've broken God's laws Now you might say to me, isn't that why we have priests? Don't we just go to them once in a while and make our confessions? Get clean, go commit more sins, wash, rinse, repeat. Then God Himself set apart a tribe of Israel, the Levites, to serve as priests for the people. people. Then the Lord himself give through Moses the design for the tabernacle, the sacrificial system, and the covenant. That's what all the Old Testament, you know, is about Leviticus is where all our Bible reading plans come to die, you know, like well isn't that all there? Like for our benefit? Yes, but God did not intend that we find perfection in all these things. Again, the law makes nothing perfect. In fact, the best thing about the law is that it exposes our failures, how we're imperfect sinners, how much we need God's grace. We can't possibly fulfill the Lord's demands on our own. And we've got to keep all of the law, but we can't keep any of the law. Galatians 3. 10, one of my favorite verses. I like to use it when people seem to be self-righteous during evangelism. Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Meaning, you want to follow the law, you better follow every single one of them and do it perfectly. Not only that, James 2. 10, whoever shall keep the whole law and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all. So you break one law, you're guilty of breaking all of them. Soon enough we realize we're lawbreakers. So now we stand justly condemned by God. And again, not only that, you cannot trust infallible priests for salvation. There's imperfection in priests. Earthly priests are prevented by death from continuing. Even high priests are weakened by sin. They must offer daily sacrifices first for their own sins and then for the peoples, the blood of these animals cannot take away sins, the tabernacle and all that's in it cannot make us perfect. Okay, so now what? What do we do with our imperfect selves? And imperfections all around us. How can we become perfect to enter heaven? This is where the reality of the good news comes in. And where there's a copy, there's the original. I'd like to point out that while walking with my son, where there's a shadow on the ground, there's a substance above it. Right. That's our bodies, right? Once we're just uh dissatisfied with ourselves and in despair of copies, images and shadows, we seek the reality. We look for the true high priest, minister of the sanctuary, of the true tabernacle, which the Lord erected and not man. We turn to a mediator of a better covenant established on better promises. That's none other than Jesus. The Son of God, the Father appointed him as heir of all things. Through his Son, he made the world. The Son is the brightness of his glory, he is the express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power. And the Son, who deserves all the glory, became man, little lower than angels. He shared in our flesh and blood. He made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, coming in the likeness of men. He came to do the will of the Father who sent him. He lived among us and obeyed the Father perfectly. To fulfill the prophecies of all Jesus entered Jerusalem. Zechariah 9:9 talks about him as the king of Israel, the king of righteousness, just in having salvation. And ride lowly and riding on a donkey. Yet he's also a priest. And again, that's strange because in Israel, kings were not allowed to be priests. Specifically, Jesus could not be a priest of Levi because he was from the line of Judah. But Jesus is not a priest according to the order of Levi, he belongs to another order, the order of Melchizedek. David himself understood this and prophesied in Psalm 110. So now Jesus as our King and the priest combines the two offices in himself. As we sang earlier, he's our great high priest. whose name is love. He's also the king of glory and of grace. As Zechariah predicted, he's destined to sit and rule on his throne and be a priest on his throne. But first, before that glorious throne, there's the shameful cross. The cross is where Christ gave his life for us As every priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices, it's necessary that Jesus also has something to offer. That something he has to offer is himself. He offered his body once for all, once to bear the sins of many, once sacrificed for sins forever. He paid in full the penalty of our wickedness and evil we should pay. His blood washes away our iniquities. He satisfied the wrath of God against us. As he finished his work of redemption on the cross, he breathed his last. He was buried. But that's not the end of the story. Remember, Jesus did not come according to the law of a fleshly commandment. He came according to the order of Melchizedek, according to the power of an endless life. Christ rose from the grave. The Father would not let his holy one seek corruption. He lose the pains of death, and death no longer has dominion over Jesus. He gave many proofs of his resurrection before ascending to heaven. Now that Jesus has by himself purged our sin, he was Was finished. He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. He sat down on that heavenly throne. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind, the living and the dead. That good news demands a response. All must repent, turn from sin and self-righteousness, turn to the king of righteousness. Be justified by faith and our peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through Jesus, we can have access to grace and stand on grace. Jesus is able to say to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. So if you haven't done so already, don't wait any longer to repent. And place your faith in Jesus. You can't be good enough to reach heaven on your own. God saves you by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. But take comfort and joy, knowing that even though we are just like the king and citizens of Sodom, enemies of God, the Lord welcomes those who hate their sins. And put their hope in Jesus. We, yes, even we can find welcome at his table, can enjoy fellowship with the Son of God, our King of righteousness and peace. We can be friends of God, and all glory belongs to Christ. All thanks to Him. We'll sing that about that as we close. Your blood has washed away my sin. Jesus, thank you. The Father's wrath completely satisfied. Jesus, thank you. Once your enemy, now seated at your table. Jesus, thank you. Let's pray Dobry, thank you for your word. Thank you that I your Wise and purposeful uh planning. You had Abram and Melchizedek meet at this point in Genesis. Genesis. But it was not just coincidence. It was not fate. It was your purpose that they meet. That Melchizedek would foreshadow the coming of Christ, who is our team. King and priest. Lord, we need authority in our lives. We need someone to take us closer to you, Father. And Lord, we can't do that on our own. We thank you for Jesus. Jesus and we pray that by his example and by his love that we would live according to your will. Lord help us to be like Abram, to know who to give more attention and care to. Pray that your son will be the first in our lives. You would give us wisdom as we deal with all kinds of relationship issues in our lives. Just thank you for your word. Pray that you'll be with us the rest of the day. Christ's name we pray. Amen. J