There's a nineties contemporary Christian song by Stephen Curtis Chapman entitled Sometimes He Comes in the Clouds. I like some of the songs he writes. Some of them are I mean, they're mostly like, you know, more performance type songs, but uh a lot of them are poetic. This one, sometimes it comes in the clouds, hit me as I was reading and preparing for this sermon. Here are the lyrics to the first verse and the chorus. These are the places I was so sure I'd find him. I looked in the pages and I looked down on my knees. I lifted my eyes in expectation to see the sun still refusing to shine. But sometimes he comes in the clouds. Sometimes his face cannot be found. Sometimes the sky is dark and gray, but some things can only be known, and sometimes our faith can only grow when we can't see. So sometimes he comes in the clouds. Have you ever felt that way? If so, you're not alone. Many saints in the Bible and throughout history could not see God in their dire straits and persecution. Job, Joseph, Elijah, and even our Lord Jesus Christ felt the despair of humanity. But persevered in faith. Today I want to focus on one person in the New Testament, very closely tied to the ministry of Jesus And he felt like God was hidden in the darkness and clouds. And that's John the Baptist. Now we've encountered John earlier in the Gospel of Luke. Bill talked about it. that a little bit. Now compare it to Luke to um other two books in the New Testament, the earlier two books, the Gospel of Matthew and Mark. Relatively speaking, we don't get to know John the Baptist as well in those first two books. In those books, readers are introduced to him as an adult, ready for his ministry in the wilderness. In Luke, however, we get a much fuller picture of John, his parentage, the circumstances surrounding his birth, the origin of his name and growth onto adulthood. in the first two chapters of Luke. Then at his adulthood, Luke records more details concerning his message to the masses. Even his specific exhortations to tax collectors and soldiers. John preached repentance and judgment, and he did not alter his message for anyone. In Luke chapter 3, verse 18 20 we see what happens when a preacher goes too far. Too far with his fire and brimstone preaching. When he goes as far as calling out the sexual immorality. and incest of rulers. Now, if you want to go with me, let's go to Luke chapter 3, verse 18 to 20, as a setup for today's passage. Luke chapter three, verse eighteen to twenty. This is after his Sermon to the masses three hundred eighteen. And with many other exhortations, he But Herod, the patriarch, being rebuked by him concerning Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done, also added this above all. Now that's very much in passing in in the Bible, but imagine the dramatic change that John John went through from wilderness to prison. The forerunner was now stopped in his tracks You know, when we read about the saints in the Bible, we need to remember that they are human beings just like us. Imagine if for years you had the freedom to work outdoors and speak to crowds of people consistently. But now you are bound in prison, cut off from the outside world, sidelined. And can only receive news through your disciples. You've stood under the bright sun, but now you are waning in darkness. You've held many people in the cool waters of Jordan, but now sit separated from society. I've heard about an experiment in which an extroverted comedian was isolated in utter darkness. I'm sorry if you're an extrovert and this scares you. But the man at one point Isolated in darkness and alone, right? Started singing before bursting into tears. He thought he was tricked and subtract forever, lost sense of time, and began hallucinating. And that was just forty-eight hours. When we think about someone like that, it's is it hard to imagine that John the Baptist was struggling in his faith? Could it be that a man who was so firm in his message began to doubt his message? If you are like John, or if you wonder what keeps believers like John going in his or her faith and message, I hope that God's word will speak to you today. today. So let's turn to Luke seven eighteen to thirty-five. If you don't have a Bible, the the passage is printed for you in the instant Insert of the bulletin as well as the points of the sermon for today. So Luke seven, eighteen to thirty-five. Then the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things. And John, calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to Jesus, saying, Are you the coming one, or do we look for another? When the men had come to him, they said, John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the coming one? Or do we look for another And that very hour he cured many of infirmities, afflictions, and evil spirits, and to many blind he gave sight. Jesus answered and said to them, Go and tell John the things you have seen and heard, that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed. The deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he who is not offended because of me. When the messengers of John had departed, he began to speak to the multitudes concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to do? But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Indeed, those who are gorgeously appareled and live in luxury are in king's courts. But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. For I say to you, Among those born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. And when all the people heard him, even the tax collectors justify God, having been baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the will of God for themselves, not having been baptized by him. And the Lord said, To what then shall I liken the men of this? generation and what are they like? They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, saying, We play the flute for you, and you didn't not dance. We mourned to you, and you did not weep. For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say He has a demon. The son of man has come eating and drinking, and you say, Look, a glutton and a wine biver, a friend of tax collectors and sinners But wisdom is justified by all her children. The question I want to pose to you today is this. How can saints maintain their faith in their heart? hearts and message in their mouths, especially when they're going through times of persecution and trouble. How can saints maintain their faith in their hearts? a message in their mouths. Now the simple answer is that God graciously enables us, and that is true. Amen to that But we also know from the scriptures that God shows his grace through his appointed means of grace. So the way to continue in faith and message Just as we see John the Baptist do here. One, hear the message of Jesus' ministry of power. That's verses 18 to 23. Two, know your place in God's plan of salvation. Verses twenty four to twenty eight and three, prepare for the world's rejection of the gospel, verses twenty nine to thirty-five. So those points are like I said again in your bulletin along with the passage for today. First, the way to keep going in your faith and message. is to hear the message of Jesus' ministry of power. John, trapped as a prisoner, can can no longer point to Jesus in person with his finger and say, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. At Jordan, the baptizer witnessed the Holy Spirit descending like a dove upon Jesus. He also heard the voice of God the Father. But John no longer had access to the voice. To such direct special revelation. He was completely dependent on his disciples to interact with Jesus. And so the burning question for John as he was struggling, are you the coming one, or do we look for another? Now, how can a man who was so firm and certain in his message ask such a question? I just want us to not be so judgmental. I mean, are we such super Christians that we never once doubted God's goodness in times of trouble? Do we never gaze into darkness and slip into despair and confusion? I know I sure do. Pastor Richard Warmbrand, the late Pastor Richard Warmbrend The founder of Voice of Martyrs was an evangelical minister who endured 14 years of communist imprisonment and torture in Romania. He was faithful in his ministry in the underground church there and encouraged many believers to endure suffering just as he had. Here is his reflection. On suffering. Even the best of Christians are troubled by the question: why doesn't Almighty God send or at least allow suffering? When you are nagged by thoughts like this, say to yourself, I am still in elementary school. When I graduate from the University of Christian life, I will understand his ways better and doubts will cease. Do you believe, as I do, that we are still in the great school of faith? But praise God that He has given us a textbook, if I may. And there's only one textbook we'll ever need. Now at the time of John, that book was still in the process of expansion and publication. But we have it now in in our hands, the Old Testament, the Gospels, and the rest of the New Testament. Now John had to take a special curriculum by word of mouth to G uh to John from Jesus. And Jesus the teacher gives them the material in verse. Verses 22 and 23. Go and tell John the things you have seen and heard, that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed. The deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel preached to them, and blessed is he who is not offended because of me. Find it striking. You see what John needed most, and what we need most in our trials is to see what Jesus is doing. And what Jesus has done. Now we have four accounts filled with his miracles and teachings. Saturate yourselves in death. That is the course of blessing, the way to avoid the offense of your faith. When I'm suffering, I am most tempted to act Ask, God, what are you doing for me? But when Jesus gives his reply, he is forcing me to look beyond my problems and circumstances. It is as if he is saying, stop focusing on what I'm not doing for you, but focus on what I am doing, period. That's what Jesus does for John. John, I know you're trapped in there, but I am doing things. What is best for our souls is not to look inward to our struggles. Our Lord Jesus points us outward to all that He is doing, away from our lonely pity party. To his work elsewhere. You know, just as God told Elijah that he is not alone, that he has reserved seven thousand in Israel who have not bowed a knee. Bow their knees to veil. Jesus is telling John and telling you through the scriptures, I have done and I am doing great things. Be encouraged. That's why we need to celebrate what God is doing through our missionaries. That's why we pray for local churches that are faithful and growing. Let's not be so myopic in our small independent church in five eight ten Timberview Drive. Let's rejoice. In what God is doing all over the world. But it starts with understanding what God has done in Jesus Christ. Gotta open up that word. That kind of self-awareness in God's grand scheme isn't what John needed. And that leads to the next point. Know your place in God's plan of salvation. We'll find that in verses twenty. One note before I go on, as I was preparing, I wonder why Jesus did not speak verses 24 to 35 in the presence of John's disciples. basically concluded that Jesus in his wisdom gave to John just what he needed and gave the crowds just what they needed It seems that people were beginning to forget or misunderstand John, his place in God's plan, why he was shut up in prison. So these verses are for them and by extension for us to better understand John in his situation. Now, if verses 18 to 23 helped us contextualize John out of his spatial isolation Verses 24 to 28 contextualizes John out of his chronological isolation. Here's what I mean. In effect, Jesus is giving everyone a historical lesson on his forerunner. He places the man on the timeline of God's redemption history. Jesus rewinds the tape and for the younger people tape is what we used to listen to, like music and record things. I know Things are different now, but um he w Jesus rewinds the tape to the beginnings of John's ministry so that the audience would remember him in the wilderness. He asks them three times to recall what they saw there. They did not see a reed shaken by the wind. That is a man without resolve. John stuck to the message of repentance. And Jesus, and he would not be moved. They did not see a man clothed in soft garments. John wore camel's hair and a leather belt And with a diet of locusts and honey, he lived a disciplined and sober life in the desert, away from the comforts and fine cuisine of the palace. What they did see was a prophet. But Jesus pays John the highest compliment by stating that he was more than a prophet. That's because he alone occupied the unique position of Herald, the messenger who prepares the way of the Messiah. And that's predicted in Isaiah 40, verse 3, and Malachi 3:1, which John uh Jesus combines together there in John. ministry. David Guzick, a modern commentator, says, well, quote, every other prophet announced the Messiah is coming. John alone had the privilege of saying The Messiah is here. That's what makes John special. That's how God preordained John to be the greatest man and the greatest prophet that ever lived. Such lofty words are notable since they apply to someone who never once performed a miracle and now sat in prison. Up to the middle of verse 28 until the semicolon, Jesus has placed John in the context of the old covenant. John really is the greatest of the past. But as Jesus fulfills the new covenant, we have a new perspective of John. He who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he, John. Now that doesn't mean John is excluded from the kingdom, just to be clear. It means that his status in the kingdom as the servant that belonged to the Old Testament Is inferior to us as citizens of the kingdom of God in the New Testament. If the timeline ended right there in the first century, yes, then John would have been the greatest. But when Jesus inaugurates the new covenant, extends the timeline, and the new age with his blood sacrificed on the cross, the doors would open for Jesus Jews and Gentiles to become heirs of unprecedented heavenly blessings. Great preacher says quote As we may say as a rule, that the darkest day is lighter than the brightest night So John, the first of his own order, is behind the last of the new or the Gospel order. The least in the Gospel stands on higher ground than the greatest on the ground. under the law. So the effect of this pre-teaching is that we do not think too highly of John or too lowly of John either. Jesus has the perfect estimation of him. That's what we need as Jesus' disciples. His perfect estimation of us. You know, we're not very good at self-evaluation. As often we are either too harsh or too lax when we look in the mirror. Jesus lets us know that we need to know our place in history Our part in God's grand plan of salvation. And when we place ourselves within the timeline of God's will, within God's grand scheme, We will never become too prideful or despair. But often we are concerned about other other things. Are you overly concerned with what others think about you? If not, do you care too little what Christ thinks of you Before we know our place in social media, workplace, school, or the world, all that is fading away. Know your place in God's great scheme of salvation. Even in prison, John was safe in God's will because of what Jesus will do as the Messiah. That may sound strange to us. For through this account we are reminded that as we take our place in God's kingdom We're going to feel out of place in the fallen world. And that's what we see explained in the next few verses. We learn from there to prepare for the world's rejection of the gospel. Before we continue in Jesus' words, Luke tells us in the transitional verses of twenty-nine and thirty. But there are two reactions to Jesus' teachings and John's baptism. In verse 29, we have those who were baptized by John, among them tax collectors who were hated by Jews. Because they were thought to be traitors of their own people. But they justify God. Now you may have heard that Christians are justified by God in what's called justification. That is, we are declared righteous by what Jesus has done for us in our place. God the judge looks at us and he does not count our sins against us, and he pronounces us not guilty. There's a sort of a roll flip here. Not that we have any right to be God's judge. We don't. But we can look at what God has done in history. What God has done in our lives, praise Him and say, You are just, you are righteous, your ways are perfect. That's what His first group did when they justified God. The second group in verse 30, mostly consisting of Pharisees and lawyers, were not baptized by John because they rejected God's will. These leaders who represented their people rejected God's plan of salvation. Now it's sad because they did not do so in ignorance, but knowingly. Pharisees and lawyers knew their Bible as religious leaders of Israel. They knew all about the Messiah and the forerunner that will come before him. The prophecies recorded in the scriptures. Yet as Jesus and John arrived, they got a good look at both and said no to God. Now Jesus helps us understand this rejection and tragedy with a short parable. The men who rejected John and Jesus are like children in the marketplace trying to entertain each other. And failing badly. They are at odds with each other and dissatisfied with one another because each group does not get what they want from the other group. Now if a joyful tune is played on the flute, the audience should be clapping and dancing, having a good time. Well correspondingly, John the Baptist was too much of an ascetic, too strict and too severe for their standards. They're like the he is like the crowd that just didn't get it. If Badirj is sung with groans and sighs and tears, the rest should join in the sadness Jesus was too much of a libertine, too joyful, too inviting for their tastes, too much of a party guy Just so there is no misunderstanding with the parable, Jesus makes it clear in verses 33 and 34 exactly how these religious pers uh religious leaders perceived John and Jesus himself. John was strange in their eyes, eating locusts and honey and instead of bread and refraining from wine. So they thought he was possessed by a demon. They have colorful language for Jesus too. A glutton, a wine bibber? is an excessive drinker, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. To reject God's will is to reject his prophets and his messiah If you can't accept God's greatest prophet and his own son, then you cannot be saved. Jesus never meant to meet your tastes or do exactly what you want. He's not your genie. He's here to meet your deepest needs, to be saved from hell for eternal life. He's not a nice product that you choose as you shop for religion at a market. He is the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Him. So cry out to Him. No, when you are drowning, you don't ask, does the life vote come in my favorite red color? You get on and hang on for dear life. And that's what the baptized sinners and tax collectors. I'm sure Jesus didn't fit their mode either, but did they care? No, they were just grateful that they could reach heaven through Jesus. In verse 35, we see the children declare God's ways just, right? As we saw them do back in verse 29. There's a connection between 35 and 29. Unlike the unruly children of the market, that is the prideful religious elite, followers of Jesus become good children who justified and judged right the wisdom of Jesus. Which side will you choose? Will you be like the children dissatisfied with John and Jesus? Or we or will you be the children of wisdom who declare God's ways righteous? If you have hesitations, if you feel like you are the children at the marketplace, ask yourselves this. Am I looking for some kind of fantasy savior to meet my taste? Is this fantasy savior different from the true savior we see in Jesus? Jesus according to the scriptures? Is he too forgiving for you? Is he too strict for you? How come the Jesus I talk about here is not the Jesus I hear somewhere else? Now we here at Faint Bible Church would love to help you know the real Jesus through a Bible study. We have a curriculum called Christianity Explained. That Steve Conrad w introduced me to, and I actually knew about it in my former church as well. It's a six-part study that will guide you through the gospel of Mark, and you will be able to see for yourself. that Jesus is the Son of God who can save you from your sins. Now, as a short summary, Jesus lived a perfect life, teaching the good news of himself and performing miracles we talked about in verses three. twenty two and twenty three. He died on the cross as a substitute for our sins, taking upon himself the consequences of our sins, God's wrath He rose again from the dead, and now he offers you salvation, eternal life. There's no way to earn it. You can only receive it by God's grace, by reaching for his gift. As for those who are already saved, please know that this disconnect between the same thing. Between Jesus and John on one hand, and the Pharisees and the lawyers in the other. That is typical of all the saints. As I said, prepare for the world's rejection of the gospel. They will hate the message. But they won't stop. They will hate the messenger. But we don't cower back in fear, but go forward. In the Great Commission. That advance is a sign to them that they are in the wrong side. Paul, a later follower of Jesus, said to the Christians in Philippians, In Philippians 1 29, this is one of my favorite verses. Not because it you know makes me feel happy, but it makes me prepare for rejection. And Philippians one twenty nine, I encourage you to meditate on it. For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him. but also to suffer for his sake. The word granted there is charizomai, which is related to the word grace. And it's in a bird form. It was given as a gift. You were graced. We have been privileged to hear and believe in the message of Jesus' ministry of power. We now know our place in God's plan of salvation, his redemption. In God's timeline, we presently live between the two advents of Christ. As kingdom citizens with greater privileges than John the Baptist ever knew. That's the grace to believe in Jesus. But then there's the other grace to suffer for his sake. As followers of Jesus. Prosperity is not God's gift. Adversity is God's gift. I know that sounds strange But it's the it's the two gifts here, gift to believe and gift to suffer for him. So brace yourself for more grace as we go through this week. Prepare for the world's rejection of the gospel. Armed with our faith and our message of Jesus, we not only persevere but thrive against all opposition. Lord we know that