Do you know this sculpture? I think it's Auguste Rodin's called the Thinker. You know this figure's identity and what's going through his head. Is he thinking about a math equation or the meaning of life? Or did I leave the snowball this morning? Well, it helps know the original location of this work. It belonged to a larger work entitled Gates of Hell, which is based on Dante's Inferno. Some think that this figure is Dante himself, but is now isolated from scenes of eternal torment. Hardly anyone thinks about the doctrine of final judgment while looking at the thinker today. But the fact is, it's good for us and it's good for everyone to think about that last day. And not only think about it, but also talk about it. The world needs to hear about it. Famous author John Steinbeck, by no means a saint, uh complained once about the churches he visited. He wrote in his travels with Charlie, I think. was his dog, if I remember correctly. Quote, it is our practice now, at least in the large churches, I mean large cities, sorry, to find from our psychiatric priesthood That our sins aren't really sins at all, but accidents that are set in motion by forces beyond our control. Sounds very familiar to us. Anyway. But then one time he stepped into a gospel preaching church in New England and he wrote this There was no nonsense in this church The minister reassured us that we were a pretty sorry lot. He was right. Having softened us up, he went into a glorious sermon, a fire and brimstone sermon. He spoke of hell as an expert, not the mush mush hell of these soft days, but a well-stoked, white hot hell served by technicians of the first order. Back to the thinker. Do we think about hell? And do we also encourage others to do the same? If so, you won't find a better source of wisdom than the scriptures. Even in its early chapters, we learn much about divine judgment. So we gotta put our hands on our Bibles before we put our hands underneath our chins, right So today we complete another section of Genesis, which lasted from chapter 5, verse 1 to chapter 6, verse 8. We covered much of it last time and two weeks ago when we looked at chapter 5 in its entirety. And the 40 verses of chapter 5 stretching about 1600 years. We started from the beginning of creation and ended at the brink of catastrophe. Along the way, we got to know some specific individuals. There's Enoch who walked with God before being snatched up into heaven. We heard from Lamech, who would look forward to a time of relief from the curse. We get to Noah, and it's key that we understand the world where he lived. I'm sure in many ways it was different than ours. I like I'd love to know things like the shape of the continents. Or was there just one big supercontinent back then? Some call it Rhodinia, later Pungea. Like can we put it together from our current seven continents, like some gypsal puzzle? I don't know. Or what about the variety of dinosaurs? How do we coexist with them? Did we tame them somehow? Like did we Do we keep some as pets, like the way Emily Elizabeth kept Clipper the big red dog? I don't know. Like how how do we coexist with them? Who knows, right? But even if it it was a world vastly different than ours, right, humanity was just as bad as today That's the commonality there. We'll see how we move how so as we move from specific names in Noah's genealogy to masses and groups of people in Noah's generation, sons of God, daughters of men, giants on earth, men of renown. In these first eight verses of chapter six, God exposes the world before the flood to be full of lust, wickedness, and evil. Before the flood of destruction, there was a flood of dissipation. That's why the world that once existed was not spared but perished. Noah's world was lost and judged, just like our world is lost, and someday we'll be judged. So let's turn to Genesis six one to eight and look for parallels there. Genesis six one to eight. Now it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born to them, that the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves of all whom they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, for he is indeed Flesh. Yet his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. There were giants on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them Those were the mighty men of who were of old, men of renown. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. So the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth. In terms of structure, the passage is pretty simple. We got eight verses, and the line of division goes right down the middle. Verses 1 to 4 form one cluster of verses. And 5 to 8 form a second. And notice the parallels between the two. In each cluster, Moses builds up to God's judgment statement. That's in verses 3 and 7. Each also ends up what I think is a parenthetical statement in verses four and eight. So how each and let me talk about those parenthetical statements See how verse 4 makes a comment about these great giants called the Nephilim. We'll talk about more detail later. But for now, generally speaking, note that the function of verse 4 is one of exhortation. Consider how the first audience of Genesis, the Israelites, would have understood this. Imagine them out of Exodus, leaving Egypt. And hearing from Moses about these giants of pre-flood times, how God wiped them out, and knowing it's half the battle As they're bold emboldened as they go and conquer the promised land, even if it had dwelling in it, the Nephilim or the people like the Nephilim, the giants, as it said in Numbers 13. The verse 4 in a way makes a direct modern application, modern from the perspective of Israel, in the years following Exodus. Then we find another parenthetical statement in verse 8. It follows a string of very depressing statements in verses 5 to 7. Yes, things looked bleak. But as is always the case, there's a remnant according to the election of grace. That remnant turns out to be Exactly eight in number. At the head of that eight is their leader and patriarch Noah. Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. So again, we divide up this passage, today's passage, into two parts. We're about to get into some long-debated topics and tough questions and answers. Who are these giants? Who are these sons of God? Okay. So what I remember that was my first position paper in seminary. I'll be honest and admit that In the last twenty years, I started with one position, entertained another position, then came back to the original position, and I have appreciation of all positions. Anyway, maybe we can talk about that during the sermon and obviously after the sermon. All that will come in a moment But now lest we drown in all these particulars and details, I ask you to consider two points about Noah's world. Consider these as swim boys or light jackets, right, to keep your head above water, to keep you afloat in these heavy discussions. So here we go. The old world was lost because of two human problems. The same human problems plague us today. So first, beware of transgressive sensuality, verses one to four. Secondly, beware of comprehensive depravity, verses five to eight. Hopefully that's easy enough to grasp. Again, keep these two big warnings front and center as we dive into particulars and details. So first, beware of transgressive sensuality in this lost world. Genesis 6 starts out innocently enough. The first half of the first sentence that's found in verse 1 goes. Now it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth and daughters were born to them. Stop mid-sentence there. In the course of ten generations from Adam, many marriages took place. Many sons and many daughters were born. The Bible does not tell us how many, not even an estimate. We might we can make our guesses. Some estimate it to be very high. Um I think answers in Genesis entertain some options. You know, factor in the unusually long lifespans of people back then. And next say you use the population growth rate of year 2000. As a result, you'd have about four billion, about half our total today. Others believe the number was relatively low. Earlier in chapter 4, we saw the brutality of Cain. And the extreme vengeance of Lamech. Maybe that was representative of what's going on widespreadly, right? Later in chapter six, verse eleven. Uh we'll see the next time we'll see that the earth was filled with violence, it says. Wickedness and evil and corruption likely led to wars and maybe disease. But it's possible that the population never grew to its full potential as it should have. God only knows the sum. What we do know is that something went very wrong as the human race spread. Everything said in verse 1 is good, but something bad in verse 2 leads to the judgment of verse 3. The countdown of 120 years, 120 years to the flood begins of what happens in verse 2. To finish the sentence in verse 2, the sons of God saw the daughters of men. That they were beautiful and they were they took wise for themselves about all whom they chose. What went wrong here? You must ask the who question to identify the sons of God and the daughters of men. That naturally helps us answer the why question, as in why their union was forbidden, what went wrong. Now there are at least three views on the sons of God, right, and daughters of men. I think there's probably more, but I'm just going to cover three The first view is that the sons of God refer to the male descendants of Seth, those saved from the godly line. The daughters of men referred to the female descendants of Cain, the unsaved from the ungodly line. If this is the case, the problem with their marital union is obvious. If a Sethite man married a Canaite woman, we'd have believers unequally yoked with unbelievers. That grieved the Holy Spirit back then just as it would today. Now this view makes good sense based on the Immediate context in the last few chapters, uh two chapters, we saw two genealogies, one from Cain's line, the other from Seth's line. Interfaith marriages are consistently condemned throughout the scriptures The first readers and audience of Genesis, that would be a warning against taking pagan wives once they enter the promised land. But someone might counter if Moses meant to say sons of Seth, why not just say so? Also, that exact title, Sons of God, Bene Elohim in Hebrew. Three times refers to angels in the book of Jove. Of course, humans can be God's children too, by faith in Christ. We know that. But strictly linguistically speaking, The phrase sons of God more often refers to angelic beings, consistently Now to be clear, I know godly Christians who hold to the set eye view, right? No need to split a church over disagreements on this. And if it was the only view I'd gladly hold to it, but there's another view to consider, and the second view is this. The sons of God referred to fallen angels who came on earth to mate with beautiful women. Now don't dismiss this idea out of hand. I've already mentioned how this in the Old Testament sons of God, Bene Elohim in Hebrew, explicitly refers to angels. Now we can add more support for this view using some New Testament passages as well. The first of the New Testament passages from the first half of 2 Peter 2. There the apostles warning believers to watch out for false prophets and teachers. But saints can rest assured the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptations and to reserve the unjust under the punishment for the day of judgment. As a proof of this, Peter looks back to two events in the Old Testament. If I were to arrange this information in a chart form, I'd probably do this. Hopefully everything can You have the flood and fire and brimstone as the two columns. So that's all based in Second Peter two. There are two roles with the doomed and the saved. In the saved role, right, saved through water are Noah and his family. We know the story well. My son's favorite Bible story. Saved from fire are Lot and his daughters. Now turn to the other rule, the doomed rule, and better yet call it the death rule, right? Who died by fire and brimstone? The cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, of course, but also two neighboring cities, Atma and Zeboim, according to Deuteronomy 29 and Hosea 11. And who died in the flood. If the parallel holds, right? It sure sounds like the parallel is working here. It says God did not spare angels who sinned. but cast them down to hell and deliver them into chains of darkness to be reserved for judgment. Some argue that the angels here uh mentioned by Peter are not connected to the flood account, but it sure sounds like these angels are one and the same. There's a similar line of reasoning from Jude. I'm not going to turn there, but like Peter, Jude's warning against the ungodly. In the midst of believers. Again, there's comfort in knowing that God will judge them. Separate the chaff from the wheat. In verses 6 to 7, it sure sounds like Jude uses the same two examples of judgment as Peter did. Verse 6, the angels who did not keep their proper domain but left their abode, he reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment. Of the great day. And verse 7, Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, in similar manner to these, having given themselves over to sexual immorality and gone after strange flesh, are set forth as an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. So to bring it all together, Peter and Jude both read Genesis and both pair together evil angels and perverted sodomites as past examples of divine judgment. They read Genesis 6 and saw how the sons of God sinned before the waters flooded the world. They found later in Genesis, you know, in the later chapters, as sodomites were judged as fire rained down. Water and fire. Juxtaposition. The common denominator here is sexual immorality. Whether it's crossing angel-human boundaries or male-female boundaries, okay. That's the parallel between The flood and Sodom and Gomorrah. Now, proponents of this view The sons of God as fallen angels are not without detractors. Objections are raised based on other passages of the Bible. Remember in the Gospels what Jesus said to refute the Sadducees who deny the resurrection. of the dead. They wonder how marriage works in heaven. Like what about a saint who's repeatedly widowed and repeatedly remarried? Who's her partner in heaven? They asked Jesus. Our Lord answered that in the resurrection, those who are counterworthy to attain to that age, when they rise from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. Jesus is saying angels do not get married and have kids. How can they marry daughters of men and have children? So that's the counter to this view. So that's where the third view comes in. It's espoused by one of my favorite Old Testament scholars, Alan Ross. It's not that the sons of God are only human. They're not only angelic. They're demon-possessed men. That seems to make the most sense to me. We already said that anj angels cannot copulate with humans. But we know evil spirits can and do possess lower creatures. Yes, Satan himself possessed the serpent, and he entered Judas Iscariot. In the end times, so embodied the Antichrist. The man of sin and the son of perdition. The same is true of his minions, lesser demons who will possess people, and you know we see in Jesus' ministry possessing a herd of pigs. And because the possessed man remains as he is physically, he retains his reproductive capabilities. That's how the sons of God through the craft of man possessing have children with daughters of men. It's part of the grand devilish scheme to corrupt the line of mankind spiritually. I think this is the best interpretation Of sons of God based on the immediate context and the broader context. Now even if we differ on interpretation here. Again, no need to split a church over this. We'd agree on the following. The sons of God have crossed the line whether Um you believe it's the believer-unbeliever line or the angel human line. They crossed the line and the old world was lost because of transgressive sensuality. And it's no wonder the Lord says what he says in verse three. My spirit shall not strive with man forever, for he is indeed flesh, yet his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. Behind that word strive is a unique Hebrew verb form yadon. There's some disagreement about the exact meaning. Greek translators understood it as abide or remain. based on a similar Arabic word. Another proposal was to translate it as shield or protect based on a similar Akkadian word. I think abide and remained work best and you'll see it in the New American Standard Bible and the English Standard version. So God's spirit remained for a while and put up with the insufferable mankind until the flood And the 120-year countdown begins. The dam will burst open at zero, and the world is am the old world was lost because of transgressive sensuality. Okay, so we spoke about the sons of God and the daughters of man, but we're not out of the woods yet. We have to look at verse 4. Who are these giants? Behind that word is the title Nephilim. We assume they're gigantic in stature and size. That inference is based on Numbers thirteen thirty-three. When the Israelites saw Nephilim occupying the promised land, they said we were like grasshoppers in our own sight, and so we were in their sight. So we don't know much about the Nephilim and exactly what the etymology is. So most Bible translations opt to transliterate the word instead of translating them as giants. If I were to make my guess about them, I'd say the Nephilim formed a special group of warriors. Picture something like the Scandinavian Viking or imagine the Japanese samurai. As elite fighters, we'd expect them to be physically imposing Uh strong and probably very tall, right? Peak humans, right? But I don't think that as some say that they were some demigods, right? Monstrous breed of men born out of the unholy union. of sons of God and daughters of men. Because they were simply exceptional and powerful humans, they can exist even after the flood. But to put it all together, all that Moses is saying is in verse four is this the Nephilim, this elite class of legendary warriors exist Before the flood, they were around after the flood in Canaan as Israelites were about to conquer that land. And while the Nephilim were mighty men of old and men of renown, God's people need not fear them. They are just men after all. The Lord judged and destroyed them once, he can judge and destroy them again. Okay, that's probably enough on the sons of God and the Nephilim. Besides, verse 4 was more of a parenthetical statement and transition. We go on to verses 5 to 8. We learned there that the old world was lost not only because of transgressive sensuality, there was also the comprehensive depravity. The Lord exposes the inward simple thoughts of mankind. He's able to look beyond what's merely on the surface. He's like a surgeon with a scalpel, and that blade he uses is his word, right? As Hebrews 4 12 reminds us, it's living and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. It pierces even to the division of soul and spirit and of joints. and Merrill is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. So look at verse five. He not only sees that man's wickedness was great in the earth, how it's obvious everywhere, he sees how every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. He's omniscient, knowing everything through and through. He searches all hearts and understands all the intents of the thoughts. This is a scary thing for us. We can try to excuse ourselves by saying we're not as bad as those in Noah's time. You might look around and justify yourself saying, I'm not as bad as those extortioners or drunkards. But remember that joining extortioners and drunkards in the lake of fire and brimstone are the cowardly, the sexually immoral and liars, as Revelation 21:8 tells us. You can hide from your co-workers and friends your secret life of sin. You might successfully cover up hypocrisy from your family and relatives, but you can't escape the all-knowing gaze of God. Imagine that every thought that ever crossed your mind were made into a full-length movie. All my lowlights and secrets laid bare. What if we were to project the film on these screens behind me? If it was my thought life, I wouldn't want you to watch a minute of it I try to burn the tape, erase the video, get rid of all records. But I can't, because it exists in the storeroom of God's all-knowing mind. That but true. All around us and in us is comprehensive depravity. For the Lord who knows all such things is not only angry, he is sorrowful. That's what we see in verse 6. Because our heart is desperately wicked, God's heart is grievously offended. Now I don't have time to discuss in full the doctrine of divine impassibility, but I'll just state briefly that the scriptures clearly depict God having emotions. Yet he experiences emotions in a way that's different from us humans. We are prone to change as we experience emotions, but God does not change even as he has affections towards us. At all times he's God of love. He's also the God of truth and without injustice, righteous and upright. So as he did in verse 3, the Lord once again speaks in verse 7. We get more details about the second upcoming judgment, right? This time around, comprehensive depravity leads to comprehensive destruction. Mankind, animal kind, bird kind will all face judgment. There's more details to come as such as how it's going to be a global flood. We'll talk more about that. Later. For now we end today's study with verse eight. Again, in the midst of all the darkness, a man stands out and shines brightly. Here's a preacher of righteousness in a world of unrighteousness. The eyes of the Lord behold and test men, and somehow Noah passed. Noah passes. How? How did this man do it? That we too can follow his example and find grace from God. Well, it starts with the proper definition of grace. Grace simply is simply put is getting what we don't deserve. But it turns out Noah wasn't built different, as young people say. He wasn't special in his own nature. We're not special either, morally speaking. The Bible is clear, there's none righteous, know not one, there's none who understands, there is none who seeks after God. They have all turned aside, they have together become unprofitable, there's none who does good, no not one. If we want to be like Noah and find grace from God, we must realize first that we don't deserve grace. But we sure need it. It's our most urgent need. We won't live forever. We're flesh. We need to be wise and know that our days on earth are numbered. Our life is what a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Not only that, know that our wickedness is great. The Lord looks down from heaven upon the children of men to see if there are any who understand, who seek God. He finds none, even today. With all our advances in academy, right, academia and technology, we continually, persistently think and meditate on evil. So we deserve the same sentence of condemnation that fell upon the old world. But thank God that he didn't leave us like this. There's grace available to all in Jesus. Helpful to remember an acronym when it comes to grace. God's riches at Christ's expense. God's riches at Christ's expense. Though the world is lost, though all the world's guilty before God, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have everlasting life. So God became man in Christ Jesus. He lived a perfect life, greater than angels, more noble than the men of renown. Yet he climbed Calvary and he was crucified in weakness. He gave his life as a ransom to pay the penalty of sin we should pay. He endured the holy wrath of God in our place, suffered the pains of hell. Well, having completed his work, he breathed his last, he was buried. But then on the third day, Jesus rose from the grave. Death could no longer hold him. He presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. It was seen by his disciples for forty days, then he ascended to heaven. He now sits at the right hand of the Majesty on high, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Think carefully about that day. Be a thinker about judgment. If you want to avoid eternal punishment in hell. must repent. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus and trust in them only for salvation. You cannot earn nor deserve eternal life. Remember, grace is God's riches at Christ's expense. Not your money, not your good works, not your best God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So make the decision carefully, but urgently. This world is passing away and the lust of it, but he who does the will of God abides forever. If your life is hidden with Christ in God, you'll find grace from God. And begin your journey to heaven today, knowing you'll arrive safely there someday. There's assurance of everlasting life in Jesus And even as we admit and see that there's complete depravity in ourselves, there's complete forgiveness in Christ Jesus. We remind ourselves of this at our final song. What love could remember the wrongs we have done? Omniscient, all-knowing, he counts not their sum. Thrown into a sea without bottom or shore. Our sins they are many. His mercy is more. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word that tells us that there's a remnant. There are the The saints among the wicked. There is the blessed man who does not walk in the unrighteous path. And Lord, it's not because of mental fortitude or just Smaller or less inclination to sin. No, we're all sinners, but it's because of your grace, because of your mercy. That we find people like Noah who found grace in your eyes. Pray that we would all find grace and that we will grow in grace. And that The grace will lead us home as that hymn goes. We pray for just people who may hear the sermon. Just uh to at the website. Well we pray for those around us, just um our neighbors and family and friends who do not know you. Pray that they would join the ranks of the saints by placing their faith in Christ Jesus your Son. It's in his name we pray. Amen.