All right, open your Bibles to Ephesians. Ephesians, chapter six. Thank you for singing and the playing with the instruments. We are in Ephesians chapter 6, and what I'd like to do first is just read the passage. Ephesians 6, the armor of God. I'll read the whole thing. It's only a few verses, just by way of reminding us what is here. Look at Ephesians 6, verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and having your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. And watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. Today we're going to focus on verse 12 And at the beginning of verse 14, it talks about having your loins girt about with truth, the belt of truth. I want to take you for a moment at the beginning of this sermon back to your Old Testament. You don't have to turn there. But I want you to imagine for a moment Moses standing before Pharaoh. Here's a man who had the burning bush burned into his memory. He had a command given to go back to Egypt, the place that he was terrified to go. He made excuses, but God trumped his excuses and gave him his brother. As a kind of mouthpiece, a prophetic mouthpiece to Moses. Imagine for a moment what it would have been like for Moses to be standing in that throne room facing Pharaoh and his retinue of servants. Moses and Aaron. And the Pharaoh, perhaps the greatest man alive at that time in history. And a contest is about to begin. A struggle. A wrestling match. But there's a slight difference of perspective between the two groups. On the one hand, there's the Pharaoh who has the might of his army, his chariots, his weaponry. And in his mind, when he thinks of battle, he thinks of flesh and blood, horses and men, weapons and military. And so when he looks down at this perhaps bedraggled, tired Moses and his brother, he Could very easily scorn them, laugh at them. I mean, what kind of a contest is this going to be between me and my might and that those two men and and who else? And the Pharaoh thinks in his mind of the Hebrews. These brickmakers, these slaves, how many weapons did they possess? How strong could their potential opposition be to Pharaoh and his armies? I mean if you were to pit Flesh and blood against flesh and blood, what kind of a contest would that have been? It would have been no contest. But you see, there's a problem to the Pharaoh's thinking. Because the reality is it was not a contest between flesh and blood, and flesh and blood. It was in fact a spiritual warfare. And the one backing up the Hebrews was the Lord of hosts. Jehovah was his name. He is a spirit, and he has at his command how many millions of angels? Beside all that, who can stand against God, the great and omnipotent Lord of Lords and King of kings? So Pharaoh, on the one hand, is looking at this as a simple contest between armies, and there's no way the Hebrews can win. And yet Moses Moses is counting on the fact that this is not a simple contest of armies. Because Moses is equally aware that if that is all this is, then the Hebrews have lost. Moses is counting on the fact that that burning bush was indeed a message from the true and living God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the one that he had heard about the Who gave the promise to Abraham and to his children? Moses is counting on the fact that this is a struggle in the spiritual realm. And that flesh and blood can never gain a mastery over God, the Spirit, his God, the great Elohim. From Pharaoh's perspective, army versus army, from Moses' perspective, it was so much more than that kind of a struggle. Folks, in your life and my life, passages like Ephesians 6 reveal to us that it is that what Pharaoh learned the hard way, we still must be reminded of. The spiritual battles that you and I face, we know they are not flesh and blood versus flesh and blood. And yet at times we could think that. I mean, there are politicians who, in their immorality, would foist a certain ideology on us. There are leaders all over the world, not just in this country. Who suppress Christianity and they carry away Christians in chains. And it would at times lead us to think that that person, that persecutor, that individual who has the gun, that is really the one that I'm struggling against. Now, I think we need to be careful. Theologically, we do struggle in a sense with flesh and blood, in that there was Alexander the coppersmith Who resisted the message of Paul. And there were others who persecuted Paul. And so Paul, the fact that we don't struggle in Ephesians 6 armor of God's sense against flesh and blood does not remove flesh and blood from the equation. The book of Acts is full of conflict Between Judaizers and false teachers and the Pharisees, I should say the Sadducees, and Paul. But having said that, God is on our side. Folks, do you believe that this morning? Do you believe That we're kind of like the Hebrews in the days of old, and that our Lord is their Lord, and that the battles that we fight, God is with us, and it really is true: God and me makes A majority. And with God on my side. Folks, really, some trust in chariots and some trust in horsemen, but we will trust in the name of the Lord our God. Is that your conviction this morning? Are you someone who has a burning bush in your background, so to speak? A word from God, and when I say that I mean the word of God, not some sort of strange vision that you have. Paul writes to these people and he wants them to know, verse 12, that we don't rustle, we don't wrestle as I should say, against flesh and blood. Our struggle, our hand-to-hand combat is not directly against them, but rather it is against these things he mentions in verse twelve. Let me go through these quickly and kind of explain them. I think in part, verse 12 is designed by the piling up of these terms to sober us. God is on our side, but you need a reason to put the armor on. If all I said was, if all Paul wrote was, well, we don't struggle against flesh and blood, we struggle against spiritual beings. If that was all he said, there might be a temptation in us to sort of gloss over it, to sort of let our eyeballs roll over that to the next thing. But instead, if you'll notice in verse 12, there's the repetition of that word against. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against, against, against, against. He says it. Repeatedly. He wants us to know that there are these beings that wrestle with us, so to speak, and they are formidable. What are they? Well, first, there is principalities. And that word there has to do with being chief or first, or really, even the English word principality with the word principal in it. It has the idea of perhaps those who are ruling above, that those who are first place in the demonic kingdom. It's not just underlings that we struggle with, but it is those who are a little further up. If you could put it that way, the food chain, so to speak. The word powers is the word that could be translated authorities. The idea here being that there's a certain amount of authority that these beings have and can exercise in this world. I They have influence. It's not just that there are these spiritual beings and there are some who are above others and they kind of live in a separate universe. and cannot affect or influence our universe. There is some authority here and there is some ability to affect what happens here. Now, I don't know if you'll recall, but I mentioned before that some of the devil's primary weapons are not making poltergeists. Appear in houses or this is not a Hollywood horror film. His primary weapons are false doctrine Heresies, doctrines of demons, the Bible says. And in these doctrines, the devil invents false religions that have a show of godliness but deny the power thereof The devil also, according to the situation in Corinth, when they had the church discipline a brother, and then he repented. And Paul writes, Make sure you affirm your love to that person, because we're not ignorant of the devil's devices. The devil's device Apparently, is when there is interrelational conflict that does not resolve itself quickly, he gets into that and uses it against the people of God Bitterness, unresolved conflict in a local church. The devil uses that against the people of God. False doctrine interpersonal conflict. And if you'll recall the the story of Jesus being tempted by the devil, he does have a method where he'll go after The one who is weak physically. Jesus had fasted for so long. He was hungry. He was thirsty. The devil could have approached him on day one But the devil waited until he had been weakened physically. The devil also goes after us with our own, he he he doubts, he brings doubts to our minds. If you be the Son of God, if this is who you are, then do this. Doubting, attacking us when we're weak, using the word of God against us. These are all things that the devil does against us. Apparently, he is allowed to do this. We go back to our word exodia here, this translated powers in the King James Version, authorities perhaps in your version if you're not using the New King James. There is some authority given here. Think of Job. The Lord allowed him to destroy his home, to take away his family, and his health. Next, if you look back at Ephesians 6, verse 12, we have the word for rulers, or I should say, let's see here. Principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world. And the word ruler there simply It was used in classical Greek to have to do with a false god who was sort of a ruling god, little g. The implication here in New Testament Greek could perhaps be of Again, some sort of being that exercises authority over others. The emphasis of this phrase, if you look at your Bible, is that these are rulers of the darkness of this world. Now that word darkness has to do more with a moral darkness, with a sinfulness. The idea here is that these are not good rulers The realm of their influence is what happens in the dark. They are evil by nature. And their realm of experience and influence is evil as well. And we see that taken up even more in the next phrase when it says, spiritual wickedness in high places. And this phrase seems to even call out for More attention to us, the morality, or if we could put it that way, of these beings. They are in fact wicked. They are spiritual. They operate under different contexts as spirit beings. But they are wicked and they operate in the heavenly places or in the high places. That expression high places does not is not really talking about the atmosphere. It's not like the demons are flying through the clouds, and when you're up there in an airplane, you look out the window and you think to yourself, Wow, I wonder what's happening in the unseen world. I bet there are all kinds of angelic falling beings flying through the clouds with me in this airplane. That's not really specifically what this is referring to. However, having said that, It is talking about another place, and that could include the atmosphere. It does not necessarily demand that it can't be the atmosphere, but it's not calling it out specifically as the atmosphere. Matter of fact, if you look back at Ephesians 1 and you turn back there and you look at verse 3. We have this expression again. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. So here we have all our spiritual blessings, and there's the expression of it in heavenly places in its fullness I think to understand this term, you should think about Satan being in the presence of God and Job comes up in the discussion. I think you can also think of demons in the Gospels and they're inhabiting people and no one sees them. All they see is the influence of that demon through the mouth and the movements of that demoniac in that graveyard. They're present, but they're invisible. And they operate in influence, but they're in this other place, this high place, or this heavenly realm. Go back to Ephesians 6. When you look at these statements again and you let them sink in, think of this now. There are these chief beings. And they have some sort of authority. There are powers, there are authorities. They're able to rule in the realm of darkness. They are, in fact, spirit beings, and they operate in this heavenly realm, and they are exceedingly sinful and wicked. And then if you think what I just said, and then you just, what do they do? They they do this. They are against you, against you, against you, against you. That's what they do. They're against you and me. Why? Well, because they're against God Remember the passage from Revelation where the devil and his angels are cast out of heaven, and he's raging down here because he knows his time is short. They're against the Lord and they're against his anointed, and so they are against us. Make no mistake, this is a serious battle. Did Pharaoh know? Did Pharaoh have any clue what he was fighting against? He did after the battle had gone on, and all these plagues and disasters happened to his kingdom, and his false gods were toppled in his own imagination. He began to see. Let me ask you this. If you've been a Christian for five years, or six, or ten, or twenty, or thirty, do you find, do you find at moments That you almost feel like you are being opposed. That there is something about this life that is in direct Opposition to your spiritual walk, that there are brick walls that you run into, and there are there are things about this life that just don't like your Christianity. The devil uses the world, the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life, the organized system of it, to just beat on you. And me. So Paul, I believe, in piling up those terms in verse 12, wants us to take it seriously. But having said that, as I mentioned I think last week, we are not people of terror. We do not fight poltergeist. Look, folks, think. I need to be careful how I say this, but the average horror movie in Hollywood, okay, you have ghosts in your room and they knock your rocking chair over and push the plates out of your cupboards. So what? Who cares? Oh, there's a there's a floating apparition of white mist going down my hallway. Whoop-dee-doo! That's impressive. Why should we ever be afraid of something that stupid? Folks, there's a devil, and he wants to destroy your marriage. Men, he wants you to commit adultery, whether it's through the internet or with the woman you work with, and he's coming after you. Ladies, the devil, this whole world is organized in such a way that the best option for you if you have a difficult marriage is divorce. And you're going to go talk to your worldly friends, and they're going to shake their heads, wag their heads, and say, you're right, honey, you need to dump that guy. You deserve better. The devil, floating apparitions, plates falling off of. This is far more serious than that. You see, I think Paul wants us to realize that. So, can we beat this? Yes, look at your Bible again. That's the whole point. Verse, you know, there's the verse 10, there's this strength. In the Lord, and there's this powerful might. It enables you to stand. Look at it again, verse 11. Put this on so that you're able to stand against. They stand against you. Well, guess what? You can stand against them. And it doesn't involve meditation or exorcism or somehow praying really loud so all the demons will leave the room. Folks, that's nonsense. It involves the armor of God. Verse 11. Put on the armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. We don't wrestle against flesh and blood, we wrestle against these spirit beings. Verse 13, wherefore take it that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And that expression, the evil day, is sort of a brush that paints the backdrop of our lives, like we're a play acting on stage and the background scenery, it is evil. And that's why we had what happened this past week with that individual shooting those poor people in that church And that's why there are wars and genocide and all these things. Because the very day, the very time in which we live, it has this evil quality. And folks, it really is true. We'll never get past that until we die and we're with the Lord. That's just the way it is. Now, in our country, we've enjoyed so much prosperity, so many material things. We're tempted to think this is heaven on earth. This is wonderful. We have entire distribution systems. I was downtown Baltimore uh last week by accident. I made the wrong turn, I had to go through the bridge. I ended up at the Amazon Processing Center. Anybody ever been down there? Amazon has bought a huge warehouse. It's gigantic. They're going to distribute all their goods. Many of us have shopped on Amazon. com. I buy books on there. with some frequency. There it is. It's, I mean, wow. That's the land in which we live. No. It's the evil day So what do we take up? Having said that, we need to get to verse 13. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God. That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth This is the belt of truth. Now, you and I, when we get dressed in the morning, might put on a belt, and we, for obvious reasons, we want a belt on, but the belt of the Roman armor function in more than just holding up the pants, so to speak. One author said that this belt was not an ornament, but served an essential purpose. And here's how he summarized it. It gathered in the short tunic, it helped to keep the breastplate in place. When the ladder was fitted on, and from it hung the scabbard in which the sword was sheathed. So basically, this belt is holding the breastplate in place, your sword is hanging from it, and it's holding on. everything else. It's holding, in a sense, we could say this, it's holding the armor together. Now this word here that's translated truth, really, it could also be translated truthfulness. But it's really an interpretive choice. This would be a question I'd love to ask my friend Troy Manning. You know, how do you decide which one? But the the reason that is important because you can understand truth in two senses in this passage Having your loins girded about with truth. One, there is the truth, the gospel, its objective. It never changes. It's always true, yesterday, today, and forever. Those kind of truths we build our lives on. They're like the foundation of everything. They never change. Then in the other sense, the truthfulness sense is more the idea of truth that's working its way through your character So there is the result of you living a truthful life, of being faithful and dependable, because you have so built your life on the truth. In this case, the illustration of buckle it on, that you're able then to act in truth and of truth. How important is the truth to you? I have to laugh because I'm not laughing at you like you're stupid and it's not important to you. But this world is filled with so much that is not true, so much that is just downright ridiculous. I'm sure that you've seen, even on the news or on a television program this past week, or heard of so many things that make no sense whatsoever. Let me do something by way of an exercise. If you look at your Bible, you have down here in verse 14 the word truth, and then you have up there in verse 12 All of these things that we wrestle against. Let's just think truthfully about verse 12 and clear away some of the rubble that the devil is trying to place in that verse, some of the lies that the devil has worked on. To sort of expand and augment verse 12 beyond what is true. For example Here is a lie that is everywhere, and that is that the devil is not real. That demons are not real. If you're an educated man, if you are a woman, and you've gone to college at a secular university, and you're sitting in a philosophy class or a humanities class, or some of these sort of wacky classes that they seem to be making up semester by semester in different universities. What would happen if you just stood up in a class and said, I believe the devil is a real being? How would they treat you? Isn't there today in our culture this feeling, this thinking that the devil is in fact not real? What's the trust me, what's the truth? Biblically speaking, before creation, there was the devil's fall. We know from Isaiah that he is this covering cherub who is above the throne of God. Looking down at God and coveting the very throne of God. God made the devil. He has a personality. He rages. That means he has emotions. He has a mind. He coveted that throne. He has a will. He wanted that throne. These are all the characteristics of a real being, not an idea, an ideology, a force, or a philosophy, but a personality. He acted on that. That means he had some kind of a body. He wasn't a floating philosophy. He was a personality embodied in some sort of spirit body, which we don't completely understand. And Isaiah talks about perhaps instruments being a part of that. He was designed for praise. And he moved and rebelled. And he was so convincing, the scriptures reveal to us, that a third of all the angels, imagine being created, the angels don't procreate, right? Each one is an individual masterpiece from the hand of God. And imagine a third of them following the devil because they were convinced or deluded by his schemes and lies. And now he's here. He's raging. When Jesus was on the earth, he opposed him. So look, all I'm doing right now is I'm shining the light of truth. Folks, is the devil real according to what? The Word of God says. Yes, he is. Someone says, Well, I've never seen the devil. I hope not. I really don't want to see the devil, personally. Does that mean it doesn't he doesn't exist? You know, the Bible says three times that the just must live by faith And so it is that you and I put our faith in the Word of God. Scriptures say part of the reason this world is a mess is because there is a spirit being called the devil who is involved in messing with the world. And so we believe that he's real. But if you look at verse 12, basically I'm shining the light of truth on against, against, okay, the devil is real, he's against us, but what about The idea that that the devil is sort of scary because, and I'm thinking more broadly now about demonology, we'd call it. That he's scary because he's like that poltergeist, or because he's really ugly. Like evil always comes at you with sharp teeth and claws. Is that true biblically? What's the truth. Is the devil always like that? And then we mentioned this before. The devil comes as an angel of What? Light. The devil is appealing. The devil is like that guy who said there's trouble in River City. What's that? The music man wasn't it? Or piano man? Or something like that. How many of you have seen that? Three of us. Oh well. That was a bad sermon illustration. But that's the way the devil is. He's a con man. He's a huckster. He appeals to you and draws you in. That's the truth. Folks, so you just start shining the truth on common misperceptions about the devil and God, and what happens when you do that is that you are actually, folks, like You're actually waging spiritual warfare. That's what you're doing. You're not doing an exorcism. You're shining the truth of God's word. On life and what our culture believes. That's spiritual warfare. Now it's easy to talk about the devil, but let's talk about you for just a second. I want to get you to turn back to the Psalms for this one. Turn back to the Psalms. I want to get you to turn first to Psalm one nineteen. Psalm 119 is a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful psalm about the Word of God. You just don't get anything better. Look at verse 105. Psalm one nineteen, one oh five says, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet. And a light under my path. Now I'm looking at a group of people right now who are in living in the real world. You don't live in a seminary or an ivory tower. And many of you are very busy with your families, your job, your grandkids, your great-grandkids. And life can get complicated. This is how complicated life gets nowadays. Your grandson comes to you and says he's gay. Your neighbor is living with his third wife. You go to a class, and the person teaching the class is a woman And she extols the virtues of going to a drag queen event for fun. Like that's normal. The world that we live in, your finances are a mess because you lost most of your retirement in the big meltdown a few years ago. You're trying to figure out about Illegal immigration and how to handle that as a Christian. Maybe your relationships are a mess. And you know what the devil says to us at moments like that? This book is an antiquated book of tradition, and it's worthless. And why do you bother even reading that? Have you ever felt like you just couldn't find the answers and you are so tempted to think that they're not in the Bible? The truth is, thy word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. Feet walk. The path is what you're on. The whole point is you're moving down a path and you're making decisions and choices about life. And the psalmist says that the word of God is like a lamp that you hold out and it shows you where to go and what to do. What's the next step I should take? And what the word turn to Psalm 19 then quickly. Psalm 19. The promises of this book go far beyond just understanding about the circumstances of your life, and there are so many passages I could go to. But the word of God does more than that. The word of God is living and powerful. It's active. And it divides asunder soul and spirit, joint and marrow. It discerns the motivations, the intentions of your very heart. This is what that means. The word of God reveals your true nature to yourself. God already knows all that, but the word of God is an interpreter. The word of God is a guide. That's the Psalm 119 verse we just looked at. And it's also, according to Hebrews, an interpreter, and it changes and moves you. Look at verse 7 of Psalm 19. All of us know this passage, many of us in this room. Psalm 19, verse 7, the law of the Lord is perfect. It converts, it restores, it does something to the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure. It does something to your mind. Are you naive? Are you simple? It gives wisdom. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. That's an emotional expression. There's something that just happens. You can just delight in the law of the Lord. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. And part of the implication here is that there's this movement of emotion. It just comes right out on your face. And your eyes are lighting up. Folks, what we have here in Psalm 19, verses 7, 8, and 9 are all of these promises, all this truth about God's word. And the question this morning is not what you think about your circumstances. The question this morning is: what does God think about your circumstances? What does his word say about your circumstances? What is the truth? What is it? Dear people, the worst thing that can happen to you and me, believe me, I've been there, is to be left alone with my own thoughts. To be cut off from the truth, to be going in that tailspin, that black hole of despair, and there's no light, there's no truth, there's no interpretation, there's no guidance. Fighting the good fight of faith means finding out what's true and holding on to that With both your hands and not letting go. It doesn't matter how loud the devil screams at you or this world entices you, you just say, I believe. It is written. This is what my faith is put in. Now, having said that, it's not unreasonable. It's not illogical. I mean, it is faith, but it some people say it's a leap of faith. I would say it's more like a step Of faith because believing the word is confirmed in real life in so many ways. But it's still the truth, and you have to believe in it. Go back to Ephesians 6 now, quickly. Putting on this belt, standing, having your loins girt about with truth. Means that you, because of the context of the Armor of God passage, because of the fact that it is repeatedly said, verse 11, put on. Verse 14, stand therefore. Verse 13, wherefore take unto you, because of the repetition of these statements It's something you have to do. It doesn't happen automatically. You can't get up and the armor's on. You don't go to bed. No one sleeps in their armor. Well, maybe a Roman soldier out on the battlefield, he's sleeping in his armor, but really, it's a choice that we have to make. And that leads me then to this. You people, think about this now. Think about what I'm about to say. You people, because you have the truth, you actually know what life is about. They don't know on CNN. And they don't know on Fox News either, I'm sorry. The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. Foolishness unto him, but the spiritual man. You actually know why there's political conflict and famine and genocide in the world You actually know how to interpret the actions of God in a culture and on this world. You know what where it's headed, and you know where it came from. Don't let the devil take that from you. Don't be swept away in the cultural revolution that's happening in our country right now. Don't be a cat. Casually of war, spiritual war