I invite you this morning to open up to the Gospel of Luke. Open up to the Gospel of Luke. I'm taking a class right now from a good organization on the topic of biblical change. And one of the things that I'm required to do, I'm required to read two books in their entirety, lots of articles and that kind of thing. One of the books I'm reading on suffering begins by going all the way back to the first book in the Bible, Genesis, and looking at how suffering entered into the world. Why it's here, why we have to put up with it. Now, I some of what he said, I'm not completely 100% sure on how he divided it up. But when we look at the beginning and how suffering came into the world, we know, we know how suffering entered the world. When Adam and Eve disobeyed God, sin entered the world. And sin always inevitably, at some point, even though there's pleasure in it in a season, will cause suffering. You and I are used to this, right? We get up in the morning, and our emotions are out of whack Maybe we get a cup of coffee or tea, and they're still out of whack. We find ourselves saying the first thing that's in our hearts To our spouse, to our children, we find this tendency to be grumpy. Why? It's a beautiful spring morning. You have a breakfast waiting for you. You have a wonderful family. And yet there's this inherent predisposition to grumble, to complain, to be grumpy. And so these words spring to your lips and your family says, wow, look who got up on the wrong side of bed this morning. You go through your day, you bump shoulders with co-workers or neighbors, and you find some goodness there. There is Not a goodness that merits salvation, surely, but there is even in sinners, there's some goodness left in the world, but there's still this tendency within. This tendency, this predisposition to sin. You turn on the news, you listen to politicians, you look at what's happening in other continents. There is war, genocide, there is Sin begetting sin, begetting bigger sins all over the world. It's almost as if you look at the earth from outer space and at night. Have you ever seen pictures of this? And you can see the lights of cities. And you can imagine as you look at different continents and you see those lights from outer space, all the different people running around committing billions. of sins. And that is why there's murder. That is why there's adultery. That is why there's lie. That's why there's suffering. But there is also suffering according to Genesis, because we are under a curse. God Told Adam and Eve that they would be cursed if they disobeyed. Now, this curse is completely separate from sin. God did not create sin or He is not the author of sinful suffering. He is not evil, and he does not tempt to evil. The curse is quite distinct, and this is how it works. First Women will suffer more in childbirth, an increase in pain, a painful physical suffering. And that is related to the overall curse. God said to Adam, in the day you eat of it, you shall surely die. Death certainly is the consequence of sin, but it is directly an act of God. Wherein we are now cursed because of initial disobedience. And so this morning, you and I suffer from back pain, headaches. Cancers. And we know, we know that no one is going to live beyond the age of a hundred, perhaps, maybe. That'd be amazing. I don't think I've ever known anyone past the age of 95 or 6. So there is the curse of death, and then there is something else. God said to Adam that you're going to sow things in the ground. Not with needle and thread, but seeds. And now nature itself will resist. There'll be thorns that grow up in the environment. This whole wonderful paradise of Eden is going to be left behind, and you're going to be placed in a context where creation now resists you. Animals are now at war with one another and you. There is this resistant creation, there is laboring under death, there is futility Like the writer of Ecclesiastes said, Solomon, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. We go from having the joy of developing work and vocation out of the abundance of giftedness and And created order that God has put within us to, I have to weed, I have to work, I have to sweat, I can't do what I feel best doing. I'm bringing all this up because we're about to look at how God solved the mess that we're in. The sin that's built in and causes suffering, the resistant creation, the curse of death, all of it, how is he going to solve it? And folks, he didn't solve it by presenting to us a codex of rules. He didn't give us a method, a discipline. He gave us A baby. A man. A Jewish man who was God, as I mentioned at the beginning of the service. He gave us Jesus. Isn't that amazing? The one who would come, the seed of the woman that would bruise the serpent's head. And so we have in Luke. Our God announcing himself to simple people, making it known that the Messiah was at last here. And the kinds of people that he talks to are not the great and mighty in the land. He goes to a childless Hebrew couple. He goes to an ordinary Hebrew young maid who's betrothed to a quite ordinary carpenter, Joseph. They're both of the house and lineage of David, but other than that, there's really nothing extraordinary about their vocation or position in society. He sends a lot of angels to tell the message to these possibly quite filthy shepherds, filthy literally, not morally. out in their fields keeping watch over their flocks by night. He goes and sends the message to Simeon, probably a very old man Nothing that extraordinary about his position. And Anna, a prophetess, who is very old and Waiting for something to happen. What we see in Luke is that God, God is on the move. Now, folks, if you were Gabriel, what would you say? Sometimes I wonder what the angels think. Do you ever wonder that? What do they think when they're in heaven about their God? They know him in ways better than we do. Do you think Gabriel said to the Lord, Where do you want me to go? Where am I going? Well, certainly some kind of communication has taken place between God and Gabriel, and and so God says A young maid, an old childless couple, a scared young man, that would be Joseph, although Luke doesn't mention much about him. An old, old widow, and some shepherds. The Gabriel say, but Lord, what about the king in his palace? What about the high priest? What about the movers and shakers of Jerusalem? No, maybe the Lord would say something like this: I will establish my kingdom with the old and weak, the inexperienced and young, and the outcast. How is God saving the world? He's sending his son to become this weak baby. He's announcing his birth to people that have no strength in and of themselves. Folks, as we get back into our passage today, we're going to look at Luke chapter 2, verse 36, all the way to the end of Luke 2. What we've already seen in applying Luke is that God, listen to this, listen to this. God would rather choose a faithful spirit in a weak body. Than a strong body with a worldly spirit. I. e. , he is calling an elderly couple to have John the Baptist And we see from Luke that God would rather choose an inexperienced young woman who will believe his words and accept the sufferings that will cause her. Listen to this. than a proud, wise old woman who doesn't heed words she can't understand and refuses to submit to her God What we see as Luke lays out the narrative of the birth of Christ is that God values faithfulness in your actions more than your position in society. Think about this. God values faithfulness in your actions more than your position in society, and He values humility over political power. And that certainly is applicable to what we're going through right now in our country, is it not? With our elections and all the words that people so carelessly say. And you've heard me say it, and I just I really think I need to emphasize it again and again for us. Not many wise, not many noble are called. God has chosen the weak. The unwise, so that he will get the glory. Do you believe that this morning? Before we even look at Anna and Jesus, do you believe that? Do you believe that you are one of those people? That is something well worth meditating on for hours. We need to get on and look at your Bible now. Thank you for your patience for that rather lengthy review and introduction, but look at Luke chapter 2, verse 36. We've seen the accumulated prophecy and testimony of all these different people, and now there's this woman, Anna. And we're going to move through this kind of quickly to get to Jesus' boyhood. But Anna was a prophetess, and this should probably be taken not as someone who predicts future events, but as a public teacher. It's possible that she lived right there at the temple, somewhere on the grounds, and she was well known to go in and out of the temple. And so it was She is a daughter of Feniel of the tribe of Asher. She was of great age and had lived with the husband seven years from her virginity. And this woman was a widow of about eighty-four years. Who did not depart from the temple, but serve God with fastings and prayers night and day. And coming in at that instant, that is, the instant in which Christ was there, Jesus, the babe. She gave thanks to the Lord and spoke of him to all those who looked for redemption in Jerusalem. Now I think what we need to realize by remind to remind ourselves is that there already was a great deal of speculation and information in sort of the I don't know if you could call it this, the information circulatory system of Jerusalem and everything everywhere around there. The shepherds had gone out and told everyone what they saw. And if you recall, if you look back at your Bibles here in verse chapter 2 verse 17 it says about the shepherds when they had seen him they made widely known the saying which was told them concerning this child And all those who heard it marveled at those things which were told them by the shepherds. There was a great deal of public information that was now circulated everywhere. And so there was this anticipation of what would become of Christ. And I would speculate, okay. I would speculate, but I think it's worth, I think it's Worth speculating that in this way that Anna was already aware that there was this baby out there and these prophecies had been told and angels had announced his birth. She did not know the exact day that he would arise, but she happened, and of course, this is in God's providence It says right here in verse 38, coming in at that instant, at the very moment when Jesus was there, she thanks the Lord, knows who Jesus is. And she turns and she speaks this way, look, look to this child for redemption. Look to this child for the redemption of Jerusalem. This is the one. And so at this point, Luke kind of closes the chapter. It almost could be taken that chapter 1 is now over. And chapter 2, verse 41 would officially be chapter 2 of Luke. Because what he's done is he's given us Sort of the prehistory before what happened before John the Baptist and Jesus were born, the birth narrative of what happened when Jesus was born, and sort of the final end cap of statements made about him directly after he was born, at when they took him to fulfill the law to the temple. And so we kind of have this chapter one is completed and we move now to chapter two. And we begin to see a little bit about the young baby Jesus. Look at verse 39. It says, So when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee to their own city, Nazareth. Now, what's left out here is the rejection and the flight to Egypt and the Magi. Luke wants us to focus on sort of a consistent narrative where Jesus is about to begin his ministry, and so he moves from boyhood all the way through John the Baptist and then Jesus baptism. So he's kind of making a consistent line. So he leaves out the flight to Egypt. He says this in verse 39. Verse 40. And the child grew and became strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. Now, I want you to notice first, number one, that this is Luke's emphasis in this section, because if you look at verse 52, he says the same thing. And Jesus increased in wisdom that filled with wisdom and stature, he became strong in spirit. There is sort of the inner side, the wisdom, the intellectual side, and the physical side, stature or strength in spirit. And in favor with God and man. And in verse 40 it says, the grace of God was upon him. So there are Three things right off the bat that Luke is really emphasizing here. The first is that it sounds quite ordinary. This was a child. The child grew and became strong. Now, isn't that amazing that Luke wants to pick up on that detail and just lay it before the readers? Now, you might be aware of this, but in church history, the first couple hundred years of church history, the thing that was becoming truly established and proclaimed that people doubted. and had to be taught about was the deity of Christ. The humanity of Christ was greatly accepted, but it was this fact that he was God come in the flesh that was Fought and heretics attacked that whole issue. Today we have the Catholic Church and the Protestant Church And even lost people understand, and when I say lost people, I mean people that don't call themselves Christians or not truly born again, they would understand that we say that God, that Jesus was God. But perhaps today they would doubt that we believe he was a man, that he was, in fact, a human, a boy, and he was a child. Now we let's just reflect on this for a second. How many of you know a child? Anyone know a child? Alright. How many of you know three childs? I know how to say that. I was just seeing if you were awake. How many of you know three children? Keep your hands up. Four? Alright, how about ten? Okay, I guess our wana workers are just hopeless. You know like dozens and dozens. Anybody personally know over a hundred? Paula, you know over 100 kids? Okay. If you do, I probably do. I don't know. Okay. Alright. What are some commonalities among children? What are some things that they all have? And okay, so we would probably all say immediately is we would use the word they're naughty, which is just a very euphemistic way of saying they're evil. Okay. You know, Santa has them on a naughty list. Okay, well, yeah, they lie and they cheat and they beat each other up when you turn your back. Okay, they're very cute. They're cute too. You gotta say they're made in the image of God. They're wonderful, beautiful creations. But they lack experience They are intellectually, could we say this in every area, they are not adults. They are underdeveloped or undeveloped in their physicality, in their emotions. Have you ever noticed how much children cry? Perhaps you've caught picked up on that. You know, whether they fall down and skin their knee or whether they see something out there, they cry frequently. So they're they're not developed emotionally. They're they are small. You can't really bowl with a one-year-old. Not very effective. Can't pick up the bowling ball. They are intellectually undeveloped. Can they do calculus? Son, you're five now. It's time. Pre-calc. Let's go. Homeschooling. No, we never were able to do that. If you can, you're like an Einstein. There are all these categories that a doctor or maybe a psychiatrist would put them in as undeveloped. And so if you go to college, you take a class on child development, and you look at the categories, you look at all the different ways that we as mankind, as people have identified the kind of growth patterns that children go in. Folks, the God of the universe submitted to those in his humanity. He was willing to veil Philippians 2 his glory to be made in the likeness of men. Now that doesn't mean a fascinile, like he was not truly a man, he was. But he was down to his DNA a child. That is amazing that he would do that. He had to learn how to hold a cup. He had to learn how to crawl before he learned how to walk. What was his first word? We all parents want to know that. Was it Dada or Mama or in Hebrew? Abba? What did he say first? He learned that. And this, can you imagine? The God of the universe is hungry And he has to cry to get his mother's attention that he's hungry. And in all this Luke wants us to say, no, the child grew. There was this process like every other person, he grew up. And physically he became strong, which is probably a reference to the fact that he wasn't a sickly child, or a child who's who in some way had a physical issue that would have inhibited his. physical strength. He was just a child. I don't know about you, but I just I just wonder at that I wonder at the wisdom of God that he sends into this broken creation, this sinful place, this little kid who is himself, God the Son. So first, he grows physically. And then verse 40, there is this filling with wisdom Now, in verses 41 down to 49, we find out that he is 12 years old. Is anyone 12 in here? Don't think so. How wise is the average 12-year-old? In our culture today, would you describe the 12-year-olds you know as filled with wisdom? You go home to your 12-year-old grandson, granddaughter, son. You are filled with wisdom, my son. Have you ever said that? My kids have been growing wisdom, like we all do. But this is an exceptional statement. This is not an ordinary statement, he became strong physically. This is an exceptional statement. And he repeats it here in verse 52. He increased. in wisdom. Let's just remind our, turn quickly to Proverbs chapter 1. What is wisdom? Let's look at the kind of wisdom Now, I'm not saying that primarily from a word study on the word wisdom there, but from a contextual understanding, which I'll explain in a moment because of what he does in the temple. But here's what wisdom is. Proverbs 1. You probably know this. The first paragraph or the series of statements in Proverbs is an expression of purpose. And effect. Why all these Proverbs, Solomon? I mean, what will they do for me? Well, here's what they do: Proverbs 1, verse 2, to help you to know wisdom and instruction. To perceive a certain kind of words, words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, judgment, and equity. This collection of Proverbs verse 4 will give prudence to the simple. That is, someone who is naive, they don't have to grow physically, but they can act in order to grow In discernment and prudence, this can actually give something to the naive that they don't possess. To the young man, verse 4, knowledge and discretion. And then there's the response: a wise man will hear and increase learning. A man of understanding will attain wise counsel. But we have here in this book of Proverbs, when it comes to wisdom, words Taking these in, perceiving, this comprehension words. Now that's tough. You and I struggle with this often, I think It's one thing to learn how to cook an egg, boil water, and make spaghetti. Even I can do that. But a souffle? Cheesecake, rack of lamb, is that a word? Is that a correct thing? Do they call it a rack of lamb? I have no idea. I don't even know what it's called. I can't cook. You could explain it to me? I have a hard time learning. But some of you are very wise when it comes to cooking. You've you've taken in the words of many cookbooks and wise cook Cooks. And so you have the application and you can now do certain things. So wisdom is words that you take in. And then there is in verse 3, there is wisdom instructs. Justice, that is, in what is fair, judgment, in choices that you make, equity in the things that you do And this is what wisdom will do. You sit your son down and you say to them, verse 9, look at verse 9, hear the instruction of your father. And do not forsake the law of your mother, for they will be a graceful ornament on your head and chains about your neck. My son, verse 10, my son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. Right out of the starting gate, Solomon's words are resist the enticement of sin and sinners. This is wisdom. You look further in Proverbs, and wisdom is personified in verse 20. Look at that Wisdom calls aloud outside. She raises her voice in the open square. She cries out. This is talking about the call and the value of wisdom, chapter 2, verse 1. My son, if you receive my words and treasure my commands within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom and apply your heart to understanding, yes, if you cry out for discernment If you seek her, verse 4 is silver, verse 5, then you will understand the fear of the Lord. You all know Proverbs. They are very, very valuable to the young. They produce wisdom. So we know that Jesus grew in these kinds of things, taking in words. He grew in his understanding of justice, judgment, and equity. But there's something even more specific that Luke wants us to know that he knew And this is the exceptional part of it. Look back at Luke. Quickly, go back to Luke. He knew. He knew who he was. He knew that he was not the son of Joseph. He knew who his father was, capital F, Father. And he really, really knew the Hebrew Bible. Let's just read this passage that we've often read at Christmas time or in the past. Luke chapter 2, verse 41. It says, his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. They were faithful to do this, good Hebrew parents. And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast. When they had finished the days, as they returned, the boy Jesus, the boy Jesus, I love how it says that, lingered behind in Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother did not know it. Now you probably have heard this before. It was probably because this family was traveling with a group. Okay? It wasn't just the three of them. Mary's on a donkey. Joseph is leading the way. They walk ten miles out of Jerusalem. Oh, where's Jesus? I mean That's stupid. Alright, there was a group and there was a lot of activity and Jesus wasn't there. So they uh they thought he was, verse 44. And they went a day's journey and sought him among their relatives and acquaintances. Verse 45. So when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, seeking him. Now you can imagine parents, grandparents, if you lost a child, I mean literally lost a child. There is this rush, a day's journey out. Perhaps there was idle conversation and chit-chat with relatives, neighbors, friends, some who were going back to where Mary and Joseph lived. Perhaps they were reflecting on the feast and the different words that they heard from rabbis, teachers of the law. Maybe they were just Giving advice to one another. It was, could it have been a more idle walk, idol is not the right word, a more leisurely travel out one day's journey? Perhaps. But we probably can guess that the journey back was not leisurely. Jerusalem is a pretty big place for a 12-year-old. There's going to be a rush, verse 45. This return to Jerusalem, this seeking of him, is really probably frantic. Would we use the word panicked? Verse 46. That attitude can only build on itself because It was that after three days, three days, they're looking everywhere for him, and they can't find him. And finally, verse 46. They found him in the temple sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions. And all who heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. Now, every child grows up. Luke tells us he became strong in spirit, increased in wisdom and stature. But not every child can do this. He was the unique boy God God Boy And I don't mean that in any disrespectful way. And he is sitting there right in the midst of the greatest teachers they have, and he is listening. And asking them questions. Now, what kind of questions does the average 12-year-old in our culture ask? Now, again, I don't want to denigrate 12-year-olds in our culture, okay? In an effort to show the uniqueness of Christ, I don't want to make I don't want to communicate that all 12-year-olds in our culture are fools. They're not. We have godly young people that we train up in the ways of the Lord. But he was He this is how Jesus described if his questioning and his answers and this talk he was having, he described it as being about my father's business When he was in there talking and questioning, it had something to do with the Lord, Jehovah, his father. And so he was undoubtedly speaking about the Hebrew Bible, things that are written there. And is it not so that when this boy grew up to become a man, and he went out into his ministry, did he not follow the same pattern? The same pattern of listening and asking questions. Listening and asking questions. He would give a speech, a sermon on the mount, but he would also ask questions. It'sn't amazing how the boy grew up to become the man and followed much of the same methodology. So they were amazed. Alright, so so first you see in verse 47 the astonishment of the teachers. That such a boy would know these things. Alright, so there's this exceptional knowledge that calls forth this astonishment, but then there's this amazement of his parents in verse 48. It says, so when they saw him, they were amazed, and his mother questioned him, right? She would say what any good mother would say. Verse 48, Why have you done this to us? Look, your father and I have sought you anxiously. Now, I'll share one story that happened to us. And this happened a long time ago, so I can't blame one of my children about this, and I don't think they don't even care about this. When they were really, really small, we went into a mall once. And one of our kids, I looked down, this child was about this tall. They were right there. I looked up, I looked down, they're gone. We were in the food court, hundreds of people. This person's gone. I look, we frantically look. We can't find this individual And so we go down and there's a carousel, and there the individual is looking at the carousel. And the first thing out of my mouth. Where have you been? It's it's what we would all say. And and then there so there's the astonishment of the teachers, the amazement of the parents. But then Jesus is surprised. He's genuinely surprised. Look at verse 49. And he said to them, Why did you seek me? Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? It's just one surprise after another. And so he questions them He was not, shouldn't they have known he would be in the temple talking to these teachers, being about his father's business? But verse 50, they just didn't get it. They did not understand the statement which he spoke to them. It's interesting. Mary had heard the prophecies from Gabriel. Mary had, they had both, Joseph, they had both talked to angels personally, and yet. They still were a little undeveloped in their understanding of what will become of Jesus. And so we see we have This bookend here in verse 40 of how Jesus became strong in spirit filled with wisdom. And we have the bookend in verse 52. He increased in wisdom and stature. And then we also have this final statement in verses 40 and 52 that the grace of God was upon him. In verse 52, and in favor with God and man. And this is the reaction, the response of people and God. Now, you and I, when we have our kids and they do something bad, we respond by disciplining them. We even know, Proverbs say that even a young person, even a child is known by his doings. When I was living in Richmond, we knew a little short young boy, and we called him the little boy with the big mouth. Because everywhere he went in the neighborhood, he was blah blah blah and he would cuss. I don't know how old he was. Eight? He was just pretty vile. That's what we knew him as, the little boy with the big mouth. Jesus, he never sinned. Every time a parent or his parents or another parent encountered this boy, there was this Strangeness about him, this void that was replaced with an endearing, continual righteousness. Obedience. And when people saw him, there was, he grew, he increased And if you look at verse 52, this word increased, it applies to wisdom, stature, and favor. There was this increasing favor with men. They would see that and go, wow. This is a good kid. Did you see what he did yesterday? Or last week? Or Mary was just telling me. And Joseph, I just spoke to him on Friday. And did you hear what he said in the synagogue? And there, it wasn't just a level thing. It was like a new, there was there was a level and then a new level, and then a new level A level would be going down, maybe level going up, a stairway, like a stairway, an increasing favor with men. It was happening. Their estimation of Jesus was growing. And then there was this two times, there was the favor of God. In verse 46, the grace of God was upon him. Could also probably be translated, the favor of God was upon him. But there was this favor that grew in the heart of God. Now that is amazing. Because for you and I as sinners, God looks at us before we become Christians. Every sin is recorded. Even the plowing of the wicked is sin. Even when someone who is outside of Christ, not saved, is out plowing his field, what is in his heart? What is he thinking? Is he coveting? Is he I mean, everything is sin. We're in a position of sin. There is no looking upon us with increasing favor. It's the exact opposite. There's a looking upon us with an increasing fist favor. But with Jesus, every day, every day with the life of this boy. There was an increasing, there was a summation Of righteousness upon righteousness before God the Father. And when the Father saw his son, he was pleased with this, and pleased with this And if we could put it this way, this put a smile on God the Father's face. And there was just this increasing estimation of God the Son and God the Father's face. Aye, so much so that at the baptism of Jesus, what did the Father say? This is my Son, in whom I am well pleased. And so, Jesus, the boy, the boy God, he increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. When it comes to this wicked old world and all these problems that we're in, the pain of suffering, the curse of death. Jesus was sent. The Father sent this boy who grew into a man. And it's at moments like this that we can only be in awe. A W E. At the wisdom of God to do these kinds of things for us