I invite you this morning to open your Bibles to Luke. Turn back to Luke chapter 3. Luke chapter 3. This morning we're going to be dealing with not a whole lot of text here, just two verses. Luke chapter 3, verses 21 and 22. Let's just read those. When all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also was baptized. And while he prayed, the heaven was opened, and the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven which said, You are my beloved son, and you I am well pleased. Last week I began my sermon by putting you in the same room as Albert Einstein. We pondered for a moment what it would be like to sit with him and to listen to him describe the entrance of someone else. And we pondered what it would have been like to sit in this imaginary setting and to have Albert Einstein say to us, there is someone who's going to walk through that door who is a better scientist than I. Who is more intelligent than I, who, when it comes to science and understanding physics and all these different things, I am not worthy to even tie his shoe If we sat with Albert Einstein, we pondered last week and heard him say this, we would be very curious as to who is going to step through that door, what he would be like. How could it be that someone as great a scientist as Albert Einstein would have such a great estimation, a greater estimation of the one who is going to walk through that door? We compared this to John the Baptist. Because we saw in the preceding section here, before verses 21 and 22, we saw how he described the coming one. Because the people in verse 15 were in expectation and they were reasoning in their hearts about John, wondering if he was the Christ. And John responded principally along two lines of thought. First, there is in verse 16 John saying, One mightier than I is coming. One mightier than I is coming. And then in verse 16, I am not worthy to loose his sandal strap. So there are these terms of worth and might. And so in essence, John is saying: the one who is coming is mightier than I am, and of more worth than I am. And when it comes to what he is, who he is, what he'll do, baptizing with the Holy Spirit and fire, a prophet compared to a prophet, I am not worthy to untie his sandals. Now, this morning I want to put you in another room with someone else. Can I put you in the room sitting at a round table with a great king? Perhaps, well, let's let's back up a little bit. Let me put you there first with his herald. Alright? But I'm not going to leave you alone this time. You are sitting at a table with a man who has just walked in the door. And he says that a great person is about to come. As a matter of fact, this great person is a king. And in that room with you are a huge variety of other people. There are, but all these different people, regardless of of what they look like, they fall into two principal groups. There are sort of the common people, and then there's the nobility. The commoners are all standing along the outside of the room because they don't get the best seats, but the nobility They're all sitting in comfortable chairs, and at the far end of the room, there is a throne made of gold. So imagine for a second that you're sitting in this context And the king's herald, and you know what a herald is, he's someone who walks before the king and says, The king is coming, and yells that kind of thing out so people know what to do. He begins to describe the greatness of the king. And he talks about how much wealth this individual has and the laws that he's enacted. And he definitely says that he is mightier and more worthy than I am, or any of the nobles in this room. So you are sitting there with this man in great expectation to see the king. And the door opens. Everyone stands. And here is the king. And the king moves across that room, looking at everyone. He looks first at the nobles, and everyone knows that this is a greater king than those nobles, a greater man, a better person. He looks at the common people. And among the common people he finds the slaves, the lowest of the low. And rather than sitting in a throne Where he belongs, and rather than sitting with the nobility, this king moves, and he grabs a bowl and a towel or serving implements And he joins the slaves over in the corner who have no seat at all, but are using the wall as a cushion while they wait. What would be your response? You just heard how great this individual was. Folks, this is exactly what's happening here in this passage. Because we have John the Baptist saying, One who is mightier, one who is more worthy than I is coming by virtue of spirit and fire. He is a mighty prophet. He is better than I am. But then we have this really shocking incident in verses 21 and 22. Because rather than And tell me what if you think perhaps John was thinking this. Here comes Jesus. Jesus comes to John, and John is thinking: okay, I'll go stand over here. Now he's going to take over. Do you think John perhaps thought that? Well, we know from another gospel that he was shocked. Luke does not record John the Baptist's words. He passes over that. But we know from another gospel that John said, Lord, I need to be baptized by you. Why are you doing this? So there was that surprise and shock. Surely John the Baptist didn't expect Jesus to come down into the waters of baptism, the place of repentance. And that is exactly what Jesus did. What we have in these two short verses are the Messiah identifying himself with sinners. That's what he does if you look at your Bible. We have this, Luke just goes simply through the narrative. In verse 21, when all the people were baptized. It came to pass that Jesus also was baptized. There was just this regular process of baptism, John the Baptist doing what he always did, and here comes Jesus seamlessly entering into this action and presenting himself for baptism. This is Jesus' choice No one asked him to do it. No one expected him to do it. He was identifying himself in the place of repentance. He was placing himself right alongside. The sinners. So Jesus was identifying himself, but then we also have words from the Father. If you look at your Bible again in verse 22. The Father says from heaven, You are my beloved Son, in you I am well pleased. And not only that, we also have in verse 22 the Holy Spirit descending in bodily form like a dove. So there's Jesus identifying himself by moving into the water, and then there's the Father identifying himself, identifying Christ, I should say, identifying the Messiah. Now this is interesting because Jesus, by virtue of his movement into the water, is saying, I am with the sinners. He is not saying, I am a sinner, but he is placing himself with the sinners. But the Father is doing the exact opposite. Because there is this presence of the pure Spirit of God coming down upon him, and this message: you are my beloved Son, in you I am well pleased. The Father has not done this before. He is separating out Jesus as being quite different from every other individual that stepped into the waters of baptism Jesus is there, but the Father is saying, He is different. He is my beloved Son. He did not say this for any other individual who stepped into the waters. So it's really Jesus identifying himself and the Father identifying Jesus. This is what's happening in this passage. And it really is quite remarkable what's happening here. And I hope that as we look at this, it'll be a blessing to you. Jesus was himself sinless, and yet he publicly puts himself in the place of repentance as if he had sin to repent of. But he did not. Why would he do this? Folks, what fruits of repentance did Jesus need to bring forth What was it that he had done that he needed to show that he was truly repentant? Now repentance is not a work that merits salvation. But why, why did the spotless one put himself in the place of repentance? Can I take you on a kind of a short journey, hopefully not too long here? The first thing I want you to see is I want you to really see the kind of condition that sinners are in and why they need to repent. And then what Jesus is like. What we should see here, what this should do to us, is when we look at how awful sin is. And we see the spotless one coming into this place of repentance, our hearts should open up. And we should again see how much God loves us. He loves you and he loves me. So what what is what is the per what you know the place of repentance? Why? Can I just get you to turn to Psalm 51? Now we're here's what we're doing. Throughout the scriptures, different authors wrote about sin and people. Sometimes they wrote about themselves, and they said, I am like this, a sinner in this way or that way. And they were, in effect, confessing their sins. Sometimes they wrote about others. Who sinned against them. And sometimes they wrote about God and what God thought of their sins. In Psalm 51 Verse 5. Sorry, I should have turned quickly. Psalm 51, verse 5. David says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. Now this does not mean that he Had not enjoyed the advantage of parents who were wed, who were married, that he was an illegitimate child. That's not what this means. It means that when he was in his mother's womb, He was a sinner. And when he was born, and he made the transition outside the womb into life, he was born a sinner. This is David, the man after God's own heart, expressing his belief that he himself was born a sinner. This is consistent with what Jesus said about sin in Matthew 15, if you turn there quickly. In Matthew 15 And you look there at verse nineteen. Here is the gospel writer of Matthew recording for us what Jesus said about sin. He said, For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. These are the things which defile a man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile a man. Now the context is the Pharisees are saying, Why aren't your disciples Partaking of certain ritual washings, putting water over their hands. They're defiled because they aren't performing a ritual, and Jesus is saying, no. It's not the lack of ritual that defiles a man. It's the heart, because out of the heart comes all these evil things. Sins from the heart. You have David saying, I was born a sinner. You have Jesus saying that sin comes from the heart. And then you have the testimony of people in the scriptures. like Paul, who say that the sins, and you don't have to turn there, the sins that come out of the heart, they don't just float around. They end up being acted upon. And so you have in Galatians 5 sins described as works of the flesh. Work. You're moving from passive energy to kinetic. There's something going on. There's movement. There's action. And the works of the flesh certainly are in keeping with what Jesus said here. Murder. It goes from anger and rage in the heart, an emotion that you feel, to an action of the hand that picks up a gun and pulls a trigger. The works of the flesh. So we are born sinners. Sin comes from our hearts. It leads to actions of sin. But what's our attitude about it? The scriptures are not very, well, the scriptures don't pull any punches when it comes to just describing how you and I respond to sin apart from God and apart from redemption. For example, if you just turn to Isaiah three, nine. Isaiah three verse nine. And just look at what this says and see if you can pick it out for yourself. The look on their countenance witnesses against them. And they declare their sin as Sodom. They do not hide it. Woe to their soul, for they have brought evil upon themselves. What is this saying? The look on their countenance witnesses against them. The countenance is your face. The expression on your face. And when you look at the context here, it's speaking about people who declare their sin, they lack shame. It's as if they boast in their sin. So when confronted with the fact that you and I are sinners, our hearts apart from Christ and redemption. Push back and not only say, I don't care, but exalt and boast about our sin. And that exaltation shows and a lack of shame on our face. There's no blushing about it. There's no hiding about it at times. As a matter of fact, Proverbs 14. 9, and I won't make you turn to this one, says that fools make a mock at sin, and this is not just the countenance, but words that come out where we make light of sin. We try to laugh at it. It becomes a byline in a sitcom. Something that people clap about in the background. It needs a laugh track because we just don't care very much about sin. We boast and we laugh, and I will get you to turn to this one, Romans 1. 32. We just, when we see it in the lives of other people, we just approve of it. It says in Romans 1. 32, after giving a long list of sins in Romans 1:30 and 31, we know the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are deserving of death. We not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them. And the word that's translated approve there has to do with hearty approval. It's this this this Almost applause, like I just said. The context here in Romans 1, you've heard it many times, it's the sin that we're all in, and it's one group looking at another group and saying, Yeah, go. I affirm what this person is doing, and they should go all the way. This is pretty serious. And God has dealt with it, right? How has he dealt with it? Well, first, he placed man in creation. Everyone on the face of the earth sees the sun, the moon, and the stars. And Romans 1 teaches us that when we look at this There is the glory of God, his Godhead, and his power is seen. And Romans 1 actually teaches us that there's moral culpability to that. There's something in us that God wants, there's a response he wants from us. At least the response of monotheism, there must be a God, capital G, of great power. Who is this God? But humanity has rejected that. And we certainly see that evidenced in naturalistic evolution and how it pervades every most cultures on our planet. God also gave the conscience, though. Every person is born with a conscience. It either approves or condemns our actions. Even really bad people feel guilty sometimes. They have regrets. But the scriptures teach that we can fear it with a hot iron. Have you ever gotten a burn so bad that the nerve endings in that burn stopped working? I have. Thankfully it healed and the nerve endings came back, but But if you were to take a hot iron and put it on your arm, don't do this at home, kids. But you were to do that, take it off. I don't know how long it would have to be there, but you could desensitize your entire hand permanently. This happens to the consciences of people all over this planet. So much so that Solomon writes about when justice has fallen in the streets, and that which is good is now called evil, and that which is evil is now called good. And I've illustrated this in the past out of the book Peace Child, where a missionary goes to an island, tells them the story of Jesus. And gets to the point where Judas betrays Jesus and Jesus dies, and the entire tribe is just loving Judas. He is awesome. He betrayed him. That's our man, Judas. And that's an illustration of a conscience that's been turned upside down, seared, insensitive to the truth. But it can be reawakened through the Spirit of God. But then God has also given us His law. The Ten Commandments would be the greatest example of it. Thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not. Thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not. Was that ten? Close to it, I think Romans teaches us that rather than changing people and leading them to repentance. By and large, the law of God actually excites the sin in our bodies. Paul said, I wouldn't have known coveting except the law said, Thou shalt not covet, and sin taking occasion by the law. Provoked me to greater sin. It's the idea there. And so what we have is the law of God says no, and our sinful hearts say, oh yeah, watch me. I wasn't going to do it all the way, but now I'm really going to go for it. Folks, what we have here are Creation was not enough. Placing man in a beautiful universe that cries creator was not enough. Putting a human conscience, putting a conscience in every person who is born is not enough. And even revealing the law of God, which reveals the righteous standard of God, to the Hebrew people, and having that passed around the world in the form of a book or when people spoke to one another, was not enough. There had to be a change of heart. Something had to happen on the inside. God wanted repentance. When we when people face these things, this is what they do. You can really break it down into two things. We blame God or we blame another person. That's exactly what Adam and Eve did. The woman that you gave me, the woman, he blamed the woman, Adam did, that you gave me, he blames God. And so it is that you and I grow up in a world where it's not my fault, it's my dad's fault, I was abused, it's not my fault, it was my mom's fault. Fault. It's not my fault. If I had enough money, it's not my fault. If I just had the right education, if I was just born in another country, I wouldn't do these bad things God, why did you make me like this? Why did you do this to me? And we see that it's just blaming this person or that person or this person. What happens when people multiply over the face of the earth? Folks, they're born in sin The sin comes from our hearts. It leads to actions with our bodies. We boast at it, laugh about it, we we approve it when we see it in the lives of others. When we're confronted by creation and the conscience and the law of God, we blame God and we blame other people. What happens when you fill the whole world up with these people? Every imagination of their hearts is only evil continually. It's kind of like I would imagine a nuclear reaction is once it gets going. There's no stopping it. And it really burns fast. And that of course is Genesis 6. 5 and 8. 21. Saying, Pastor, why are you going through all this? Well The only answer to it all is repentance. It's the only answer. Where people change their mind about sin. And this is often how repentance is defined in the Greek term that is translated repentance in your New Testament as a change of mind. It's often described as a coin, and on the one side of the coin is repentance, changing your mind about sin, and thus internally Turning from sin and the other side of the coin is often described as faith, a turn toward God and trusting in the cross of Christ for salvation. Repentance. And faith. Repentance was a necessity. Folks, look at your go back to Luke. Luke chapter 3. Repentance was a necessity. And that is why John in Luke 3. 7 said, Brood of vipers, who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore, bear fruits worthy of repentance. That is why John the Baptist came. Repentance is a necessity Jesus getting into the waters of repentance makes no sense. Why would he do that? What was he like? Well, if you just look at what Luke said about him so far in the Gospel of Luke, these are the things you find out. And I will ask you just to look at this. We'll just be right in Luke. Luke 1:35. What do we see in Luke 1:35? The angel says to Mary, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the highest will overshadow you. Therefore, also That holy one who is to be born will be called the Son of God. Here is an angel saying, Jesus is the holy one. If you turn a few bit more verses over and you look at verses 68 and 69, when Zacharias prophesies He says, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people and has raised up a horn of salvation for us. So in talking about Christ, Christ will redeem. Christ will save. When you go to chapter 2, verse 30, you also see. The same kind of terms, because here we have Simeon's prophecy, and he says chapter 2 verse 30, my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared before the face of all peoples. The availability of universal salvation for all. Salvation. And look, I don't mean to wear you out, but in verse chapter 2, verse 40, we have Jesus and he's growing up. He's the holy one who will redeem and save. And it says here in verse 40, he is strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. And he goes to the temple, and the people there, the best teachers, in verse 47, are astonished at his understanding and answers. Theological wisdom. The grace of God was upon him. Verse 52, he increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. Does this sound like someone who needs to repent? Not only this, but in verse 51, he was obedient to his parents perfectly. Any of you do that? I certainly didn't And what we have here, as Luke goes along in his story, he keeps heaping up on Christ. History that indicates that Jesus is so much more than we could ever expect. And after we get through all these prophecies and we hear what John is, what do you make of this? Look at chapter 3, and you look at verse 4. And right in the middle of that verse, this is what John is. Isaiah says he's like someone who prep says, prepare the way of the Lord. And the word Lord there is in all caps. And in the Old Testament, this is a reference to Jehovah. the one and only God of the Hebrews. Prepare the way of the Lord. Prepare the way of the Lord and hear Jesus of Nazareth. Prepare the way of the Lord. Jesus, the Lord, Jes Jesus, the Lord Jesus And you have John, what I just talked about, saying, worthier, that's a word, more worthy, mightier than I And so by the time we get to Jesus stepping down into the water, the reader is supposed to go, really, seriously, he's supposed to do this. What? I'm not sure I get this. And so there is the final period at the end of the sentence. And this is where we transition into the Father identifying him first. Verse 22, the Holy Spirit descends in bodily form like a dove upon him. Now, this is the only gospel that mentions that Jesus was praying when this happened. So he's in the water in a state of prayer and the heavens open. And what what did that look like? It's almost impossible to imagine that. I mean, there, okay, so there's the normal sky that we see every day. And then there is some movement up there, and it moves in such a way that it can be described as an opening rather than a coming together, it's a coming apart, a separation. And in this separation, in this opening, there's this object that's moving down, something coming down from up high. And it comes down and down and down. And as it moves closer to the ground, it becomes larger. And it can be seen as not moving away to the west or the east. It comes all the way down verse 22, and it has some kind of bodily form like a dove. Perhaps the flutter of light. Something there resembles a dove and it comes upon Jesus right there in that water. Okay, he's in the waters of repentance, but now there's this the Holy Spirit, and there's the it's not this, wow, what is that? There's there's some knowledge here that this is the Holy Spirit. And a voice from heaven. You. Wait a minute. Why doesn't it say he? Could this voice be meant primarily for Jesus? He hears this: you are my beloved son, and you I am well pleased. Folks, what we have here is sort of the period at the end of the sentence where we should have no doubt by the time we read to this section in Luke that Jesus is way more than just a man. He is way more than just a prophet. He is a unique individual, like no one else. And the pleasure of the father in this moment is the pleasure of knowing that his son is about to embark on his journey of ministry. Jesus is now publicly identifying himself with sinners. And this is the work of Jesus Christ. The pure and spotless one came to take the place of sinners in judgment, to act as if not to sin, not to give in to temptation, but to be there at the right moment and the right time and to be treated as if he were a sinner, even though he was not. And so it fulfilled righteousness for him to begin his ministry in this act of taking the place of repentance. Because one day he would take the place of us all on the cross. The spotless Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. He didn't belong on that cross. It's sinners that belong on the cross. And yet he took the place of the sinner. And he took your place and my place. Folks Here's what we can take away from this. Here's what grieves me. Have you ever felt this way? I've heard it again and again and again. And some of the joy and the luster of this has worn off. We know about the substitutionary atonement. The substitute for sin, Jesus, came in and died in our place. But Romans 5 teaches us And Romans 8 teaches us that one of the primary means by which your heart The heart is the immaterial part of you. There's a material part, that's your body, and the immaterial part, your soul and spirit. The heart is in the immaterial part. We are creations who were never meant to be severed. Death is what separates the two, but your heart is where you feel things. You can cry inwardly without shedding a tear outwardly. You can be depressed and discouraged. You can be elated inwardly. Romans 5 describes the love of God being poured into our heart. King James Version translates it, shed abroad into our heart. It's as if our heart is empty. And there's this movement, and love is poured in, and we are influenced by that internally. We feel it And the primary means by which the Spirit of God fills our hearts with his love is when you and I dwell on the fact. Turn there, Romans five. Look at it. Look at it again. Look at Romans five, verse five Now, hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who is given to us. For when we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, if perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God Demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Verse 5, this pouring out in the context of our hearts, love by the Holy Spirit. Is certainly joined to those moments when you and I dwell on, meditate on mentally the fact that Jesus died for sinners. When we were weak, ungodly, without strength, hopeless, and helpless, it was at that moment that He came and He got down in those waters of repentance and He didn't belong there. And he got up on that cross and he didn't belong there. And he didn't wait for people to clean up their acts and to get their lives straight. He came and he did it because he loves us. And when we think about this, the Spirit of God pours the love of God into our hearts, and we can feel it as well. What grieves me is that I don't dwell on it enough. You ever feel that way? You and I. Why? Why? Why? Why did the spotless Lamb of God get down in those waters of repentance? Why did he sully his feet with the filth of our lives? Why did he go on to eat dinner with sinners, tax collectors, thieves, prostitutes, people that you might have a hard time coming over to your house for dinner? He's eating with them, spending time with them, sharing the message. Why? Because God is love. Isn't that remarkable? And there is not a person on this planet that if they do not repent of their sins, They can have salvation. And so the gospel message is for all. It should be declared to all and anyone. Repent. Put your trust in Christ. Have you done that? Have you repented of your sin and put your trust in Christ? Have you come to that place where you know that You can't do it. You can't clean up yourself. That no ritual is ever going to get rid of the sin that's in within. Have you come to the place where you believe that Jesus Is your sin substitute that He took your place and your punishment