Well, as we have reached the most uh chaotic, I think, uh busiest time of the year with uh all of the attendant uh uh Christmas activities. uh cantanas to prepare for, uh sending cards or letters to loved ones and friends, uh buying presents for those whom you love and maybe even some whom you don't really love all that much, but you feel you have to get them a present, uh extra Christmas decorating and uh baking and everything else. Uh we often have to remind ourselves, you know, where is our focus? uh this Christmas. Some have purely a secular uh focus with emphasis, especially if you're in the business world of uh making uh uh lots of money. Maybe you uh you know you have special sales or whatever. Uh some maybe earn extra money as a cashier uh or extra hand or on the receiving end. Maybe some people will ask, well gee, I wonder what kind of check Aunt Mabel is going to send us this year. Or what sort of gifts. you will get. And certainly the stores do a wonderful job of reminding us of this aspect of Christmas. And If I were to think of a symbol, I would think of Santa Claus as maybe the best symbolic or representative of that focus. Others have what I would call a sentimental focus, Christmas, where they focus on Christmas. as a time to restore friendships and celebrate traditions with family and uh friends, uh bake, uh, cook cookies and decorate the house, send cards, and maybe even go to church and sing a Christmas carol, celebrating the warm fuzzies uh of a newborn babe and the idyllic uh scene of shepherds watching their flocks by night. Uh and all of that Perhaps the Christmas tree and Christmas cards decorated on the mantle might symbolize that second sentimental focus. And there's certainly nothing wrong with that focus. I better say that since I enjoyed some of my daughter's Christmas cookies yesterday. And uh I would be a hypocrite if I said that I didn't enjoy that aspect of it. But if that's all Christmas means to you, well then you really don't have the right focus. It is hard for us to imagine today that there was a time in this country when the celebration of Christmas was banned. But it's true. The Puritans banned Christmas because of its association with pagan festivals And so in Massachusetts, those who were caught observing Christmas Day were actually fined. Can you imagine that? I can't imagine it. It wasn't until 1855 that Massachusetts recognized Christmas as an official state holiday. Maine and New Hampshire followed suit a few years later. And while I would hardly suggest that we follow the Puritans and ban Christmas celebrations, It is important for us to get the right perspective, not always easy to do. Is our focus on the celebration or on the child? The Bible gives us what should be the true focus of this and every other Christmas, and that focus is the special child who was born that night over 2,100 years ago For the Christian, the focus must be on the child. To help us regain that focus this morning, I'd like us to look briefly at two Old Testament prophecies. of the birth of this child given by the prophet Isaiah over 700 years before his birth And these prophecies are found in Isaiah 7, verse 14, and Isaiah 9, 6 and 7. You see, the Christmas story is not just some night uh kind of nice little fairy tale, not just some nice script of a Hallmark movie, and I'm not downgrading Hallmark movies here. My wife w uh watches a ton of Christmas movies. I don't know how they have so many Christmas movies, but they do. And that's nice But the Christmas story is not like that because it's absolutely true, and we can know that because these prophecies of Christ uh birth uh in the old testament, uh they uh uh were made hundreds of years before the event happened. And in these passages in Isaiah I see six wonders. all of which focus on the child. First of all, in Isaiah 7. 14, the wonder of the child's conception. In Isaiah 7. 14, the promise is made in the midst of unbelief. In verses 1 to 9 of Isaiah 14, King Ahaz of Judah was given a reassuring message from the Lord. God said that there was no need to worry about the forces from Syria and Ephraim who were invading and wanted to defeat him and take over Judah. Instead, God said he simply needed to turn to the Lord. Verse 9 has a little play on words in Hebrew as the root word amen, which we know as amen. It's one of the few things that we say. That's actually a Hebrew word. It means that it is true, or so be it. As the root word is used in both clauses. In verse 9, God says If you don't believe, Amen, then you won't be established, Amen, in a different uh form. One Bible translation uh renders that if you do not stand firm in your faith, then you won't stand at all. And then in verses 10 and 11, the Lord graciously tells Ahaz to ask for a sign that he would indeed deliver him from this crisis. God says, make it as deep as Sheol or as high as the heavens Now let me tell you, if the Lord told me to ask for a sign, I would have a lot of fun with that request. I would probably uh pick something terrific. I'm sorry. I go to sports. I apologize. Maybe the Baltimore Orioles winning the World Series. I know we have some Nats fans there, but I'm I'm an Orioles fan, so 2018 the Orioles win the World Series. And believe me, that would take a genuine miracle. I could say the the Redskins uh winning the uh Super Bowl, that's surely not going to happen in the near future. Perhaps the Ravens, at least they've got a shot at it. Well at any rate, all of this, I would have a wonderful time picking my sign. But Ahaz refused the request. You see, he had no use for a miraculous confirming sign from the Lord of the promised deliverance, since he had already foolishly gone to another nation, Assyria, for help. So what does the Lord do? If I were the Lord, I would have said, forget it. I am through with you. Well, he does rebuke Ahaz in verse 13. for his lack of faith, but then he gives the whole house of David, not just uh unbelieving Ahaz, he gives them a miraculous sign anyway. And verse 14 gives us that sign. A miraculous conception. And as we read, therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign, behold, the the Virgin shall conceive, literally the virgin uh is pregnant and will bear a son and will call his name Emmanuel. And so it is a Wonderful uh is a wonderful, amazing sign uh sign. It's a predicate adjective construction. As Isaiah sees it, the sign is a pregnant virgin It is not a virgin who will later conceive. That would not be so much of a miracle. The miraculous sign is a pregnant virgin. That's why there's so such an argument over the Hebrew word alma that is used here. Some say if a virgin was the intended meaning, then another word, Bethula, should have been used, but that's not correct because Bethula is sometimes used of a married woman as in Joel 1. 8. Alma refers to a young woman who has never been married. and therefore is properly assumed to be a virgin. It has that meaning in all other six Old Testament occurrences. and including Genesis 24, 43, where it's used of Rebekah, who verse uh uh 16 clearly says was a virgin. It was used in Exodus 2. 8 of uh young Miriam, the sister of Moses. Not only that, the pre-Christian Greek translation of our Hebrew word here in the Septuagint is Parthenos, which unequivocally means virgin. Now exactly who is this virgin? The definite article is used here in the construction. And uh so it's the virgin. And so I think it's the virgin that Isaiah sees as part of the sign Some people say that this is uh woman is one of Ahaz's wives and the child is Hezekiah, but that fails because Ahazia. His wife was not a virgin when pregnant. Second, the child's name wasn't Emmanuel. And uh third, uh Hezekiah was already at least six years old when the prophecy was given. So it couldn't possibly be Hezekiah. Other people think it's Isaiah's wife and the children child who is born in Isaiah 8, 1 to 4. And surely that prophecy is linked to this one as the Lord provides a second visual aid to Judah that the Lord will deliver his people. But once again, Isaiah's wife is hardly a virgin, since according to chapter 7 and verse 3, Isaiah's first child, Yahshua, was tagging along with Isaiah at the time of his meeting with Ahaz. And second, in Isaiah 8. 3, the Lord tells Isaiah to name his child. Now here's a name I probably wouldn't recommend you give your child, Maharshall Hashbaz. I kind of like it, it rolls off the tongue, Marshal Hashbaz. Well at any rate, it's not Emmanuel, that's for sure. No, the miraculous sign is a pregnant virgin and there has been only one of these in history, Mary, the mother of Jesus. If there's any doubt that this is the intention of the prophecy, Matthew chapter 1 and verses 22 and 23, after speaking of the fact that Mary was with child of the Holy Spirit, not through Joseph. Matthew 1 says, so all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child, bear a son, they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. And by the way, we knew that Emmanuel was translated God with us if we were listening to the ladies' uh chorus or ensemble, right? Because that's exactly what they sung just a few moments ago And so that is the birth which Isaiah foresaw 700 years ahead of time in this amazing sign. It is a miracle. There are so many miracles associated with the birth of Christ, but surely this one is the most amazing. A child born to a virgin without human means. This is the first wonder. And as I said and I will repeat again, it was prophesied seven hundred years Before it took place. Well, that's the first wonder. The second wonder I would like you to see in Isaiah 7. 14 is the wonder of the child's comforting name. The wonder of the child's comforting name, Emmanuel. The text says she shall call his name Emmanuel. As we've already said, Emmanuel literally means God with us. Well, let's see, does that fit little Maheshal Hashbaz, Isaiah's son, or King Hezekiah, who was a good king, but who had his flaws? No, assuredly it does not. But it does fit precisely the Lord Jesus, the second person of the Godhead, who became man so that God could literally dwell with us. And that name really uh says it all in terms of what the focus of Christmas should be. And I think that's it in a nutshell. God became a man And so he became one of us, and he is with us. As John tells us in John chapter 1 and verse 14, the word became dwell became flesh. And dwelt among us full, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Or as Paul puts it in 1 Timothy 3:16, without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles. believed on in the world, received up into glory. The name Emmanuel, God with us, speaks of the miracle of the incarnation. What a comforting truth. The God of the universe, the God who created the entire universe, so cares about us. that he became a man, Emmanuel, God with us, so that he might provide us complete deliverance. You know, uh for many people, Christmas time is a wonderful time of being together with family and friends, but for some people, Christmas has some rather sad memories. I know my uh my wife's uh first husband uh uh uh um had a heart attack and was in a a coma right before Christmas and later died. And uh, you know, for some people, Christmas is not such a fun time because maybe they have experienced difficulty or uh separation And you know, the message of Christmas is that you have no real reason to feel alone. If you have trusted in Jesus Christ as your Savior, you are not alone Emmanuel is always with us. And one day this will be literally true as well. You and I may have some times of loneliness here on earth for one reason or another. But one day we will be with him, and we will be alone no more. Well, the third wonder that I see in Isaiah 7 is the mission. of this child, the wonder of the child's mission of deliverance. It is a mission of deliverance both now and in the future. First, as God already promised Ahaz the child's birth and early life is a promise that the threat of Syria and Israel would soon pass away. Using the lifespan of the child that Isaiah sees in the sign, he says that n uh that the period of time from the conception which Isaiah envisions to that when the child shall know good and evil will be the measure of time that uh when uh Syria and Israel would no longer be a threat to Judah. And so we see the promise of immediate deliverance in Ahaz's day. But there is also a future promise of deliverance. The Lord points out in chapter 8, verses 5 to 8, that the real threat to it to Judah will be Assyria. And uh the he says in uh verses seven and eight, therefore, behold, the Lord brings up over them the waters of the river Euphrates, strong and mighty, the king of Assyria, and all his glory he'll go up. over all channels, go over all his banks. He will pass through Judah. He will overthrow and pass over. He will reach right up to the neck. And the stretching out of his wings will fill the breadth of your land, O Emmanuel. There's that word again, Emmanuel. Assyria is like a flood water that's going to reach right up to the neck of Judah. And you know, if you've ever uh been in a situation when the water comes up to the neck, you're still okay. goes another few uh you know f few inches you're in trouble, right? But uh up to the neck it's a bad situation, but it's not quite fatal. Well that's exactly what he says a Syria is going to do. But you're not gonna have to worry, he says. Why? Because Emmanuel is there. Emmanuel will deliver you. And that's exactly what happened in 701 B. C. when Sennacherib invaded Jerusalem, taking all the towns nearby, the godly king Hezekiah prayed to the Lord and sought out Isaiah for king. counsel and in Isaiah 37-35 the Lord promised and I quote to defend the city to save it for my own sake and for my servant David's sake And that's exactly what happened, as verse 36 tells us, that the angel of the Lord killed 185,000 Assyrians, and Sennacherib withdrew. From Jerusalem. What a fantastic deliverance and fulfillment of this prophecy. The Lord Emmanuel delivered Jerusalem. Now going back to Isaiah 8 once again in verses 9 and 10, the Lord generalizes and says that this is going to be the pattern for those who fight Judah. Verse 10 says, Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing. Speak the word, but it will not stand, for God is with us. Or literally. for Emmanuel. There's that word once again. The enemies of Judah can plot and plan all they want, but it won't stand any more than the threats of Syria or Israel. because uh it can't stand, because Emmanuel is there. Emmanuel is the one who owns the land, and he is the one that is ultimately in charge. And similarly, you and I know today that whatever Satan, our enemy, has planned, it will not stand. You worried about the the world today? Well certainly there's plenty to worry about, that's for sure. Uh uh, you know, it doesn't uh seem like uh uh things are going in the way uh positive for believers uh either in this country or many other places of the world. But it ultimately will not stand. Why not? Because Emmanuel, God, is with us. He was born of a virgin. He lived a perfect life. He died on the cross for our sins, and he rose again. also that we would be delivered once and for all from the power of Satan and from the power of sin. And we who have trusted in him will have forgiveness of sins and eternal life. Isn't it wonderful to know and comforting to know this Christmas season that whatever troubles and difficulties you and I may be in personally or whatever troubles the world is in, that we have Emmanuel who will be with us and will not allow the enemy to be victorious over us. God is with us and he will deliver us. Jesus told his disciples that they should not expect an easy path. I marvel at people that think that, well, gee, once I become a Christian, everything should be wonderful and fabulous and should have no problems. I don't know, uh the years that I taught in seminary seems like so many s uh seminary students had more car problems, other difficulties and things. It's almost like, you know, uh well I think it was, uh Satan trying to g discourage people. uh from serving the Lord. We're not promised an easy path in this world. But Jesus said, you shall expect victory in the end. He says in John 16, 33, in the world you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Well, there's a second major birth prophecy that occurs in this very next chapter of Isaiah. If chapters 7 and 8 were not clear enough as to the identity of this child, chapter 9 leaves no doubt. I see three more wonders in this chapter. First of all, or actually my fourth wonder, is the wonder of the child's triumph over darkness and despair. The wonder of the child's triumph over darkness and despair. The context again is the dark days when Tiglath Pelezer, the king of Assyria had come and taken the land of Zebulun and Naphtali in 733 B. C. Those are lands in the northern part of Israel. It was a prelude to the total captivity of the northern kingdom only ten years later. And this began a time of enemy control and despair for the northern kingdom of Israel. And that's discussed in verses 21 and 22 of chapter 8. So it's indeed a very dark day for the nation of Israel. But that darkness would not last forever And the very next verse, Isaiah 9. 1, indicates that all will not ultimately end in gloom for the people of the land. And it says at first he humiliated Israel, represented here by Zebulun and Napoli, the two tribes that are surrounded the Sea of Galilee in the north and the west. But later, he says, he will cause her to be honored or glorified. 2 Kings 15, 29 records that the region of Galilee was indeed dealt with severely by Tiglath Pelezer of Assyria in 733 BC. And that began the humiliation of the northern kingdom Israel, which was to last for many years. Yet the prophecy doesn't end with Galilee's humiliation, but rather with its future exaltation. It is the place of thickest darkness where the light of redemption first dawns. For the one who would end that darkness and gloom brought about by the Gentile oppression would in fact make Galilee the focal point of his ministry. thus beginning to fulfill the scriptures 750 years later, as Matthew chapter 4 and verses 12 to 16 proclaim. And by the way, just as an aside, it's kind of it's kind of important to uh sometimes look up some of these words. It maybe you're not so familiar with Zebulin and Natalie. I mean, those aren't really household words, are they? But if you look and take the time to look at a map and see where they are, That's when you find out that's exactly the same region around the Sea of Galilee. And so you understand more fully what he's saying. He's saying those same regions which were so first oppressed. Back in the 700s B. C. , they would be the first places to see the light. And that's where Jesus, of course, began his earthly ministry. Again, what a fantastic prophecy made over 700 years before the fact. Those walking in darkness, that is the Galileans, but by extension all Israel, have seen a great light. Isaiah here uses the prophetic perfect because the prophecy is so vivid and certain in his mind that it's as if it's already been accomplished The light of salvation has dawned on these people who formerly lived in the land of the shadow of death. Well, the source of the great change is indicated in verse 3. It is God Himself, verse 3 of chapter 9, God Himself, who would cause the nation to multiply and to increase its joy. And verses 4 to 6 then explain exactly what God would do to warrant such rejoicing. Each verse begins with an explanatory particle. key, which uh is translated in our version something like four. So you've got a four in verse four, a four in verse five, and a four in verse six. And that leads to the climax, you see, in verses six and seven. In verse four, the example of Midian is given, where the Lord wrought a mighty deliverance through Gideon and his small band of three hundred men. That's talked about in Judges 7, verse 2. Well, following the victory described in verse 4 would be the inauguration of a new age And so the implements of warfare would no longer be needed. The warrior's boot and the garments and the weapons along with it would be destroyed, used for kindling. It's a picture exactly like Isaiah 2. 4, and that time period is likewise the same, the millennium when the Lord would reign. At that time, there'd no longer be any war or implements of war. Truly, that would be a cause for rejoicing. Well, the ruler who would accomplish all of this is now climactically introduced with that third and final four in verse 6. And there would indeed be a time of rejoicing for a child would be born. And that's where the emphasis is. The emphasis is on that word. Hebrew Yelet, which means child, right after the four is a child. So I know our versions have for unto us a child is born, right? But it says literally, for a child. will be born to us. You see, the emphasis is on the child. I think there are two reasons for this emphasis First, to connect it with that prophecy we just talked about in chapter 7, verse 14, and ultimately to indicate the mystery of the incarnation, a king human yet divine. And second, because it's the ultimate paradox that God will deliver his people from the ravages of war and oppression through a miraculous Gideon-like deliverance. A child will be the deliverer. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1. 27, a passage I love. God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the uh the things that are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are And certainly the cross and the incarnation are foolish things to the human mind. But God delights in these things. He delights in using a lowly virgin, someone nobody would have paid any attention to. He delights in using some simple shepherds who were just uh not exactly the upper class uh in uh jerusalem, but they were in Bethlehem. And even using, he delights in even using sinful people such as you and me to accomplish his amazing purposes. And all of this is part of the delight and the wonder that you and I celebrate at Christmas. Well another wonder in Isaiah 9 is the wonder of the child's divine names. And uh just as I thought, I'm running out of time here, but I can't, I'm sorry, but I just cannot rush over. these divine names. I'm sorry, I apologize in advance. But just as in Isaiah 7. 14, we have a divine title given to this child. Here we have Not just one, but four couplets, four titles. And the titles that are given him here are extraordinary. And those who attempt to claim that somehow this reference is to Hezekiah not only ignored the chronology, as I said, he was already born at the time of the prophecy, but they've got to be kidding themselves. The number of titles here found is absolutely striking. There's nothing else like it in the entire Old Testament. One commentator says, although some commentators have expended a great deal of energy attempting to make these titles appear normal, they are not. Absolutely. Well the first title is Wonderworking Counselor. Or we say wonderful counselor. I don't like wonderful. Wonderful in 1611 English, King James English was great because it meant full of wonder, full of awe. But what it really means is miracle working. So wonderworking counselor is a better translation of it. It refers to acts of God, things that are unusual beyond human capabilities. That's the whole point of it. And then so to call this child a wonder, a miracle, uh miraculous working uh uh child is to make full uh uh uh uh attestation of his deity. And then the second term, counselor is found in a different form also in 11 chapter 11 and verse 2 is one of the qualities of the Messiah. A counselor is one who has great wisdom and gives correct advice, similar to King Solomon. You know, counselors can certainly be very, very helpful to people from time to time, but sometimes we end up going to all sorts of human counselors when we have failed to go to the one counselor who will never fail us. the Lord himself. He is a wonderworking counselor. The second title is Mighty God. Further, clear statement of deity. In Isaiah, the term ale is exclusively used for God as it is here. And everywhere else the script the phrase is used, it refers to God. And again, the quality of might is another one of the attributes given to the Messiah in chapter 11 in verse 2. And it's interesting because if you think about it, you have these two essential qualities of the king. Power uninformed by wise counsel and counsel that is powerless to act, both of them are completely unfruitful. You need both Well, you can have wisdom, right, and good counsel, but if you don't have the power to accomplish it, it means nothing. And uh uh G. K. Chesterton has this uh statement that I love. He says that any agnostic or atheist whose childhood has known a real Christmas has ever afterwards, whether he likes it or not, an association in his mind between two ideas that most of mankind must regard as remote from each other. The idea of a baby and the idea of unknown strength that sustains the stars. Well, the third title, Father of Eternity, denotes one who's eternally a father. And that means first that he always acts towards his people as a father should, guarding and nurturing them. Similar to the concept really of the Good Shepherd. Though normally we think of the first person of the Trinity as Father, and so this confuses some people. It is also true that the second person has all of the attributes of God, including eternity as well. And so the term is used here to designate Messiah's relationship to time, not his relationship to other members of the Trinity. And so when we think of this term, father of eternity, being used to describe a child and a son, again, the incredible, paradoxical nature of this designation. comes to the fore. How can a child be the eternal father? But that's exactly what this text says Well, the final title is Prince of Peace, Sar Shalom. He is one who will be the head of providing peace to the world. Peace and the cessation of warfare are constant themes in the book of Isaiah. The word shalom, which we know, I think, uh often uh in Hebrew, which means well-being or peace, occurs 28 times in the book of Isaiah, and this is the first occurrence right here in this uh title. Through his death on the cross, Jesus provided our peace. Isaiah 53, 5 tells us that, and provided reconciliation between God and man. In the millennium, this ruler will establish true peace on the earth. And you know, do we want peace? Absolutely. Look at Ukraine. Ukraine is uh again uh in uh uh difficulties. The Middle East, of course, uh Afghanistan. Well we can Talk all about the world. Do we want peace? Well, lasting peace will not come on this earth before the Lord Jesus comes again. The Prince of Peace, who will make all things right. What a joy to know the King of Kings and the Prince of Peace. And finally, then the last wonder we'll look at in Isaiah 9 is the wonder of the child's righteous and peaceful government. the wonder of the child's righteous and peaceful government. It's mentioned briefly in verse 6 and then more extensively in verse 7. This is no mere human king who, with a reign of 20 or even 50 or 60 years, his kingdom would have no end. Verse 7 refers to the millennial reign of Christ, which will usher in the eternal state. His government will continually expand, but not by war. Peace will increase as well. And the fact that the Messiah will be on the throne of David confirms the promise made to David way back in 2 Samuel 7, 16. And that's precisely what Isaiah 9. 7 says. This ruler will order and establish the kingdom with justice and righteousness from this time forward, even forever. And that same righteous aspect of the Messiah's rule was stressed in Isaiah 11, 3 to 5 as well. It's an essential part of his reign. Uh-huh. Boy, you know when we look at governments around the world and no comments of of pol uh political governments, but we can't all be happy about some of the uh governments that we have had. We think of the insufficiencies in various ways, and then we look at what's going to happen in the future, don't we? And we realize that Christ is going to be the perfect leader who will judge righteously. There won't be any favoritism. Uh with him. It's not going to matter whether you're poor or whether you're rich. You're going to have the same government. That's what we all long for. And sometimes in some governments it's closer than in others. But in none is it perfect. It will be perfect when Jesus Christ reigns. What a joy to know that this will happen. It's going to happen for sure. It says in the last clause, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. The coming of the millennial kingdom like the uh incarnation in the first place is not dependent upon Israel. or any other human being, but upon God Himself. So therefore, it is certain. It's absolute. What a joy to know that you and I can know where we're headed as we've looked at these wonders of the incarnation from Isaiah chapters 7 and 9. I hope that your faith this morning has been strengthened, because our faith should not be rooted in great armies or maybe our bank accounts or maybe in other people or some people they're Faith is just rooted in themselves. No, our faith shouldn't be rooted in anything else except in this child of wonder. One born of a virgin, one named Emmanuel, God with us, one who would be our deliverer, one who would accomplish victory in the midst of defeat, one with all the names of deity, and one with a kingdom. That will last forever. His birth began the road that led through the cross to our deliverance. May our focus be on him and on him alone this Christmas. The God who became a baby because of his overwhelming love for you and for me. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for your word. So much richness here in these chapters of Isaiah. We just thank you, Lord, for your ways, which are far beyond our ways. Lord, we would have imagined a king born in Jerusalem, in the capital of the of the uh uh area. That's what we would uh imagine, but instead we have uh a babe uh Born in Bethlehem in just a very, very humble way. Lord, you delight in using things that appear weak. To demonstrate your strength. I pray, Father, that you would use each of us and help us to realize that that you can work through even us despite our sins, despite our weaknesses, Lord. You love, you delight in using us to be your lights in this world of darkness. Father, we thank you for all that you have done for us through this child who is our Savior. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us with joy to go forth and proclaim the message of salvation, the true message of Christmas to those all around us. We pray. Give us Give us the words, Lord. Give us by your Holy Spirit the wisdom to speak to those around us that they too may know the true meaning of God. Christmas. We pray this in Jesus' precious name with Thanksgiving. Amen. Chr