Alright, well good morning everyone. As you can see, I am not Pastor Sung. As was mentioned, Pastor Sung is away caring for E-Ray and their new son Nathaniel. And I've been asked to preach this morning in his stead. And as I thought about and prayed about what to talk to you guys about, my mind kept going back to this idea of a Christian. I often heard the term from those outside the church, at work, when I was going to school, and it's on the TV all the time, and many times it's in reference to the good things that people have done. Sometimes, of course, the word is used in a slanderous way, and that's because people do things that are sometimes different from the things that they preach, which is a whole other issue that we Christians should carefully guard against. But the issue I want to discuss this morning is related more to the Christian life as compared to those that try to do good in this life What I noticed is that those who are outside the church, and sadly some that may be a part of a church, seem to think that the core idea of what makes a person a Christian It's based on good things that they do. A Christian does certain things. A Christian does not do certain other things. This line of thinking tends to blur the understanding of a Christian and is someone that is doing good while adhering to some form of religious ritual. And what I've noticed at my own workplace with this line of thinking is that people consider themselves good and therefore they don't need anything else And so my faith in Jesus Christ becomes relegated to a quirk that's not needed to be good, only to bear the name of Jesus. And so, to be clear, uh good things are definitely needed. We see this in Psalm 37 and verse 3. The psalmist says, Trust in the Lord and do good. In Galatians 6, verses 9 to 10, Paul warns us to not grow weary while doing good, but rather, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all. Especially to those who are of the household of faith. And we are reminded by Paul in Ephesians 2 and verse 10 that we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. Which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Christians are to do good, but is Christianity based on doing good works only? The answer to this question, of course, is no. So then, what differentiates a Christian from what others would call a good person? Who oftentimes are linked in or lumped in with Christianity and maybe even will call themselves a Christian if you ask them, but are not. This morning I would like to look at the book of Colossians, where I think we have a description of a Christian that we can then compare to those who may do good in this life. Like a Christian is supposed to do, but are not true Christians. If you'd like to turn your Bibles to the book of Colossians, We'll be looking at several different passages contained within chapters 1 and 3 of this book. And as we look through these passages, I think the first thing you'll notice is a fairly solid description of a Christian. We'll then read a description about works. And lastly, we'll read about a response to works. As we read through sections of this book, Notice how a Christian is described as compared to someone that is just doing good. The first scripture portion we'll read is found in Colossians chapter 1. The letter to the Colossians opens up with Paul giving thanks to God for the faith that he has heard regarding the Christians who are there in Colossae. We see this in verses 2 to 4 of chapter 1. In verse 3, we read about not only the thanks that was given, but the prayer That was given for the Christians there in Colossian when Paul wrote, We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints. This prayer is then expanded on in verse 9, where we read, For this reason, and that's the reason laid out in verses 4 to 8 regarding a Christian's faith in Jesus. It is for this reason We also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. And this is really where the prayer begins. It begins at the end of verse 9 and it continues down to verse 12. It's a prayer that's constantly being prayed for by Paul and Timothy. And it is, verse 9, that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. That you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, for all patience and long suffering with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints and the Lord. light. In that prayer that we just read, I think we have a short description of a Christian being unfolded for us. The prayer for the Christian is that they be filled with the knowledge of God's will in verse 9, so that they can walk worthy of the Lord and bear fruit in good works in verse 10. With this initial description, it seems that a Christian is one that knows God's will. A will that causes them to walk in a way that produces good works. As one commentator said, knowing God's will is not only in reference to what is to be believed, but also, and perhaps more particularly, to what is to be done. If you are a Christian, do you know what you believe? If so, do you know what you need to do about it? I think this is a huge difference between a person that tries to do good without Christ and a Christian. A person that tries to do good on their own really has no basis for what makes something good other than what they think is good. Whereas a Christian, they have their foundation in the knowledge of God's will. A will that does not change, just as God does not change. A will that can be found by looking at God's Word, the Bible. But that's not all. Paul goes on in verse 10, writing that a Christian should increase in the knowledge of God. And then in verse 11, that they should be strengthened by God's power so that they can have joy, or as the Greek defines it, a calm delight, in times that require both patience and long-suffering. Why are both patience and long suffering listed? I think it is because as Christians we need to practice patience to deal with the many circumstances we go through. Circumstances that are often Um faith building helps us grow in our faith, but are usually not pleasant as we go through them. And then we need long-suffering to put up with the people we have to deal with as we go through those circumstances. This, by the way, is something that even people who try to do good will need to practice: patience and long-suffering. But as Christians, when we deal with circumstances and people, we can experience a calm delight. Because God is the Christian's strength. And so the description of a Christian that seems to be painted for us in this prayer is a description of someone who, from this ever-increasing knowledge of God's will, would be led into a practical conduct of living. That is both pleasing and fruitful. A conduct of living that would produce joy or calm delight, even in the midst of trying circumstances and trying people. You may wonder how a Christian can have joy as they go through tough and trying times and as they deal with tough and trying people. The answer, I think, is in the last part of this prayer in verse 12. Joy, a calm delight, in spite of the circumstances and people in our lives, can be obtained by remembering who we are as Christians. By remembering that as verse 12 says, the Father has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. As Christians, we are privileged to inherit light. Martin Vincent says that this light need not be limited to a future glory The children of God walk in light on earth. And so, as Christians, we not only have a future hope of eternal life, but a present inheritance that we can enjoy now. This present inheritance of life is how a Christian can have joy in this life on earth. We can walk without stumbling around because Jesus is the light of the world. He who follows him shall not walk in darkness, but have the light of life, according to John 8 and verse 12. What calmed the light? What joy Christians have because we can clearly see our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Without Christ, a person stumbles around in darkness Because as Jesus says in John 11 and verse 10, there is no light in him. Without Christ, a person cannot see clearly the way to perform that which is good and right. Without Christ, a person has no present inheritance in the light, nor do they have a real hope for a future glory. A person may think they are good enough, but their understanding of good enough is clouded by the darkness they walk in. Because without Christ, there is no light. How does one qualify to be a child of light? After the prayer in Colossians 1:12, Paul begins to describe how a Christian is qualified to be a partaker of this inheritance of light. And as I read verse 13, you'll notice right away that a person's qualification has nothing to do with their self. Rather, verse 13 tells us, he, as God the Father, has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through his blood. That's Jesus' blood, the forgiveness of sins. Christians are qualified to inherit light because God the Father has rescued us from the power of darkness and carried us away to Jesus' kingdom, and he did so through the blood of Jesus. Lightfoot says, we were slaves in the land of darkness. God rescued us from this thraldom. He transplanted us thence and settled us as free colonists in the kingdom of his son in the realms of light. A Christian's qualification does not rest in doing good works. Though good works will still be present. It does not rest there. It rests in Christ The question then is, are you qualified to be a child of light? Does the description we read about in Paul and Timothy's prayer describe you and your desire? Are you increasing in the knowledge of God's will? Are you living a life that is in the light? One that produces good works that are both pleasing and fruitful? Are you trusting on God's strength? Or are you living life your way, trusting in your own knowledge and in your own strength to deal with the circumstances and people in your life Are you doing good for goodness' sake and not Christ? This is the pivot point that separates a Christian from a person who tries to do good. It is the person of Jesus Christ. And this is where the letter to the Christians in Colossus pretty much stays focused throughout the remaining chapters It is Christ that makes a Christian a Christian. Without Christ, the works that anyone does, even if they are good in everyone else's eyes, without Christ, they are considered wicked. Paul makes this point clear to the church in Colossae as we will read when we discuss the second thing I wanted to look at this morning, and that is a description of works. This description of works is first provided in a high-level statement of fact. That I think provides a clear dividing line between the works of a Christian and the works of a person trying to do good. Once this dividing line has been defined, Paul gives several examples of works that fall on either side of this dividing line. So what is the dividing line between a Christian's works and the works of a person who is trying to do good. Let's read together in Colossians chapter 1, verses 19 to 22. For it pleased the Father that in him all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself. by him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross. And you who are once alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked word Yet now he is reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight In these verses, we read of a person without Christ, before Christ, and after Christ, the effect that Christ has on that person's world. Works. The person without Christ is compared to the Christian who is only so because of Christ. We see that a person without Christ is really an alien, an enemy of God by wicked works. Whereas the Christian is considered holy, blameless, above reproach in God's sight. This is something that only God can do Because both a person that tries to do good and a Christian are sinners deserving hell. Romans 3. 23 tells us: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. In Galatians chapter 3 and verse 10, we learn, For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not contend you in all things which are written in the book of the law, to do them. And even James, who strongly teaches that genuine faith requires works, says in chapter 2 and verse 10 of his letter. For whoever shall keep the whole law, and yet stumble in one point, he is guilty of all. These verses prove the point made by the author in Ecclesiastes seven and verse twenty. For there is not a just man on earth. Who does good and does not sin. But though the Christian is deserving of hell, because Christ is the Christian's Lord and Savior, Christ works a work that only God can do and reconciled us to Him. This is the dividing line between the works of a Christian and the works of a person trying to do good. It's not the individual's works. It's the reconciling work of Jesus. The idea of reconciling may appear difficult to grasp, but Charles Ryrie simplifies this idea for us. He says, to reconcile means to change. Pretty simple, right? However, he goes on to say, it is important to observe that in reconciliation only man is changed. God is not. And this truth that God does not change is consistent with Scripture. We are told in Malachi 3 and verse 6, for I am the Lord, I do not change. And so with reconciliation, a change happens in man as a result of Jesus' work. We read of Jesus' reconciling work in verse 20, where all things are reconciled to him. John MacArthur notes that this text does not teach that all will believe. Rather, it teaches that all will ultimately submit. And I think this truth that all will not believe is reinforced by the very next verse, verse 21, where we see that some do not accept the reconciling work of Jesus We have both the person without Christ having their wicked works, and then the person with Christ, the Christian, having a life described in verse 22 as holy, blameless, and above reproach. Thus, not all will believe. Some will remain enemies with God. But in the end, even the enemies of God will submit to Him. Philippians 2 verses 10 to 11 solidifies this truth that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow with those in heaven and those on earth and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Jesus' work is of reconciliation. We're also given the details of how Jesus performed his work of reconciliation. In these verses that we read. In verse 20, he made peace through the blood of his cross. And in verse 22, he gave the body of his flesh through death. This reconciling work was accomplished when Jesus died on the cross for the sins of the whole world. Jesus made a way for the sinner to change from an enemy of God to a friend of God. By shedding his own blood on the cross, by dying in the place of us guilty sinners, and then rising again on the third day. This is the good news, the gospel that's revealed to us in the Bible. The good deeds that people do will not help them to cross the dividing line of works. Their deeds will still be wicked to God. Only the finished work of Jesus on the cross will cause a person to have a change in their works, where their works are no longer wicked, but acceptable. Paul reminds Timothy or Titus of this in Titus 3, in verses 3 to 5, when he says, For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures. living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. But when the kindness and the love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, He saved us. God, in his mercy, provided a way of reconciliation through the work of Jesus Christ. To cross this dividing line, a person has to accept the work of Jesus accomplished when he died and rose again. Romans 5. 10 tells us, for if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. Have you been saved or rescued from a life of wicked works in the eyes of God? From a life of enity with God? If so, if you have faith in Jesus, then we are told in Colossians 1 and verse 23 to continue in it, to not be moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard. As believers in Jesus Christ, we are to show that we belong to Christ by being steadfast and grounded in the truth that we have been taught through Scripture. When the world tries to make us doubt the hope that we have, or when we fail to live up to what we know is right and feel like we are worthless because we can't do the smallest thing for Christ. We should stand on the promises that we know that are complete through Christ's work of reconciliation. If you don't know if you've been rescued from your wicked works, the Bible tells us how. How we sinful people can be holy, blameless, and above reproach in his sight. It is by grace through faith in Jesus Christ. Ephesians 2, verses 8 and 9 tells us: For by grace you have been saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Not of works, lest anyone should boast. Your good works won't save you. Because as we saw in verse 21 of Colossians 1, an enemy's works are wicked, and you are an enemy of God. until you cross that dividing line. Trusting in Christ's work of reconciliation, the work that was accomplished through the shedding of his blood on the cross, through the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. Jesus. What are you waiting for? Lift up your voice and follow the advice of Romans ten, verses nine and ten. That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart That God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation The dividing line between the works of a Christian and the works of other people are not the works of the individuals, but the reconciling work of Jesus. With this understanding, we are now ready to look at the third thing in our discussion this morning, and that is a response to works. The result of crossing this dividing line is made evident in Colossians 3, where we're given a list that describes some works that are done both by those without Christ and those that are Christians. Let's briefly look at this list together in Colossians three, verses five to nine. Therefore, put to death your members which are on the earth fornication, uncleanliness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness. Which is idolatry. Because of these things, the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience, in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. But now you yourselves are to put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. Do not lie to one another In the first portion of these verses, we have works that are eliciting a response from God, works that bring God's wrath These works are summed up as idolatry and described in blunt terms such as fornication, which is illicit sexual intercourse in general Uncleanliness, which is the impurity of lustful, luxurious, wasteful living. Passion, which is a depraved affection of the mind or emotion. Evil desire, which is a desire for what is forbidden or lust, and covetousness, which is a greedy desire to have more Without Christ, these are the works that manifest themselves in many people. They see nothing wrong with sex outside of marriage With affections and desires for those of the same sex as them, with living life only to bring themselves pleasure and always wanting more. Without Christ, people are bringing God's wrath by the works they do. These are works that Christians used to do also before we accepted the reconciling work of Jesus. In place of our own works. After crossing that dividing line, the Christian no longer has to live their life in these ways, as we have the power of Jesus working in our lives. To put to death these wrath-bringing works, including the power to put off the works that are described in verses 8 and 9. These words that a Christian is able to put off or to strip away include anger, which is an abiding, settled, and habitual anger that includes in its scope. The purpose of revenge, wrath, which is the boiling agitation of the feelings, malice, which is ill will or desire to injure. Blasphemy, which is speech injurious to another's good name, filthy language, which is foul speaking, or low and obscene speech, like dirty jokes. And lying, which is not telling the truth. Without Christ, these types of works will stain a person trying to do good. A stain that ruins any good work that they may attempt to do. A stain that will not come out by the will of the person alone. A stain that causes their works to be sin. This is why a person without Christ cannot have acceptable works before God. Their works are permeated with sin. A Christian, though, has had the stain removed. A Christian has cried out to God, as David did after his sin with Bathsheba in Psalm 51:7, saying, Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. For the Christian, the stain of sin has been removed, and our works can be acceptable before God. As such, all these works listed in verses 5 to 9 of Colossians 3, a Christian is able to put to death or able to put off because Christ is our strength. Ultimately, a Christian is not yet perfect. And so if you're like me, then as I read this list, you thought to yourself, hmm, many of these works are works that I find myself still doing, if not in my flesh, then at least in my mind. And then you groan, as Paul groaned In Romans 7. 24, O wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? In these words, I think we have the proper response to works. This kind of response to works is the difference between a person without Christ and the Christian. The Christian responds by struggling to be free from this body of death. A struggle that occurs between the flesh and the Holy Spirit in Galatians 5. 17 says The flesh lust against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And these are contrary to one another, so that you do not do the things that you wish. A person without Christ, though, does not have the Holy Spirit warring against the flesh. Rather, they are living according to their flesh Which Romans 8, verses 5 to 7 says, is setting their mind on the things of the flesh, to which we're told to be carnally or fleshly minded is death. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. The person without Christ does not struggle against their body of death because they do not have the spirit of Christ to cause a conflict. I'm reminded of a story I once read in the Our Daily Bread booklet that really struck me as a young adult struggling with sin in my own life. The story goes that two men went duck hunting. And on the way to the hunting location, their wagon wheel broke. And while the Christian got out and changed the will, the will fell down and smashed his thumb. The Christian let out a swear word, but he immediately dropped on his knees and prayed out loud to God for forgiveness. His friend saw this and said, I don't see why you struggle with such a little thing, such as swearing. It's nothing to me. The Christian did not have a response at this time. But later that day, while hunting, they shot some ducks, and they were retrieving the ducks. They saw one duck that was still struggling to get away from the hunters. The Christian looked at his friend and said, You asked me earlier why I struggle in my Christian life You see that duck? The one struggling? That's me. You, my friend, are that dead duck over there Without Christ, a person does not struggle with the works of their flesh. Works that go against God's command because they do not have the Spirit of Christ in them. Whereas a Christian struggles to put off these works that go against our Lord and Savior, because we are alive. Christ is in us. And since a Christian is alive in Jesus, we are able to do as Colossians 3 and verse 17 commands, that in whatever we do, in word or deed, Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Once again, we see Jesus playing a role in the Christian's life Earlier, we saw the person of Jesus as the pivot point between the Christian and the person trying to do good without Christ. We then saw Jesus' work of reconciliation or change as the dividing line between wicked and acceptable works. And now we see Jesus being the reason a Christian struggles against their flesh. And so that we can serve Jesus in whatever we do. Or say, Jesus is the Christian's Lord, which means he is our master. And our response to works is to obey our master no matter what the cost. And while we're at it, we are to give thanks to God the Father. As the lyrics to the worship song goes: give thanks with a grateful heart. Give thanks to the Holy One. Give thanks because he's given Jesus Christ, his son. Without Christ, we can do nothing good. As we live here today and go about our daily routines, may we be bold to make known to those around us that a Christian is more than someone who does good things. May we remember the description of a Christian as a person who acts on what they know is the truth in God's word is not tossed around by the world's thinking of God. right and wrong. A grounding that is made possible because a Christian has the light of Christ showing the way in this dark world May we remember that works are really wicked in God's sight if you are an enemy of God. If you have not trusted the changing work of Jesus accomplished on the cross. Cross. May we remember that a Christian responds to words in a daily struggle to serve the Lord Jesus. Knowing that this struggling to please Jesus shows that we are truly alive in Him. May our words and deeds show the difference. Between a Christian and other people that are watching. Amen. Let's go ahead and pray. Father, thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for making a way for sinful man to come before you. Thank you for the finished work of Christ. On the cross, for the hope of eternal life through Christ. Thank you for making us holy, blameless, and above reproach in your sight. Thank you for your mercy. In Christ we praise you. Amen. Children can be dismissed for children's church.