One word which we seem to seldom hear here in 1 Timothy chapter 1. In the land in which we now live. Is the word guilt? I don't know how often you hear it. Certainly, probably I don't know that it's said very often in the right way or used in the biblical way But I certainly have observed, maybe you have too, that in popular media and in the voices of co-workers, those around you People just don't want to talk about how guilty they feel. In popular culture, there are various ways to deal with your guilt. One of the ways that we often see is through entertaining it out of our lives, out of our hearts, distracting our hearts. Trying to figure out a way to get away from this inner sense that we have done something wrong. Let me ask you this morning: do you believe that if you were to go and find an answer to what to do with your guilty conscience outside of the Bible, that you would never find an answer? Are you thoroughly convinced today that when it comes to finding an answer to our consciences, there is only one place to go? For the deep abiding answer that we need. The Word of God. It's alive, it's active, it pierces even to the division of soul and spirit, joint and marrow. It is a discerner of the thoughts. And motivations, the intents of the heart. The word of God is so wise because it's written by the God who made us He writes about our needs because he knows us intimately, soul and spirit, joint and marrow, both the material part of us, our bodies, our physical frames, our bones. And the immaterial part of us, our soul, our spirit, the place where we think, where we strategize, where we imagine, where we feel, where we decide. He is well acquainted with both. And so it is in the Bible that we find often mentioned this matter of conscience. In 1 Timothy 1, verse 5 is the text we've been looking at. It says, the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and of a good conscience and of faith unfeigned. If you recall the context, it is Paul writing to Timothy about what to do when it comes to false teachers. Verse 3, he wants Timothy to charge some that they teach no other doctrine. What are these men doing? Well, verse 4, they are preoccupied with fables and genealogies. The result is questions, speculation. Imagine a Sunday school class filled with speculations and a preoccupation with minutiae that is completely irrelevant. To love Christian living that comes from a pure heart, a good conscience, and faith unfeigned And so this is Paul in verse 5 saying that there's a purpose to our instruction. You know, put this away, charge these teachers to stop. And this is what we're doing, Timothy. We want to teach people to love and to do it out of three things. And last week we looked at this idea of a pure heart, and today we're looking at the conscience, the human conscience. Now what we're going to have to do, because there's so much information in the Bible about the conscience, is have a part one and a part two to this message I didn't think you wanted to stay here for two hours today just on this message. Too much information. Today we're going to look at what our conscience does if you look at your paper. How our conscience affects us, and it should say affect with an A, not an E. And then what are we supposed to do with the guilt that comes from our conscience? So let me get you to just turn to these passages that are mentioned in point one. What does my conscience do? We'll read them and sort of inductively build a definition. So you can see what I'm saying here. Turn to Romans 9. We'll try to apply this, come do some illustrations along the way, so you don't get lost too much in fact. In Romans 9 verse 1, Paul is speaking of a deep-seated conviction in his heart. Look at chapter 9, verse 1. I say the truth in Christ. I lie not. My conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost. that I have a great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart, for I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ, for my brethren, my kinsmen, according to the flesh. Now, Paul has just in Romans 8 spoken of the incredible love that God has demonstrated in Christ Jesus. For us, nothing will separate us from that love. And then he moves on to make a startling statement. I wish myself that myself were accursed from Christ. And immediately you and I would say that sort of back away from that statement and think that is extreme. And the tendency for us would be to doubt the authenticity of that statement, to look at Paul and say, no, you don't feel that way. You're being I think the word would be disingenuous. You're being not a hypocrite, but that can't be true of your true self and how you think and feel. And so before the reader gets to that conclusion, Paul says in verse 1, he wants to make it very clear, I'm telling the truth in Christ, I'm not lying, my conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. In other words, he is 100% sincere in this incredible statement of wanting to be accursed from Christ for the sake of his Hebrew brothers. He really wishes it. The conscience in this context is bearing witness to this. It is agreeing. His conscience is affirming. The sincerity of that statement. In other words, he isn't lying because his conscience would say, You're lying. So we learn from this, and now turn to 2 Corinthians 1:12, and then we'll have to bounce back to Romans, but I'm doing that for a reason. Second Corinthians one, verse twelve. For our rejoicing is this Second Corinthians one twelve. The testimony of our conscience that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation, and the word means lifestyle or conduct in the world, and more abundantly to you word. Here we have the word used in a similar way, except he is referring to how his conscience looks at his life. And he says, this is my lifestyle: simplicity, godly sincerity, not fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, I live in this world. And my conscience bears witness to the sincerity of that statement. When Paul thought about the Jews, the Hebrews, he had this overwhelming desire, I wish I could be accursed so that they would be saved. And his conscience said, That's right, you are being sincere. It bore witness to it. And when he looked at his life and the way he lived He was attempting to live in a certain way, and he told others that this is the way I live, and his conscience bore testimony to that. Yes, that is so. This is the way you are living. You are being sincere. So, if you look at your paper, this is how I'm putting this together. Your conscience witnesses your actions. It sees what you do through your eyes, it listens through your ears. It's a part of you. It's a part of your inner man. And then your conscience judges your actions according to God and his law. And if you bounce back to Romans 2, verses 14 and 15, what does it do? Paul puts it rather bluntly when he speaks of the Gentiles and how they assess their own works. They kind of become a law to themselves. Romans 2, 14 and 15. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are law unto themselves. Which show the work of the law written in their hearts. And here's our data here, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts, the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. So it is. Your conscience is watching through your eyes. It's listening through your ears. It's you, okay? It's a part of you. You can't take your conscience out and say, you know what, I'm just gonna, I'm really tired of my conscience today. You can try to sear it, you can try to deaden it But you can never remove it from your heart and your life. And it passes these sentences: I will accuse you, or I will excuse you. I will accuse you or I will excuse you. Excuse you. Guilty, not guilty. Guilty, not guilty. Now think for a minute, by way of application now, about this week in your life. Alright. I always use speed illustrations, how you should always go the speed limit. Well, guess what happened to me this week? I got a ticket. One of those cameras caught me going too fast. I wasn't going, I don't think I was going that fast, but I repent. I shouldn't have gone that fast. To me, it wasn't that fast, but there it is. It's a speeding ticket. And I'm thinking, wow, this is not good I'm not a man of many tickets, just so you know. Okay? I generally speaking, I try to obey the speed limit. But that day I must not have been. And there it is, caught on a video Now come on now. You all have gotten tickets, alright? Is it okay for me to say this? Alright, I I admit that. I I repent So here's the thing. Have you ever been speeding and noticed it, but you're late to work? And you think to yourself, I have five minutes to get to work. I'm going 14 miles per hour over the speed limit out on 100. And Oh wow. And is there, have you noticed how there are times when you have this sense this is wrong? That's your conscience in a small situation saying, hey, this is wrong. You should go the speed limit. You're a Christian. Now what you do with that knowledge, you could do this. You could justify yourself and say, yeah, but everybody on the road's gone faster than me. Look at that guy. Zoo, look at that guy. I am going, I'm the slowest person on this road, God. Lord, I'm going way slower. And then you could speed up because you know you don't have a whole lot of time to get to work. Or you could back off and say, whoa, I'm going too fast. I need to slow this down so I can have a good testimony so that I don't get a ticket like Pastor did. Whatever. But that feeling inside, there's this thing in you, and it always does that. Even small, tiny little things. You people sometimes get guilty about what you eat. You're eating and you feel guilt. Have you noticed that? Those are small examples out of our lives where we feel guilty for doing this or doing that. I have at times felt guilty when I have I have petted my dog while I'm having my devotions. Because I think, wow, oh man, I shouldn't be petting my dog. I should be reading my Bible. And I just I have this feeling of guilt. Why am I doing that? Folks, I want to ask you to raise your hand, but Just think, have you in the past 24 hours felt guilty about anything? Or in the past seven days, has there been a time when you had that pressure of conscience on you Or in the last month. I'm only trying to point out that this is always there. There's always this seeing through your eyes, hearing through your ears, and this verdict: guilty, not guilty. And I'm here to tell you today that this is one of the most powerful things within us. And God makes use of it in our lives constantly. And it was intended to be that way from the beginning. Adam had a conscience. He was created in the image of God. He should have obeyed God. And when he disobeyed, he ran away. And we could say, although it doesn't say mention there anything about conscience in particular, he felt guilty. As a matter of fact, folks, let me be, let's really hammer this point home. If you ignore your conscience, You're a Christian here today and you ignore your conscience. You could actually get to a place You could get to a place where you are on the verge of mental and physical collapse. Look at Psalm 51. Here's what we're going to do. And you might want to put a comma after Psalm 51 and write 32. We're going to look at three Psalms, and we'll do this quickly. And in your chart, we're going to look at the effects. of the conscience of this this constant passing of verdicts on us. On the one hand, there's the accusation The one who is guilty is David in Psalm 51 and Psalm 32. He is dealing with his guilt. And we're going to look at how he felt. What was he thinking? How did he feel emotionally, volitionally? That's talking about his will. What was he choosing? What was happening to that part of him that wanted to choose Choose relationally? What did it do to his relationship with God physically? How did it affect him physically? Psalm 7 is the opposite: it is someone who has a clear conscience. And it's a psalm written from the perspective of, I have done nothing wrong. Lord vindicate me. And we're going to look at what this is like, what this person's soul or spirit is like in that case. So first we're looking at Psalm 51, and this Try to hang with this because this is kind of important for your spiritual growth. Alright, intellectually, mentally In Psalm 51, and we don't have time to read the whole Psalm, so go home and read it. We're just going to pick out sort of the facts and look at it, but hopefully by keeping it in context. Keeping it in context. Look at Psalm 51, verse 3. I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Now that is a statement of pre-occupation. David's sin. Most of you in your Bibles have that little sort of paragraph under Psalm 51 to the chief musician of Psalm of David when Nathan the prophet came in unto him after he had gone into Bathsheba. Alright, it was adultery and it was murder. Wow. Terrible sins. And here is David saying, My sin is ever before me. This, I would say, intellectually, I'm talking about what he's thinking about. There's this mental preoccupation with his sin. It's ever there. So David is on the couch. He's walking in his palace and he he's just doing his normal kingly paperwork. And here is this. I've murdered, I've committed adultery, and I have not dealt with this. It's with him wherever he goes. And along with this, if you look at Psalm 51, verse 2, there's this sense And I think this would have to do with the way you think of dirtiness, uncleanness. Psalm 51, 2 says, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, cleanse me. Alright, now he does repent. That's what the psalm is about. But we're looking at what he feels like as he's repenting. Lord, wash me. Look at verse 7. Purge me with hyssoph and I shall be clean. Wash me. And I shall be whiter than snow. So there's this feeling of guilt, this thinking of dirtiness and uncleanness before God. Alright, that's Psalm 51. Emotionally, what's happening to him? Well, that's Psalm 51, verse 8. Make me to hear joy and gladness. In other words, I don't hear joy and gladness. Would it not be accurate to say he has been emotionally affected by a lack of joy, a lack of happiness? Matter of fact, in in I I guess I I'm going to make you turn to Psalm 32 in a second. So go down then relationally. What's happening to his walk with God? Well, look at verse 11. Cast me not away from thy presence and take me not from thy take not thy Holy Spirit from me. There is this heightened concern, this sense of interruption and disruption between his walk with God. Now, as New Testament Christians, will the Holy Spirit ever be taken away from us? How many of you say yes? How many of you say no? You are right. No. The Holy Spirit will never be taken from us We are in Christ. The Spirit is our down payment, part of eternal life itself. But for David, in the Old Testament, we know that the Spirit left Saul and the Spirit left Samson, so it was possible. At least I'll leave it at that. And he's fearful because there's this something has happened in his walk with God. There's been an interruption, a disruption there, and he's just crying out, Lord, cast me not away from thy presence. Something is not right between him and God. You say, Well, Dan, I can understand how this would affect your thoughts. You'd be preoccupied with your sins. I I know how it would destroy your joy. Your walk with God would be hurt, but I just can't see how this would affect you physically. But it does. Psalm 51 and Psalm 32 both indicate a physical effect. If you look at verse 8, make me to hear joy and gladness that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. And that Hebrew there that's translated bones is a figure of speech for your entire body. So just in David's words, he would say that my body is feeling, it's broken. I have this broken, Lord, please help me. Now turn to Psalm 32 quickly. Turn back a few pages to Psalm 32. Emotionally, we hear each other's emotions sometimes When we sigh and when we groan. And if you look at Psalm 32, verse 5. He says, I acknowledge my sin unto thee and mine iniquity. Ooh, whoops, I don't think I have the right verse here. Verse 3, I'm sorry. That should be verse 3. Psalm 32, verse 3. Actually I wrote 3, but my handwriting was floppy. Psalm 32, verse 3. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring, and that word could be translated groaning all the day long. Emotionally, how do you feel, David? I am groaning. And I do it throughout the day. Volitionally, well, we'll get to there in a second. Um, how about physically? What's happening to David in Psalm 32? Look at verse 3 again. He mentions his bones wax old through my roaring. So again, there's this effect on his body, and he he describes it as aging. It's growing old. And I'm groaning. And then you look down at verse 4. The day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, my moisture, that's that's his vitality is the word there, is turned into the drought of summer. I mean, there's this This vibrant, moist time of year when things are growing and going great, and then there's this dry time. So he's saying that he he his vitality is going down, which would suggest A physical weakness, a feeling of old age almost before his time. So you put together Psalm 51 and Psalm 32, and it's describing Weakness in the physical body. Feeling on the verge of collapse, someone has said. Groaning physical weakness. What does this do to a will? A will is that part of you that decides things. What's happening here? What is the Spirit of God doing in Psalm 51 and Psalm 32? How does David describe What the Lord is doing to him. He describes it in verse 4: Day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. This is what God is doing. He's putting pressure on David's will. There's something that David needs to do, it's an action. He hasn't yet done it. And so there's this intellectual, emotional, relational, and physical effect of conscience on him. You're guilty, and there's this pressuring of him. David, repent. David, repent. Make this right. Wow. When you put Psalm 32 and Psalm 51 together, would you agree? With my original statement. If left unchecked, a guilty conscience can bring someone to the verge of mental and physical collapse. Now, I want to be careful with what I'm saying there. If someone has a mental and physical collapse, does that mean they have a guilty conscience? Not always. So be careful. I'm not extrapolating this principle as an always all-the-time principle. All right? However If someone has a mental and physical collapse, they should at least consider their conscience. If you are struggling and being preoccupied, could we say this? If you're preoccupied with some sin you've committed, should you not confess it? If you are feeling a lack of joy, should you not search your heart to make sure That there's not something that you have done that is disrupting your walk with God, interrupting it So that's the guilty conscience. Guilty is what David's conscience told him. Now, what about the not guilty conscience? What does that look like? Turn to Psalm 7. Psalm 7. Now there are other psalms we could go to. What you do is you're looking for psalms where the psalmist is Praying for vindication from God because he knows he didn't do anything wrong. So his enemies are trying to kill him for no reason. You know, he did not do what they thought he did. Alright, so David is preoccupied in Psalm 32 and 51 with his sin. What is he doing with the words of Cush the Benjamite in Psalm 7? What is he thinking about? Well, you'll find that he is mostly preoccupied with things outside of his heart. He's not so much worried about Personal sin, really not at all. He's interceding, he's praying for God's judgment on an individual. Let's just read the first three verses so we kind of catch a little of the psalm here. He says, O Lord my God, in thee do I put my trust. Save me from all them that persecute me and deliver me. Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver. O Lord my God, if I have done this, if there be iniquity in my hands, If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me, yea, if I have delivered him. I'm sorry, yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy. Let the enemy persecute my soul and take it. Yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth and lay mine honor in the dust. Look at verse 10. And you'll see what he's doing, how he's thinking. My defense is of God which saveth the upright in heart. Here's what he's saying. Lord, if I have done these things, then let me be judged. But he is that confident. Imagine saying that to God. Lord, if I did that, go ahead Judge me. But I know I did not do that. I know that this is unjust, that this is persecution. What is this? I think in a word you could say that this is confidence before God. David was afraid before, but now there's this confidence. Do you know what Proverbs 28 verse 1 says? Don't have to turn there. I'll just read it to you. The wicked flee when what? No man pursues. But the righteous are bold as a lion. That is David in Psalm 7 Emotionally, he is afraid. Verse 2: Lord, help me lest they tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces. I mean, he's fearful for himself. But he praises in verse 17. I will praise the Lord according to his righteousness. I mean, he's depending on the righteousness of God to deal justly between him and this other individual. I will sing praise to the name of the Lord Most High. Volitionally, that is his will, his decisions, he is feeling pressure. He's feeling pressure to act. Because he doesn't know what to do, but where is the pressure coming from? Inside or outside of him, in his circumstances? Outside of him, right? It's this individual who's trying to persecute him. So, and I'm trying to hurry through this So for this psalm, David is occupied with mentally with his per being persecuted, but he's focusing on God because he starts talking about the Lord in verse 8. He says, the Lord shall judge the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness and according to mine integrity that is in me Oh, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the just, for the righteous God trieth the hearts and the reins. Wow, what confidence this man has. Just says, I haven't done this. Lord, you do what is right. I know you will. He's praying for vindication. He is reliant on God. He's confident in God. He feels the external pressure, but he has an internal strength. As he rests in God. Where does this leave us when it comes to Psalm 7 A clear conscience before God can strengthen a Christian to bear up when they are under intense Circumstantial pressure. This is intense. He's putting his faith in God and he has a clear conscience, and it gives him great confidence Alright, now having said that, this isn't a Sunday school class, so you can't I can't really ask a lot of questions, but do you think I'm being fair with the text? Just what's being said here. On the one hand, there's this guilt and it almost causes them to collapse. On the other hand, there's this confidence Of a clear conscience, and it causes him to bear up under the pressure that he's in. This is a Christian, a believer in the Lord. Someone who put his faith in God and was justified as Abraham was, a man after God's own heart. So this could happen to you and to me. Now, next week, we're going to look more specifically on what a Christian should do when he feels guilty But today I'm just continuing to lay the foundation in preparation of the Lord's table for what every person in this room, whether you are a Christian or not, should do with their conscience. And the guilt that comes from it. And that leads us to point two. What do I do with my guilt? Alright? And this would be true of all of us, whether you're here today as a born-again Christian, or whether you're just not sure what you are. And I don't know. I'm assuming most of you are Christians. What do we do with our guilt? All right. The first thing you need to do is just submit. Submit to the truth I'm presenting to you. Do you know that's the way Paul described it when he went and preached the gospel? Look at 2 Corinthians 4. 2 for a second. Just look at this passage. Listen to the way Paul talks about how he deals with his life, his ministry, sort of the way he does ministry. And that I'm not making that up. Look at verse 1. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not. This is 2 Corinthians chapter 4, now verse 2. But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth. Commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. Manifestation of the truth, and there's this appeal to conscience in every man. What truth, what truths did Paul bring everywhere he went? Well, I think Romans, and definitely reveals to us sort of the standard Teaching repertoire of Paul wherever he went. It is the gospel, it is explained in more detail than the other books of the Bible. But let's just deal with two truths. One of them involves Pelatipuses. Have I used that as a sermon illustration recently? Have I told you about the frog that that freezes and dies every year? I've used that one before, I think. How many of you remember that illustration? Alright, good. Amazing, right? The pelatypus is a mammal that lays eggs. It nurses its young through the fur on its body. It just the the milk comes out of its skin pores somehow It has a duck bill, and it has, I think the males have little hooks on their backpaws that are venomous. And you and I think, probably, I think this way, that is a mixed-up animal that God made. You look at the sea, and I I I used to look at this one website where they had evolution busters, and one of them was a type of, it wasn't an octopus, but it was in that type of a Family, like a many-legged animal, and it could go in front of a piece of coral and camouflage itself Way better than any chameleon, to the point where you couldn't even see it. You say, What's your point? You look at creation The sun, the moon, the stars, you see the complexity of life and the grandeur of the scope of everything, and you are, according to Romans 1, responsible for that knowledge. You are actually morally culpable for that knowledge because it tells you something. Romans 1 says that when we look at that, and Psalm 19 says that this is in every everywhere. There's not a language where it's not heard. I mean, the heavens declare the glories of God. The firmament shows forth its handiwork, so it doesn't matter whether you're on Africa, the continent of Africa, you're in Asia, or wherever, you see it, and it says that there is a God. There is a God. Look at Romans 1 quickly. And we're going somewhere with this where we hopefully will get encouraged by the time we go through all this. What does it say? I'm just making you read it because you've seen it many times before. Romans 1, 19. I want you to remember this. That which may be known of God is manifest to them in them or to them, for God has showed it unto them. He doesn't mention the Word of God here. He doesn't mention Revelation. He mentions the invisible things of Him, that's God, from the creation of the world are clearly be are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made. Well, what is it that we understand, Paul? Well, God's eternal power and Godhead. So when you look at duck-billed peladapuses and those strange creatures that can change colors under the ocean and the sun, the moon, the stars, and And now they're saying we have two more planets in our solar system. I don't know if that's true. I just read that. Cool. Divine power. What kind of power does it take to keep all that going? Folks, Romans 1 tells us you are morally culpable because that is what it tells you. There must be a being that has superior power. To provide all that fusion or fission in the sun? Fusion or fission? Anyone know? Fusion? Can't remember. Remember. And that he must be God. He must be authoritative and of a different nature than humanity. He must be a superlative nature at the very top. Infinite power, ultimate authority. Don't know his name. Doesn't it take this to reveal what his name is But, and a preacher to preach the gospel, but every person on this planet is morally culpable. And when you tell people that, what I'm getting at is that's a manifestation of the truth and their conscience. Will bear witness to that. If it's not seared, if it's not dead, there's going to be a response. Because who says there's no God? The fool says in his heart, there's no God. All of us. Logic itself demands the presence of a creator, capital C for creation. Creation. Secondly, in Romans, it's revealed to us that the law of God was brought in for offenses. So you could have someone who says, okay, I'm responsible to this guy But am I really guilty? And so the law is brought in. Look, it's this simple, to make you know you're guilty. It's not brought in to save us. That's the purpose. To show you your guilt and me on my guilt so that every mouth may be stopped. That means shut up. No one can say. Nope. And our conscience, when we read that law, our conscience tells us, yep, that's you. Yep, that's you. Yep, that's you. Yep, that's you. And when Paul went out and preached the gospel, this was part of his message. The law of God, we're sinners because we haven't met that righteous standard. Creation itself demands that there has to be a God. And the consciences of the people responded to this and responded to this. So how should you respond to this? You should just say, okay. You should just agree with your conscience. When it comes to this whole idea of guilt, generally speaking, just say, okay, Lord, you're right. You must be omnipotent and of a divine nature, the highest nature, the ultimate authority. And Lord, you're right, I've broken your ten commandments. Probably broken everyone, at least in spirit, if not the letter, at least the spirit. I've hated people. I haven't killed anyone, but I've hated people. I've never committed adultery, but I've looked where I shouldn't look. I'm guilty. How do you respond to a guilty conscience? Just admit you're guilty. That's the whole point. That's what your conscience is for. You say, Dan, that's not very encouraging. Well, that's why we're going to finish this up with Hebrews 9. Turn to Hebrews 9. And that's why we're going to sing, wow, I see the time and I feel your pain. See, that's the problem with these kind of messages. You try to really deep delve into the sin aspect, and then you gotta don't have enough time for the savior aspect. Alright, quickly, Hebrews 9, look at verse 9. The end of the verse in the King James Version has the English word conscience. It should in all the other versions have that word there. And then look over at verse 14, and you see this idea of cleaning your conscience. Now, this is a it's not a complex context, but it it is an argument that's going somewhere in Hebrews 8 and 9. I'm stretching it a little bit this morning, so try to hang on there in there. There's this comparison between the old covenant, look at Hebrews 9 verse 1, verily the first covenant The first is talking about the new, the old covenant. And then if you look at Hebrews 9, verse 15, and for this cause he is the mediator of the New Testament. There's the old and there's the new. And this is this this is how it works. What I'm about to say is not a comprehensive expression of what the old covenant was. I'm going to try to narrow this down to how it applies to your conscience. In the old covenant, as Tim was saying in Sunday school, and we've been looking at, there are all these sacrifices. And there's the shedding of blood. Animals die in the old covenant. The Hebrew sacrificed, only God knows how many animals. And they were a representation of God's willingness to cover their sins, to just, as it were, not hold them culpable for their sins. To not hold them accountable ultimately. Now there's more I could say, but I'm resisting the urge here. The new covenant is in the blood of Christ. It speaks better things than the blood of Abel, the blood of all these sacrifices. Jesus Paid a price, the price for guilt. What do you do with your guilt? You recognize what God did with it. Here's what He did with it. He sent Christ to hang there on that cross And he said, I will punish my son as if he were guilty, though he is not He is the perfect Lamb of God, but I will place him there. And Jesus agreed to this willingly because he loves us as well. And wants to glorify the Father. I'll put him there, and my stroke of justice will fall right on Christ. And all these guilty people, I am willing to impute to them the righteousness of him, a trade. I will pay their debt with him, and I will give them what he has to offer. And then I will declare them not guilty. I will satisfy my just anger. Romans 1: those who do such things are worthy of death. I will allow my son to pay the guilt offering. You say, okay, what does this mean? Well, this means that you look to the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. That redemption is through his blood. Don't be dissatisfied with what satisfied God. Jesus says it's finished. It's done. And the Father raised him from the dead for our justification. And the father said, the sacrifice of my son, it's sufficient. And Hebrews 9 speaks that there's no need for another sacrifice. Hebrews 9 and 10. One is enough. Every sin you have ever committed, every sin you have committed now and into the future of billions of people, it's all been laid on him. I like how a songwriter puts it. O Christ, what burdens bowed thy head? Our load was laid on thee. Thou stoodest in the sinner's stead, didst bear all ill for me. A victim led, thy blood was shed. Now there's no load for me Death and the curse were in our cup. O Christ was full for thee. Thou hast drained the last dark drop. Tis empty now for me. That bitter cup, love drank it up, now blessings draught for me. Jehovah lifted up his rod, O Christ, it fell on thee. Thou wast sore stricken of thy God. There's not one stroke for me. Thy tears, thy blood beneath it flowed, thy bruising healeth me. Jehovah bade his sword awake. O Christ, it woke against thee. Thy blood, the flaming blade must slake. Thy heart, its sheath must be. All for my sake. My peace to make. Now sleeps that sword for me. Your conscience is telling you the truth. You and I deserve death. But God is love. He is just, but he will be the justifier of those who are in Christ Jesus. He paid your penalty and mine, and now that cloud of guilt that the law holds over us We can be saved from it. You know, folks, there's a great difference. There was a huge difference between Peter and Judas. Whose sin was greater, Peter's or Judas? Peter denied him three times. Now, Judas did lead the Jesus' enemies right to him. But they both sinned. And yet one of them returned to Jesus. Why did he do that? Peter was fishing and Jesus is out there on the on the beach and he's cooking and Peter says, It's Jesus! And unlike Adam and Eve, he didn't jump off the boat in the other direction and swim out into the sea. He jumped to Christ and he started swimming right to him. Judas, on the other hand, took the money and threw it down in front of the priests and said, I've betrayed innocent blood. And they said, What's that to us? It's on you. He went out and hung himself. They both felt terrible for their sins. Peter wept. But Peter went to Christ. He was a saved man. Are you saved this morning? Have you had your guilt taken away? This guilt? Next week we'll look more at the Christian.