Good to see everybody. We're getting ready for our annual uh year year uh annual report. Um I'm sure a lot of us are looking back at twenty eighteen. Hopefully there were a lot of finished projects, a lot of things you were able to accomplish as we look As some of you know, I finished my doctorate just before I arrived here. I read a lot of a lot of books during the program because I didn't have any choice, but now I get to pick and choose what I get to read. In particular I'm excited, aside from reading the Bible of course, about reading novels this upcoming year. It takes me back to a time in my childhood when life was simple and fun. But I realized something over time. Novels are not necessarily simple and life definitely isn't. Okay. Perhaps that's why I've grown fond of a specific type of novel, the philosophical fiction, which deal with big important questions of life in story format. Now I enjoy philosophy but not the dull, insipid ways that is often presented. But with philosophical novels, you know, by employing narrative elements, plot, character, suspense, etc. , influential and controversial ideas I presented an easy-to-digest prosaic format. Some of my favorites include Belleville's Moby Dick, Orwell's 1984, Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray. And here is how I know I finish a good philosophical novel. I find myself going to secondary literature to dig deeper. No, the author got me. He hooked me in. I'm riveted by the story. But now I need to understand what the protagonist embodies, what the speech meant, what the author intended. Now I'm saying all this because Jesus in his infinite wisdom knew how to present his material in prose. He was a teacher, yes, but he was also a storyteller. And those things are not contradictory. He used stories to communicate important truths Of course, Jesus always used helpful illustrations and images to drive on his points. But at a major turning point in his ministry, in his public ministry, he began using parables almost exclusively in to the crowds. We're gonna see that in Matthew 13. But just to summarize what has happened up to that point, I'm gonna start when it's up in In his adult ministry, we see from chapters 3 to 10 that Jesus gains a large following, attracting crowds with sermons, lectures, and miracles. But in Matthew 11 to 13, there's a bit of opposition. Earthly authorities, religious leaders. And even his own family flat out oppose Jesus' kingship. His forerunner, John the Baptist, and the rest he offers, everything is rejected. Some even attribute Jesus' miracles to demonic powers. Jesus is rejected as king, and the kingdom he offers is now delayed. Undeterred, Jesus continues his public ministry, but in chapter 13, he speaks in parables which confound the people. They were accustomed to his plain speaking style. Even his disciples were wondering why Jesus changed his approach. Now, before we read the passage for today, let's discuss the definition and the purpose of parables. First, the definition. Found this from a commentator named Hampton Keithly. Quote, a parable is a fictitious or made-up story designed to teach a lesson through comparison. He also asks that they are true to life. So Jesus' parables are like fables in that they teach something symbolically. But because Jesus' parables are true to life, you're not gonna see talking trees Or fire-breeding dragons in his parables. They're much, very much borrowed from commonplace experiences, day-to-day experiences. So that's the definition of parables. What about the purpose? And I think their the purpose is twofold. First they are designed, Jesus' parables are designed, so that only those who are interested, truly interested, We'll learn the truths behind it. So you might read or listen to a parable and just walk off and say, cool story, bro. But an earnest audience Well, want to know the meaning behind the character setting and the dialogue. Kind of like the way I said I wanted to know more about those philosophical novels I read So that's the first reason, uh first purpose, so that only truly interested ones will go deeper. So what is at the core of Jesus' parables? At least the second point of view. of this purpose. Parables are designed to teach truths about God's kingdom. Simple as that. Now you need to fulfill the first purpose, you need to be interested, before you move on to the second purpose to learn the Kingdom truths. And these truths are secrets hiding in plain sight for the public. They really want to know and enter the kingdom of God. They must become followers of Christ. See how Jesus explains these purposes in Matthew 13, 10 through 17. So let's go there. Or you should already be there, hopefully. Matthew thirteen, ten through seventeen And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? He answered and said to them, Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given. For whoever has, to him more will be given, and he will have abundance For whoever does not have, even what he has, will be taken away from him. Therefore I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see. And hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. And in them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, Hearing you will hear and shall not understand. And seeing you will see and not perceive. For the hearts of this people have grown dull. Their ears are hard of hearing. And their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, so that I should heal them But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears for they hear. Well assuredly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desire to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it. So we see Jesus explaining the kingdom truths privately to his disciples who are committed to him, at least at the moment. Let's skip down to 34 and 35. Verse 34 and 35. Gives us the um another scriptural founding for these parables Thirty four thirty five, all these things Jesus spoke to the multitude in parables, and without a parable he did not speak to them. That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, saying, I will open my mouth in parables, I will utter things cast. secret from the foundation of the world. Things kept secret from the foundation of the world. These kingdom truths Jesus came to fulfill the law and the prophets, all that was revealed in the Old Testament, but he also came to reveal new information. Especially about the church. That's why I titled this sermon, The Era of the Church. And he will soon build this church. And I believe that it is built at the day of Pentecost. So what Jesus reveals is somewhat different than what God revealed to Israel. I picture Israel in church like two circles in a den diagram. And of course there are overlaps, but there are also differences. At the core of the argument between major theological traditions is how much overlap there is and how much difference is There are. But what is clear and agreed is that we're living in the age of the church. And this passage we're about to read helps us understand our role within it. Our present, our future. So let's get on with the passage for today and the parable of the wheat and the pears. The story itself is found in verses 24 to 30. Another parable he put forth to them saying, field. For while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat and went his way. For when the grain had sprouted and produced the crop, then the tares also appeared. So the servants of the owner came and said to him, Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have tares? He said to them, An enemy has done this. The servant said to him, Do you want us then to go and gather them up? But he said, No, lest while you gather up the tares, ye also uproot the wheat with them Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of the harp time of harvest I will say to the reapers, first gather together the tares and bind them in bundles to burn them. Now the interpretation is in verses 36 to 43. Then Jesus sent the multitude away and went into the house. And his disciples came to him saying, Explain to us the parable of the tares of the field. He answered and said to them, He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world. The good seeds are the sons of the kingdom. But the tares are the sons of the wicked one. The enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels. Therefore, as the tares are gathered and burnt in the fire, so it will be at the end of this age. The Son of Man will send out his angels And they will gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. So I'm in a unique situation here that in that um I'm about to explain an explanation and interpret an interpretation. And the question to ask here is what happened during the church era or the church age. Since Jesus' deciphering is very straightforward, and we sang a wonderful hymn just before the sermon, that also helps us understand understand this um parable. I just want to make three broad points about the parable. That humankind, first of all, has two identities. Two identities. So these all come in pairs. The second point is that humankind is caught between two wills. The third point is that humankind is headed towards two destinies. Two identities, two wills, two destinies. I'm going to spend the most amount of time in the first point, the point about the fact that we have two identities. Quite simply, the Saved and The unsafe. Now if you are here today as a non-Christian or if you're hearing this online And you're actually listening and reading along with us, you might find this truth offensive. You might say, oh, so Christians are the wheat, the sons of the kingdom, while I being the tarot belongs to the devil, the wicked one. So much for New Year resolutions to become a better person. Thanks for squashing that. Um but more seriously, how dare you judge me and think you're better than me I'm never coming back here again. Maybe you you're thinking that. And if I echo your thoughts in any way, please bear with me. Let me be absolutely clear, and this should be the testimony of everyone who is a true believer here. We Christians were not, oh, hey, sweet, or the sons of the kingdom all our lives. Yeah. Just because you're born into a Christian family, that doesn't mean you are automatically a Christian. Just because your father was a Christian Just because your grandfather was a Christian and your great grandfather was Christian, that does not make you a Christian automatically. You need to be born again to inter into the kingdom of God. Now, Jesus doesn't have a polo to this parable, but I'm going to use my sanctified imagination for a second. And if you wanted to tell uh others about who we used to be, I will go to Ephesians chapter 2. This is our past story. So keep your finger in Matthew thirteen, and let's go to Ephesians chapter two. Which is a hopefully a very well read uh passage for us. I'm reading the first paragraph there. In Ephesians chapter two, verses one, two, and three. Just follow along with me. And you he made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked according to the course of this world. According to the Prince of the Power of the Air, the Spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, among whom also we all once conducted our So friends, look at our past condition. You once walked, we all once conducted ourselves in the lust of our flesh. We're by nature children of wrath, just as the others. Our conduct was in line with our former boss, the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience. That's who we were. But we believe in the saving grace, that is talked about in verses four to ten. But God, who is rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and raised us up together, and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any one should both. But we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Praise God for that. Truth. So then the difference between the sons of the kingdom and the sons of the wicked one, the wheat and the tares, it's not appearance, whether one has a tattoo and the other looks prim. It's that we have been accepted saved by God's grace. It's God who loved us, made us alive with Christ. Christ. Made us sit in heaven. And he's not finished. He wants to show even more grace in the eternity to come. And the same grace he offers you today. Can't earn it by works, good works, it's not moral reptitude, it's humble gratitude. It's only by the finished work of Jesus Christ, who died on the cross for our sins, rose from the dead. So turn away from your sins if you haven't already and believe in the good Listen to the words of John the Baptist and Jesus, who said at the beginning of this gospel, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. As our church name teaches us, it's by faith in the good news recorded in the Bible that makes us the church, the sons of their kingdom. I told you I'm gonna spend a little more a lot of time on this, but and if you still find this bifurcation of humanity, the splitting of humanity into two classes difficult to accept, please know that it's not exclusive to Christianity. Christianity. So I at the beginning of the sermon I talked about philosophical novels. Here's one I just finished. Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment. Consider the philosophies explored there. The protagonist of this story is I'm gonna butcher this name, um, Rodeon Raskolnikov. I'm sorry if there's Russian speakers here, but um uh he's a poor twenty-three-year-old law school dropout in St. Petersburg. And he's a materialistic rationalist who embodies nihilism. Okay, so what is that? A belief that life is without objective meaning, purpose, or value He struggles with the theory in which all men or humanity are divided into ordinary and extraordinary. The ordinary people must submit to the law and have no right to transgress it because they are who they are. Ordinary. The extraordinary ones are exempt and for the sake of fulfilling the grand vision are justified in transgressing the law. Raskolnikov believes that he belongs or he might possibly belong in the extraordinary class. And need only the courage to seize his destiny. He locates an old, abusive, stingy pawnbroker whom nobody likes. He then justifies the idea of killing her, taking her wealth to get a jump start in his thought life and become a great man like Napoleon. The story goes on, I won't spoil the ending. But you see how even the secularists divide humanity into two classes Such idea goes back as far as second century to a guy named Lucien of Samusada, but it was more recently popularized by philosophers like Frederick Nietzsche and his concept of Superman. But all this to say is such a dim view of reality. The only way to become extraordinary in these world philosophies is to be born into aristocracy. By some chance, by some Darwinian natural selection, by being the fittest, by being the strongest, we have the right education, training and intelligence. There's no hope for the poor, the weak, the disabled, the bourgeois. Well, friends, we proclaim to you that we cannot be extraordinary because we are human Human and sinners, but there is the extraordinary power of the gospel. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Jew first and also for the Greek. It's not natural selection, but supernatural election. God purposed to save you and did not leave it to chance And Satan is powerless to stop you because conversion is wholly the work of God. And so what does Satan do? That leads to the next point. Humanity is caught between two wills. Two wills. Satan's will is to be severe. Jesus' will is to persevere. Satan's will is to be severe. Jesus' will is to persevere. See, the devil's scheme here is to destroy, and Christ's plan is to discern. As you see in this parable, the enemy comes and sows tares among the wheat. And here's this insidious plant. The tares here are very likely what we know today as Darnell. um poison Darnell, Darnell ryegrass or cockle, which grows all over the world. And the stem can grow up to be a meter tall and grows in the same production zones as wheat Their similarity in appearance is so striking that Darnells have been rightly nicknamed false wheat. It only appears when the ear uh it's only when the ear appears later in the growth process that you began to see. The differences. The spice on the ear and its black color in the ripe stage set them apart from the wheat which is brown in color. So you're not gonna know until the final stage there. If a person eats this plant, the side effects include drunken nausea and possibly death. So only time will allow the harvesters to distinguish between the two. So read in verse 28. We hear the words of the servants. Do you want us then to go and gather them up? We don't blame the servants here, but this is exactly what Satan wants. Praise God, because the master responds in verses 29 and 30, no lest while you gather up the tares, you also uproot the the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest, and at the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, First gather together the pears, and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn See here the wisdom of Jesus, who sees the evil intentions of the devil to kill and destroy all. We see how little the enemy values his subjects. Satan is no friend of humanity. I don't understand Satan worshippers. He will gladly jettison his own as collateral damage in order to try to fool Christ into destroying his own. But Christians, have you ever felt this temptation? Have you ever felt like the servants? Have you ever asked, God, why don't you just go and gather them up and get them away from us? And we must resist this temptation. To completely withdraw, or God forbid, use powers to get rid of those who do not believe Now, the church is meant to be out into the world. It's not geographically bound like Israel. That's one of the differences between Israel and the church. And we are also to be more tolerant in the right way than the world, who in the name of tolerance is quite intolerant of us. And as the church we are never we must never resort to inquisitions, crusades, strawman arguments, bullying, legislation to force our neighbors to become Christians. Or get them away from us. We must be witnesses, salt and light as we wait for the end of the age. We must endure. We must persevere, not be severe. Russell Moore, a Southern Baptist, uh was asked one time at the 2016 convention. About the church using the government authority to suppress the spread of Islam, you might be able to guess by the year of this convention why this was even a question Here's a part of his response. Quote, a government that has the power to outlaw people from assembling together and saying what they believe. That does not turn people into Christians. That turns people into pretend Christians. And it sends them straight to hell. The answer to Islam is not government power, the answer is the gospel of Jesus Christ and the new birth that comes from death. That answer, the gospel of Jesus Christ and the new birth that comes from death, is what we need to take to the world. We need to follow the will of Christ that we wait until the end of the age. And until then, we are salt and might we are to be witnesses But that makes that message that much more urgent because of the faith that awaits the loss. That leads to the third point. We have two destinies, heaven and hell. Jesus does not pull any punches when it comes to this subject. Long before there were fire and brimstone features, there was Jesus. Let's reread verses 41 to 43. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear And what he means by that last phrase, pay special attention. Jesus will return to judge. Angels are real, furnace is real, the fire is real, wailing and gnashing of teeth are real. But so is the glory that awaits the righteous. They will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. Persevere until that day. I'm like I said, I'm trying to read a lot of books this year. But I found it puzzling to see Zonderben release a book entitled Four Views of Hell. Since I wasn't aware that there were even three, I knew there were two because I read about the Catholic purgatorial view, but I always felt that uh you know Hebrews 9, 27, and 28 clearly contradicts the idea of second chance and as it is appointed for men to die once for after this the judgment, I see no gap between those two things. So Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many. To those who eagerly wait for him, he will appear a second time, apart from sin, for salvation. So the other three views are the literal, which I hold to. Okay. There's a apparently a metaphorical view of hell and the annihilationist view. So the proponents of the metaphorical view believe in eternal conscious torment, just not a fiery one. I just don't know why you can choose between, you know, fire and all those um just wail wailing and gnashing of teeth. Because they seem to be both in the explanation that Jesus gives. Probably even more serious, the most serious is probably the annihilationist view, which deny eternal conscious poor man. In their view, the punishment for sin is extinction. Sinners simply cease to exist. My response is that in verses 41 to 43, Jesus is not retelling the parable. He's interpreting the details of the parable he told us. Earlier. There's fire in the parable, and there's fire in the interpretation. Yes, the parable is metaphorical, but it's unlikely that Jesus is offering a metaphorical explanation of a metaphor. And if bliss goes on forever, how can we limit the pain? We should also note that the wailing and gnashing of teeth, that language is also found in other contexts, not in parabolic. For example, Matthew 8 12. Go check it out. That's in plain discourse. So we believe, as they find Bible church, the literal view of a fiery hell. An eternal fire exists because our eternal God exists. Fiery judgment exists because our God is a consuming fire. His holiness and righteousness demand that there is a place of torment for sinners. But meaningful human wisdom of freedom also demands it Hell is God saying to humans, your choices count, your will be done. If you do not want to be with me, then I'll let you go your way. That's what hell is. But I'm telling you, that way is the way of death. So we're all going to meet our maker someday, and I was reminded of this as I attended a funeral this week, stood before the cremated remains of a woman at a nearby cemetery. We all have a grave we'll occupy unless Jesus returns very soon. But FBC, Faith Bible Church, affirms in the last line of our statement of faith. May we read it. We believe in the bodily resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust, and in the eternal conscious torment of the lost and the eternal joy of the saved. That makes our message that much more urgent. Before the end, before the day, before it's too late, we implore you, on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. Examine yourself as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourself. If you have doubts or more questions about this passage or the gospel, please Speak with the members here. Elders and deacons are here. If you want to talk to me immediately, I'll be in the back there, near the uh middle door. Can talk about this. This is a such an important thing that we need to talk about immediately. And I want to recommend free resources. You know those tracks are there for a reason. Pick up this one. Two Ways to Live, the choice we all face. Take one for yourselves, your family members, and your friends. So indeed we're at that road of decision. We're diverging into two paths. Jesus has an urgent message for you. In Matthew seven, thirteen to fourteen. Enter by the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who go in by it. Because narrow is the gate and diff difficult is the way. And there are few who find it. What will be your identity? Become a son of the kingdom. Become a daughter of the kingdom. Enter into the kingdom. Whose will, Satan's or Christ, do you want to abide by? Know what Christ wills for you in the midst of evil in this world, to persevere. Until the end. Know your destiny. Believers will shine in heaven. And I hope to see you there. Let's pray. So we know that it is by your mercy that we are here today to hear your word. So you could have simply Kept this information from us and not disclosed to us the judgment that is to come. And Lord, we thank you for this message. That you have not only given us the parable in your word, but also the explanation of the parable which your son gave to his disciples. And now they speak to us. us. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. We pray that we would take heed to this warning. That we would become the sons of the kingdom. By following your Son, Jesus Christ, repenting and believing and trusting not in our good works, but in May we follow your will to persevere and endure till the end. In the midst of this world being witnesses being faithful witnesses in this world and we ask that our future destiny where we will shine like as uh like the Son that will comfort us for our suffering, who are enduring struggles. And Lord, we thank you for this truth, for all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. So I close by singing uh Rock of Ages.