Good morning. It's good to be back with you here at Faith Bible, a long supporting church of ours. We pray for you and we thank you for praying for us. I know that many of you have been here a long time and been faithful, and let me just start off this morning by saying thank you. for all that you've done for us throughout the years, my family and I. I'd like to introduce them real quick. Two of them already left, but I still do have uh my wife and firstborn here. We have Natalie and Hannah. If you guys just kinda stand up so people can see who you are. I'm sure no one recognizes. recognizes you but that's Hannah's getting big so in case you're confused which one's my wife, which one's my daughter. Uh Natalie's my wife there, and then Hannah, 13 years old now. We went to Tantania in 2001, just Natalie and I, and came back for our first furlough with Hannah, and went back and came back our second time with Caleb. And then our went back to Tanzania a third time and came back with Sarah. So Caleb and Sarah are second and thirdborn. Caleb is 12, and uh Sarah is seven. And uh went back a fourth time, no more. Okay, fifth time, no more. So uh we're just trying to do our best with what God has blessed us with, and uh thank you so much for Again, your partnership with us and how God has used this church in our ministry. We first came to you through contact. one of your uh other missionaries who's now with the Lord Doug Miller. Aga Many of you remember Doug Miller uh and his passion for unreached people groups, that passion He shared with us when we were 18 years old and in college, and we signed up on this piece of paper that many of you signed up to pray for the Datoga people. How many of you prayed for the Datoga people? I talked with a few before service and during Sunday school. You prayed for the Datoga people and you probably prayed during that time. that God would send missionaries to them. Because the Bible says, How shall they hear without a preacher? And so one of the necessary things is someone who'll go and preach the gospel so people will hear and believe, as the book of Romans tells us. You know, how can you believe without hearing and how shall they hear without a preacher? And so uh we surrendered to go to Tanzania uh when the Lord had burdened our heart through many years of praying for the Datoga people and no one was going. read my Bible and Jesus had given the command to go into all the world. And so we prayed that God would send us. And through your prayers, through through many people's prayers, praying for them. Now that we have seen some Datoga people come to trust Christ as their Savior, especially those that are in our small town. There's still many, many thousands who Have not received Christ as our Savior a couple times a year, we can be at our house and still see large groups of Datoga people climbing the mountain to go to worship their ancestors. Coming down two or three days later. This is right in the shadow of our house. So our hearts are stirred and burdened every time we see that, every time we go out to these villages. and see uh the Datoga people who are still living uh like they were hundreds of years ago, very prideful, very strong in their culture, uh not wanting to change. But God has saved some of them, and through our ministry, we're trying to reach out, trying to focus, trying to have a strategy to reach even more with the gospel. So continue to pray. continue to pray for not just laborers as in missionaries. We went as missionaries. We've been able to reach a few and uh we need to train those few that we've been able to reach with the gospel to go out to their own people. Because the gospel needs to be presented to them in a culturally appropriate way, in their own language, in their own culture, from someone in their culture, would be much better and much more acceptable to them rather than from a foreign missionary. So please pray that God would give us some laborers for the harvest that's still there. We have a facility, the Truth Center. We talked about it in Sunday school hour where we have a. an established church, a Christian school, many ministries going on there, village churches, Bible Institute, where if God would call the laborers we have in place now a ministry that uh and it's taken us eleven years to get that established to where we can now send out missionaries, send out church planters from our church. That would be the greatest thing that would happen for our ministry that our church would someday be able to send out its own missionaries, a missionary that came from America. started the church, but that church sent out its own missionary to see the whole thing come full circle. That's our goal. We're almost there. We just need the people. We have the church. We have a strong group of people there that are tithing, that are giving to missions. Our church already supports three missionaries, okay? Two church planting missionaries right there in Tanzania, one from the Maasai tribe who's out reaching his own people, church planting, another not too far from us that is starting churches. And then we also have our first foreign missionary, a Tanzanian young man who went to Mozambique as a foreign missionary, supported from the Tanzanian churches. Our church is participating in that. So missions is starting to come full circle, but we got a long way to go. It would be our goal to someday have someone from our own ministry. go out as a church planner, perhaps even as a foreign missionary, to go outside of Tanzania. That would be the ultimate goal. And so you continue to pray for us. continue to lift up the ministry there. I shared some prayer requests there in Sunday school hour. And I want to take this time to really talk to you from God's word and just kind of share my heart this morning. Not so much about missions, although of course we can touch on that, but just uh what God has for us in our Christian life. We can uh talk about uh missions, we can even talk about some of the verses already read in the service. But let's take our Bibles this morning and if you would turn to the book of Matthew. And kind of the theme that I want to turn talk to you about this morning is the mountains of the Christian life. The mountains of the Christian life. You know the Christian life is never meant to be easy, despite what you hear. The popular preaching of today is once you trust Christ, all your problems go away, right? it becomes an easy journey. Well that's not my personal experience. It's certainly not the experience we find in the Bible, and it's probably not the experience you've had that the Christian life, once you receive Christ as your Savior, everything just seems to be easier. No, we have struggles. We have problems. The difference between the Christian and the non-Christian is we have a helper. We have a God who's with us and to help us and walking with us. And we we are able to rely upon him and being filled with the Holy Spirit and be able to live our sometimes troubled life, being empowered by Him. Whereas the non-Christian, those that have not received Christ, sometimes we face the same struggles, the same diseases, the same uh hardships that we face, but they face it without Christ. Can you imagine? Going through what you're going through right now without Christ? You know it's not an easy journey. And sometimes climbing a mountain cannot be easy. Why do men climb mountains? Well my answer to that question is because they're there. In Tanzania we have a mountain right behind our house. It's 11,000 feet. And our our our elevation is 6,000 feet. A lot of people ask us, you're probably used to this heat. Well we're not used to this heat. We live at six thousand feet. We live a really cool climate in Africa. And so I'm hotter here in Maryland than I am in Africa. So you can be comfortable. comforted with those words there, but uh it's hot here, okay? And and when we were in Tanzania, it's pretty cool, pretty uh even climbing. And uh this great mountain behind our house, I remember the first time climbing that high and climbing that mountain. We've done it over ten times now. We do it a couple times a year with our family or as guests come for visiting. But there's a mountain in Tanzania that I always wanted to climb, Mount Kilimanjaro. How many of you ever heard of Mount Kilimanjaro before, okay? Well, I I heard a guy once say, if you remember the television show from way back when uh Tim the Tool Man Taylor, okay, he said, why would you ever want to climb a mountain that starts with the words Kill a man, all right? Kilamanjaro, all right. But people come from all over the world to climb Kilamanjaro. And uh I always wanted to climb it. It's always been kind of on my bucket list to do that That's right there in Tanzania. People come from all over the world. And I had a friend who climbed in and he said, Steve, you want to do, you have to climb Kilimanjaro. Don't waste this opportunity, but make sure you do it before you're 40 years old. Well that's always been in the back of my mind and I've first heard that I was twenty six years old and I kept that in m back of my mind I turned thirty and I I said, well, I'm not 40 yet. I got plenty of time. Then you get to 35 and you get going on. You say, well, I'm not 40 yet. I got plenty of time. Well, I turned 40 last year and I said, I've got to climb Kilimanjaro. And so I to carved out some time to do that. And it was a perfect time in my life to to do it. It was a challenge to me physically. It was a challenge to me spiritually. I went there to try to uh kind of rekindle the vision that God's given us for Tanzania and and really just to meet alone with God. And I believe this message this morning uh the Lord laid on my heart when I was climbing Mount Kilimanjaro as I Climbed the mountain. I actually studied my Bible along the way and the different mountains that God used in the Bible. You'd be surprised on the amount of times God used mountains in the Bibles. A lot of important things happened on mountains. And mountains are extremely used by the Lord. And you can think of some of the things in the Old Testament that God used mountains for. The ark of God came to rest on the mountain. Elijah saw God's power come down on the mountain. Moses received the law and the Ten Commandments on the mountain. Mountains were used for places of worship. They were used as a place of refuge as David fled to the mountains from Saul. They were used for borders, for countries, as they divided up the land of Israel. We also see mountains in the New Testament and how Jesus used mountains. And many times as you're reading through the New Testament, you find Christ going up into the mountains and many important things. happened on the mountains. And I want to take this time this morning and just share with you a few of the mountains that we face in the Christian life. Things that happen in the ministry of Christ and apply that to our life personally. Now we can't talk about mountains without talking about Mount Calvary, the most important mountain in all of the world. Because what happened on Mount Calvary is where Jesus Christ paid for your sins and my sins That's where you and I became free from the sin. The penalty of sin was paid on that mountain. No one can climb that mountain alone. You can't get up that mountain by your religion, by your good works, by your own good deeds. It's only by God's grace. Christ literally climbed that mountain for you. Aren't you glad that you don't have to climb that mountain of Calvary? That Christ Died in your place, that he took the cross, that he was crucified, that he did that for you and died. He climbed that mountain. He carried that cross for you and I. So that you and I wouldn't have to die. That mountain you can't climb. Only Christ can climb for you. Have you trusted him to climb Mount Calvary for you? Have you been to Mount Calvary? Have you seen him there on the cross? Well, he's not there anymore. They buried him. He rose again. And he is carrying us and inviting us. all to come and to trust him for salvation. That's the most important mountain you'll ever climb, but you can't do it on your own. You have to let Christ carry it for you. And I trust, because you're here this morning, that you know Christ as your Savior. If you're not, if you've never been to Mount Calvary, if you've never Trust the Jesus Christ who died on that mountain for you. That's the first and very most important mountain that you can come to in the Christian life. But I trust many of you have done that. I trust many of you have accepted Christ and you've trusted in what he did on Mount Calvary for you. But that's not the end of our journey. Climbing a mountain, there's stages, there's stations. And when I was able to climb Mount Kilimanjaro, there was five different camps that I was able to stay at. Took uh five nights to get down and two five nights to get up and two to get down. And so it was a hard climb. There were different stages. And as I climbed, it got harder and harder and harder each stage. And I want to talk to you just about three different mountains in the Christian life this morning. Things that don't come easy. This Christian life, thank God we don't have to work for our own salvation, that we're saved by grace and saved by Christ, and He did that for us. But after salvation, there's still a walk to walk. There's still a climb to climb. There's still a journey ahead of us. Although most Christians are satisfied with just staying at Mount Calvary. They're just satisfied with reaching that first camp of Christianity and being saved. But there's so much more God has planned for us. If I would have stopped at that first camp there in the rainforest at Mount Kilimanjara, I would have never seen the summit. I would never have seen God's beauty that He had planned ahead of me. So this morning let's go ahead and study a few things that I find in Scripture, a few mountains that Christ climbed. And that he invites us to climb with us. Matthew chapter 14, I trust that you've already gotten there in your Bibles. And let's go ahead. And read verses 22 and 23. And I'll go rather quickly through these three different mountains. And this first mountain that I want to talk about in Matthew 14 and verse 22 and 23, let's call this the mountain of separation. The mountain of separation. Let's go ahead and read verse 22 and 23 together. It says, and straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship. and to go before him unto the other side while he sent the multitudes away. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up unto a mountain apart to pray. And when evening was come, he was there alone. Here we have Jesus in the middle of a busy ministry. The Bible says here that there was multitudes that were following, perhaps thousands we learn from other stories and other parts of the gospel at this point, who were following Jesus. for food, for miracles. And obviously Jesus being a hundred percent God, but also a hundred percent man got tired There was times where his body needed to rest. Many times we find Jesus asleep or hungry. So Jesus here for whatever reason found it important to separate from these crowds. to even separate from his dear friends, the disciples, whom he was training. He says that he sent them away. He constrained them once you to get into a ship and go before him to the other side of the sea. And then he sent the multitudes away, and when he was all by himself, he climbed this mountain, and it was evening, and he was there all alone. How many of you like being alone? As I get older, I like being alone more. You know, my little my children, they don't like being alone. Especially Sarah, seven years old. She doesn't like being by herself. Caleb, twelve years old, he always likes to be close to you. But as we get older, we like to be alone, don't we? We just want to be alone for a little bit. Hannah's starting to get to that age a little bit where she just needs some Time alone, right? We all need time alone. We all need time away from from other people. My family and I have been on the road now for quite a while and we've been staying with people and Traveling around in the minivan. Sometimes we just need a little break, right? We need to take some time alone. That's that's basic human nature. But I don't think Jesus was doing this here all because of a physical reason, because what did he go up to the mountain to do? T Not just to be alone and take a deep breath of the mountain air, but he went up there in verse 23. It says he went unto the mountain away. And he went up into a mountain apart to what? To pray. He went there not to be alone by himself, but to be alone with God. And how important it is for you and I as believers, as people who are continuing on with our Christian life, to spend time alone with God every day. Now listen, I know this is basic Christianity. And many of you, dear saints, have been walking with the Lord for many years more than I have. But how important it is for us in our Christian walk, in our journey, after we're saved, to be alone with God every day. Now, if Jesus, the Son of God, who had already said, is 100% God, he said in other parts of the of the word that if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. There was perfect unity. There was perfect relationship there between Jesus and the Father. They were one. And if Jesus being God found it important to spend time alone in prayer Being God, being one with the Father, how much more important it is for you and for me who have this sinful flesh, who have a broken relationship with God sometimes. to spend time with him. Well, what do we do when we're alone with God? Well we do exactly what Jesus did. We pray. He says well I don't know how to pray. I can't Sometimes when I get uh alone with God and I begin to pray, my mind begins to wander. Or I last probably about five or ten minutes and then I'm always distracted with something else going on. That's why it's important that you find that mountain That place where no one else is. That place where there's no distractions. That's why Jesus sent his disciples away That's why he sent the multitudes away. Not only did he separate himself from other people, but he separated himself from the distractions. Now a lot of times when we talk about separation, we get in our mindset the preaching and the good preaching there is and the verses of the Bible it talks about being separate from the world and separating from sin. And a lot of times we forget when we separate from something, we have to separate to something. And I think a lot of times in our Christian life, especially in the circles that you and I feel comfortable with. We talk about sin and how bad it is to separate from it, but we don't really realize how important it is to separate to God. See, there's two parts of separation. It's separating from sin and worldliness and all that goes along with that idea of separation, but it's separating to something, it's separating to God. If you can imagine here I am in the middle and sin is on this side of the platform and God is on this side, as I get closer to God, what's happening? I'm getting further and further away from sin and temptation in my life. So I think the key to separating from that is separating to God. And if Jesus again found it so important to have that personal time with God, climbing the mountain of separation. And this wasn't the first time or the last time that he did it. Many times we find Jesus alone on the mountain praying. But just as climbing a mountain, sometimes this can be the hardest part of the Christian discipline, can't it? Spending time with the Lord, alone with him in prayer, reading the word But that's the key to success of climbing the mountain in Christian life. See, because we don't have enough strength. Jesus carried us up the mountain of salvation, but this mountain of separation is something that you're going to have to spend time with. It's a discipline. It's something that's a step-by-step process just like climbing a mountain is sometimes hard. Sometimes God gives you the breathtaking view of what is ahead of you. Or you can look back and see what you've already accomplished But most of the time climbing the mountain is a step-by-step, hard-focused journey. And the same with the Christian life. Our parents, if you're here as a young person, can't carry us up this mountain of separation. Our pastor can't carry us up this mountain of separation. Other Christian friends can't take us up this mountain. It has to be you meeting alone with God every day. As missionaries, this is the most important thing we do. This is the most important thing we teach our children. This is the most important thing we teach our believers there in our church. It's to how to have a personal walk, a personal relationship with the Lord every day It seems like the longer that I do know the Lord and walk with the Lord, the more and more I need this personal time every day. You see, we can't do it on our own. And Jesus was in that relationship with the Father, being God. He saw important how much more you and I who are wrapped in this sinful flesh that have all the distractions that we have in the world today. I was asked the question earlier in our Sunday school hour, what is one of the hardest things you have to adjust to in the American culture when you come back? And I said, it's the time, it's the pace. We get run over. We can't go through a drive-thru. People start honking at us and yelling at us. Man, y'all are in a hurry, okay? You are hurrying from this thing to that thing and you're doing multitasking and Uh saw a lady texting and putting on mascara while she's driving on the beltway the other day. Alright, let's try to do one thing at a time. I think everyone will be safer that way. But as Christians, we can let that mindset focus in on our daily time with the Lord. And even if we are spending time and climbing that mountain of separation every day and getting alone with the Lord, we've got all these distractions. Have you ever been reading your Bible and all of a sudden you've gotten to the end of the chapter you're reading and you say, wait a second, what did I just read there? Happens to me all the time That happens to people in ministry because we've got all these things rolling around in our head. Have you ever been praying and perhaps you even have a prayer list you're real organized about it and you're dedicated to that? But as you get to the end of your prayer list, you just said, well, my mouth was moving and my mind was working, but I wasn't in that. It's so easy to get distracted. And I think the the more we face, the more temptation we have, the more distractions there are, the more we need this personal time with the Lord. A mountain of separation. Psalm 63:1 says, O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee. My flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where no water is. What if we sought God just as important as we seek our own food? What if we sought God as diligently as we seek our morning coffee? We're afraid to go without our morning coffee. I'm afraid to go without some morning coffee, right? To get me up and going in the morning. My head starts. What if we stop God? With that same importance as we seek that morning coffee. Now I'm not preaching against morning coffee. How many of you like morning coffee? Okay. Even got some out there in the lobby. That's how addicted we are, right? And so that's not I'm not preaching about morning coffee this morning. I'm I'm preaching About that separation, the desire to be alone with God, to have that personal relationship with Him. That's not easy. That's a discipline that we all need in our life, a mountain that we all need to climb. Well, not only did Jesus climb this mountain of separation, but he also climbed a mountain of sacrifice. Look with me in John chapter 6. I already talked about the mountain of Calvary where the ultimate sacrifice was made. But in John chapter 6, we read a story, an incident that happened on a mountain again. In John chapter 6 and verse 3 through 13, there's another mountain, and we'll call this the mountain of sacrifice. Jesus constantly displayed He constantly gave the example of sacrifice, not just on the cross of Calvary for our sins, but in his daily life. He was constantly thinking of others. Constantly sacrificing for others, constantly making himself the servant of all. Although he was the leader, again, God in the flesh. If anyone who deserved To be the focus of attention. If anyone who deserved to be served rather than served, it was him But he didn't live the life of wanting to be served. He lived the life of sacrifice, not just at Calvary, but we can see this all throughout his life Jesus sacrificing to others. And he was trying to teach his disciples this same principle. And he's trying to teach you and I this same principle. And where did he teach it? On this mountain, in John chapter six. Let's read in verse three. It says, And Jesus went up unto a mountain. And there he sat with his disciples. And it was Passover. A feast of the Jews was nigh. And when Jesus lifted up his eyes, He saw a great company come unto him. And he said unto Philip, When shall we buy bread that these may eat? And this he said to what? To prove him. For he himself knew what he would do. Here's Jesus on a mountain again, right? And there's multitudes around, just like it was uh in other parts of the Bible where we read these multitudes are following him. And Jesus looks up and he sees this multitude, and his first thought is, how are we going to feed all these people? Well, it wasn't the disciples' first thought. If you read this same passage or this same story in the other gospels of Matthew and Mark, you see the disciples wanted to send the multitudes away. Hey, it's getting nighttime, Jesus. All these people are going to get hungry, and when you get hungry, you get angry. How many of you get angry when you get hungry, okay? They're going to start getting hungry and then angry. So let's go ahead and get this, close this up, this evangelistic meeting that's going on, and then send them home. Well, Jesus said, how are we going to feed these people? He was thinking about how to sacrifice the feet. And he asked Philip, look at the question again, when shall we buy bread that these may eat? It was a financial question. Jesus was thinking about sending his disciples perhaps down the mountain into town and buying enough bread for this whole multitude, right? And he said this to prove, he was trying to prove, he was trying to test Philip's faith here. Let's see if Philip passed the test. In verse 7, it says, Philip answered him. 200 penny worth of bread is not sufficient for them. For every one of them to take a little. Philip gave a very practical answer. It was a faith question, but it was a practical answer. Jesus was testing his faith. Jesus already had this figured out. He knew what he was going to do, and we know what he's going to do. We know the story, how he took the took the bread and the loaves and fed everyone. But Philip didn't know that. And so he starts doing the math. Okay, there seems to be like, you know, five thousand about around five thousand guys, men here, and man, two hundred penny worth. Jesus, we don't have enough. And if we did have enough, it wouldn't be enough just to feed what's with the people that are here, even for everyone just to get a little bite We we don't even have enough. So a practical answer was given when it was a faith question. You know sometimes faith questions we answer practically How are we going to reach the gospel? How are we going to reach this area with the gospel? Well, it's not part of the small church. You know, we just got a few of us and not very many people. It's just really hard right now. And we we have practical answers. How are we going to support missions more when you know the economy is bad and this? We have all these. We're trying to do the math, right? We run the numbers. And I'm the type of guy that likes to do that. And Phillips says not it's not possible. There's no way we can feed everyone. Even if we had enough, it wouldn't be enough. But then another disciple, Andrew Simon, Peter's brother, said unto him, verse 8 and verse 9, There's a lad here. Which have five five barley loaves and two small fish, but what are they among so many? I don't know about you, and I don't know the heart of Andrew here, but I sense kind of some sarcasm. If you read the book of Mark and the book of Matthew, the same story, Jesus asked the disciples, What have you? What do we have? We have some some they had some type of accounting system. We know that from from other portions of the New Testament. Judas with the bag of money and they had their needs where they had to get that somewhere and certainly uh the disciples were thinking We're not we're not giving up ours. If we did, it wouldn't be enough. There's a there's a boy here. I saw he had a pretty pretty big lunch. You know, he supersized it and he got uh five loaves and two fish. Uh but Can you sense the sarcasm there? I mean that's not really a that's a pragmatic answer. Philip gave a practical, he did the math, but here's this kind of sarcastic, pragmatic, hey, well, all we have is two fish and five loaves, that's not enough. Well what's that among so many people? Jesus says, bring it to me. Now we don't have the conversation, but I can imagine in my mind's eyes as the disciples were sent to this young boy, and they said, Can we have your lunch? I don't know very many young boys are willing to give up their lunch, do you? Two fish and five loaves. Certainly a good meal for a young boy, but not enough. Let alone for Jesus and his disciples, let alone that whole crowd there that day of over 5,000. But the sacrifice that he was willing to make, that one young boy, when Jesus took it. We know the story. We don't have. He blessed it. He gave it back to the disciples to distribute it. And then I love what happens at the end. This story has always made me wonder. At the end, the The leftovers. Let's read about that. The leftovers that were there in verses 12 and 13 It says, and when they were filled, okay, everyone's filled, now they're full, he said unto the disciples, gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Therefore, they gathered them together and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of five barley loaves which remained over and above them that they had eaten. You get that? Now I'm not too smart of a guy, but I don't think two fish and five barley loaves can fill 12 baskets. So what happened here? Not only was there a multiplication of what was sacrificed, but what was left over was more than what they began with. I think we're together on that, right? That's pretty pretty basic math here. Two fish, five barley loaves, given to Jesus, blessed, multiplied, distributed, you have more left over than what you started with. And that's the principle of sacrifice. When we sacrifice, the blessing is always more than the sacrifice. Jesus himself said what? It's more blessed to what? To give than to receive. And as I look at our lives as missionaries, as I look at the examples that I've seen in our ministry. People who are willing to sacrifice the blessings that go along with that sacrifice way outnumber, way outweigh any sacrifice that we can even calculate. Sometimes as missionaries, people will mention that to us. Oh, you're sacrificing so much, and you're in a foreign country, and wow, I don't know if I could ever do that and make the sacrifices you've made. Listen, folks, The blessings we've received from the little amount of sacrifice we've made totally outweigh any number of sacrifice. The only really sacrifice I can think of right here standing before you is Chick-fil-A. All right. Only sacrifice. No, listen, there's there are some sacrifices. But Jesus promised. Those who are willing to leave lands and mother and father and children for my name's sake will in this life and in the life to come receive hundredfold Listen, I stand before you not don't feel sorry for us. We are blessed. God has blessed us beyond measure, beyond what we deserve, certainly beyond what we have sacrificed. All we had to offer were two loaves and or two fish and five loaves. But God has taken that. He's blessed us. He's given it back to us to distribute to others. And what has remained, not just in this life, but in our life to come, I believe, will be far greater than what we've ever sacrificed. But most Christians are very practical, very pragmatic, just like the disciples here, and say, you know If we do that, we've got to look at the bottom line. If we do that, that'd be a really radical thing to do, to feed 5,000 people, when we don't even know how we're going to do it. But the test was still there. The question is still being answered or asked by Jesus this morning. What do you have? That was the question to the disciples. What do you have? What are we going to do? And a lot of times we can try to do the math and give a practical answer, perhaps look at your own life. Look at the church and say, it's not worth it. It doesn't add up But God wants to prove your faith this morning. What mountain of sacrifice is he asking from you? It might not be a financial thing. It wasn't based on what they did not have. It was based on what they did have. And God will never ask you to give what you don't have. It's impossible to give what you don't have. But God is asking you to sacrifice what you do have. Sometimes what we do have is not the money or the possessions. You know our most valuable thing you have? It's your time. It's your energy, your resources, how you decide to spend those things, the time you've been given. There's no rich or poor when it comes to time. We've all been given 24 hours. And it's how we spend that time. There's abilities and gifts and talents that you've been given by God through the Holy Spirit, spiritual gifts, talents and abilities. We saw this morning, people playing instruments, singing. Whatever it is God has given you and blessed you with, can you use it more for Him? Could you sacrifice the time that's needed The energy that's needed. I was encouraged yesterday. Natalie was with the ladies here and see some of the men of the church doing some work around the church. God bless you for that. Probably could have hired a company to come do that, but to see men in the church out out working and out again, I'm not I don't I don't know the procedure or what's going on, but Praise the Lord for those who are willing, this church, to sacrifice. We've got them in Tanzania as well. We held our first missions conference. We weren't sure how we're going to pull it off. Here we are a missionary-led church, right? We and we want to do missions. And so we had our first missions conference. We invited uh two at that time church planners because there was Not this third fellow that is sent out to Mosambi, but here was two guys wanting to preach the gospel, wanting to start churches, and they were sent from their churches and I knew the churches, they were good churches, good Baptist churches, and we able to partner with them and And say, yeah, why don't you stand we're gonna have our first missions conference? But I didn't want to pay for it. I didn't want I didn't want myself, Steve, to pay for this thing to go off. I wanted the church to be able to host this conference. Well that meant bus fare for these guys to get there and and making sure their housing and their lodging and all that was taken care of. And Those of you who've organized events like this, you know it's not, it just doesn't happen. It takes some a little bit of money. And the church was just getting by, you know, it didn't have a lot of extra. So I decided we're just going to put some offering Uh we have a box. We put an offering box in the front there every service, you know, Sunday through Wednesday. We'll just see what happens. I didn't know it was gonna happen. It got down to the last day and there wasn't even enough to get these guys back home. So I was tempted, you know, well I I had enough, you know, as the missionary, as the foreigner, we had just dished out the money and been over and say, okay, we learned our lesson, we're not there yet. But on the last day of the missions conference, a lady who literally lives in a mud hut, grass roof, no electricity. Doesn't even really speak a whole lot of Swahili, so I'm not really sure even what she's understanding in our services. She still speaks the tribal language. Problems enough. And she has one older son, grown man, who's got mental problems that I can't even go into explaining this morning. Her husband is a drunk. Has nothing, literally nothing. Walks two hours to our church. Walks. Carrying or tied up two goats bringing to the missions conference, wanting to, this to be her offering. Now there is other people in our church that have a lot more than this lady. There's other people in our church that could have taken care of the bus fare and taken care of the budget of the missions conference, work at banks. work as teachers in our own school, plenty of other people that I would suspect I would have met the need But brings these two goats, and of course, you can't climb a goat and go back home on the goat, right? We had to make these goats turn into cash. And so we were able to keep the goats and the church was able to sell the goats and one of those we kept one goat and the goats actually had twins. So there it is, your offering reproducing itself again, just like in this story, we see the offering that was given, that was sacrificed, is more than the initial offering that was actually given. And these baby goats, you know, and then one died, but then there's now there's two instead of the one that was given. It's just a miracle, the story that happened. And God provided. Now, someone who walks two hours to go to church, and I'm not trying to make you feel guilty this morning, I'm telling you an honest story from our ministry that has literally nothing. Didn't even have money. That's why she brought goats, because she didn't have money. So she brought the two goats as her offering, and God blessed it. And the sacrifice that was given was able to not only meet the need, but it's continuing to be a blessing in our ministry, that initial offering. What is it as God is asking you to sacrifice? It might not be goats. You might say, I don't have any goats, so I'm oh man, my conscience don't bother me. Listen, it might be your time. It might be a talent that God's blessed you with. It might be financial, I don't know. But certainly, God is still calling us to sacrifice. In the Christian life. What have you sacrificed? What lesson is God trying to teach you through this mountain of sacrifice? And lastly, as I close, real quickly, the mountain of service. These verses your pastor already read in Matthew chapter 28. Thanks for reading those pastors. You helped me this morning by setting the stage here. But that last command, Matthew 28, it happened on a mountain. And that's what we'll call the mountain of service. They're the mountain of separation, the mountain of sacrifice, and the mountain of service It all happened on the mountain. Jesus climbed this mountain after he had been buried and risen again. He meets with his disciples. Not only does he Does he uh call them to this mountain? But if you read earlier on, you can write this scripture down in Luke chapter 6. Uh these were the disciples were called to be disciples on a mountain. He went up to a mountain to pray, spent all night in prayer, and in the morning came Jesus called his disciples to himself, and he chose twelve to be apostles. and he sent them out. He empowered them to do the ministry that he was going to do. But here at the end of his ministry, before he goes back to heaven, he climbs the mountain again and he meets his disciples there if you look in Matthew chapter 28 and verse 16. It says the eleven disciples went away into Galilee into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. There's eleven now. We know what happened with the other, Judas. He's no longer with them. He's betrayed Christ. And so there was a mountain that had already been appointed to his disciples. So I'm going to meet you there on that mountain. I like to think it was that same mountain that He met with God at the same mountain that he provided for the 5,000, perhaps, or the same mountain that he called his disciples the first time too. But in any case, here they were up on the mountain in verse 17 it says, and when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. Which one are you on the mountain of service? Are you the one that worships, that believes that Jesus is the risen Christ? Or do you still have those doubts in your heart saying, you know. I'll do the Sunday thing and I'll do my offering and be a good Christian and check all the boxes, but that's about it. There were some that were still having struggles in their faith. They are looking at the risen Lord. They had touched him, eaten with him, saw him crucified, spent three years with him. But still some are doubting. And how it is in our Christian life. No matter how many times we see God provide, no matter how many times we've been walking with the Lord, no matter how many times He's proven himself to us. We can still have that doubt in our heart time and time again. Some believed, some worshiped, but some doubted. But he says to all in verse 18, removes their doubt by saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. I'm now the risen Lord. I've conquered the cross. I've conquered sin. I've conquered death. And I've been given all power in heaven and earth now by the Father. The result of being given all power, as your pastor already read and explained, was to go. Go, ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. And lo, I'm with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. The mountain of service. is a mountain that we're still climbing as missionaries in Tanzania. I explained earlier, we're about Without knowing the Lord's will and the future, I feel that we're about halfway up the mountain that God's given us to climb. A lot has been accomplished, but we have a lot further to go. What about the mountain of service that God has given to you? It might not be going across all the world. Acts 1. 8 says, be ye witnesses in Jerusalem. Judea, Samaria, the other most parts. It starts right here at home. Maybe your mission field is those that you're working with, those in your neighborhood, those in your school. A family member that's lost, a neighbor that's searching. Going to all the world doesn't necessarily mean all the way across the world, it just might be across the street, the next cubicle. The next house over or behind. Service. You don't have to be a foreign missionary to be involved in sharing the gospel. Called to go, called to serve. That's a calling that He's put on each and every one of us. Summits to go a little bit further, to a little bit more specific area. But our job is still the same, just as your pastor said. Their job, the mission, the commission that was being given to us as missionaries is the same that's been given to you as a local church, same that's been given to you as a believer here. The mountain of service. It's not an easy one to climb. Lots of valleys. Lots of hardships. But just as when I climbed Mount Kilimanjaro back in November, I had a guide that showed me the way. Praise the Lord, we have a guide. That's there. Just as I climbed Mount Kilimanjaro and I had seven guys that were with me helping carry everything we needed for that week's climb. Our clothes, our food, our water, and yep, even our toilet. There are those that God has placed in our lives to help us carry the burden as we climb. Good Christian friends, fellow church members. Leaders in the church, pastors, relatives, brothers and sisters in Christ that will help climb with us and carry that burden. You're not alone. This church isn't alone. You're not alone in the climb in the mountains of the Christian life. What mountain is it God wanting you to climb this morning? I know I've gone a little bit over, but I just want to Stay here at the conclusion. Is it the mountain of separation? Maybe you just need time alone with the Lord this week. Maybe you need special time alone with the Lord today. Climb that mountain Be alone with God. Separate from others the distractions. Maybe it's the mountain of sacrifice. Maybe you're looking at what you have and saying, oh, this isn't enough. Would you be willing to sacrifice it to the Lord? For him to bless it, to multiply it, and I guarantee you the blessings that will remain will be more than the sacrifice that you made Or perhaps it's the mountain of service. There's a special service, there's a special ministry that God's calling to you. It could be that you're even here as a young person or even as an older person here this morning. And you say, you know, I feel God is tugging on my heart not just this morning but for a long time, to surrender to service, to serve him with my life. Perhaps as a missionary, perhaps as a pastor, perhaps as an evangelist, whatever it is that God, you just feel like God is calling you, just like he called those disciples, to go and to do with your life. And What we associate with full-time ministry, perhaps there's someone here this morning that God is calling you to climb that mountain. Whatever mountain it is. that God's calling you to climb. Will you bow your heads? Will you close your eyes with me this morning as we contemplate, as we ask God to show us and to give us the courage, the strength to climb those mountains that He's called us to do? You've heard God's word this morning. You've perhaps spoken to your heart about an area of the Christian life that hasn't been going so good. Although you're the one climbing, there is a guide, there is others that are there to help you. We ask God to. Show you the mountain that you need to climb and the courage to climb it, the strength that you need. Sometimes it's just a step in front of another one. You might not know the whole way. You might not know what's up above in the path. You just know the very next step you need to take. Will you be willing to take that first step of faith and climbing that mountain that God has put in front of you? Don't have a practical response this morning. Don't have a pragmatic response this morning. Looking at doing the math. It's not going to help your faith.