Well, it's great to be with you this morning, and it's especially great because my church is canceled. You know, we have over two hundred and fifty, so we didn't have a choice. Of course they're having an online uh message and an online service, but uh personally I don't know about you, but I prefer to uh Be in person. I don't know. Maybe it's just me. Of course, I uh I teach both online and in person, and I much prefer in-person teaching. And I actually find that, and I don't know if it's the same person or not, I wonder how many Gil Vargases there are in the world. Anyway, if it's the same one, he's taking Hebrew from me, and so he can tell you in two weeks when he preaches here of the horrors of taking Hebrew with me. I mean the joys of taking Hebrew with me. But Hebrew is not easy. So you can pray for Gil and the other folks that are in that class. That class is in uh is part of the Master's Seminary DC extension uh in Virginia. So I teach there every Thursday and again we're a small group, so I don't think we're gonna get canceled. In fact, if we got canceled at that location, I think I'd find another location. so that we could still uh meet. Um this of course has uh this uh virus has uh affected everything and um Some somebody mentioned me, well, you know, you love baseball and what's going on with that? Well that's probably the least of our concerns. We had a trip scheduled for Romania where I was gonna teach the old testament prophets uh uh in uh in in early April and uh that uh as of Wednesday night in that uh uh travel ban uh that ended up uh being uh canceled as well. In one sense, I was glad because my dear wife has had one health issue after another since um Since I last uh uh spoke here, I think I was getting I I had gotten over the shingles by the time I came here, but then she got the flu And she had tooth problems, needed a tooth extraction that got postponed because of course she had the flu. And then uh uh Um she finally had that done, had some other uh tooth um uh tooth work done and and then that same week ended up uh um and that was two weeks ago, ended up we ended up in the emergency room because she She had sharp pains, etc. She had kidney stones. So she has had an exciting time. So I am pretty happy in that sense because I didn't know how I was going to convince her. that she wasn't well enough to go. And you husbands and wives, you understand how this works. Um so I wasn't sure, you know, whether i this was one of those rare times in my marriage where I actually exercised you know, some strong authority. By the way, husbands, do that what? Sparingly, very sparingly, would be my advice. Mm. That's just my advice. And I I'm not getting ma many amens from that. So uh well uh yeah, okay. And some of you have been married longer than than uh than than I have, so maybe you know better, but I'm telling you, uh it's wisest to consult your wife in everything. And uh that's usually works out very well. Well, in in light of all of these uh concerns of the past month and a half, and especially the last week, the last uh four or five days, I find it rather ironic that the last time that I was with you, which was the end of December, uh I entitled the message A new year free of fear. You remember that message? Of course I had no idea of the kind of fear and turmoil that would arise in weeks through follow and so whether uh uh you're fearful of the I don't know your the the stock market, the uh the the uh getting you sick and everything If you're fearful of the future, well, I encourage you to re-listen to that message, which was focused on God knowing everything. And not only does that God uh Um not only does God know and direct the past, the present, and the future, but he loves us and he promises to redeem us if we simply trust what Christ has already done for us. So we as believers should not fear anything, including death, because Hebrews 2, verses 14 and 15 remind us that Christ shared in our human flesh and blood. blood, that through death he might destroy him who has the power of death, that is the devil, and release those who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. You and I, if we've truly trusted in Christ, shouldn't fear death, because when we die we will be united with Christ. Um probably I remember years ago. I never had a favorite verse until that moment. I decided I better this is the president, I mean, uh you know, and uh I better come up with a favorite verse. And the first one that came to my mind was for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. So from that day on, that has been my the favorite verse. We have nothing to fear. Um I'm I understand the process and everything. Uh dying is a horrible thing. It's it it it it it is not something Of course, it goes back to Genesis 3, but we uh will have a new resurrection body, and what a joy that is if we've trusted in Christ. Well If you recall, and you probably don't, in my last message, I explained that a key support for my statement that God knows and directs the future was the predictive prophecy in the book of Isaiah, especially the prophecy about the Messiah, and culminating in the servant passages in Isaiah 42 through 53. And in fact, of course, there are messianic prophecies throughout the book. If you remember, and I know you probably don't remember this, back in the summer uh fall of twenty eighteen. I know most of us can't remember past last week if then uh but I I preached we preached on uh three of those passages depicting the Messiah primarily as the king and the deliverer. Isaiah 7. 14 and 8. 8-10 predicting the deliverer's birth, prophesying that Emmanuel would be born of a virgin. Second, Isaiah 9, 1-7, predicting both his birth and his righteous reign. And finally, Isaiah 11. prophesying of of Messiah's future righteous reign of peace, where the wolf and the lamb will live together and as Isaiah 11. 9 says, the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord. as the waters cover the sea. Isn't that amazing? You know, as fast as you see the coronavirus spreading, just think the earth will be Spreading and filled with the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. I don't see that as hyperbole. I see that as something that is going to happen. in the future. And all of these passages speak of the Messiah as deliverer and king. But there's a second set of passages in the latter half of the book. that speak of the obedience of the Messiah, not as a king, but as a servant And these passages eloquently speak of the servant's mission, his obedience, his suffering, and his death. And that's what I want to focus on this morning. Instead of focusing on our fears or our current circumstances, you and I need to focus on the work of our Savior who has delivered us from all of our fears. And so we'll take a brief look at the first three servant passages and and and know the message is not going to be two hours long. But uh Uh it may be I don't know how how long is your message usually I'm not even gonna ask that question. Uh but we're gonna spend the bulk of our time on Isaiah fifty three, which is uh And frankly, one of the most amazing prophecies in the entire Old Testament. Well, um, as I'm quite sure you remember And at least I hope you do. Uh Isaiah prophesied of the fall both of the northern kingdom to Assyria, which happened in his lifetime. And then in chapter 39, Isaiah prophesied the fall and captivity of the southern kingdom, Judah, to Babylon. which happened in 586 BC, at least a hundred years after the prophetic ministry of Isaiah. And in chapters 40 to 66, he prophesies of Israel's deliverance in two stages: the near-term, partial deliverance, and the long-term, ultimate deliverance. First, Isaiah prophesies of Israel's return from captivity through the Persian king Cyrus, who permitted the Jews to return to Jerusalem when he took over in 539 BC. Now critics of the Bible go crazy over this prophecy, so I really enjoy it, I'm sorry, because in Isaiah 44, 28 and Isaiah 40. five one Isaiah mentions the name of King Cyrus. He mentions him by name. But fulfilled biblical prophecy, such as the specific prediction of Cyrus, demonstrates that God is sovereign and that the message of his word given through the prophets is accurate in every respect. And in reality, as I said in our message in December, the prediction of Cyrus allowing the Jews to return in 539 BC is only what I call exhibit A. the prologue to a far greater act of deliverance that Isaiah prophesies. Exhibit B, if you will, is the act of deliverance and restoration of Israel through the work of the Messiah. And Isaiah speaks of the Messiah as a servant in these four passages we're going to focus on in Isaiah 42, 49, 50, and 53. And as I mentioned, I will only highlight a few things from the first three servant passages and then go into a bit more depth in the last and climactic servant passage in Isaiah 53. Well, the first servant passage, Isaiah 42, 1-9, introduces the servant who brings justice to the world. The servant who brings justice to the world. The Lord introduces the servant in verse 1, stating that he has put his spirit upon him, and then giving the servant's mission. He will bring forth justice to the Gentiles. Not just to the Jews, but to the whole world. Who is the one that could accomplish this? No one in history, that's for sure, other than Jesus Christ Verses 2 to 4 speak of the humble nature of the servant, which is highlighted in the New Testament in Matthew 12, 17-21, which quotes these verses. but also the fact in verse 4 that he won't get discouraged until he has established justice on the earth And this isn't just the king of one nation. He's the ruler of the whole world. And with that emphasis on justice, he sounds remarkably like the messianic child king of Isaiah 9 and the ruler of Isaiah 11 in the first part of the book. The servant's mission is highlighted again in verses 6 and 7. He will be given as a covenant to the people, that is, Israel, and also as a light to the Gentiles. So the servant's ministry is to Jew and Gentile alike. I happen to be teaching in another. uh a Bible class that I teach every week. I I'm teaching through the Gospel of Luke. And I have to tell you, week after week, Well, one of the things the Pharisees objected to the most was that Jesus was reaching out to Gentiles. And they were saying, he shouldn't be doing this. Um so and and I'm uh and I'm thinking, well of course he should be. This was prophesied in the Old Testament and you guys were supposed to be experts. I like to call the Pharisees the seminary professors of the day. I just Have a little fun with that because in fact most seminary professors are not um guardians of the truth as you would wish uh them to be. Thankfully some are, but uh many are not. They're frankly. I I call them modern-day Pharisees. They uh claim that somehow the Bible is too hard for the average person to understand. Oh, really? I don't think so. I don't think you need a PhD to understand John 3. 16. I mean, maybe that's just me. Regardless. Uh these folks they they thought they were so smart, but they objected to one of the things that uh Christ made abundantly clear. He came for Jew and Gentile alike. Look at the book of Acts, in fact, and the spread of the gospel. Look at Peter's reluctance even in the beginning. So you can see how all this worked out. This was something they should have understood. How how should they have understood it? From passages such as Isaiah 42. I'd better watch out with these extrapolations, or the message will be two hours long. So you can hope that I'll hurry it up a little Anyway, think about this. Isaiah is a prophet of Israel who is prophesying that the Messiah won't just deliver Israel, but the Gentiles as well. Verse 7 of chapter 42 explains that his ministry will be to open the blind eyes, which Jesus certainly did in a physical sense while he was here on earth. But the ultimate fulfillment will be in his millennial reign. Well, the second servant passage, Isaiah 49, I believe verses 1 through 13 uh speaks further of the mission of the servant. The mission of the servant, which is salvation to the world. Here the servant himself speaks, again pointing out in verses 1 and 2 his humble origin and his dependence upon the Lord. But in verse 4, we see a new theme introduced, that of the servant's discouragement in fulfilling his task. He says, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nothing, and in vain. He quickly says that he's going to leave the results to the Lord. I think this is a fantastic lesson uh for us and uh be I I mean I love vr verses like this because if sometimes Jesus got discouraged, well, then sometimes what? We do too. We shouldn't be so surprised. The answer is not to give up, but rather to look to the Lord for the results, not whether people are following us or not. Um I have uh uh often said, at least privately, and now it's gonna be publicly, but uh I um one of the things that I don't uh uh uh uh really uh would scare me about being a pastor, which of course I've thought about from uh entering seminary uh uh all the way through is being uh uh being there in a church preaching week by week, week after week after week and seeing what? No change. No change whatsoever. And you know, preaching my heart out and what? Zero change. Um now uh I I'm simply saying that would for me be discouraging. It's tough enough when I'm teaching uh online at Liberty and there's twenty-one students, five of them whom I don't know how in the world they could possibly have been admitted, there may be four or five of them that are really fine really getting it, and most of the rest of them somewhere in between. And I'm wondering I spent two hours per paper grading these papers, and I'm thinking, do they spend like three seconds looking at them? Because there doesn't seem to be any change in the next paper. But what am I going to do? I'm going to be faithful. And yes, if I'm preaching, if I'm the pastor of a church, I'm going to be faithful and proclaim that message. But, you know, you could pray for your pastor and all those because perhaps uh they might want to see what. Just a little bit more change. Well, the servant, the same way. He thought, uh in one sense, he said, it's in dame, but then he says he's not going to give up And then the Lord explains the servant's mission clearly in verses 5 and 6. Sounds exactly like 42. He says it's too trifling a thing for the servant. simply to restore Israel, I will also give you as a light to whom? The Gentiles, that you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth What a mission. The servant would provide God's salvation to the world. And verse 7 indicates that while men and the nation of Israel might despise the servant, ultimately the servant would be exalted. Kings will see and arise, princes also will worship. And I believe verses eight to thirteen further describe the servant's work in restoring Israel and being a light to the Gentiles in the millennium. Well, in the third servant passage in Isaiah 50, verses 4 to 11, the emphasis is on the obedience of the servant despite persecution. The obedience of the servant despite persecution. Just as in the second servant passage, the servant himself speaks. He emphasizes in verse 4 his complete and utter obedience to whatever the Lord told him to do. He says, He awakens me morning by morning. He awakens my ear to hear as the learned. I always ask myself, am I that sensitive to the w will of the Lord that every day I say, Lord, help me to do what you want me to do? I do that a lot of days. But I don't always do that every day. Uh and that's exactly what the servant does. I remember in college um being uh uh studying through the Gospel of John, and what I just could not believe and I saw for the first time so clearly is that Christ did nothing apart from what the Father told him to do. He's the Son of God. He had all authority and all power, but what did he do? He did what the Father told him to do. Now, if I'm Jesus I'm just think about it for a second. If I'm Jesus, I'm gonna say, you know, I think I can branch out on my own a little bit. After all, look at who I am, look at my pedigree. I mean, come on. There's nobody like me. I'm going to sort of wing it. He never winged it. Isn't that amazing? What about us? We sometimes think we're smarter than God. We don't put it that way, of course not, especially not here in church, but we we do and we act that way We say, okay, well, I don't like this. I'm gonna do it my way. And that usually doesn't work out very well, does it? Okay, so in in verse four He awakens me morning by morning. He awakens my ear to hear as the learned verse 5. He says he wasn't rebellious, and we see in verse 6 why he might have been rebellious because he underwent physical persecution for following the will of the Lord. I gave my back to those who struck me, my cheeks to those who pluck out the beard. I did not cover my face from humiliation and spitting. Literally, this happened at the time of Jesus' arrest and trial and crucifixion. The opposition that was hinted at in the previous servant passage is now fully expressed. The servant expresses confidence. in verses 7 through 9 that the Lord will help him. So he is not ultimately worried about those who condemn and mock him. He says, He is near who justifies me. Who will contend with me? Let us stand together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near me. Surely the Lord God will help me. Who is he who will condemn me? Indeed, they all will grow old like a garment. The moth will eat them up. And of course, Paul uses that in that wonderful passage in uh Romans uh Romans 8, uh, to say, well, gee, if if God is not going to condemn us, who is there left to condemn us? The answer is no one And that then brings us to the fourth servant passage, Isaiah 53, the most amazing passage of them all. The fourth servant's passage speaks of the suffering, death, and exaltation of the servant. The suffering, death, and exaltation of the servant. It actually begins in Isaiah 52, 13, and it consists of five stanzas of three verses each Franz Dalitz wrote the following about Isaiah 53. He says, it's the most central, the deepest, and the loftiest thing that the Old Testament prophecy, outstripping itself, has ever achieved. This passage so clearly points to Christ that Jewish leaders prior to the time of Christ almost unanimously viewed it as referring to the Messiah. But today the passage isn't read in the synagogues. It's not in the annual cycle of readings. They skip, right, from Isaiah 52. 12 to 54. 1. I'm not making this up. Now it's in their Bibles, right? It's in their Bibles, but they but it's not in their readings. And the reason is quite clear. They don't want some young uh uh Jewish boy asking, uh, Rabbi, what's going on here? You know, what's going on? Well, who is this speaking of? It's impossible to ascribe the work and the suffering described here to a group or any individual known in history other than the Lord Jesus Christ. It's one of the most amazing predictive prophecies of the suffering and death of Christ in the whole Old Testament. And altogether, nine uh I'm sorry, seven New Testament passages state that Isaiah 53 is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. You can email me and I'll give you the seven. Or you can just what? Search them out for yourself even better. So but it's in Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, and First Peter. Those are the seven. So that gives you a head start. You don't have to look in Revelation So let's look at this glorious passage. The first section in 52, 13 to 15 provides a good summary of the entire passage. And it speaks of the servant's suffering and exaltation. The Lord introduces his servant directly with the word, behold. And it's the same one that introduced the prophecy, if you remember, of the virgin birth in Isaiah 7. 14. And it indicates that something important is going to be announced God says that his servant will deal wisely. These three verbs are used of the servant indicating his exaltation. He shall be raised. He shall be lifted up, and he shall be very high. The same first two verbs were used of God in Isaiah 6, verse 1. And it's interesting that in John 12. 41, after quoting from Isaiah 6. 1, he says, Isaiah said these things when he saw Jesus' glory. The picture is that of total uh exaltation of the servant, similar to that described of Christ in the New Testament pat in the New Testament, in passages such as the one, and I didn't ask for this, but I was quite happy about it. uh in uh such as in Philippians chapter two, verses nine to eleven, which uh was read this morning. The next verse, verse 14, brings the servant from the height of exaltation to the depths of suffering, which he will have to undergo before he is exalted. Those who viewed the servant were astonished at him because his appearance was so disfigured that nobody uh recognized him. He uh they couldn't uh uh even Imagine he didn't even look like a man, according to the end of verse 14. And that seems to be a clear reference to Christ's disfigurement when he was on the cross. The first part of verse 15 explains that it was in such a state of disfigurement that he would accomplish his sacrificial work. It says to sprinkle many nations. And uh I think that is the right translation. The verb sprinkle is used deliberately by Isaiah here. Because it speaks of the sacrificial atoning work of the servant, the Passover Lamb of God, who sprinkles many nations with his atoning blood. Even though many did not understand who he was, and they belittled him, ultimately, uh the passage says, kings would be astonished too, but astonished because they were in awe of him. And the reason for the king's amazement, Isaiah explains, is that they would see something which had not been told them, and understand something that they had not previously heard. Well, following that introductory stanza in 52, 13 to 15, Isaiah begins a more lengthy treatment of the same theme. In the second stanza, in chapter 53, verses 1 to 3, the servant's lowly origin and rejection are emphasized. His lowly origin and his rejection. Isaiah begins with two rhetorical questions. Who is believed what we've been just saying? Because it's so amazing. And to whom has the Lord's arm been revealed? The answer to both questions is given in the next two verses. Very few indeed would believe what Isaiah was saying because they would not receive him. The arm of the Lord would be revealed to some people, but they wouldn't understand or perceive it. John 12, 37 and 38 records the fulfillment of this verse in the life and ministry of the Lord. It says, although he had done so many signs before them, they did not believe in him, that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke, Lord, who has believed a report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? It almost seems in verse one that Isaiah is wondering at the marvel, uh uh I'm sorry, marveling at the wonder of his own prophecy, just as as he penned it in 52, 13 to 15, and further explained in the following verses. Who indeed would believe such a thing? And tragically the answer is not very many. Not in Jesus' day and not even in our day. Verse 2 explains why a few, uh why very few would discern the strength and the power of the servant by emphasizing his lowly origins. He is a root out of a dry ground, with very little promise of amounting to anything in man's eyes. I always like to think about this. is uh the people who make the cover of a Time magazine Person of the Year or whatever your favorite whatever is, I don't know, these days it's a blog or it's a who knows what. But regardless Uh the the people th that uh uh that folks today think are important versus let's just say people that are ministering uh day after day, year after year, um in foreign lands in in difficult circumstances. One of my um Uh the seminary uh classmates in fact is just uh finishing uh a 45-year uh ministry in Nigeria where they don't get uh they don't get electricity much of the day. Uh they forget internet. They don't get electricity much of the day and all kinds of things like that. And uh uh and the same thing for people that are ministering uh here in this country. Um So many people are being faithful and ministering. You don't see them in the papers. You don't see them in the headlines because they're simply doing. uh the Lord's work. Um so he is uh uh Jesus is a root out of a dry ground. Very little promise of amounting uh to anything. And the mention of a root recalls that prophecy in Isaiah eleven one that we looked at uh a while ago now, there shall come forth a rod from the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of its roots. And these two great prophecies, one of a messianic king and the other of a suffering servant, are so closely linked, this royal king would have a humble origin. And of course, we know he's born where? In Jerusalem? Uh place of a king? No. In Bethlehem The remaining portion of verse 2 emphasizes there's nothing of outward form or any splendor, majesty, or outward appearance that would catch people's eye in delight. The Savior didn't come in outward form as a royal king, but rather as an inconspicuous child. And certainly, as we've already said, the birth of Christ in a lowly stable at Bethlehem is surely a fulfillment of this prophecy Verse 3 speaks of the servant's active rejection by men. In both the beginning and the end of the verse, the verb, he is despised, is used The servant is despised and rejected by men, even though he is a man just as they are. But he is a man of pains, both physical and spiritual, and one who knows sickness. Because of this, Isaiah says, we hid our faces from him. He was despised, and we did not esteem him. The fulfillment of this verse in the light of our Lord is made clear in John 1, verses 10 and 11. He was in the world, and the world was made through him. But the world did not know him. He came unto his own, and his own did not receive him. Men in Jesus' day didn't recognize his worth. And as I said already tragically, most people today don't recognize his worth either. In many ways. This third stanza in verses 4 to 6 is the most amazing of all, and I think it's the climactic one. It's the third one of five. It's right in the center of this wonderful servant passage. Here, the servant's substitutionary death is vividly portrayed. Verse 4 begins with the emphatic particles, surely, to emphasize and to set off the truths that are to follow In close connection with the emphasis in the previous verse on how the servant knew pain and sickness, Isaiah says that in fact the Savior for our sicknesses and carried our pains. But what was our response to that? We on our part uh actually rewarded him by considering him stricken smitten by God and afflicted. In other words, though he bore our sicknesses, we not only didn't recognize what he did, We considered his affliction to be the punishment of God for his own sins. In the New Testament, Matthew 8, 17 speaks of the miracles done by Christ as a partial fulfillment. of Isaiah 53, 4. But that's only a partial fulfillment for the work of Christ to have its full effect on our physical ailments. And it doesn't matter whether it's coronavirus or anything else, right? We await the second coming of the king, the millennial reign, and ultimately the eternal state. where there will be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying, and there shall be no more pain. Revelation 21, 4 And those who teach from this verse that the atonement takes away all our physical ailments are missing the primary thrust of this passage. the spiritual healing of sin. Verse 5 further explains how the servant bore our griefs and carried our sorrows, and how the servant was afflicted. And uh it says he himself was pierced through for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities, the chastisement for our peace was upon him, and by his stripes there is healing for us. Three points stand out clearly in all four of these phrases. First of all, he suffered greatly. Second, we sinned. And third, most glorious of all, that his suffering provided healing, peace, and forgiveness for all of our sins The verse the first verb in this verse, sometimes translated wounded, really speaks of one who is pierced, usually by the sword. That's why I said pierced through. The next verb crushed. also indicates death. And the peace, which is shalom, you may be familiar with that word. The peace spoken of in the second part of the verse is a total state of well-being. brought about by the reconciliation of God and man through the Prince of Peace, going back to Isaiah 9. 6 Even the stripes of his beating are spoken of in the last phrase. And this suffering and death accomplished healing for us. not simply physical healing, but as the context of the verse clearly indicates, spiritual healing for our transgressions. And our iniquities. And all of this was fulfilled by the suffering and the death of our Lord on the cross. This is an absolutely amazing biblical prophecy. No one, and boy have I read all kinds of attempted explanations um probably over a hundred, no one has been able to come up with any other fulfillment of this verse in history Verse 6 indicates more specifically why the servant had to suffer and die. And the verse begins and ends with all of us. What's so fascinating here? There's no way we can get out of this verse. I mean I want to get out of it, but I can't get out of it. I'm there at the beginning, I'm there at the end. All of us. All of us, the prophet says, are like sheep who have gone astray. and had turned our own way, rather than following the shepherd. Instead of our receiving our punishment, the Lord struck him with all our iniquity. He received the punishment for our sin. In Old Testament terminology, he was the scapegoat for our sin, Leviticus 16, 21. And 1 Peter 2, 24 and 25 makes it clear that Jesus is the fulfillment of these verses. who himself bore our sin in his own body on the tree, that we, having died to sin, might live to righteousness, by whose stripes you were healed. For you were like sheep going astray, but have now returned to the shepherd. and overseer of your souls. There's no verse in the Old Testament that is clearer on the substitutionary atonement of our Lord. He died for all of us in our place, when we should have been dead. He died instead. And please keep in mind, this prophecy was written over 700 years before Christ's birth. Well, the fourth standard, verses seven to nine, speaks of the servant's voluntary death. The servant's voluntary death Verse 7 especially speaks of his patient, passive acceptance of his unjust punishment. Though he was oppressed and afflicted, he didn't resist. Instead, as a lamb led to the slaughter, he did not open his mouth. He willingly did the Father's bidding. The word lamb here also reflects the sacrificial imagery of the Old Testament. as Christ, the sacrificial Passover Lamb of God, died for the sins of the whole world. Of course, John 1. 29. John the Baptist says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And 1 Corinthians 5, 7, Christ, our Passover Lamb, was sacrificed for us. This verse was literally fulfilled. When the Lord did not answer, if you remember, the charges of his accusers at his trial in Matthew 26, 63. Verse 8 speaks of the Lord's death And uh he was taken away in death from prison and judgment. Would he be left without a witness? Would anyone in his generation be able to meditate or consider why this man had to die, would they understand that he was cut off from the land of the living living and stricken for the transgressions of Israel? Verses 7 and 8 are cited in Acts chapter 8, verses 32 and 33 by the Ethiopian eunuch. I love the eunuch's question there. He rightly wondered whether the prophet could be speaking these words of himself or someone else. And so Philip then began at this scripture and preached Jesus to him. It is no wonder that he became saved. And who knows how many thousands of people, of whom the Ethiopian eunuch was the first, came to trust in Christ as a result of this passage. Verse 9 speaks of the Lord's burial. His grave was appointed with the wicked, but with a rich man at his death. The phrase indicates that even though he was crucified with the wicked, as we know in Matthew 27, 38, and so his body would normally have been assigned with the same common grave. uh as theirs. In the Saviour's case, when he died, he was buried in a rich man's tomb. This prophecy literally came true since though Jesus died with criminals and was assigned to be buried with them, wealthy Joseph of Arimathea. came after Jesus' death and asked Pilate for the body and buried Jesus in his own newly made tomb. In light of the fact that Jesus was crucified with two criminals and buried in the grave of one rich man, and I know I'm getting technical here, but I think it's fascinating. It's no Worthy that in Isaiah 53. 9, the term for wicked referring to the criminals is plural, but rich, referring to Joseph of Arimathea, is singular. And if your translation doesn't have that then you need a better translation because actually some don't but uh I think some do. So uh that's exactly what it says Some people act as if the two are synonymous. They're not synonymous at all. One is plural, one is singular, and it exactly fulfills what happened at the crucifixion of Christ. As one commentator well states, with what seemingly irrelevant details prophecy is sometimes concerned. Yet that which appears to be irrelevant virtue furnishes proof of the genuineness of the prophecy, there could be no accidental fulfillment of such a prediction as this The reason that the servant ended up being buried with the rich is given at the end of verse 9, because he had done no violence. Deceit was not in his mouth. The servant received a proper burial because his death was unjust. He had done no wrong. Well finally, the servant's ultimate exaltation forms the theme of the fifth and final section of this passage in 53, 10-12. The servant's ultimate exaltation. This exaltation, declared at the beginning of this section in 52. 13, would indeed take place, but only after the suffering and the death described in 53, 1 through 9 Verse 10 explains that though the servant had done no wrong, the Lord was pleased to crush him painfully. So the sir suffering and the death of the servant was not something that took God by surprise. or that was simply the product of evil men. Instead, God had planned it all. In the second part of verse ten, the idea is that though the servant would be a voluntary offering for sin, he would ultimately prevail. First, he would see his seed. That implies that he would live after death. Second, he would prolong his days. He would continue to live on even though he had died. And this phrase also points to life after death, and its fulfillment is seen in the post-resurrection ministry of Christ and in his present ministry. Ministry at the right hand of the Father. Finally, the Lord's pleasure would prosper in his hand Ultimately, the servant would cause the Lord's pleasure to prosper because the Lord's pleasure included the marvelous redemption that was accomplished by the offering of the servant and the servant's exaltation. And verse 11 further explains the results of the servant's substitutionary death for the sins of the people. And he says, as the result of the travail of his soul, the servant will see and he will be satisfied. He will be satisfied because he will justify many who come to know him through bearing their sins. So the gospel is clear. The servant bore our sins for us in order to provide justification. If We but come to know him. He has borne our iniquities, but we must accept the justification his death offers us by coming to know him personally. And as a result of the servant's redemptive work, the Lord states in the first person in verse twelve that He Himself will reward the servant by giving him a portion of the spoil among the great, and he in turn will share that spoil with the strong. The end of verse 12 states the reason for the servant's exaltation. He emptied out his soul unto death. He was numbered with the transgressors. He bore the sins of many, and he makes Intercession for the transgressors. It's very uh amazing that uh uh the servant not only voluntarily died as a sacrifice for sinners, dying in the midst of these transgressors, but he also makes intercession for these same transgressors. And while the first three ver verbs in verse 12 are in the perfect tense expressing completed action. The final verb is in the imperfect. And sometimes this is not correctly translated either. And that indicates a continuous action. He has died. He numbered himself with the transgressors. He has borne the sin of many, but he is still making intercession for the transgressors. And in the New Testament, Hebrews 7. 25 and Romans 8, 33 to 35 express this glorious truth. Hebrews 7. 25, he's also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, since he ever lives to make intercession for them. What a delight that we have a Savior who not only provided our salvation by dying on the cross, but who still intercedes for his people. And that includes you and me today. So that concludes our look at the suffering, death, and exaltation of the Messiah seen in these servant passages of Isaiah. These are not just general prophecies of some great leader. They are very specific prophecies concerning the global mission of the servant to bring justice and righteousness to the world. They prophesy of the suffering and death of the servant for our sins, and they prophesy of the servant's rejection by men, but his ultimate exaltation. And as uh we are, um, if you're if you follow a a church calendar, we're in the Lenten season and we as we approach Good Friday and then Easter Sunday in uh about uh three and a half weeks, four weeks from now. I would urge you to look at these passages again. You really have only two options concerning biblical prophecy, but especially concerning the prophecies that we have just looked at And that is, you can try to explain them away, as uh many modern Jewish interpreters do, and sadly uh others as well, by saying the servant is some idealized figure, or the nation of Israel itself. But then how can the mission of the servant be to restore Israel if Israel is the servant? It doesn't make any sense. How can a nation die for the individual sins of its people? Such an interpretation simply doesn't make sense. Or you can recognize, as the Ethiopian eunuch uh did once Philip explained Isaiah 53 to him, that this is an amazing prophecy. of the suffering and death of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, that he died in our place for our sins and rose again. And like that eunuch in Acts 8. 39, you can receive him. as your savior and go away rejoicing, which is what the text says there. It's your choice But the evidence is overwhelming. There is no reason for us to fear anything, for Christ has conquered death, and we can and should rejoice in all that He has done for us. Let us join with the angels in singing with a loud voice, as it says in Revelation 5. 12, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor. and glory and blessing. May God be praised for his amazing grace. Let's pray Heavenly Father, so easy for us sometime