I'd like to call your attention this morning to a very familiar passage of Scripture. The account of the announcement of the incarnation of the Lord Jesus Christ that's given to the shepherds. That's recorded for us in Luke chapter 2, beginning at verse 8. Luke chapter 2, beginning at verse 8. Now there were in the same country shepherds living out in the fields keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone round around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people. For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth peace, goodwill toward men. So it was when the angels had gone away from them into heaven That the shepherds said to one another, Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us. Let's look to the Lord once again in prayer. Our Father, we are grateful for the privilege of gathering this morning. We thank you for the words that we heard from your word Those prophetic words from Isaiah that every valley shall be exalted, every mountain and hill made low, the rough The crooked place is straight, the rough place is plain. Father, we thank you that at our Lord's first coming that he did indeed Look upon those who waited for his coming and looked for and longed for his coming with humility. Father, he exalted the valley of their humility. But yet there were those, Father, who were lifted up in mountains and hills of pride, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the teachers of the law. And he brought them low. He came, Father, we thank you, making crooked places straight and rough places plain. Stripping away the man-made regulations that had been piled on top of your holy and righteous and pure word The commandments and doctrines of men being taught as the commandments of God, which indeed they were not And we thank you that our Lord came to deal with that as well. That He pointed The people of Israel to the truth. That he said that he came not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it. We thank you, Father, that he did indeed fulfill your law perfectly. That he was qualified to be the perfect sacrifice for our sins and the perfect high priest to make that sacrifice. Lord, that is what this Christmas season is all about. Thank you for the grace that you have extended to us. Through the Lord Jesus Christ, through his incarnation, and especially through his death and burial and resurrection. We thank you in his name. Amen. The words that we read this morning, they're very familiar words to us at the Christmas season. Probably there aren't many of us at one point in our lives, perhaps longer ago, than we'd like to remember that we were in a Christmas program of one sort or another as small children where we had a part in the program of reciting some of these words I think the very first words that I ever had to do in a Christmas program were verse 11: For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And uh I had a tough time remembering even that much at that age. But I think sometimes because these words have become so familiar to us, we really don't stop and consider the meaning. and the importance of this account. This was the most stupendous announcement that was ever made to mankind. And I want to particularly call our attention this morning to verse. 13 and 14, and especially verse 14. Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth peace, good will toward men. What we have before us ultimately, as we shall see, is a proclamation of the triumph of the saints in Christ. But I would submit to you that for many people in this world, these are probably, and even many people in the church, these are probably among the most misunderstood words. In the Word of God. Men have tried over the centuries to apply these words to human efforts to make peace. These words have often been quoted by spiritual leaders and politicians for that purpose. Roughly a hundred years ago, World War I was being fought, and there were those who were looking forward to the establishment of the League of Nations, a a a world body to Bring peace, to make peace, to keep the peace. And Luke chapter 2 verse 14, if you go back and look at the historical record, that passage was quoted often. as a motivation. Especially the last part. Peace on earth. Good will toward men. Well what happened to the League of Nations in 20 years, 20 short years it failed? In that that was begun around 1919, 1920. By 1938, you had Chamberlain, the Prime Minister of England, going to Munich and meeting with Hitler. Chamberlain coming back from Munich with a piece of paper in his hand that he waved, and he said, I believe that this is peace in our time, a little agreement that he and Hitler had signed. A year later the world was at war. A horrible conflagration. After the war, the United Nations was begun. In five years' time, the United Nations had failed to keep the peace. We had the outbreak of war in Korea. We've had wars ever since in the Middle East, in southeastern Europe, in Latin America, in Africa, Asia, everywhere. There's never been a day in the history of man when there has been peace on earth goodwill toward men in the sense that the secularists and the religious liberals would have it. President Truman, when World War II ended, when the Japanese surrendered, he said this, he said, What a paradise this world would be. If we can use the energy of the atom bomb for peaceful purposes, how did that work out? Man has been trying and trying and trying to make peace on earth. And to compose goodwill among men. But the fact is that the Passage that we have before us this morning, the words that we're focusing on here, are not about the horizontal. They're not about peace and goodwill among men. They're about the vertical. They are about God reaching down to make peace with sinful man through the blood of Christ's cross. Sinful man cannot make peace with sinful man. He fails every time. Only God can make peace, and it can only be made on his terms. It's always important when we read the scriptures to ask questions, to make sure that we understand what God is saying to us. And we must always keep in mind that the scriptures explain themselves. And so with that in mind, as we look at these words this morning, I'd like to put before us three questions for us to consider together. First of all, Who were these angels? It's important to understand that. Who were these created beings who came? And second, why did they come and why a multitude of them? Why not just the one, but then a multitude with him? And thirdly, what was their message? And what was the significance of that message? For believers in Christ and also for unbelievers. What was the significance for the world at large as well as for those who are the Lord's? Well, let's consider each of these questions together. First of all, who were the angels who came down from heaven? And said these great words, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. Well, let me first of all tell you what they were not. They weren't greeting card angels. They weren't Hallmark or American greeting angels. They weren't precious moments angels. They weren't cartoon angels. They weren't the feminized misrepresentations of angels that we so often see in advertisements and in various Christmas displays and in works of art many times. These angels are not any of those things that Satan, the great deceiver, has put into the heart of man in place of God's truth about the angels of heaven. Who then were these angels? The angels, the answer is that they are an army. This is God's supernatural army. The term that's used in Luke chapter 2 is a military term. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host. And the force of the original language is much stronger. It's literally like this. And suddenly there was with the angel an innumerable company of supernatural beings composed of the ranks of the heavenly army. When William Tyndale in the 1500s translated the New Testament, that's how he rendered it. If you look at Tyndale's Bible, he said, And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly soldiers. That was how he translated this. The angelic army of God. And so we have the answer to our first question. Who are these angels? They are the supernatural army of God. And there are a multitude of them, a vast company. Why a multitude? Well, we see the answer to that as we come to our second question: why did the angels come? Why did God send a vast company of the soldiers of the supernatural army of heaven to announce the incarnation of the Son of God? And the answer is that when God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, came into the world in human form, he was invading the territory of the devil. Why did he come into this world? 1 John 3, verse 8 tells us this. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested In other words, for this purpose, God the Son came into the world in visible human form. Why? That he might destroy the works of the devil that he might break the hold of the works of the devil on this world at large and on the people of God in particular. That he might free men from the bondage of the devil, that he might free sinners from the curse that had been brought on by the devil, that he might loose the force of the devil's hold upon them, the prince of the power of the air. This is the triumph of the saints in Christ that we're seeing here. And so a supernatural army came with Jesus as he entered this world, as he entered Satan's realm. A multitude of heavenly soldiers, the angelic army of God coming as it would appear to do battle with the forces of Satan. Remember that a third of the angels of heaven fell with Satan. Satan has his army. And so it appears that they came to do battle with the forces of Satan. That we see our Lord Himself so often dealing with in the gospel record, as he cast out demons, as he rebuked evil spirits, and as he faced Satan himself in the wilderness as he tempted him. Now we don't know all of the ways in which that heavenly army operated. We have indications in Scripture of how it operates. We have indications in the book of Revelation. We also have indications in the Old Testament. But these things largely take place in a realm that we're just not privileged to see. But it's a realm that's just as real, and I would submit that it is even more real than The physical, visible, five senses realm that we're in this morning. We have glimpses of these things in various pages in the Word of God. In the Old Testament, in 2 Kings chapter 6, you may recall that we find the prophet Elisha asking the Lord to give his servant the ability to see what was going on around them. We read in 2 Kings chapter 6, they're surrounded by a physical army of horses and chariots. And we read in 2 Kings chapter 6 that Elijah's servant says to Elijah, Alas, my master, what are we going to do? What are we going to do now? We're in big trouble. We're surrounded. So Elisha answered. He said to his servant, Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them. And Elisha prayed and he said, Lord, open my servant's eyes that he may see And the Lord did open the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, were told the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. Dear friends, this morning we may not realize it, but as we are in this world doing the spiritual battle of Ephesians chapter 6, putting on the whole armor of God and standing against Principalities and powers, there's an angelic army that's doing battle on our behalf Just as the Lord's army came to defend Elisha and the physical nation of Israel, the Lord's army came with Christ when he entered this world to accomplish the redemption of the Israel of God, as Paul calls His people in Galatians chapter 6. Now in Scripture the angels are always spoken of as masculine. We have three angels who are named for us in the Word of God. Three angels, they're all masculine. Lucifer Who rebelled against God and became Satan, Michael and Gabriel, who remained loyal to our Lord and to his Christ. And they were sent into this world to do mighty works for him. Several times in Scripture, the angels are spoken of as mighty creatures, creatures of great power. And we're told in Hebrews chapter 1 verse 14 that the angels, the soldiers of the angelic army, are ministering spirits sent forth to minister for those who will inherit salvation. And once again, as in Luke chapter 2, this is something that you find many places in Scripture. There's the use of military language, as there was in Luke chapter 2, a heavenly army, the heavenly host, as we have it, but truly in the original. Tyndale had it more correct, the heavenly army, heavenly soldiers. Once again, in Hebrews The force of that word, ministering spirits there, is a military term. It speaks of those who are sent out to carry out military orders. Military orders, we're told here, on behalf of the redeemed, the angelic host of God have military orders that they are carrying out on our behalf. What a thought. They operate at Christ's command on our behalf and for his glory. And this again is the triumph of the saints in Christ. The army of God is waging a spiritual warfare on our behalf, unseen to our eyes. So we've seen very briefly who these angels were and why they came with Christ when he entered the world in human form. You know, that's an amazing thing to think about. One who was to our eyes a helpless newborn infant But as Colossians tells us, in him was the fullness of the Godhead and a body. And that one in that manger, the fullness of the Godhead in a body, had led an angelic army into Satan's domain. What an amazing thought. Well, this brings us to our final question. What was the message of the angels? Once again, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. Now This is actually not the best rendering of the original language. And so often, because of the way that these words are given to us in many English Bibles, people easily get the mistaken idea. That the message of the angels is a message of unqualified and unconditional tolerance on the part of God. And in fact, there is a corrupted Greek text that has been used for most Bible translations that have been done during the past 130 years that supports that mistaken idea. But the received text, the best manuscripts on which the King James and the New King James and other reliable translations are based. They have it right in the Greek. This is not a statement of unconditional peace. This is not a statement or a prediction that man on this sinful earth will ever be at peace one with another. It's not a statement that the nations will be at peace with one another. It's not a prediction that we will ever all be able to get along in our sinful state. The message of the angels announcing the incarnation of the Son of God was not a message between men of goodwill, which is one way that this is sometimes mistranslated. Or even a message of peace and goodwill between men, which is another way it's mistranslated. Those are often words of empty sentiment. This earth and mankind on this earth, every man who has ever lived in all the history of this world, every man who has not trusted Christ for salvation, all of them in all this universe. still stand under the judgment of the righteous God against sin. He is not unconditionally tolerant. Judgment will come. Christ came once to save. He will come again to judge and to rule and to reign. But when God the Son came into this world in a body of flesh, when God the Son lived the perfect life that we sinners could not live When God the Son died the death that we deserve to die. And when God the Son rose from the dead in declaration of the fact that the justification of sinners by grace through faith Had been purchased in full by the shedding of his blood. When those monumental events occurred, the entire cosmic picture changed. The triumph of the saints in Christ, our triumph, was purchased and it was secured. For 4,000 years up to that point, the sacrificial blood of animals had postponed the inevitable judgment of God. But the blood of bulls and goats, as we're told in Hebrews, could never remove the curse of sin. Only the blood of Christ could. All of the accumulated works of righteousness of sinful man could never destroy the works of the devil. Only the work of Christ could do that. And so we have the proclamation of the angels in Luke chapter 2. It is the battle cry of an army invading the dominion of Satan. led by their captain, the Lord Jesus Christ. Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. Now I mentioned a moment ago that That's not the best rendering of the original language. It's it's often difficult. I I I've gotten into the habit over the years, whenever I prepare a message, of going back to the original languages and Translating the words for myself. And I know a number of ministers who have gotten into that habit, and I think it's it's one that we should indeed practice because We really need to be able to be proper expositors of the word. And so as we look at these words, I think it's important for us to understand exactly what's being said by the angels. It's important for us to understand the meaning and significance of this great battle cry of the heavenly soldiers. What they were saying literally is this In the highest, glory to God. On earth, peace And in men, good pleasure because of grace. That is literally what's being said here. In the highest, glory to God. On earth, peace, and in men, good pleasure because of grace. It's a threefold message concerning three different effects of the coming of Christ in three different realms. First of all, in the highest glory to God. On earth, peace, and in men, good pleasure because of grace. Let's briefly look at this threefold message. What's the significance of this for the people of God? What's the significance of this for the world at large? Well, first of all, as Christ is born in the world. The angelic army sings literally, and this is the word order, in the highest glory to God. In the highest glory to God. Why? Because God has kept his promise to crush the head of the serpent through the seed of the woman. Genesis 3. 15 He's kept his promise to destroy the works of the devil through the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's kept his promise to those who were deceived by the devil. That they would ultimately have victory over the devil in Christ. Those who would believe the triumph of the saints in Christ. 2 Corinthians 1 verse 20 says, For all the promises of God in Christ are yes, and in him, amen. To the glory of God through us. And what the Apostle Paul is saying there is that the promises of God, the Old Testament promises are the yes The proclamation, this is what I am going to do. And in Christ we have the answering, Amen. I've done it. That's what we have in the passage we're looking at this morning. In the highest glory to God, because God has kept all of his promises in Jesus Christ. In the highest glory to God, because he has crushed the powerful and bitter enemy of his saints. In the highest glory to God, because of the glory of the grace by which He has made us accepted in the Beloved, in Christ, the King of glory, who has purchased and sealed our victory. Who is the King of glory? Psalm 24 asks the question and then answers it. The Lord strong and mighty. The Lord mighty in battle. This is the God whom the angels glorified. God who won the victory for us over the powers of darkness through the incarnation of Christ, the triumph of the saints in Christ. So that's the first great statement of the battle cry of the angels. In the highest glory to God. Secondly, then On earth, peace. And again, the word order in the original is that way. On earth, peace. What's the nature of the peace that they're proclaiming? Well, this is not a peace treaty between nations that will soon be broken It's not the empty peace that men seek in false religions or in material possessions or in worldly philosophies or in psychology or in many other things of this earth. How often have we seen men make treaties and shake hands, knowing full well that they're holding the dagger behind their backs? That's not the kind of peace we're talking about here. This is not man making his peace with God. I've sometimes heard preachers extend what they say as a gospel invitation to people by saying this. Have you made your peace with God? That's a false invitation. That's a false invitation. Why is that a false invitation? Because man is incapable of making peace with God. God must make peace with man. That's why God sent his son. Jesus said, John 14 verse 27, My peace I give to you. My peace, not as the world gives, do I give you. What's the nature of that peace? Well, Jesus tells us in the verses that precede that great statement about The nature of that peace. He says that the peace of the Christian is a peace based on knowledge of the truth of God and knowledge of the Word of God. Praise God for your efforts here to be in the Word regularly and systematically. There is nothing more vital for the people of God than to do that. We need to be in the Word of God systematically and consistently. And that brings a peace. That the world cannot bring. A peace that comes through the presence of the indwelling Holy Spirit who has sent, who has been sent by the Father and the Son, and who is the author of every word of the book. And who is the one living within us who illuminates the book for us? Jesus said this John 14 verse 26, he said, He, God the Holy Spirit, when he comes, he will teach you all things. He will bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you. That's the nature. Of peace, the only peace on this present in cursed earth. That's the only way there can be any peace. Colossians chapter 1, verse 20 says that Jesus made peace. How? Through the blood of his cross. It's because of this that God is able to reconcile all things to Himself by Christ, whether things on earth or things in heaven, the ultimate peace of the new heavens and new earth. is only possible because Jesus Christ came onto this earth the first time. The triumph of the saints in Christ. In the highest glory to God, on earth, peace, not general peace, but peace for those who are the Lord's. And then finally, we come to the last words of the angelic battle cry. As Christ is born into the world, the angelic army declares And again, the order of the wording, in men, good pleasure because of grace. That's the force of the language there. We have this phrase in many of our English Bibles and other words and phrases that really don't give the full weight and power of the original. Some of our Bibles render it goodwill toward men, others render it peace toward men of goodwill. But in the original language, the statement is much stronger. In the highest, glory to God, on earth peace, and then finally, in men, good pleasure because of grace. Good pleasure because of grace. Romans chapter 5, verse 1 declares to us that therefore, having been justified by faith once for all, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. through whom we also have access by faith into this grace in which we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God, His second coming. We who believe on the Lord Jesus Christ enjoy the good pleasure of God because of the grace of God. And nothing else. Nothing in us. Nothing that we've ever done or ever could do. Our sins have been taken away as far as the East is from the West. Our iniquities are remembered against us no more because of the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. coming into this world alone. And we have the great promise that God's given to us in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 that just as Christ Came into this world the first time, accompanied by his mighty angels. He will, 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 7, be revealed from heaven a second time with his mighty angels again. In flaming fire, taking vengeance on those who do not know God. And then later on in that chapter, verse 10, when he comes in that day, he will be glorified in his saints. He will be glorified in us on that great day. We will experience the ultimate, the consummation of his good pleasure because of grace. This is the triumph of the saints in Christ. And so not only at the Christmas season, but on every day of our life on earth. As soldiers of the Lord Jesus Christ on this earth, we can truly say, with the invisible angelic army of God, in the highest glory to God. On earth, peace. In the highest glory to God, because of what has been done for us in Christ. On earth, peace, the peace of Jesus Christ within us. The peace that we through our gospel witness offer to the lost. And in men, in the redeemed people of God, good pleasure because of grace. We have the words of the ancient book of Enoch that are quoted for us in the book of Jude, beginning at verse 14. Which calls to mind this future event as well. Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his saints to execute judgment on all, To convict all who are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have committed in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. There is no peace, saith the Lord, for the wicked. There is only peace for his redeemed. This is the triumph of the saints in Christ. And so we who are entrusting in Christ, we can say with the psalmist in Psalm 98, oh, sing unto the Lord a new song. For he has done marvelous things. His right hand and his holy arm, again military language, his right hand and his holy arm have gained him the victory. Sinful man goes down to defeat. Only the blood-bought saints of Christ experience final victory. But dear friends, let me ask you a question. Are you a partaker in the triumph of the saints in Christ? Have you repented of your sins? Have you sought deliverance from the wrath of God because of your sin by placing your faith for deliverance from that wrath? in the incarnate Christ, the one who not merely remained a babe in a manger, but grew to be an adult human being and went to the cross in the place of sinners. You need to call upon him, if you're here this morning without Christ. You need to call upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ in repentance and faith so that you may also share in the eternal triumph of the saints with him. Otherwise, there is nothing in your future but defeat and condemnation and the wrath of God. Only Jesus Christ can deliver you from the wrath to come. And he will if you call upon him. Let's look to him in prayer. Oh Father, we are truly grateful for the great Savior. That you have sent into this world, your only begotten Son. We thank you. For the triumph that he has purchased for us in the cross And that you put your seal upon that triumph by raising him from the dead. And that he was received up into glory, and that he is seated at your right hand, interceding for us at this very moment. As we pray. At this time of year in particular, Father When there are so many things to distract us from focusing on what Christ really did, who he really was, what he really accomplished. At this time of year when it's easy for us to forget that there is an angelic host in this world at war on our behalf. O Father, remind us of our triumph in Christ. Remind us that the victory is ours and it cannot be taken away. And may we, as we gather with family, with loved ones, as we gather in services at this season, may our focus be upon Him. We pray in his name. Amen.