Good morning. Take your Bibles if you would please and turn to 1 John chapter 4. 1 John chapter 4. And it's good to be with you this morning. Noah asked me earlier today, he said, is it Feel nostalgic. And I said, yeah, it does kind of feel that way. I know m many many of you out there, probably three-quarters of you, I could look out and It's a few few new faces. I grew up at this church and uh have a lot of really uh good memories, a lot of great things that uh just memories that I think of different things with different people with you all. So it's good to be back. It's been quite a few years since I've uh even preached in this pulp. Well, I did preach this pulpit for the Thanksgiving thing. or something not too long ago, but other than that, um it's been a while since I preached in the pulp uh this pulpit so I'm it's just uh good to be back with you. Um have you ever noticed in the Christian life That God tends to bring us through different lessons, teach us various things, sometimes emphasize things that have been Maybe you knew before, but God is like working in your life to emphasize something again that maybe He did before, but through circumstances, through your Bible reading. Through whatever means, God brings it back to your mind. Things like prayer, for example. We've known, you know, if you've been saved for any length of time, you know the importance of prayer. But there's certain times where God just really impresses on you and reminds you of the emphasis. Of prayer that's in Scripture and the desire that God wants for us to bring prayer to Him. There are other times, you know, different things that God might bring in our lives. Well, the thing that I really uh the Lord has been impressing on me lately. And particularly the last few months is a concept that we find in this passage in 1 John chapter 4 Particularly actually with our church, I think the Lord does the same kind of thing in a local church. He will bring various lessons that we're supposed to be learning, various things that he wants us to learn to grow as a body of believers. And one of the things for us as a body of believers at over Bethel that God really just brought to my attention, and really through the study of his word, uh we're going through the book of John. in our uh uh series expository series on Sunday mornings. And one of the things that he brought to my attention was just the the the need For us to love each other in the body. He brought that to my attention through a particular verse. In the upper room discourse, these were the final words that he brought to Christ, uh that Christ brought to his disciples before he went to the cross. And he said, by this in verse 35 of John 13, shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another. That really gripped my heart. That the world is supposed to see a difference in our lives. They're supposed to see It's supposed to influence them. They're supposed to see that we are followers of Christ. How when they see that we love each other. And I think that I think back a few months back when I was preaching through this text, and the Lord really emphasized to me in our church That we needed to really be reminded of this and make efforts toward um fostering a love for one another. I was again reminded of this this past. Uh week, the beginning of the week, my uh daughter, second born daughter, was in the hospital with um dehydration, things like that. She's great now. She's even here with us as well. Morning. And I was just grateful for a church family that reached out to us and loved us, loved us enough to offer all kinds of things. And to do things for us. And I can actually think in terms of this church family as well, this Faith Bible church, even in our own family, how you all minister to us throughout the years. And And um my mom was with cancer, you sh showed great, it was an outpouring of love of love when she was uh in the hospital with cancer, and afterwards I could think of different ones who invited my dad over for dinner. Lots of things. You continue to show love to my grandparents. And I guess really what I wanted to do was just sort of encourage you as a body of believers to continue that kind of love for one another as a very important. Um lesson, a very important emphasis in your church that this is just absolutely necessary. If we're going to re reach Our community for Christ, how are they to know the distinctive difference between true followers of Christ and counterfeits? And the answer is found in that text: we've got to love each other. And when we love each other with a kind of quality that Christ, that the Father loves Christ, which we're going to find on later in the passage here. It is going to be very, very significant to those who don't know the Lord when they come into our midst in one way or another. I desire for that for our church, and I really desire that for Faith Bible Church. I guess I would say it this way. You all, of course, are in transition right now, and transition is sometimes hard, is it not? It's not easy to go through transition. It's okay to say it's not, you know, yes, it's not easy, right? Right? Okay, it's not easy. Um I remember when I was in transition between ministries. I uh I had a hard time. Um, like I, you know, I love eating at Chick-fil-A, but working at Chick-fil-A has its pluses, but it has a lot of negatives as well. Some of you all have family that work at Chick-fil-A and work at Chick-fil-A. I'm not trying to down it but you know when you're called to preach you know I there was a there was a point at which I finally was like Lord how long am I gonna have to do this? I ended up doing it for three years and I sort of would ask the Lord During the time of transition for me, what really settled in my heart was that I needed to prepare for what I didn't even know what the next step was, but I just needed to prepare for it, whatever it was. I remember going to Bob Jones and taking a class down there, and and that was kind of the mentality that was something they talked about was that when Talked about I think it was the life of Jonathan Edwards, how he went he there were times of transitions in his life, and during those times there was a necess there was a need to prepare for that, for the next step. I think of the whole dating scene. Uh and courtship and all that. And I don't know what you you know, the terms dating and courtship. Neither one of them are biblical. I like marriage. That's biblical. However, you you parse it and talk about the term. Um Just get to marriage, that's the point. I remember I actually had a dream uh not too long ago that I was not married and I was back at college. It was like a nightmare, man. I don't like that st you know how I am so glad I'm married. It's all settled. I have to figure that out. Man, that's tough stuff. But anyway, at least for me, I don't know. Maybe some people liked it, but I just hard. And I remember in college, they w uh one of the phrases I would hear is, don't look for the right one, be the right one, and you'll get the right one. Actually, that's pretty good advice, is it not? Don't look for the right one, be the right one, and you'll get the right one. And uh I think that there's great application in any transition. That we have, where we we need to be what God wants us to be and prepare for whatever that is, even though we may not know exactly what that is. Our role should be preparation, and certainly it would be God's desire for all of us. To emphasize love among each other. It is the first commandment with promise. It is emphasized throughout the Gospels and Christ's own teaching. And it is very important for us to understand the importance of loving one another. But you know, as I'm just curious, I actually know this about most of you already. Um how many of you would say I have been saved for for twenty years? You've been saved for at least twenty years. Would you raise your hand? Okay. The vast majority in this room have been saved for at least twenty how many of you say well it's been more ten ten years, not Not 20, 10 years, a little under 10 years. Okay. Um, some of you say, I haven't been alive that long. My daughter's going. Okay. I anyway, where do I fit into this? All right. Well, you know, the Bible tells us in the Gospels that we are to love one another. Christ said it very clearly. But you know, the truth is. Um we get w if we just think sort of in non uh tangible terms We can say, yeah, I love God. And yeah, I love each I love I love everybody. I love people. But what 1 John does as he elaborates on his concepts in the Gospel of John. is he he helps us to understand what mature love is. He gets more detailed. He gets more specific. And we'll pick up here in John chapter 4, verse 16, as we see this, it says, and we have known and believed that the love that God has to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in the world. Herein it says, is love made perfect, or can we say it this way, love made complete. Complete or mature. What does complete or mature love look like? This passage is going to teach us what mature love looks like. And as we look at it, we can do our own self-examination to ask ourselves the question: Do I have this kind of love? We need help God's help, don't we? Let's go to Him in prayer and ask His help. Uh as we look at this passage. Father, we come to you and we thank you just for the privilege of being able to open your word this morning and to learn from you. I pray, Lord, to this morning that you would teach us. Teach us from your word the kind of love that you want for us to have toward you and toward each other. Father, may that kind of love at Faith Bible Church be so evident that it is unmistakable. To the unsaved world. It's unmistakable to anyone who would view it. They would see a difference. They would see this unity and love in the body that would cause them to reflect on the love that you have for them. Father, I pray, Lord, you teach us this morning as we go through this. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, we're picking up here in 1 John, and we begin in verse 16, and it says this in verse 16 that we need to have an assurance of God's love. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love, or the word there is abide in love. Same word. He that dwelleth in love, or uh he that dwelleth in love uh dwelleth in God, and God in him I'd actually like you to take your Bibles and turn to John chapter 15 for a moment here as we go through this text. This really is a further elaboration on what John has already said uh or actually recorded as Christ spoke. In John 15. And I want you to see this. Of course, it's that grand passage on abiding in Christ. And we find in verse 7 it says, If you abide in me and my words abide in you, You will ask what you desire. There will be this freedom to ask what you desire, and according to God's will it will be done to you. By this my father is glorified that ye bear much fruit, so you y you will be my disciples. As the Father loved me. Now look at the quality of love that we have here. And just notice a few things about this, and this is going to set the backdrop for the rest of the passage. In 1 John. As the Father loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love. Did you catch that? As the Father loved me, the same quality of love that the Father has for Christ, it says that he loved us with that same quality. Verse 10: If ye keep my commandments, you abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things have I spoken to you that your joy may remain full remain in you, and that your joy may be full. This is my commandment that ye love one another how? As I have loved you. Did you catch that? How are we to abide in the love of God? Well, when we realize that Christ loved us as the Father loved him, that same quality of love. And then it says in this passage The same quality of love that Christ has for us, we're to love with one another. That's the kind of love that we're speaking of in this passage: abiding in God's love. Verse 13, obviously this is the case, is it not? Greater love has no man, no one in this, than to lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends if you do whatsoever I command you. No longer I call you. servants, but he calls them friends. Now with that in mind, would you take back turn back to 1 John chapter 5 and or chapter 4 here? And we want to look at what this kind, what does this mature love look like according to the passage? And we'll find the answer to that in verse 17. In verse 17 it says, herein is our love made perfect. Herein is it, it says, that we may have what? That we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in the world. It tells us here that the quality of love that God wants us to have. Has with it this idea of boldness or confidence. Now, let's understand what this word means. This word is actually used throughout the New Testament. We're going to particularly look at John's use of this word, and we're going to look at the very first time he used it. It carries the idea of openness in John 7 4. It says in that passage, for there is no man that doeth anything in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. Same word there, to be known openly is the way it's put there. John 7. 13 says, howbeit no man spake openly. This concept of boldness is this idea of openness. We see the same thing, a similar uses the word boldness in John 7. 26, where it says, he speaks boldly. In John chapter 10, so we're sticking with John here, and in John chapter 10, he uses the same word, and it it is used, it's the word plainly, tell it says, if thou be Christ, tell us plainly in that passage. So when we're talking about this concept of love and what it looks like as we abide in the love of the Father, we're talking about a concept of plainness. Of openness, of transparency. That's the kind of love that God wants us to have with Him. And it is the kind of love that He obviously has toward us. There is this knowledge of him and our knowledge of who he is as well. If you read first John or Psalm 139, You're going to find, don't take the time to turn there now. Read that passage later. We see that he knows our down sittings and our uprisings. He knows us. Our his thoughts are continuous. He knows us. His love is based upon a thorough knowledge of us that is incomparable. That's the kind of love that He has for you and me. That kind of love. Now, the reason that this is important for us to understand. Is that oftentimes in our lives as Christians, we we sort of emphasize, and even the unsaved does. does this as well. We emphasize one aspect of God's character character to the to the exclusion of the other. Let me give you an example in the unsaved world. I'm working right now with a a young man. He's got 19. He has a very difficult uh past. Um wrote grew up in a broken home. I'm doing a gospel study with him. I'm using the exchange And it were it it basically goes over four concepts. Um the law uh it starts off with the holiness of God, the justice of God, the love of God, and the grace of God. Of God. Of course, when it gets into the love of God and the grace of God, then it gets into the plan of salvation as far as Christ's coming. Well, I'm going through this with him, and we're now through the second chapter. We've looked at the holiness of God and the justice of God. And he said to me the other day, he said, I thought I was for I thought God just forgives. He said, I I didn't understand all of this about the fact that God is a just judge, that God has to judge. Now, this is my words, not his Is. Basically he said, I think I might be going to hell. You know what he did? And he emphasized, he was taught that God loves him growing up, but it was this kind of love that excluded the idea of God's holiness and justice, and it ended, of course, in licentiousness. See you have to know the whole you have you have to have a a whole concept of who God is. And so love and mercy, apart from holiness and justice, will end up in lib licentiousness is what it will end up. will end up in, right? You know the same thing on in the opposite can be true as well. We can be so focused on the holiness and the justice of God. It's like we almost forget God loves us. And when we when we when we are not fully aware of the love of God and the abiding love of God in our hearts, you know, it becomes very difficult for us to love others. We become judgmental. We become we exclude in our behavior the love of God toward other people And the Bible then tells us in this passage that the kind of love that we are supposed to have toward God is this plainness and openness and boldness. And we can have this kind of openness with God because the judgment is settled for us. We are going to stand not guilty before God someday. We see that clearly in verse 17. Now, as we begin to explore this concept of confidence or transparency or this kind of concept a little bit more, let's look then at 1 John particularly and see how he uses it here. And I'll just mention to you in 1 John chapter 2, verse 28, he says, little children, abide in me that when he shall appear We shall have confidence and not be ashamed before him in his coming. The confidence that God wants us to have is based upon the fact that one day we will stand not guilty before God because of Christ. Now, that kind of confidence is not supposed to just be a future confidence. There is supposed to be a present application for us. And we find that in 1 John Philippians chapter 1, verse 20, it says, But that that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body. whether be by life or by death. There is this confidence because of the love of God, this openness, this transparency. Because of the love of God that He has for us that has a present reality to it. Let me ask you this question. What keeps us from experiencing this present reality of confidence toward God, openness in our relationship with God? What keeps us from doing that? And the answer we find actually in this text, it says, picking up in verse 19, and hereby we know that we are the of the truth and shall assure our hearts before him. God wants us. to have the assurance of knowing that we are the truth. For it if our heart condemns us, there's the problem. God is greater than our heart and knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us, then have we confidence toward God. This passage teaches us that the problem that we have, why we don't have this present openness with God in this life, is because of a condemning heart. Well, do you remember what Romans chapter 8, verse 1 says? There is therefore now no what? Condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. We as Christians are not under condemnation. This passage is really actually talking about false guilt. Now, is there a possibility for guilt as a Christian? Yeah, if you've sinned and you've not agreed with God about your sin and you're not you've not confessed it, 1 John 1 9. We've looked at this morning. Yes, there is a possibility of guilt, unresolved guilt, that we need to resolve by agreeing with God about our sin. In this context, what it's probably talking about, or it might factor that in, but it's it's It's clearly talking about a condemning heart where God has forgiven us. And the problem is, is we've got to believe that God is greater than our hearts. Aren't you glad that God's love for you and your love for God isn't dependent on you at all? It's dependent upon God. And God is greater than your condemning heart. And what you and I have to do is we have to just simply believe That God has forgiven us. Do you ever feel unforgiven even though you're forgiven? I mean, really, think about it. Have you ever felt as a Christian You know you're saved. You know you're forgiven. But you don't feel that way, even though you have even confessed to God your sin. And there are some times in our lives where we simply have to sort of have a settledness about this, and we simply say, you know what, Lord, Lord, you're greater than my heart. I'm gonna trust what you say, and you say you love me. This is vitally important. And when we have that kind of confidence, it actually leads us to 1 John 5, verse 14. He can flip over a few pages, and it says, and this is the confidence that we have in him. If we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. There's this freedom. By the way, didn't we see that before in John 15? The point here, folks, is that transparency and openness and knowledge of God and and And laying bare your soul to God is the kind of relationship that God wants us to have with Him. Now, here, this is, I'm going to illustrate it this way, I think it'll help. This past week I was talking with a uh a lady who um who is running a very successful small business. She's running this business and um and she's doing a great job at it. It's growing, it's doing very well. But she was telling me how stressed out she is. Is all the time, particularly when payroll comes or when taxes are due and then when there's a big bill that comes. She's just overly stressed out. By the way, this is you got this is no this is not a member of our I don't know why I'm saying that, not that you care, but anyway, um you won't be able to figure it out as is the bottom line. Um so so I said to her, I said uh Um I said, can I ask you a really can I ask you a question? She said what I said, have you ever like put all of your expenses and all of your income on a spreadsheet and see if they balanced? You know what she's doing? said to me, she said, oh man, I would never want to do that. I was like, really? She said, she said, she said, I would be too afraid it wouldn't match up. She's living with this I said no no I said look if you put it all on and it's balanced then when the bill comes due you know you got the money because it all b I mean this will relieve stress She goes, oh man, I I just I really I don't know that I really want to do that because I I I'm afraid. You know, to some of us that might seem a little funny. To other of us, he goes, yeah, I'm there. I mean, yeah, I I don't want to. look at my checkbook either. You know the reality is we do this with God. We do. Subconsciously, we we like God uh he he uh he knows it all already But it's like we we we don't have this openness because we feel this guilt and it stops us. It's like it keeps us from really having the openness, even though we already know. It's like, why don't we just agree with God about this? You know why? I'll tell you why. The problem is fear. That's the problem. You say, well How do you know that? Look at the passage. Go back to 1 John chapter 4, and that's what it says. It says in this passage Verse 18. There is no fear in love. Why? Because perfect love casts out fear Because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Now it says here in very absolute terms: there's no fear in love, and perfect love casts out fear. Now, let me ask you a question. Is there a good kind of fear? I mean, I read this passage, I go, no fear in love. John is very absolute here. If I teach my kids that you need to be afraid when you walk across the street that a car might hit you, so you need to look both ways, is that a good fear? Yeah, that's a it's a good fear. Good fear. There are some kinds of fear that are good kinds of fear. In fact, the Old Testament is full of a concept of the fear of what? The fear of the Lord. It's the beginning of wisdom, Scripture says So if we take the whole Bible in context, then what we've got to do is we've got to say, well, this must be a particular kind of fear. And actually the passage says that, doesn't it? It says that perfect love casts out fear because fear has what? The kind of fear he's talking about is a fear related to punishment. Fear of torment. Fear is somehow, this kind of fear is related to punishment. That is then a particular kind of fear. And we need to understand as Christians that we do not have to live with that kind of fear. There is a healthy kind of fear, even in 2 Corinthians. Corinthians chapter seven, where it talks about the re the truly repentant man, a man that has godly sorrow that leads to repentance. It says in that passage that an evidence of true repentance is a Carefulness. It's a fear, it uses the word. There is this kind of carefulness that is appropriate and biblical, but folks, there is a kind of fear that should not be be in the life of a Christian. And if you have that kind of fear, you're not made perfect in love. You're not maturing in your love. This passage deals with that kind of fear. It is the kind of fear that is mentioned in Romans chapter 8, verse 15, for example, where it says that for ye have not received The spirit of bondage again to fear. But ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry ab a father. Or 2 Timothy chapter 1, which says God has not given us the spirit of fear. In other words, folks, there is a kind of fearfulness that every unbeliever, every unbeliever, whether they believe it or not, or whether they'll admit it or not, lives in. You know that? Every unbeliever lives in some kind of fear, fear of the unknown. I don't think I really know if I'm going to heaven. There are very few unbelievers that would actually affirm they think they know exactly where they're going, they know exactly what's happening, and that they're going to be free at the judgment. Unbelievers don't talk that way. I don't think I've ever experienced that. Now, if they have, you know, there's delusional people everywhere. So that's possible. But it's not very likely. You know why? Because there is this underlying fear in the life of unbelievers. It's not at all to negate the fact that there are rewards as as Tim mentioned in the first time. the sun in some in the adult science school class, there are reward there is a judgment seat of Christ where we receive rewards, but that condemnation will not be there. Now, with all of this in mind, then we need to ask this question: how do we continue In this love, and the answer is in verse 19. Would you notice what it says here? We love him, why? Because he first loved us. Do you know if you are struggling with God's love for you, or you're struggling even with your love for God or your love for others, you you you need to get Settled about God's love for you. And God's love for you is not based upon circumstances. Do you get that? That is very important. God's love for you, you cannot base your love for God, I mean God's love for you, on circumstances. Circumstances. It's interesting in the book of Ecclesiastes. We're going through Ecclesiastes on Wednesday nights, our church, and in the book of Ecclesiastes, basically Solomon says. You can't figure out God's ways. You can't figure out why He does. You can't figure out if what is being done is merciful or judgment. You can't really figure out just by circumstances. If you're trying to figure out what God is doing merely by circumstances, and whether or not God loves you based upon your circumstances, it is going to bring you into a real problem. Because the basis of God's love for you is not Circumstances, the basis of God's love for you is the word of God and the character of God, which is unchanging. And there are times in our lives where we simply need to go back to passages like Romans chapter 8. Toward the end, there, where it says, nothing will separate us from the love of God. Persecution, or famine, or toil, or travail, nothing will separate us from the love of God. We need to be settled about that. There are then others of us who might say to ourselves, you know what? I love God and I know God loves me. I'm pretty clear on that. I think I'm good. Be careful. Right? Be careful. Because there's a sense in which it's easy for us to sort of go, I love I love God. It's easy to let me put it this way, it's easy to say. Is that not true? It's easy to say that you love God. It's not hard to say that. There are all people all over the world, all over our country, that say that if you said you love God, they'd say yes. It's easy to say. But it's a little harder to evaluate, is it not? It's kind of hard to evaluate unless you factor in something. Unless you Well, let's just look at the passage. Verse nineteen. We love him because he first loved us. If a man say, I love God, see, this is a problem back then, first century, just is it just as it is in our hearts. I love God and what? Hateth his brother. Now before you think you've gotten off scot-free because you say, I don't hate anybody because I don't really want to kill anybody, let me just assure you that that word hate covers more than just wanting. to kill somebody. It's used, actually it's translated sometimes as anger. Sometimes it's translated as Sometimes it's translated as anger. In fact, it includes the idea of indifference. You can be indifferent toward a brother in Christ. Certainly, it includes bitterness. Folks, if there is that kind of thing in our lives, we dare not say we love God. Now that's hard, isn't it? Because God is, you know, God's done a lot for us. Of course He's we have life and breath and salvation and everything. You know, he there's a sense in which he's a whole lot easier to love than people. I mean, people are hard to love, aren't they? I mean, am I the only one that has trouble loving people? I mean, people are hard to love. But God says: if you say you love me and you have indifference or animosity or problems toward your brother Christ, Or sister in Christ, you don't love God. Do we believe that? And he gives us a reason for that. He says, if a man say I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar, for he that loveth not his brother, whom he has seen. He can be uh how can he love God whom he hath not seen? You know, we lie to ourselves. Our heart is deceitful and desperately wicked, and it's very easy for us in our hearts to lie to ourselves. And think that we love God and say that we love God. And it's okay to have indifference or bitterness or problems or struggles. Not struggles, we have struggles, but bitterness and problems with other people, other Christians particularly. God says, as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. We've got to do everything possible to love our brothers and sisters in Christ, because that That is how we are. That's the test. That's the litmus test. That's the way we know. That is the gauge, if you will, of whether or not you and I truly love God. That's the test. And the truth of the matter is there are many times in our lives where we have come to the conclusion that where we We we deceive ourselves. Men say I love God and I hate his brother. He is a liar. He's deceived himself For he that loveth his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? Now let me just mention this as well. What kind of love love are we talking about here? If we want to test this a little bit, if we want to just sort of test this, our love for brothers and sisters in Christ, what kind of love? Well, it's the kind of love that we already had, that we already saw in the previous verses. That kind of openness, that kind of Transparency, that kind of plainness of speech, that kind of confidence. That is the kind of love that we need it says in this passage to have toward brothers and sisters You say, well, I'm not sure you can make that connection. Do you remember what it said over in John 15 in the very beginning? The same kind of love that the Father has for the Son is the same kind of love that the Son has for who? For us. The same kind of love that the Son has for us Is the same kind of love that we're supposed to have for who? For each other. You can't there is an unmistakable connection here, folks. That really is a little difficult. You know why that's difficult? Because we get burned. We get burned by other Christians. You ever been burned by a Christian? Why do we get burned by Christians? Because they're imperfect. Have we ever burned other people ourselves? Even accidentally? Have we ever said one thing and done another? Have we ever have we ever said to ourselves, I'm gonna do this and then we can't do it? Or have we ever have we ever actually Had every, I'm never gonna betray you, and then you go and betray. I mean, look at look at look at Peter. I mean, Peter denied, didn't think he'd deny Christ, denied him three times. Then Jesus asks later in John 21, what does he say? He says, You love me three times. And so the question that we have for us, for all of us, is that we have to constantly be vigilant about this. Did you know? Let me just say this personally and I don't mean to say this in any way I I don't mean to say this in any please take it right I guess. It's easy Easy to accumulate knowledge. It's not hard. I I don't think Christians really mature Bible believing Christians that are in a church that teaches the word of God need to walk around worrying about whether or not they're going to accumulate enough knowledge. At least, you know, maybe some pe maybe that's a concern, but I mean certainly we need to know God and know his word. I'm not negating that. You know the greater struggle for many people that are mature scripturally and people that are conservative in their fundamental, they have fundamental doctrine, they're clear on their doctrine. It's so easy for us to lose our first love. Jesus said, I'm going to disown you, Church of Ephesus, Revelation chapter 2, if you lose your first love. If you don't return to that, you hate the deeds of Nicolaitans, you have strong doctrine, you stuck to your but I am going to disown you If you don't return to your first love, there is this, there's it for for me as a Christian, there is always this potential Of growing in knowledge without growing in love. And you know the danger. What does 1 Corinthians tell us? First Corinthians tells us if we do that, our love uh if we if we have all the knowledge in the world and we don't have love, it profiteth us nothing. And I just want to say to you, I I just say personally, I know the love that faith by that you all have for each other because I've experienced it many years. for many years, prior you know, years ago. You know it's been ridiculously amount a lot of time. It's like fifteen years since I've been in in school. I I'm getting old. It's just terrible. Noah told me I couldn't go to his class today 'cause I actually did I wanted to go to Tim's class anyway, Noah, so it's alright. But I apparently am too old for his class. But my wife could go. That would be interesting. Anyway, um that was totally for free. The bottom line is we need to make sure that we have that we we we just Continue to have that kind of love for each other. So important that that binds us together, that that is the determining factor when someone That we rub shoulders with in the unsaved world. You know, the guy I was talking about before, you can pray for him. His name is Mason. Mason was a man who gr uh uh uh was a neighbor of s a family in our church that they just showed love to this young man. Uh he was in his in his neighbor in their neighborhood Down in Pasadena. Just showed love to this young man. The man and his girlfriend came to church on not this past Easter Sunday, but last Easter Sunday. Like last year. And Mason then um uh came again this Easter A whole year went by. We tried to follow up on a whole year went by. And this time he is asking, he came after the service. I said, look, if I on Easter Sunday, I said, if there's anybody that doesn't know Uh the Lord, you're not sure of where you will spend eternity. Would you please come and talk to me afterwards? Grab my hand, I'll I'll stop right when I'm doing. He had one question after another, and I said, Look, let's do lunch. We did that. Let's and and we've got It may be years. You're showing love to people, and it might be years before you actually see results from that. We just got to keep doing it. We just got to keep loving each other, and then that love for each other, that's the test. And it won't be long before we're loving our neighbor as ourselves, right? For we're loving everyone. We need to love God, love one another, and love the lost. And frankly, whatever is happening in your life, transitionally or otherwise, whether corporately or individually, you can't be able to do that. Individually, whatever is happening in your life, you will be preparing for whatever next step God has for you, the Faith Bible Church, and your life as individuals. We need to keep Keep this in our hearts and in our minds. We need to continue to love God, love others, and love the lost. Love has matured when there is fearless openness. Before God and others, and other believers, particularly. And mature love for God is gauged by our love for other believers. Let's pray together.