So it's great to be here. You'll notice the title today, The Elephant in the Room We Ignore. I'm referring to the Bible, the elephant in the room that we ignore. The title may suggest that it's kind of a poor title because it looks like I'm denigrating the Word of God by comparing it to an elephant. But I'm not comparing it to an elephant. I'm talking about the concept, the concept of an elephant in the room. Meaning something that's always there, that everybody knows is there, and yet people rarely acknowledge is there and often ignore its presence. So I'm using that picture to relay the concept that whatever else is happening in your life, there is always a God-supplied solution. Always available in God's Word. And the issue so often is not, God, will you fix this problem? Or God, will you get me out of this? The issue often is, will you pick up and read and obey what God has said? The answer, many times, most times, is here. Will you read it? Will you believe it? Will you obey it So that's where James is going in this section. We come in this section to the verse that has controlled us for the last. three times now that I've been here, that says, be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. We've been talking about the significant difference between casual listening and being a doer of the word The difference between the two is that one leads you astray, the other results in God's blessing. The difference is enormous. And in my experience, in my life, I find it is quite easy to listen in a casual way. It's not always too easy, very easy, to become a doer of the word. Even though a doer of the word is simply one who obeys. So we have Found in the first twelve verses of this book. Uh three weeks ago We found that James gave us five commands on how to respond when you face difficulties in life. Do you remember the five? Number one is Say it a little louder. Count it all joy. Number two is Determined to go through it and get all of its blessing. Number three is I think I heard it. Ask God for wisdom as to how to respond. Good. Number four. Ask in faith. Number five. Good. I'm having interaction with row three here. I'm going to give you an A, okay? So what you've looked for for twenty-two years, I'm going to give you an A. Randy was in my class many years ago, back before the war. So you've got those five commands in the first 12 verses. Have you been obeying those commands? Have you counted it all joy? Have you thanked God for difficulty realizing it's good? Because God can turn it to good. Have you determined you want to go through it fully to get all the benefit out of it, since this is from God and it's good? Have you asked God for wisdom as to what He wants you to do and say and respond? Have you asked in faith? Meaning, ask because you're going to do it. Ask because you want to go through it. Have you rejoiced in your status change? That this actually is evidence that God is at work in your life and He's intending to bless you. Doers of the word. Doers get blessed. Then two weeks ago we talked about verses 12 through 20. 13 through 20. And we talked about five deceptive statements that we make to ourselves that allow Satan to get in and lead us into sin. You remember any of the five dis deceptive statements? Number one, God made me this way And I can't help it. Number two, the devil made me do it. Number three What is that? I can do it number that's number five. Save that. Save that. It's coming. When I say five, you jump. Number three, it won't hurt me. Number four, Satan has all the good stuff Number five, I can do it myself. I can do it myself. Good. These statements, James says, are these are the kinds of things that Satan uses to mislead us To open the door for deception. And verse 16 says, do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. So today we're coming to the Word of God, which is the key To experiencing God's blessing. You'll notice that verse 25 ends by saying, this person, this man will be blessed. What person? How? How does the Word of God supply blessing in my life? Let me give you four statements that I think James is making. In verses 21 to 25, four statements. Statement number one: The Word of God ministers to those who need salvation. The Word of God ministers to those who need salvation. I'm getting this from verse 21. In fact, I'm getting the first three statements from verse 21. Therefore, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. Which is able to save your souls. What does that mean, save your soul? We normally connect that phrase with an unbeliever coming to Christ, getting saved. And we talk about how many souls got saved Is James writing to unbelievers? You'll notice in verse one It says, my brethren, in verse 1, James, a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. Greeting, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. He's writing to believers who have been scattered because of their faith. These are believers that have been kicked out of their location, probably lost their homes and jobs. And he's writing to them, to people who do know the Lord, who walk with Christ, and that's why they're in trouble. And he's saying, here's what can save your soul. In what way do believers need their souls saved? Do we need our souls saved? We do The word soul here is the word life. It's the same word that Jesus used in Matthew 16 when he said to his disciples This is Matthew 16, 24. If anyone desires to come after me, this is right after he's announced that he's going to Jerusalem, he's going to the cross. He's going to die and he's going to be resurrected in three days. If any man, if anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? That's the same word. Life. Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? Life. So Jesus uses this same word that James does, uses it four times in this passage. And he's saying to the disciples, You want to invest your life in that which is worthwhile. Follow me. The desire that says, I'm going to protect myself from the danger of following you as you're heading to Jerusalem for a cross. Is what's going to waste your life. You're going to lose your life in terms of its value. You want to save your life? Follow me as I go to the cross. I think James is using the word in a very similar way. He's talking about Christians who waste their lives How do they lose their lives? Verse 15 talks about death You fall into sin. Sin produces a birth, and the birth is death. Verse 16 talks about living in deception. Verses 21 and 22, become doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. It's possible for a person For a Christian to waste their lives. Anybody seen that? And James says, what is able to save your life is this book. This book is able to save your life. Now one of the problems is that unbelievers Unbelievers often do not come to Jesus Christ until they see the need of salvation. It's hard for a person to get saved until they first get unsaved. You know? If a person thinks they're doing pretty well and thinks that God is going to judge on the balance system and they've got at least you know, 14 good works piled up, and that it's someday in the future it's going to be a 50-50 thing, and they might be okay Then the gospel does not come as good news. It's the person that realizes they have no hope The person that realizes they are at the bottom of the pit, and the gospel comes, and it is great news because Jesus Christ has the answer. The same kind of thing happens with believers. Why do I need this book? I often, you often do not see your need of this book until you understand the danger you're in. Verse fifteen says, you can live in sin and head for death And we say, well, yeah, that's possible, but I'm not that bad. Verse 16 says, don't get deceived. So what happens in this passage is that this book is able to save souls of Christians who understand how badly they need it. Christians, you think they're going on okay and that things are doing fine, and you know they need maybe only a minor adjustment, do not understand the tremendous value of this book. The book saves those who understand their need, understand the threat. Of wasting life. You know, we have so many illustrations of wasted life. I'm just thinking about the lady that we're going to meet today, an old friend from Riverdale Baptist Church down there in Upper Marlborough. Son, a believer. She's convinced he knew the Lord. And just sort of got into drugs, has wasted his life. In the full sense of the term, wasted his life. It is so easy to do that. It seems to me that we live in a generation where it's easier to do that than it ever has been before. You notice that at all? You know? I think the opportunities for young people today are so attractive and so damaging. That it is very easy to just waste your life and lose it I have an illustration that happened two years ago. It was in the Washington Post. A man was standing before Judge Thomas Motley at D. C. Superior Court. This is April 2015, accused of sleeping beside an office building in downtown Washington. I didn't know that was illegal, but he was in front of the court. A deputy clerk told this man, Alfred Postel, you have the right to remain silent. Anything you say, you know, and so on. Postel replied by saying, I'm a lawyer. Judge Motley ignored the strange statement. But then the defendant said, I graduated from Harvard Law School in 1979. That got Judge Motley's attention because he graduated from Harvard Law School in 1979. The judge said, Mr. Postel, so did I. In fact, I remember you. This homeless man who totes his belongings in white plastic bags haunts the intersections of 17th and I Streets northwest Sometimes sleeps at a church, studied law alongside D. C. Superior Court, Judge Thomas Motley, U. S. Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr. Alfred Postel was one of the top students, always wore a suit and bow tie, was given the Outstanding Alumni Achievement Award by Strayer College. After graduation, he took a job What was then at what was then known as Shaw Pittman Potts and Trowbridge, a respected law firm, lived on the top floor of presidential towers, had a nice sailboat, lived a rich life. But for the past thirty years, He's been a ghost. The only mark he's made on the public record has been in the form of criminal charges. Theft in 1989 in Ocean City, misdemeanor charges in the district in 1990. Here's what Postel says. Postel says, you become obsolete. You get beyond your useful life. I was beyond my useful life. That is exactly what Satan wants to do to you, to me, to every believer. He wants to make us obsolete. He wants to shunt us off to pasture somewhere else. Had a student once before Randy was in class, had a student once from Africa who so excited me because he was just an amazing intense evangelist, great speaker, and I he his goal was to go back to his country in Africa and be the Billy Graham of to his country. And I had such hopes for that student. And he got attracted by the money in America And for the last 40 years, he has spent his life as a taxi driver in Washington, D. C. And is now obsolete He's become mentally unstable. His wife has left him. He's wasted life. That's what James is referring to You catch the point? The point is we need to get a hold of this book because this is the book that will save us. This is the book that is able to save us. That's number one. God's Word. is the one that enables us to be saved as believers. Number two, God's word helps those getting out of sin. God's word helps us as we're getting out of sin. I'm reading verse 21 again. Therefore, lay aside all filthiness And overflow of wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. You can't listen and understand God's word when you're in sin. Or if you want to hold on to your pet sin, you have to first turn from sin. God opens the words of this book to those who confess and forsake their sin. To those who obey 1 John 1:9, if we confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin. Look at the words in this verse. Therefore, lay aside all filthiness. Therefore, connects this verse with verses 13 to 20. It refers back. Do you want to conquer temptation in your life? Then you need to listen to this book. You only stand against Satan's craftiness the way Jesus did in the temptation in the wilderness. Satan says, turn these rocks into bread. Jesus said. There's a verse. Man shall not live by bread alone. Satan said, jump. He'll give his angels charge concerning you. Jesus said, Don't tempt the Lord your God. Each temptation was answered in the book. And Jesus used the book. Notice the word filthiness. Filthiness. The word filthiness is the word for anything that defiles. It's our word dirt. Get rid of anything that's dirty in your life. You want to get rid of all of that stuff. Whatever's questionable, whatever's dirty, get rid of it. Then you have the phrase, overflow of wickedness. Or if you had the King James superfluity of naughtiness. I like that phrase. Overflow of wickedness. It's talking about the leftovers. The bad attitudes, the memories, the motivations, get rid of the stuff Because you want to focus on God's holy word. Someone wronged you? Someone irritated you. Someone sinned against you and every time you think about it makes you angry. Get rid of it. Forgive them. Ask God to help you become like him and send it away as far as the east is from the west, so you can understand his word And then you'll notice it says, therefore, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness. All every last speck? All Confess it, forsake it, forgive it, lay it aside You say, isn't that a little extreme? Is this verse actually saying that I won't get much, if anything, out of God's word until every last ounce of sin is scrubbed out? What's so bad about a few residuals hanging around? You know, everybody's got their pet sins What's the matter with a few residuals? Well, suppose I have a gallon jug, which I forgot to bring A gallon jug of absolutely clear water and clean water, and I decide to put one small drop of Elkridge high-quality sewer water in it. Okay, just one drop of Elk Ridge sewer water. I mix it up, stir it up, and pour you a glass. Would you drink it? Suppose it was one drop of Elkridge sewer water in 50 gallons of water. It's okay then, right? What's one drop? Do you see the attitude? The attitude is: if I know there is something connected with sewer water there, I don't want anything to do with that. That's the attitude we need toward sin, toward the effects of sin in our lives. God said, I'm looking for people that understand how damaging that is and want to get rid of every bit of it. And I will forgive them when they will confess it. When they with a passion will get seek to get rid of it. I will forgive them. So have you dealt with your sin today? As you sit here this morning, have you confessed your sin? We're going to partake of communion shortly. You come to communion with a heart that is pure. That wants to remember what Jesus Christ did to make us pure. Maybe what we should do is stop And spend 30 seconds confessing our sin to the Lord and asking for forgiveness. So let's bow our heads and let's just have silence. And you Confess to the Lord. You deal with the Lord. Deal before the Lord with your sin. Thank you, Father, that you are the one who freely forgives Would we come to you understanding the horror of our sin and confessing it? Would you cleanse our hearts, purify our minds? That we might understand your word by the Spirit of God. I thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. So number one, God's word is what was number one? I forgot already. God's word is the is the thing that saves us, that saves our soul. Number two, God's word helps those getting out of sin. Number three, God's word helps those who capture its words. God's word helps those who capture its words. I'm back in verse 21 again. Therefore, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness and research Receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. I'm focusing on the word receive. Receive. Our job is to receive it. Now the word receive sounds a little passive in my judgment. You know, receive sounds like we're just sitting there and it's coming upon us. That's not really the word receive. The word receive means grab a hold of. The word receive means get it in your system. Don't let it go. You want to get your hands on it. It's an implanted word. You're getting a hold of words It's like reading a letter from a long-lost friend. Stopping, thinking about every word, evaluating what that says about your friend. What that says about your relationship. Words. Focusing on words The word meekness here is the word gentleness. It's an attitude that doesn't argue, that doesn't fight God with what he says. It's an attitude that receives it with appreciation. Meekness realizes who God is, what his word can do, and who we are and how much we need it. I've had people who have said to me, I don't get anything out of it. I read the Bible, it's like reading a dictionary. It's like reading the telephone book And my question to them is, so how do you read it? How badly do you want what it says? How much time do you spend focusing on individual words and reading those words? The word receive suggests that we put some effort into getting it. Effort into focusing on these words. I have a friend who recently said to me, Since I have gotten serious about reading God's Word, he said, I read God's Word, and it's almost like reading it in 3D. I'd never heard that description before, reading it in 3D. That's good. So here's what Solomon says back in Proverbs chapter 2. Solomon says, My son, if you receive my words. And treasure my commands within you, so that you incline your ear to wisdom, apply your heart to understanding, Yes, if you cry out for discernment and lift up your voice for understanding, if you seek her as silver and search for her as for hidden treasures, then You will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. Do you see the then? This is Proverbs 2. 5. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. When then when What does then connect with? Then connects with, if you will receive my words. Treasure my commands, incline your ear to wisdom, apply your heart, cry for discernment, lift up your voice for understanding, seek her as silver, search for her as for hidden treasures. Then See what Solomon's saying? Solomon's saying, how badly do you want it? It's like God has this beautiful daughter, and God is going to give this daughter to somebody in marriage. It's a gift. He's going to give her. God is going to give us understanding of his word. What God is looking for is somebody who really loves her. He wants to give her to somebody who really loves her. And so his process is a process of asking the question. Do you really want it? Do you really want this word? Do you really care about this word? Do you understand that this is your salvation? The problem is words easily disappear You grasp the hold a word of a word and the word just slips away Hebrews 2 describes it as you you reach out for a for a pier in the river, you know, and you drift right on by it. You think you're going to get it, but you're drifting by it. So you hear a word in church, let's say, on a Sunday morning, and you say, that's a good word, I need to get that word, and you shake hands with the preacher. And by the time you're watching the Ravens game on Sunday afternoon, the word's gone. You know? Just disappears. Either that or the Ravens will knock it out when they lose the game. The problem is it is so easy to forget. So look at verse 24. I'm in James 1. 24. He He observes himself, he goes away and immediately forgets what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work. This one will be blessed in what he does. Verse 24, the problem is immediately forgets. Immediately forgets In other words, our responsibility is to get it so that we won't forget. God doesn't get it for us. He doesn't automatically instill it in our brains. The word is here. It is our responsibility to get it and hold on to it. So how do you do that? I recommend you take notes. I recommend you bring a notebook. I recommend you memorize a verse. I'll make another recommendation at the end, before communion. But it is our responsibility to grasp. To get a hold of this word. So God's word blesses those who hang on to it. Those who get it into their system. And then number four. What was number one? God's word. God's word is what saves us. God's word helps those who understand they need salvation. Number two, God's word Helps those getting out of sin. Number three, God's Word God's word helps those who grasp, hang on, get a hold of the word. Number four, God's word only blesses those who obey it. God's word only blesses those who obey it You know, to me, the perfect song that fits is the song that we sang today, the hymn that we sang today. Trust and obey. There is no other way. There is no other way. That's James 1, 21 and 22. Be ye doers of the word. Not only hearers. So let me read 22 to 25. But be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves, for if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer. He's like a man observing his natural face in a mirror. For he observes himself, goes away, immediately forgets what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty God's word, and continues in it, and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this one will be blessed. In what he does. Do you see the emphasis in these four verses? Four times James lands on this concept, doers. Verse 22, doers of the word. Verse 23, not a doer. Verse 25, not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work. Verse 25, blessed in what he does. So our job is to do what the Word of God says. It's one thing to listen to the Word, to read the Word. That's where you begin. That's good. But you can't stop there because God's word always guides, always commands, always expects a response. Count it all joy. Have you counted it joy See, you can sing about counting it all joy, you can talk about counting it all joy, you can preach about counting it all joy, but God only blesses you when you count it joy. When you say, I will trust that God is at work in this difficult situation, and I will put a tag on it that says, good. And I will thank him for it. The blessing comes to those who obey it. Trust and obey. There is no other way. The opposite side, somebody who will listen but will not obey, brings deception. Look at the emphasis here. Verse 22. Not hearers only. Verse 23, a hearer and not a doer. Verse 24, he observes himself, goes away, immediately forgets. Verse 25, not a forgetful hearer. You see the point? There's a problem with listening and not doing. Without obeying, we deceive ourselves. We deceive ourselves So how does that happen? Verse 24 says, it's like a man who looks at himself in the mirror, but goes away and forgets what he saw. Goes away, suggests that the man is busy. He has plans. He's got a schedule. His urgency causes him to forget or ignore what he saw in the mirror. He got a glance, but didn't have time to work on it. So what? Well, let's say that he happened to have a presentation that day with his boss and the corporate officials of his organization, and there he stood. Making his presentation with his hair a mess. Of course, I don't have that problem. His shirt unbuttoned. Lipstick on his nose, his tie is askew, one side of his face is unshaven, and he's making this serious presentation asking for $10 million. And he thinks he's doing fine. And everybody in the room under their breath is laughing. Because he looks crazy I understand that that picture may not be very accurate. I mean that may be a little radical But do you see James' point? James's point is how silly to look at the mirror, leave the mirror. Go do something in life without realizing that what you're studying in the mirror is essential for that life. Who in his right mind would leave a mirror It looks to me like you all have spent time before the mirror today Combing your hair, shaving, coloring whatever needs to be colored, fixing whatever needs to be fixed. How much time did you spend in front of this mirror today? How much time did you spend asking God to prepare your heart to receive his word? My guess is that if we spent as much time here preparing on Sunday morning As we spend putting our face on and coming, that things may be a little different. Church may take on new meaning. God's word may take on greater effect in our lives. So becoming a doer of the word takes time. You stay at the mirror until you see the change. So here are James's four statements. God's word Helps those who need salvation, Christians. Number two, God's word helps those who are getting free from sin Number three, God's word helps those who grab hold of it and hold on to it. Number four, God's word benefits, only benefits those who obey it. So my question is, what's your relationship with this book? You say, how in the world can I spend time in that book? I am very busy. Let me give you an illustration. The illustration that I know quite well is my father, who passed away 20 years ago now. My father was known as someone who had memorized the New Testament. He actually had not memorized the New Testament. He gave up on four gospels and he gave up on Revelation. But he memorized the rest of it, and one of our joys as kids was to ask him to finish a verse, you know. And God said, Can you tell us the rest, Dad? And a lot of times my dad would not only finish the verse, but finish the chapter. And so on. How did he learn God's word? Well, he worked at the post office department downtown at 12th and Pennsylvania Avenue and he'd take the bus in in the morning. The bus ride was probably 25 minutes, and on that bus ride, he his goal was to memorize five verses. On the bus ride home, his goal was to review those five verses. Saturday and Sunday, he would take the 20 or 25 verses he had memorized during the week, and he would review those Saturday and Sunday. So over the course of 35 years in the post office department, he had memorized much of the New Testament and some of the Old Testament. How did he do it? His memorizing was his bust time. You ever thought about the fact that your life could be changed dramatically by how you deal with Downtime, wasted moments, time you don't have. I'd like to challenge you today to memorize God's Word Here's my method. My method is I have a sheet of paper. This sheet of paper has the entire book of James, the Epistle of James on it. Okay? I'm going to hand you one of these. Randy's going to hand you one of these today. All you do is you take it and you fold it And then you fold it again, and then you fold that up, and you can keep it in your pocket and pull it out at any moment, and you can work on whatever you want to work on in James. I personally can only memorize from the King James Version. So I have 25 copies of the King James. Do you have the King James? Who's got Wally, you have the new King James. I brought the new King James also. So before you leave After communion, after everything's finished, before you leave, take a copy of King James or New King James. I've got 25 of each. And I would challenge you to ask God for wisdom and ability to get into His Word more than you've ever gotten into it before. I'm looking for an amen. That's a good start. Yes. All right. Let's pray. Father, here we have this elephant in the room that is always there, that is always available and so often neglected. Would you rescue us from neglecting the salvation of our souls? I ask with thanksgiving in Jesus' name. Amen.