This is a quick introduction today, so sort of a quiz. The sermon title today is a quote, but it's an incomplete quote The great the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was do you guys know the the fill in the blank here? Well It's convincing the world he didn't exist. It's an opening line of a 90s movie, but it may date back to apparently a nineteenth century French poetry But um I don't really quite know the exact origins, but it informs us of Satan's subtle traits and tactics. Of course, we as Christians should not be caught off guard. We're much better equipped to expose them. The Bible tells us not only that the devil exists, we see his devices. We preview his demise, but it all begins with the third chapter of Genesis, where the tempter Enters the story, so I'm just gonna go right to it. Genesis 3, 1 to 7. Okay? I'll read the whole chapter, just a few verses at a time. Genesis 3, 1 to 7. Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Has God indeed said, You shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And the woman said to the serpent We may eat the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it lest you die. Then the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. And the eyes of both of them were open, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed big leaves together and made themselves coverings. So this is a this passage is one in which the devil wins, right? For the time being, it's depressing It can't be undone, but we're thankful sin is not the final word. After creation and fall, there's redemption and consummation The gospel gives us the proper perspective in this dark chapter of history. Not only that, there's a lesson here for us saints. Right. Already justified, yet fighting sin in temptation, uh through temptation in uh sanctification. So to fight that good fight of faith We stand against the wiles of the devil. We have to know his plan to deceive our hearts and corrupt our minds. We have to recognize the servants as masqueraders and see through their pretense You have to take initiative as spies of the Lord's army, right? Map out the enemy terrain and access the secret as it were. So in the Bible, the Bible, uh, the Lord has graciously exposed our false strategies. Now we I appreciate books like you know, spiritual warfare books like C. S. Lewis's Screw tape letters. I grew up reading a bunch of Frank Peretti novels. But the truth of scriptures must be the final authority. So, we can't remain in ignorance. We have to open up God's word. We have to follow his commands to become wiser than our enemies. So then we see the importance of Genesis 3:1 to 7. The passage gives us sort of an elementary study of temptation. Maybe you read it many times, maybe you taught it many times. But here's a chance to break it down to a few basic parts. In the narrative, I think there are natural breaks in verse 1, 4, and 6. Creating three parts, verses one to three, four to five, and then six to seven. If I were to reduce this sermon down to three words, they'd be three To put more meat on that, the tempter is crafty. His words contradict God's. And sin leads to awful consequences. They might have uh not a sports events going on. I use this analogy, a sporting a scouting report, right? So as we prepare for battle against our opponent, I'd like us to consider three scouting report lines on Satan. First, the tempter is crafty in approach, verses 1 to 3. Two, the tempter contradicts God with words, verses 4 to 5. The tempter consequently leads us to ruin, 6 to 7. First of tempter is crafty in approach. We begin chapter 3 in Genesis. Obviously we're going very slow, but hopefully it's worthwhile doing all this. And we might sharply divide between chapters 2 and 3 to study doctrine, yet the transition is rather smooth. Many commentators note the word play in the first sentence of chapter three, verse one. That word cunning used to describe the serpent as arum in Hebrew, is at least, at the very least, a homonym of naked in chapter 2, verse 25, arumim. Used to describe Adam and his wife. So besides sounding similar in the original language, what's the connection? Well, Alan Ross thinks because our parents were arumim, naked, they were easily susceptible to the serpent, the most cunning, arumed creature. Others look for different connections. I'm content to say only that Moses likes puns. So, you know, here's a smooth transition to introduce a smooth criminal into Satan, right? Now what's not lost in the translation is the unusual nature of this animal. So make no mistake, this word for serpent, nahash, is a common word for the snake. It's one of the wild beasts of the field. Other passages make this clear, you know, towards the end of Genesis. We learn in Genesis forty-nine, I mean the serpent is sneaky and it am A serpent is what frightened even a seasoned outdoors man like Moses, right, in Exodus. A host of them poisoned the Israelites in numbers. They rightly belong to the wilderness with scorpions, and they sit on rocks, they hide behind walls and bite when they're not charmed. Sometimes Sort of a public service announcement here. They like to sit outside the steps of our church on a Sunday morning. Don Klimowitz knows all about that. Yes. Yeah. Let's not have that again, but other times they invite themselves inside our building, right? Midweek. I and Mark Conrad know all about that and um had to drive it away, right? Outside. Leave them outside. So no doubt this is a snake. But what's peculiar is he speaks like Balaam's donkey. We hear not a hiss or a rattle, but intelligible words. This isn't fictional. This isn't Dr. Doolittle or Harry Potter. This is a real woman talking with a real serpent. So what's going on here? Well, the inspired writers elsewhere reveal the serpent's identity as the first of fallen creatures. For example, we heard part of 2 Corinthians 11 earlier, later in that same chapter, verse 14, We learned that Satan transforms himself into an angel of light. But that wouldn't be very crappy at all, like you know, just shining bright angel. It'd be easier and smarter for Satan to either shape ship into a snake or possess a snake. I'm not sure where I stand on this to be honest. Did he shape shift into one of these snakes or did he possess one? I think probably possessed, but whichever way he did it, it was crafty. And he intended our greatest harm using the greatest lies. In John 8 44, our Lord our Lord calls him a murderer from the beginning. He does not stand in the truth. But there is no truth in it. When he speaks the lie, he speaks from his own resources, where he is a liar and the father of it. Apostle John not only recorded these words of Jesus about Satan, he saw visions of the evil being in revelation. He's not as secretive there. He looks menacing as this great fiery red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven diadems on his head. But behind all that, he's that same old serpent of old. He's also called the devil and Satan. Devil is derived from The Greek diabolos meaning slanderer or accuser. Satan is derived from the Hebrew Satan, meaning adversary or opposer. Similar ideas. There. These other fallen angels who join them in rebellion against God. Now there's some relevant passages in the Old Testament as well to come to mind First, many believe Isaiah 14 speaks of Satan's first ambitions. This is where we get that popular name Lucifer. Now, I'll be honest with you, I've heard some strong arguments from Todd Beale that Lucifer in Isaiah fourteen twelve is not referring to the devil. Rather, the title belongs to the prideful human King of Babylon. It does seem strange that an angelic being would be brought down to Shoal or the pit. which is the place of the dead. Despite longstanding popular depictions, the Bible never states that Satan resides in hell, in Haiti. In the ninth circle of hell, as Dante would say. Oh, he'll get his later, of course, in the lake of fire. But currently he's up here as the Prince of the Power of the Air. Now, concerning Isaiah 14, I think there's room for healthy disagreement. I tend to agree with Todd Beau that Lucifer is closer to a human antichrist than a fallen angel. Certainly, there are overlaps between many overlaps between evil rulers and Satan. After all, in the end times, the dragon and the beast will work together closely in tandem. But as close as they are, and as much as they share in sinful pride, there's enough distinction. All that's to say Lucifer is an evil human, not the devil himself. So that's my opinion. Opinion on that. Here's another passage in the prophets we're studying, Ezekiel 28. In this chapter, there's a key switch, if you read the entire chapter, from the prince of Tyre in verse 2. to the king of Tyre in verse twelve. Now assuming, if you assume with me, that the king is not the same as the prince, could it be That this king stands above and behind the prince, the king empowers the prince, because the devil be that king. The devil being the puppet master of the human prince Who is the puppet? So I I tend to think that's true. So you can look for yourself. There's this vision of a perfect angelic being. He's depth in jewels. He's an anointed cherub in the Garden of Eden. He was beautiful and splendid, but sin. He was cast out of the holy mountain of God. So I'm more inclined to equate the king of Tyre as Satan. More than the king of Babylon. So my conclusion is that Isaiah 14 has been overrated as depicting Satan's origins, while Ezekiel 28 has been underrated. Look more to Ezekiel than Isaiah if you want to know how he fell. But that's probably enough about Satan and his origins for now. I'll transition back to Genesis 3 using a timeline. Sometime during creation week, days 1 to 6, God created angels and they sang. For joy, as Job tells us. They were all holy, none of them have sinned yet. So at the end of day six, God saw everything that he had made, and indeed it was very good. But sometime between day six and Genesis 3, we're not exactly sure how long that span is, Satan and his angels fell. He began his plan to ruin us too, but he executed the plan as a serpent. We see that the tempter is crafty in approach. So as he gets near the woman, the second part of verse 1 he asks, Has God indeed said, You shall not eat of every tree of the garden? We learn much by comparing the tempter's words to God's words back in Genesis 2. 16. Yahweh Elohim actually said, Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat He limited access only to one tree, the tree of knowledge of good and evil. By purposefully misquoting God, the serpent makes him look restrictive. You only learn about God from the devil. You think he's all about don't do this, don't do that. Initially, Ebe parries this attack. Look at the woman's response in verses 2 to 3 again. We may eat the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it lest you die. Now we may we can stop and assess Eve's reply. Many focus on that phrase, nor shall you touch it. They accuse Eve of adding to God's words in chapter 2, verse 16 to 17. Sure that's possible, but maybe God gave additional warnings and precautions after that. Here's why I think that's the case. It's a little complicated here, but the second person pronouns in verse 3 there, right? You shall not eat, nor shall you touch it lest you die, are all plural. Right? So as Eve cites God, she says he spoke to them, both Adam and Eve. And that would make good sense after giving the initial command to Adam only in Genesis 2, that later God gave more command to both of them. It makes sense that God gave more counsel after he made the woman and the couple after they got married. Maybe God added there that not only get the fruit away from your mouth, but also get it away from your hands. At any rate, so again maybe some room for disagreement here, but I think people make too much of that detail about don't touch Right. Don't touch the fruit sounds like a good application of God's word. You know, uh if I'm addicted to my smartphone, it'd be smart of me to stay away from it, not even touch it. If I'm eating one too many donuts, I'd be wise to think less of it, keep my hands off of it. So I don't think there's any wrong here on Eve's part. I don't think she was overdoing it with this restriction, but I do think that she and Adam with her underestimated the consequence of sin. Remember how God said in chapter 2, verse 17, and I'm sure Adam relayed this to her at least, or repeated it: In the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. That phrase, surely die, is literally you will die, die, like repeating that verb twice, repeating it for emphasis. You won't just die, but really die. Not being serious about consequences of sin leads to serious consequences. The enemy would love for us to minimize the end results of our choices. That's when the tempter shows his true colors. So next on the line, You know, on the scouting report we learn he contradicts God with words. Take a look at how he does so in verse 4. He replies, you will not surely die. And that is the direct contradiction. The devil says, you will not surely die, but God has warned, you shall surely die. Well, if so like you ask like how in the world did they not catch that? Well if temptations only a matter of vocabulary, they'd be much easier to resist But we know that there's charm in the way one says something. Energy and passion are factors in persuasion. I don't know how much a reptile can express with his face, but that's part of communication too I looked up online seven greatest public speakers of all time. Here's one description, but I left out the name. See if you can fill in the blank again. I'm gonna fill in the blank mode today. Uh blank was well aware that mastering the art of public speaking was crucial to his political career He wrote all of his speeches himself, sometimes editing them more than five times. He practiced his facial expressions and gestures, and he was adept at interweaving metaphor and abstract ideas into his speeches about political policy. I'll give you like two seconds to guess the answer. The correct answer is Adolf Hitler, right? Great one of the greatest public speakers of all time, right? I thought about flashing a picture up there, but then what if someone walks in and be like, what is this church about? So I decided not to do that. But um Anyway, a crucial part of discernment is to be careful in listening. Don't be manipulated emotionally by the speaker's rhetoric. Now the deceiver knows that he has to be more than just a contrarian. He must back up his argument. And here's what Puritan Thomas Brooks in his work, Precious Remedies Against Satan's Devices, calls: presenting the bait and hiding the hook. He does this in verse 5. For God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. As a crafty creature experienced in sin, the devil promotes and markets sin. Even if you have eyes, don't you want to see more? Even if you're made in God's image, don't you want to be more? Even if you know a lot, you gotta know more. He presents all these possibilities and potentials as fate. And of course he hides the hook. Again, here's Brooks. There is an opening of the eyes of the mind to contemplation and joy. And there is an opening of the eyes of the body to shame and confusion. He promises them the former, right? But intends the latter. And so Satan cheats them. Giving them an apple in exchange for a paradise, as it deals by thousands nowadays. And that's a great steal, right? Give them an apple, take their paradise. That's better than what the evil queen gave the snow white, right? And the remake's not that good. But anyway, this is real. Okay? The devil's closing in. About to seal the deal. Already he's got a hold of Eve's ears. Next he gets a hold of her eyes. Imagine like the children's books picture books, right? The serpent wrapped himself around the branch where the tantalizing fruit is hanging. In whatever way the tempter got her and Adam there, this is where he consequently leads them to ruin. Look at the first part of verse 6. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and the tree Tree desirable to make one wise, stop, pause, stop there. Where at the final moments before the fall of mankind, they stand at the edge, the last inch of the plank, before plunging into depravity. Can they turn away? But once the eyes are fixed, their fate is fixed. The woman makes three observations about the tree. No, I thought about naming the sermon. Watch out for that tree, but anyway, but the observations align well with 1 John 2 16. I don't have the verse cited, but maybe you memorized it. Their Apostle John speaks of worldly desires that do not come from the Father. The tree was good for food that corresponds to the lust of the flesh. It was pleasant to the eyes, corresponding to the lust of the eyes It was desirable to make one wise, corresponding to the pride of life. Just as it was back then. There's temptations Today. And it's not that bodily nourishment, beautiful sights, and life skills are bad things in themselves, obviously. They're good things. It's just that wanting them more than God makes us lustful and prideful. And the price is too much. What profit is it to a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? Or what will a man give in exchange for his soul? But the serpent has effectively deceived Eve, severing the consequences of sin from sin itself, she snared and her husband with her. So we read in the second half of verse 6, she took up his fruit and ate. Without a moment's hesitation, it says she also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. And I'm going to talk about this more in a minute, but the passivity of Adam here is amazing. In the face of deadly peril, man did nothing as a serpent deceived his wife. Adam did not take leadership. That's hinted here as Adam is described as her husband. He's doing all the action here. So she ate, he ate, they ate, all it took was one bite, and they ate the cost, the great cost of their disobedience. No turning back, no spitting it out. It's like the the Amazon buy now with one click wasn't, right? And it's same-day delivery As God warned on that day, Adam and his Eve, Adam and his wife Eve knew right then the wages of sin is death. Through the first man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men. So Genesis 3:7 takes us back to the patients zero of that sin disease. It says then the eyes of both of them were open, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed thick leaves together and made themselves coverings. It's a great tragedy. So as the devil promised, their eyes were open, sure. They knew evil alright. Now evil is in them It wasn't some objective scientific knowledge that they they were hoping for. It was a personal, immediate, profound sense of shame. That course through their very being. Sin changed man's perspective of himself, sin changed woman's perspective of herself, sin changed their perspective of God and each other. They try to hide with thick leaves. It's a practice and futility, of course. There's ultimately no man-made covering to cover a problem of sin. They could do nothing against the gaze of the all-knowing God. There is no creature hidden from his sight. All things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. We'll get to that confrontation with God next week. For now, let's review There are three scouting report lines on our opponent. The tempter is crafty in approach. The tempter contradicts God with words. The tempter consequently leads us to ruin. He's good, isn't he? And I mean he's good at being bad. He shines brilliantly as the Prince of Darkness Grim. Are always formidable indeed. So let me leave you with two practice trills to build up your resistance to the devil. First, be a careful reader of God's Word. Secondly, and this is mainly for men, but also for just leadership in general, with courage, be a spiritual leader. You might say you must work on your leadership and readership. First be a careful reader of God's Word, right? I know that our first parents didn't have the Bible like ours, like in a book form. But Adam and Eve had something to read in a different sense. They had everything around them encouraging them to obey God. They have nothing in them, no sin nature to hinder that work. They have one job, just one command from the Lord. It's a simple message with a simple application. It's not a sermon with five-point outline, you know, nine applications and twelve illustrations. Very simple. Just have one job, man. In addition to this easy command, what we call special revelation, right, from God, there was general revelation Remember what Paul says in Romans 1:20: Since the creation of the world, God's invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. So we often use this verse to speak of God's creation today, like how heavens declare God's glory, the firmament, his handiwork, so that we are without excuse. But I have to wonder how much more of this applies to a world that hasn't fallen yet. A world free from the bondage of corruption. If we see our Creator's greatness and might here and now, how much more in the beautiful perfect Garden of Eden? Adam and Eve didn't have to read the tea leaves or leaves the book pages. In a perfect environment, they had all the divine revelation they need: special revelation, general revelation. It was theirs abundantly and clearly. But they failed to contemplate on general revelation, what God has made. They failed to meditate on special revelation, what God has said. That was their ruin. Let's do our part in carefully reading God's word. So you know in I wanna memory verse time like I think we give like three strikes for like mistakes it the wording, but we're all dull so we should try to memorize as accurately as possible with the our Bible verses. But however we do it, we need to spend time in God's Word and be a careful reader. And here's one more quote for Thomas Brooks. It is not hasty reading, but serious meditating upon holy and heavenly truths. That makes them prove sweet and profitable to the soul. It is not the bee touching of the flower which gathers honey, but her abiding for a time upon the flower, which draws out the sweet. It is not he who reads most, but he who meditates most, who will prove the choicest, sweetest, wisest, and strongest Christian I have to admit, you know, just my recent years just like qual quantity. I gotta read a lot, read a lot, right? Gotta get through my reading plan. We gotta meditate, be a careful reader. Be like that bee, drawing out that that honey from the flower. Will you be a careful reader? Slow down to meditate on what God has said. Know well what God has really said. Review over and over what God has truly said That will equip us when the serpent comes and asks, has God indeed said Our Lord obviously gave us an example when He was Jesus was tempted in the wilderness. He didn't fight an epic action battle with Satan made for Hollywood. He cited scriptures. He quoted words he memorized since he was a kid. Speaking of Jesus, now I turn to men, but really Leadership in general, but I asked that with courage to be a spiritual leader. Going back to the garden, back to Genesis 3:1 to 7, we asked, what was Adam doing? Evidently not much, obviously not leading. Adam did a good job of naming animals on day six, taking the initiative in marriage. We'd have seen that so far so good in keeping and tending the garden. His work life was fine, but it's as a spiritual leader that the first man messed up. There's no guiding and leading and protecting here. As we see in various New Testament passages, by creation, order, and design, God willed men to lead women at home and at church. Of course, we see men doing the opposite. They're absent or absent-minded. Many women grow frustrated as they must lead spiritually in parenting, in discipleship Well it's an old problem, an ancient one. If only Adam stepped in between the serpent and Eve to say, hey, don't talk to my wife. Right? Get behind me, Satan. The Lord has said, Of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. But that's not what happened, and that's not what happens today. Very often, I don't want to end on a sad note where we have failed to read God's Word and lead in God's ways. There is one who did. I'm of course speaking of Jesus. Turns out Adam was a type of him who was to come But unlike Adam, Christ is not only man, but God at the same time. He was obedient from start to finish. As I said earlier, he read the scriptures and resisted the devil with it. He led well. Except for Judas Iscariot, destined for this destruction, he protected his followers. He lost none that the Bible gave him. But though he was perfect, he suffered. Unlike Adam, Jesus submitted himself to the Father's will in the garden. That meant going to the cross. He went there to pay the penalty of our wrongs and cover our sins. He was tormented in his flesh to free us from the lust of our flesh. He humbled himself to rescue us from pride. He was obedient to the point of death, so that we who are disobedient might live He took our place so that we don't have to die in sin and spend eternity in hell. After paying the price in full, Jesus declared his work finished. He breathed his last and died. He was buried. But on the third day he rose from the grave. He presented himself alive after suffering by many infallible fruits He was seen by his disciples during 40 days. Then he ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. Someday he'll return and judge all mankind. This good news of Jesus calls for a response. Repent, turn from sin, give up your self-righteousness. All your good works amount to nothing. They're just covering up thick leaves. They'll do you no good in the day of God's holy judgment. Trust in Jesus only to be saved. Only in Jesus will you pass from death to life. You cannot earn or deserve entrance into heaven. It is a gift. God saves us by grace alone through faith. Now as we live in Christ and live for him in gratitude Satan cannot take away our salvation. We praise God for that. But the enemy will do all that he can do to make our lives miserable. And the remedy against our adversaries the same as it was back then. Trust in God. Trust in His word. Persevere. Know that God is faithful, providing escape. And providing rest for our weary souls. If the conflict should be long, the Lord will make the tempter flee, that as your days, your strength shall be. Let's pray. Lord, that we can trust in you. Lord, though we repeat the same mistake of our first parents. Lord, um, we're thankful For your mercy. We thank you for the chance to start again, that your mercies are new every morning, and that salvation is not dependent on our ups and downs, on our good days and bad days. But on that Good Friday, two millenniums ago, that your son died, he obeyed you and he gave his life as a sin offering. To pay the penalty of our sin. We see him as our model. We see him as the perfect example. And Lord, we're thankful that he is Not only our motto, but the propitiation for our sins. And Lord, help us to remember that as we fight the battle this week, may we fight the good fight, may we resist temptation. Temptation and Lord to have victory just even in our sanctification as we wait for that final day of victory. Lord, give us strength. May we encourage each other. May we share the struggles we have and not approach each other in judgment. in compassion and work together to grow as a body and to serve you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.