I'm going to read for you Luke chapter 6, verses 12 to 19. Look at this section with me. Now it came to pass in those days that he went out to the mountain to pray And continued all night in prayer to God. And when it was day, he called his disciples to himself, and from them he chose twelve, whom he also named apostles. Simon, whom he also named Peter, and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew. Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon, called the zealot, Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who also became a traitor. And he came down with them and stood on a level place with a crowd of his disciples and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon. Who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases, as well as those who were tormented with unclean spirits. And they were healed And the whole multitude sought to touch him, for power went out from him and healed them all. Last week we saw Jesus in confrontation with the Pharisees. It wasn't the first time. He was in the synagogue. He healed on the Sabbath day. He had disciples that didn't fast. He claimed to be able to forgive sins. He called himself the bridegroom. And went so far as to say that he was the Lord of the Sabbath, not just someone who is clearing away all of the tradition that the Pharisees had heaped upon the Sabbath. And the law of God, as it's clearly displayed in the Old Testament, but as someone who operated at a level of authority over the Sabbath, thus signifying that he was The Lord, Deity, the God of the Old Testament. The Pharisees were beginning to get the picture They didn't like what he had to say. And so, if you recall from last week, the last thing we read was that they went out If you look at chapter 6, verse 11, they were filled with rage and disgust with one another what they might do to Jesus. And I can assure you, it wasn't nice things they wanted to do to Jesus. He was a rabbi who claimed to be more than a rabbi. He did things that other rabbis could not do, and really what Old Testament prophets could not do. His miraculous ministry had risen to such a level that he far outstripped any of the recorded miracles of the Old Testament. Here was someone who just without discrimination and almost I I don't want to use the word careless, but it was like a just a simple thing to heal and heal and heal again. And when all the town gathered at his door The healing didn't fatigue him in the sense of he got to a place where the gas tank was empty and he needed to recharge, but his humanity did grow weary and he re he did need rest, but there was no limit to this man's power. Who was he? The Pharisees should have been getting the picture when he quoted from Isaiah, telling everyone that he was the Messiah who was to come, who came. John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, the ministry that he had, and the things that he said about Christ, there should have been a A burgeoning, a growing realization of who this man was more than a prophet, more than just another Isaiah or another Jeremiah. What we have before us this morning is sort of the completion in Luke's estimation of this first part of work that Jesus did. At the end of today's section, we have Jesus with disciples, with crowds, and now with apostles. And we see in the last verse of what we read that there was this whole multitude. Here's this theme that Luke lays before us, a multitude, and they have this desire to simply touch the man because power was just flowing out of him. It is almost the height of Jesus. He is popular and he is powerful. He is unstoppable. And then Luke enters into the Beatitudes. Next week we'll look at as more specific detail that Luke gives of his teaching, which we have not had up to this point. You could divide this short section into three sections or three outlines or main points. The first would be perhaps verse 12, going into the mountain to pray. The second, when the night was over, coming forward and calling his disciples to himself, something that only Luke tells us. and choosing the twelve. And the last coming and standing in a level place with this this scene before him, this height of his popularity and power with people desiring just to touch him. You could look at it that way. What we're going to look at first is Jesus on the mountaintop. He went alone to pray there. You know, if I named different names and just shouted them out to you and you told me how you felt about that individual, You would have a greater impression of an individual based on how well you knew them, right? It's just common sense. If I shouted out the name Benjamin Franklin, I mean, there's not too many people here who will just just really respond in a strong way to that individual, unless you've read a lot of his uh works or biography or two on him or perhaps his short autobiography that he has written about himself and you would have some knowledge about him. And so you would there is a sense in which if you throw a name out there There can be almost an instantaneous or a spontaneous response based on the knowledge that you have of that individual If I were to call out your spouse's name, you know, whatever it might be, and I'm purposely not calling out any names at this moment. You would also have an emotional response because you probably know them the best out of any person, perhaps on the face of the earth. When I just say the name Jesus, When I just present that meme to you, what happens to you? What thoughts enter your mind? Where does your mind even go? Someone in here probably, and I can see some of you smiling, that's a good response. Or maybe your mind drifts back to a passage of Scripture. Folks, what we have in the Gospels is all of this gold that you can mine so that you can come to know him so well Imagine knowing him so well, the gospel so well, that when someone just says Jesus You immediately can start just running down a list and meditating on the man, who he was, the God man, what he did, how he treated other people, and your heart can just sort of fill up like a sponge fills up on water or like a like a flower just drinks from this water from the ground, a fertile ground, or like the tree in Psalm 1, planted by rivers of living water. What we have before us this morning is really one of Luke's things that he emphasizes, the prayer life of Jesus. His gospel mentions it more than any of the other gospels. He has more references to Jesus praying than the others. It is something that's very important to Dr. Luke. He wants to share with us how Jesus prayed. And so as we enter this passage in verse 12, we see that he goes into a mountain by himself to pray, and in this instance, it's an all-night prayer vigil. It is very obvious that this prayer vigil is attached to verse 13. The next day, when it was day, he called his disciples to himself. This was a prayer visual with purpose. Now, what I would like to do for a few minutes, if you just buckle your seatbelts on, is look at Dr. Luke's presentation Of the prayer life of Jesus. Your prayer life and my prayer life. How do you feel about yours? I can tell you how I feel about mine. Sometimes I just feel guilty that I'm not praying enough. A lot of guilt. Do you ever feel that way? Or sometimes I feel confused, like I I'm not exactly sure how to pray, and I find myself praying for Aunt Edna's bad leg over and over again. Lord, please help Aunt Edna. I don't have an Aunt Edna. I made that up. Please help Anna's badly. Please help Anna's bad link. Please help. Do you ever feel like you're in a rut? Well, by this morning, by looking at this this, hopefully you can pull yourself out and get a breath of fresh air. Here's what we're going to do first. Turn back to chapter 3 verse and let's look at some of these references to prayer that Dr. Luke gives us. Luke chapter 3 verse 21. First example of Jesus praying. And what is the context? Well, it's his baptism. If you look at verse 21, when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also was baptized. And while he prayed, the heaven was opened, and the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form like a dove upon him. Now this is an interesting scene. It is very visual. There's water There are individuals in the water doing things you typically don't do with water. You don't usually go into it and come out of it and just stand there. But that's what they're doing. Others are watching. It's a public image in their minds, a time to remember. It represents repentance and a desire to repent before the Lord, an acknowledgement of sin. And Jesus, in the midst of this, he's doing something that's very clear to others that he is praying. And it's at that moment that the heavens open and this dove descends upon it. Folks, what we have here is the submissive son, who is identifying himself with sinners, though he has never sinned. And he is receiving the approval of the Father, the Son, in whom I am well pleased. And he is not in a display of power or a posture of authority. It's this It's the submissive posture of prayer in this very act of baptism at some point. He's praying. and the heavens open. It's all about the Father's stamp of approval on the Son. And really this marks the prayer life of Jesus of Nazareth. He is always submitting himself to the Father in his prayers. He is someone whose first desire is for the Father's will to be accomplished on earth as it is in heaven. And he begins his ministry. This is the beginning of his ministry. This whole idea of submission in prayer was very uh Very much weighed on my mind and Paula's mind before we were married. And we realized at that point just how little we knew about marriage And how much we needed to learn. And here we are getting married. And you know what? In those moments, have you ever been in that moment when you're about to make a major change in your life and you wonder, Wow. This is fairly serious. Marriage is fairly serious. Right? Anybody here gonna say marriage is easy, not serious? And so after we did our wedding vows, we had built into our service that the very first thing we would do is kneel down. Right there in front of everyone and pray. I don't remember what I prayed. Paula, do you remember what you prayed? Don't tell me. I'm marrying this guy, Lord, please help me. I don't know what she prayed. But that was us realizing, wow, Lord, here's our marriage. Now we're sinners. We need help. Jesus is not a sinner. He's never sinned, never will sin. And yet here is this baptism, this prayer, this affirmation of the Father, and a prayer life that constantly is like this. You don't have to turn there, but in chapter 4, verses 42 to 44, it doesn't say that he went out to the deserted place to pray, but it says in in chapter 4, verse 42, Now when it was day he departed and went into a deserted place. In chapter five, verses fifteen to sixteen, in verse sixteen it says, So he himself often withdrew into the wilderness and prayed. In chapter 6, verse 12, it says, Now it came to pass in those days, if we just read this, he went to the mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer. In chapter 9, verse 18, he was alone praying. In chapter 9, verse 28, It says he went up on the mountain to pray. What we have here over and over again in Luke is the Lord going to be alone, to talk to his God. When did he pray? Well, he prayed when he was baptized. Here's a summary of every time Jesus prayed in the Gospel of Luke. Okay? If you want this later, I can give you the references He prayed when he was baptized. He prayed in the morning. He prayed after busy ministry. He prayed when anticipating important decisions He prayed before he ate. He prayed on the Mount of Transfiguration. That was the whole point. And he went up there to pray with Peter, James, and John. He prayed after the 70 returned. He prayed when Peter had need. He prayed when anticipating the cross. He prayed when hanging on the cross. Folks, if you wanted to sum up When Jesus prayed, I think it would be fair to say that Dr. Luke wants us to know that he frequently prayed, he often prayed, he prayed at all different occasions He prayed. How does that encourage us this morning? Do the same. You don't need a Wednesday night prayer meeting, although I certainly I would encourage you to come and pray together, but we should be praying all the time as he was praying. When you take all the data from Luke and you look at the every every time in Luke that Jesus gave words to his prayer, I mean we have these statements where he went to the wilderness and prayed, and we don't really know what he said. There are at least four times, I'm sorry, five times when we have his words. What did he pray? He said this, and I'm going to just read it without giving you the context. Just listen to the words. I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in your sight. He said to Peter, I prayed for you that your faith would not fail Father, if it is your will, take this cup away from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. And I skipped the Lord's Prayer. He said it to the disciples, but you know it well. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. And you know the rest of it. These are the words that Luke gives us for some of those whens that I talked about. What motivated Jesus to pray? I've already given you some hints to that. I'm kind of summing up the baptism prayer as a submission to the Father, although certainly we don't know what he was saying. Here are, if you take when he prayed, what he said, and the context surrounding it, These are some of the ideas, and yours might be a little different, but when it came to motivation for Jesus, he prayed in anticipation of the day that was about to happen. So it's not hard to extrapolate that perhaps he was praying proactively about the day and about the things that were about to happen. He did pray after busy ministry. So was he motivated by a desire to get away from the busyness and all the people and have that special alone time with God, just him and his father, a time to reorient his humanity. He was a man. His brain probably got worn out just like yours does. Have you ever worked with thousands of people in a small Galilean village before the days of any modern convenience? And you were just there in that heat all day long. Can you imagine how his mind was worn out? All the talking, all the movement, all the interaction. Maybe it was rest to get out there to be alone with the Father, motivated to go and have that alone time, to reorient his humanity, his mind. He prayed in our context here in Luke 6 in anticipation of an important decision. A desire to make the right decision. Now, did Jesus ever make a wrong decision? No. I don't think so. But there was still this move, this all night in prayer. The only time we have this because of the desire to choose the right men. He was motivated by gratitude, folks. Two times in the Gospel of Luke, he's praying at meals. One is the Last Supper or the Lord's table, but he is breaking and blessing the bread. He's feeding people, he's breaking and blessing the bread, he's grateful. When he is anticipating the cross, In the garden, sweating drops of blood. How would you describe that when he starts talking to God, asking the Father to take this cup from him. What is moving him to prayer in that instant? Is there this his his humanity is overwhelmed by the thought of the agony of the moment of the cross. Overwhelmed humanity of Jesus Christ. He's feeling that pressure And what would you say when he's hanging on the cross and he says, Father, forgive them, they know not what they do. What's the motivation for prayer there? Would you say love? Or the knowledge that he's about to redeem his enemies, well, certainly it's an example of what he taught about prayer, which was to pray for those who are your enemies. So these are some of his motivations. What did he teach? Now I'm going to get you to turn to some of these so that you can. So what we did was we looked at some of his example of when he prayed. We looked at the words that he said. We tried to extrapolate some motivation. Now what did he actually teach about prayer? Did he have anything to say about that? Yes, he had a lot to say about that, but not too much. Hang in there. I told you to put your seatbelts on. Well first we have uh Let's see here. Why don't you turn to the easy one first to uh Luke chapter 11? And I'll just tell you about In Luke chapter 11, we have Jesus has already demonstrated such a life of prayer that his apostles who are following him want to know. Luke 11 verse 1. Lord teach us to pray as John also taught his disciples. There was There was a realization that Jesus was a man of prayer. John had actually said some things about prayer to his disciples, so they wanted Jesus to do the same. He gives us in verses 2 to 4 the Lord's Prayer. Now, there are lots of things we could say about this prayer at this time, but generally speaking, there is one thing that is very clear. There is priority built into this prayer. When you read this prayer, you see the priorities of the kingdom. You see your kingdom come Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. This is at the beginning of the prayer. It proceeds, give us day by day our daily bread. So there's the priority of the kingdom and the will of God. Yes, we need our daily bread, and then there's the priority of Of being victorious in a wicked and perverse generation, of being able to resist sin and to have our sins forgiven. Because we are habitually doing that to others as well. Not because, in the sense of when we forgive sins, it merits forgiveness before God, but it is connected to God's posture toward us. After we're saved. So, priorities. What is Jesus teaching his disciples? Here are the priorities that should sort of be the context of all your prayers. Now that that kind of marks off the territory that we live in with our prayers. We do not want to pray about things that just we can just consume upon our own lust. Lord, I need that third vehicle because Really, when it comes down to it, I just want it. I don't care about your kingdom. I want that SUV. That's outside the territory of Christian prayer. We're always trying to bring ourselves back into the territory of Christian prayer. And it would seem like almost a limitation by these priorities, and truly it is, because we want the will of the Father first. And so he does give two parables to help us to not feel like we're restricted by that. We have the parable of a persistent friend first, and we won't read it, but we have this individual who is in trouble and he goes and um The guy, if we're f look at verse six, we'll read some of it. For a friend of mine has come to me on his journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within and say, do not trouble me. And so anyway, the friend is persistent at the door asking for something. Eventually, the neighbor gives in. Persistence. Don't give up on your prayers. Keep praying. Well, what it what is God like? I mean, in the middle of all this, what is his heart toward me? And this is the parable of a good father, because Look, you you are fathers and you have sons and you're sinners and you know how to give good things to your son. I mean, verse 11, if a son asks for bread from any father among you, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if we ask for an egg, will we offer him a scorpion? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Now, leaving aside for a moment the issue of the Holy Spirit, there is God, and He wants to give You know how to give good gifts, but you're evil. How much more? The good father knows how to give good gifts. Here's the lesson: persistence. And remember, God is good. He wants to give. Priorities, persistence, the nature of the character of the Father. Then we go work our way down the list, and you don't have to turn there, but in chapter 18 we have the parable of the woman and the judge. And there is a woman who has a certain issue that she brings over and over again to the judge, and eventually the judge gives in. If you turn to chapter 18, here, go ahead and turn there. So Chapter 18, verse 2: There was in a certain city a judge who did not fear God nor regard man. Now there was a widow in that city, and she came to him saying, Get justice for me from my adversary. And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I do not fear God nor regard man, yet because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. Then the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge said, and shall God not avenge his own elect who cry out day and night to him, though he bears long with them? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he really find faith on the earth? There is a judge who is unjust, being compared to God, who is just. And although there is, it appears that he is unjust because there is a, there is a, um, there is uh There's a gap between the time of this constant prayer and the answer from God. It would almost appear, because of this time that's going on, that God is not just. And that is not true. If an unjust judge responds to all this prayer, all this entreaty from this woman, how much more the just God, when his elect pray day and night for something? So don't mistake the waiting period. Don't allow a long period of time before your prayer gets answered. Don't allow the devil to turn that into something that will impugn the character of God, that you would actually start to think that God is not good or God is not just Keep praying. And then there's the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector after that. And whose prayers are heard? It's the one who is justified because he admits Who he is. If you look down at that in verse 13, the tax collector standing afar off would not so much as raise his eyes to heaven, but he'd beat his breast saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. God responds to humility. This man's prayer is a prayer of humility. He's willing to admit that he's a sinner and he is justified in the eyes of God because of his faith. Alright, hang in there. A couple more. So we have the Lord's Prayer, we have the parable of the persistent friend, the parable of the good father, the parable of the woman and the judge, the parable of the Pharisee and the Tax Collector. And then we also have Jesus saying, pray for those who are your enemies. And so that is Then we have one more thing here I want to remind you of that that Luke wants us to realize. Did you know there's a connection between your prayer and your alertness in spiritual matters? Let me ask you, when when you go home and watch three hours of television, how alert do you feel when you're done? Maybe if you watch a Ravens football game and you've been jumping up and down and spilling popcorn all over the dog on the floor and And like it's just crazy. Okay, maybe you feel a little more alert. I don't know. Prayer, if it's done properly, it can help you to stay alert so that you can resist temptation. And so we have in the garden Jesus telling his disciples, pray that you enter not into temptation, and they fall asleep. Watch and pray is the command that Jesus gives in the last days, so that you can be alert for when I return. So, folks, we have a whole lot of data in the Gospel of Luke about prayer. Just a ton of it. And I can give this to you later. From Jesus' example, listen to this. We learn to pray in the morning before we eat. In solitary places, sometimes with other Christians, when big decisions must be made after busy ministry, when busy ministry starts, after successful ministry, the return of the 70. When we're suffering, when we know we're about to suffer. When a brother is in spiritual trouble, pray for him. When we're in the presence of our enemies, pray for our enemies. When we think about the greatness of our Father's ways, praise him. That's what we learn just from his example in the Gospel of Luke, from his teaching. We learn to pray according to God's priorities, His kingdom, and His will first. We learn to be persistent. Keep asking. Keep asking. Ask, seek, knock. It's okay. Keep asking, be persistent. We learn that God is good and that God is not unjust, that He is willing to give and willing to answer. There's no request that's too small. And we know that God will listen to us even though we're sinners. Because Christ has redeemed us and we have a justified status before him, and we're safe because of Christ. Go back to Luke 6 now. Go back to Luke 6. I know that's a lot of data. Here's why I did that. And I didn't even, there's a lot more I could have given you. I'm cutting it short. So Luke 6 We have Jesus, and he's spending all night doing, being himself, doing what he always does. What did he say? I want to know We don't know. So we have to be careful. Arguments from silence are often dead wrong. But If we take into account the broader scope, the broader picture of all the Gospel of Luke, and we look at the patterns that Jesus has and what he taught about prayer, we know that he is consistent, he is perfect, he is the Son of God. So for example, when he is alone preparing for that next day of decision making, he must be praying. In the context of the Father's will, could he say things like this: Father, tomorrow may your will be done with the men I choose on earth as it is in heaven? May I choose the Exactly, precisely the ones that you are giving me. May I choose the right men. Would that be consistent? Could he also be saying something like this, Father, your kingdom, your kingdom, may it be magnified by the choice of men that I have that I choose tomorrow? Father, may your will be done. That would be the context of what he was praying. Now, what kind of men are they? Now, here's where we kind of transition into the second section here. You look down at your Bible in Luke chapter 6 and look at verse 13. And when it was day, he called his disciples to himself. So we're really not sure how many disciples he had at this time. I would imagine it was more than twelve. Because he's choosing twelve out of a larger group. How many? We're not sure, but I I would I don't want to guess at things like this, but it was definitely more than twelve. I would hasten to say three, four, five times that many. So he calls all of them, and from them he chooses the twelve. Now, Luke has already introduced to us some of these men, right? And I don't think it's an accident. I think that when the reader gets to this passage and he sees all, he chose Simon. Oh, that kind of makes sense. And Andrew and James and John, I remember them. And Matthew, oh, I remember him. So the reader is reading names that he's familiar with because he's If we're assuming he's already read Luke from the beginning to this point. So what is it that we see in the lives of these men that we've already read about? That would cause Christ to see these men as being, thy will be done, seeking the kingdom of God first. Can I ask you to just go back and look at their story again really quick? Let's go back and look at this, turn a couple pages back and look at Look first at uh, let's see, let's go to Luke 4, look at verse 38. First thing we see is that Jesus knew Simon well enough. Now, remember, I am intentionally trying to just go with Luke. I could bring in the other gospels at this point and almost give parallel accounts, but I'm actually avoiding that only to stick with Luke to see his story for this moment. So we have him in Simon's house, and his wife's mother is sick with a fever, and Jesus is there, and he rebukes the fever, and there's a healing. In Simon's house. So we know that Jesus had, from Luke's perspective, only reading the Gospel of Luke right here, Luke is letting us know that Jesus was familiar with Simon and his family to some extent because here's where they were in his house So the knowledge, the level of knowledge that God that Jesus had from a human standpoint only, certainly he was God and He knew all things But from a human standpoint, we can see that he's interacting with some of these men. He knows them. Luke is letting us know that. In chapter five, we have an expansion on the story when we have this. of course famous story where Jesus is in Peter's boat. Look at chapter five verse two. He sees two boats standing by the lake, but the fishermen have gone from them and they're washing their nets. So you know how the story goes. He gets into Peter's boat. He's teaching all day, and then he says to Peter when he's done, let's launch out into the deep. And Peter says, Well, we've been fishing all night. We're kind of tired, but okay, we'll go. And so they go. And Peter's men follow him. And at the end of this, Peter Jesus says, I'll make you fishers of men. This is verse 10 at the end of it. Do not be afraid, from now on you will catch men. So when they had brought their boats to land, they forsook all and followed him. What do we see here from Peter? Peter knows Christ well enough to trust him. There's some trust here. How do you know you trust someone? Have you ever had someone just tell you to do something you really weren't quite sure about? And he said, No, just trust me. Do it. Just trust me. That's what's happening here. There's some relationship between Peter and Jesus, and Peter has trust in him, so much trust that he's willing to do something he doesn't understand in that moment and to lead others to do the same. Peter had enough trust to take a step of faith. And then when it's all over, his response When he bows down before Christ and he fell down at his knees, this is verse 8, and he says, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. He has enough humility to It's a sort of bow and take his place. This is Jesus, and I'm Peter, a sinner, and just depart from me. So there's there's in Peter there's this, what kind of man is is Jesus going to choose and pray about all night? Well there's this man he has enough trust in to take a step of faith publicly, lead others to follow. And he knows his place. There's this humility in the man. Now, you're going to hasten to say, well, he's really uh outwardly uh Kind of puts his foot in his mouth a lot and he's a little proud and he has issues, that's true. But when it comes to Jesus You might think he's better than that guy, but when it comes to Jesus, I'll follow you to the day I die. There's this recognition and this humility. And so it is with Peter, James, and John, Andrew. And then there's Levi. You remember him and what happened with him? If you look at uh turn turn the page and look at verse 27. This is chapter 5, verse 27. After these things, he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and he said to him, Follow me. So he left all, rose up, and followed him Then Levi gave him a great feast in his own house, and there was a great number of tax collectors and others who sat down with them And their scribes, and of course the scribes and Pharisees complained against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? So here we have Levi. And he is probably in the middle of a very profitable venture. He's making money. Now it doesn't say whether he was one of the dishonest tax collectors or one of the good ones, but he's certain good ones. But in Jewish eyes, there were no good tax collectors. They're ranked down at the bottom. And he had, he, he had, he was willing to just let it all go. He was willing to publicly get up and leave that behind. He was willing to sacrifice. Great monetary gain. And then when he had that dinner party, and we need to be careful here, Jesus was not there drinking it up and getting drunk and carousing, there was a special guest, Jesus, and there is this interaction and talk as they recline and want to hear what he has to say. And there's this If we could call it this star convert, Levi, or Matthew, and he is talking about the one he has come to trust. He is public. He's bold. Levi has enough boldness to let others know. I mean, here's a man who's gone public. Sacrifice, boldness. This is Matthew. Peter, there's trust and there's humility, believe it or not, a recognition of his own sin. And folks, if you go back to Luke 6, these are the men that Jesus chose. And he prayed before choosing them all night, and we know he chose the right men. Now, let me ask you something. When you look at the Christian church and how messed up it seems to be sometimes, well, let's be more specific. When you look at the people in this church, And see how messed up they are. And then you consider yourself and see how messed up you are. Do you ever wonder how God gets anything done? Sometimes you think of yourself. But folks, Paul wrote to the Corinthians and said, this is the way God works. Not many mighty, not many noble are called. This is the way God works. Jesus prays all night, and Luke has already let us know a little of the character of these men, and he says, I want someone who's going to trust me, even at those moments when they don't completely understand. And I want someone who will be, who knows his position before me. Humility. He's the sinner. Now, are you someone that's willing to trust your Lord today? Are you willing to trust the Bible and what it says and bank your life on what this says, not what the latest talking head says? Are you someone that recognizes that you are a sinner in need of help, so much so that at the beginning of the day, you're going to say, Lord, I need you today? And then Levi, are you someone who's willing to sacrifice your most profitable venture if that is what Christ requires of you? If he puts his finger on that, on your money. Ouch. Seriously. Your money. Are you willing to sacrifice that? And are you willing to just tell other people that you have a Lord and his name is Jesus? These are the kinds of people that Jesus chose after a night in prayer. And then quickly as we move forward, we have this final scene in chapter 6. Well not in chapter 6, but this final scene in our section today. He comes down and he verse 17, he stands in a level place with a crowd of his disciples, and there is the crowd of disciples, the great multitude of people from Judea, Jerusalem, and the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon. And they're all there. And it's this moment you could almost picture it. You've probably seen scenes like this in some movie where there's Jesus and just probably thousands of people, and they are in trouble. They're sick. They're demon-possessed, and they're there to see one man, Jesus of Nazareth. They want to hear his message too. They want to know who he is. Who is this healer? And the whole multitude is just there intent to just touch him because the power is literally flowing from him. So we move from a night in prayer, choosing the apostles, to this final scene of popularity and power, and that leaves us then with this. Folks, we have an amazing Lord. He there there are no superlatives that we can use. We use them all up, probably, in every language. Jesus was such a model of prayer. He was the God man. And he prayed and prayed and prayed. Why don't you pray? Why don't I pray He prayed. And then he chose men for special service. And then there he was. And we enter into more detail of his teaching ministry. When I say the name Jesus, what what do you think? What goes through your mind? It's at moments like this that we can take a moment and pray. So why don't we bow our heads and pray and ask for God's help? To magnify the name of Jesus as we continue to journey through Luke next week, or the week should be in two weeks, actually. And let's worship our Father. Father, this morning. We looked at a lot of different passages, but we just admit to you that we want to be like him. Father, as the pastor of this church, I can probably say with great accuracy that many of us in here know we spend too much time worrying Too much time fretting, too much time complaining and griping. And we see the example of Christ. And we want that kind of intimacy with you, where we can go and be alone with you and pray. Help us, Father. Teach Faith Bible Church how to pray. Whatever level of prayer we're at in our own spiritual journeys. Deepen it, widen it. Father, help us to accept the kind of men that you choose and the way that your kingdom works so that you get the glory. We have talents, so what? And certainly we want to use our spiritual gifts for you, but Father help us to trust as Peter did and to sacrifice as Levi did. Because of who you are. Folks, I'll give you a moment if there's anything you want to talk to God about right now for a moment of silence. The Spirit of God has worked it through anything in the service, singing the songs, praying, reading the scriptures. Talk to Him now, and then we'll close down our service.