We all should admire men of great character and passion. Maybe even try to be around them as much as possible. It seems like there's an aura of invincibility around them. They live like they've already won the lottery. And I think the ladies can maybe relate to this on their Sunday school, but I recall reading about Henry Martin. Was a gifted man, a missionary who translated the scriptures for the people of India and Middle East. He prayed once, let me burn out for God. In the final year of his short life, he's already accumulated a lifetime of sorrows, setbacks and heartbreaks. He wrote, quote, To all appearance, the present year will be more perilous than any I have seen. But if I live to complete the Persian New Testament, my life after that will be of less importance But whether life or death be mine, may Christ be magnified in me. If he has work for me to do, I cannot die. I get a similar vibe from David. As you continue in 1 Samuel, it appears nothing will stop this young man. David embodies what Martin expressed. God has work for me to do, so I cannot die. What's the secret to this drive and energy? How can we imitate David for our own growth and maturity? Let's turn to 1 Samuel 18 and find out. If you're using the Pew Bible, it's in page 201. First Samuel, chapter eighteen Now when he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Saul took him that day and would not let him go home to his father's house anymore. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved them as his own soul And Jonathan took off the robe that was on him and gave it to David with his armor, even to his sword, and his bow and his belt. So David went out wherever Saul sent him and behaved wisely. And Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. Now it had happened as they were coming home, when David was returning from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women had come out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing to meet King Saul. With tambourines, with joy, and with musical instruments. So the women sang as they danced and said, Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands. And Saul was very angry, and the saying displeased him, and he said, They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed only thousands. Now, what more can he have but the kingdom? So Saul eyed David from that day forward. And it happened on the next day that the distressing spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied inside the house. So David played music with his hand at s at other times, but there was a spear in Saul's hand. And Saul cast the spear, for he said, I will pin David to the wall. But David escaped his presence twice. Now Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him, but had departed from Saul. Therefore Saul removed them from his presence and made him his captain over a thousand, and he went out and came in before the people. And David behaved wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. Therefore, when Saul saw that he was he behaved very wisely, he was afraid of him. But all Israel and Judah loved David because he went out and came in before them. Then Saul said to David, Here is my older daughter Mirab I will give her to you as a wife. Only be valiant for me and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul thought, Let my hand not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him. So David said to Saul, Who am I and what is my life or my father's family in Israel that I should be son-in-law to the king But it happened at the time when Mirab Saul's daughter should have been given to David, that he was she was given to Adriel the Meholdite as a wife. Now Mikhail Saul's daughter loved David, and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him. So Saul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Therefore Saul said to David a second time, You shall be my son-in-law today And Saul commanded his servants, communicate with David secretly, and say, Look, the king has delighted in you, and all his servants love you. Now therefore become the king's son-in-law. So Saul's servants spoke those words in the hearing of David, and David said, Does it seem to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law? Seeing I am a poor and lightly esteemed man, and the servants of Saul told them, saying, In this manner David spoke. Then Saul said, Thus you shall say to David, the king does not desire any dowry but one hundred foreskins of the Philistines to take vengeance on the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. So when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to become the king's son-in-law. Now the days had not expired, therefore David arose and went, he and his men, and killed two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins and gave them in full count to the king, that he might become the king's son in law. Then Saul gave him Macel, his daughter, as a wife. Thus saw and knew that the Lord was with David, and that Mikael, Saul's daughter, loved him And Saul was still more afraid of David, so Saul became David's enemy continually. Then the princes of the Philistines went out to war, and so it was whenever they went out, that David behaved more wisely than all the servants of Saul, so that his name became highly esteemed. It's a lot of so, saw, so, and so. Good practice if you need pronunciation practice there. In chapter 18, the struggle with Philistia continues, but at the forefront are David's relationships. With Saul and his family. And both professionally and interpersonally, our hero displays wisdom. That's the unifying and constant theme of today's passage. Here's how we know. There's a verb in the original language, sakel, that's translated as behave wisely. The verb appears only four times in 1st and 2 Samuel. All of them in this chapter, chapter 18. Look at the first sentence of verse 5. So David went out wherever Saul sent him and behaved wisely. Go down to verses 14 and 15. And David behaved wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. Therefore, when Saul saw that he behaved very wisely, One more in verse 30. And so it was whenever they went out that David behaved more wisely than all the servants of Saul. These occurrences throughout this chapter correspond to three progress reports. David's wise behavior consistently leads to his advancement. In the second sentence of verse 5, we read Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. Look at verse 16. All Israel and Judah loved David because he went out and came in before them. Finally, in verse 30, as David rises above Saul's servants, his name became highly esteemed. So, with this literary pattern, we observe three subsections, each closing with the summary of David's wisdom and advancement. Based on this outline, I observe three principles for our own spiritual wisdom and advancement. First, strongly cherish spiritual friendships. Strongly cherish spiritual friendships. That's in verses one to five. Two, faithfully depend on God's presence. Verses six to sixteen. Faithfully depend on God's presence. 3. Humbly accept opportunities to serve. That's verses 17 to 30. Humbly accept opportunities to serve. Verses seventeen to thirty. First, strongly cherish spiritual friendships The major developments in David's relationship with Saul's house really began near the end of the previous chapter. As the young champion went out and returned from fighting Goliath, Saul asked concerning his father. Jesse's youngest now has the king's attention. He was once back and forth to his father. Now we read in verse 2: Saul would not let him go home to his father's house anymore. It would benefit the king to have David with him full-time, both as a musician and as a soldier. I think of Proverbs 22, verse 11. He who loves purity of heart and has grace on his lips, the king will be his friend. I also think of verse 29. Do you see a man who excels in his work? He will stand before kings. He will not stand before unknown men. But it was Saul's eldest, Jonathan, who benefited most from David. We haven't heard of him since chapter 14. There he battled the Philistines bravely, which makes me wonder where was he during Goliath's challenge? I can only conclude that like the other men of Israel, he was gravely and dreadfully afraid. See, even great men of faith like Jonathan have their low moments. But seeing and hearing David revived him. Jonathan felt the connection It's not camaraderie. They haven't known each other for a long time. It's not similar family backgrounds. Once the eldest in the royal house, the heir apparent. The other one was once neglected, the youngest from a small town. What it is is shared faith It's a common faith in the living God of Israel. David stirred up love and good works in Jonathan. Such bond of faith is strong. How strong is it? David Samura makes an excellent observation. That phrase in verse 1, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, has its parallel in Genesis 44, verse 30. There, Jacob's youngest Benjamin was about to become an Egyptian slave, but Judah stepped up and begged to take his place. He was afraid that if they return without Benjamin, their father would die of sorrow. Jacob's life was bound up in Benjamin's life. And everyone in the family knew it. Amazingly, the souls of David and Jonathan are knit together, like Jacob and Benjamin. Have you known a spiritual friendship that's strong as physical sonship? I can't imagine that. I mean, even my closest buddies, whom I've known for decades since college years, they don't compare to the bond I have with my son. I understand now how Jacob's life is bound up in Benjamin's life. But can my soul be knit to the soul of a brother in Christ? Do I have someone like Jonathan in my life? To you To obtain one, we must begin with this principle: strongly cherish spiritual friendships. Let's learn from Jonathan's example. All through verses 1 to 4, he takes the initiative with a younger friend. He applies God's command to love his neighbor as himself. But just saying that you love your spiritual brother is not enough, see also how in verses 3 and 4 There are visible fruit and tangible results that spring from that love. I look at the covenant between Jonathan and David and I can't help but think of the early church. All who believed were together, it says in Acts 2, and had all things in common, and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all as anyone had need. I wonder at if at this point Jonathan knew that David would be king. It wouldn't be difficult to connect the dots after Samuel's prophecies of doom. And if he did know, Jonathan's extension of friendship would be that much more impressive. He, the firstborn of the house there, the firstborn prince, had reasons to be fearful and jealous of David. Even more than his father. But Jonathan's nothing like Saul. He strongly cherished the spiritual friendship he had with David. This kind of friendship is possible today, but it requires a shared experience of the gospel. I hope today everyone understands the good news of God's love. Even greater than Jonathan's love for David is Christ's love for us. You know, at least David and Jonathan were fellow soldiers. We had nothing in common with Jesus Christ. He's perfect, sinless, holy. We're ungodly, still sinners and enemies under God's wrath when we were reconciled to him. How was that gulf bridged? God's Son being more dignified than earthly royalty? Being in the form of God Took the form of a servant. Christ lived a perfect life and offered himself as a substitute, a sacrifice to die in our place. He took the penalty we deserve. He was buried and rose again the third day and ascended to heaven. He'll return someday to judge all mankind. Now Jesus invites you into a saving relationship with him. He's the mediator of the new covenant. Far greater than any human contract or agreement. He offers his body broken and bloodshed for the remission of sins. We're forgiven of all our sins by placing our faith in Jesus. We can do nothing to earn God's favor. He's done it all. It's all grace, not by works. But turn from yourselves, selfishness and self-reliance, trust in Jesus alone. We individually profess our faith and then we gather as a covenantal community. We regularly remember his sacrifice, which we'll do today later in the service. Within the body of Christ, we strongly cherish spiritual friendships. Back to David's story in verse five. Here's the first summary of this chapter. David's favor extends beyond individuals. The masses love him. He advances in the army. He pleases the general public and royal officials. Like the young Samuel in chapter two, verse twenty-six, David grew in favor with men. But that's when things started turning sour with David, I mean with Saul and David, and David needed to remember our second principle. Faithfully depend on God's presence In verse 6, we observe that it did not take long for the Saul-David relationship to go downhill. As the news of David's triumph over Goliath spreads, fans pour out into the streets. The celebration is underway. It's like Israel won the championship. I'm guessing that it was like Paris on July 15, 2018. I was there when France crushed Croatia to win the World Cup. The people were partying all day and all night. It's easy for anyone to get swept up by such excitement, but the king of Israel is especially susceptible. Let's not forget Saul's weakness. Just a few chapters ago in chapter 15, we read how Saul failed to obey the voice of the Lord. Because he feared the people and obeyed their voice. He desired to be honored before the elders and his nation So naturally when he hears Saul has slain his thousands and David his ten thousands, he's not happy. He forgets they're on the same team. Individual statistics are not important when we're on the same side and winning, but those numbers were important to Saul. So he began to be jealous of David. Now before we start condemning Saul, ask yourself. Have you ever struggled with envy? If you're honest, yes you have. I definitely did. And to guard my own heart against pastoral envy I try to pray for pastors and congregations nearby. I was inspired by the example of F. B. Meyer. His ministry at Christ Church London was overshadowed by bigger names. But here's what Meyer had to say. I find in my own ministry that supposing I pray for my own little flock, God bless me, God fill my pews, God send me a revival, I miss the blessing. But as I pray for my big brother, Mr. Spurgeon, on the right-hand side of my church, God bless him Or my other big brother, Campbell Morgan, on the other side of my church, God bless him, I am sure to get a blessing without praying for it. For the overflow of their cups fills my little bucket. Meyer understood that he who is not against us is on our side. How much more so with David and Saul clearly fighting on the same side against the Philistines? Yet, unlike Jonathan, the king closes himself from spiritual fellowship and friendship. He opens himself to spiritual attacks. Like Cain, Saul's sin lies at the door, and his desires for him, but he should rule over it. Sadly, Saul was a ruler of people, but not of his own heart. He's someone who is a hearer of the word, but not a doer. He's like Balaam, Judas Iscariot, and those who call Jesus Lord, Lord in the last day. The prophetic word does not benefit him, whether it comes out of Samuel's mouth or his own mouth. Eventually Saul's jealousy boils over to homicidal rage. David escapes this multiple times. I'm not sure how Saul played this off. Perhaps he pretended this was some sort of emergency fighting drill. I'm not sure exactly how he made an excuse for this. Here's what we do know for certain as readers, in the midst of all these trials of David, changing circumstances, here's what we know The narrator emphasizes four ideas in verses 12 to 16, referring to each twice. First, we read in verses 12 and 15 that Saul was afraid of David. That fear will only grow, as we see in verse 29. Secondly, in verse 13 and 16, that fear leads Saul to dispatch David as a field commander to go out and come in before the people. Saul wanted him out of his presence. Thirdly, as I mentioned earlier, the narrator stresses David's wise ways in verses 14 and 15. The fourth idea is what I want to focus on in verse 12 and 14 and later in verse 28. We see that the Lord's presence in David's life is what protects him. You can trace this theme throughout 1st and 2 Samuel. But nowhere else do we see it mentioned so close to each other. The message is loud and clear. God is with David through his spirit. That's the secret to his success. Whether the tribes of Judah and Israel knew this or not, they love him. Can't argue with the results But such popularity can be dangerous for our spiritual well-being. Yet again, we see David's wisdom and prudence. We observe the third principle of spiritual wisdom and advancement. Humbly accept opportunities to serve. As David's finding success at every turn, Saul's getting desperate to eliminate him, but he can't do it directly. To that end, he'll use any means necessary, even his own daughters, even love. That's an old trick of Laban in Genesis, but much worse here Like Jacob's uncle, Saul's not true to his word. If he was honest, he'd remember that he already owes David the hand of his daughter. That was promised back in chapter 17, verse 25. As a reward for killing Goliath. Even worse, Saul manipulates David's loyalty and puts them in harm's way. He already knew that David's too poor. He can't raise up money for the dowry of a king's daughter. But he also knew that David's too brave. He won't walk away from a chance to avenge the king's honor We should talk about Saul's offer from two perspectives: God's and David's. First we know what the Lord thinks of David. We're assured that God is with him and for him, so who can be against him? We're also certain that while Saul meant evil against him, God meant it for good, for David's advancement in Israel. As for David's perspective of this offer, we learn something about his humility. It's been a while since we last read David's actual words, directly cited, and all he said at the end of chapter 17 was that his father was or is Jesse of Bethlehem. Now, after 17 verses, we finally hear him speak again, or at least his words, concerning marriage into Saul's house. He asks two rhetorical questions. Who am I? And what is my life? Or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king Later in verse 22, on Saul's second try with Mikel, does it seem to you a light thing to be a king's son-in-law, seeing I am a poor and lightly esteemed man David embodies Proverbs eleven twenty When pride comes, then comes shame, but when humble is wisdom. How did David learn such humility? I think it began with his observations of the wonders of creation. He wrote in Psalm 8, 3-4: When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have ordained, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the Son of Man that you visit him? Because David asked, what is man in God's eyes? He can ask, who am I in the king's eyes? But David's humility does not prevent his advancement. Given the chance to fight Israel's enemies and pay the dowry honorably, he assesses. He accepts the opportunity to serve. He eagerly and doubly accomplishes his task. Such passions worth celebrating, but sadly, Saul grows more fearful and considers David his enemy. But it was undeniable that David was wise and God was with him. By himself, he's superior to Saul's administration. So now look at the man who considered himself lightly esteemed in verse 23. Now in verse 30, his name became highly esteemed. Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. David is certainly a good example of this principle. He's destined to be king. He wore Jonathan's armor. Yet his submits to authority. He's clothed in humility. Now David is quite impressive, but in our Lord Jesus Christ, we have even a better example of humility. Jesus is the servant of the Lord who deals prudently. He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death. That's why he shall be exalted and extalled and be very high. And amazingly, though he's lifted up, we also have in Jesus a friend and companion better than Jonathan. Jesus sticks closer than a brother. He's Emmanuel, God with us. Let's remember Christ's humility, friendship, and presence at the Lord's Supper now. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for your word. Help us to be like be like David, but Lord, even better, be like your son, who in his all his ways Show us what true humility is. And through a covenantal relationship with him, we have a true friendship. You call us friends. And Lord, we can say that God is with us because your Son has given himself as sacrifice and reconciled us, and he is Emmanuel. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Serve and please you in unison of life by living a godly, righteous, and sober life to the glory of your holy name. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. The scriptural assurance of pardon comes from Titus 3, 4 to 5. When the kindness and the love of God, our Saviour toward man, appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to His mercy, He saved us. The Apostle Paul writes in First Corinthians 11, 23 to 24. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And so these elements, otherwise common, are now set apart and sanctified to this holy youth by the words of Christ and by prayer. Please take this bread individually as a token of our individual discipleship after a few moments of reflection. As you eat the bread on your own, think back to the time the Lord has saved you at your individual conversion. Take and eat this bread in remembrance that Christ died for you. Please hold the cup to take it together as a symbol of our unity as a body of Christ. We want to apply Paul's instructions to discern the Lord's body, the church, and learn to wait for one another in deference and respect. In the same manner he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is a new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Jesus said, For I say to you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. Let us drink. Let's pray together Lord God, we give you praise and thanks that by your Spirit you have united us into your one body in the unity of the faith. Thank you for that bounty and kindness with which you have delivered your only begotten Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, to death for our sins. May we continue to fulfill your command to do this in remembrance of you, in such faith that we may not, by any false pretenses, offend or provoke you. We pray for those members who could not join us today to celebrate the gift of your Son. We ask that you give them the same sanctifying grace we have received today. As we part ways and until we meet again, we pray that our hearts will be filled with hope and purpose in living for your glory. Amen. Let's rise again, one last time, and sing there is a fountain. We'll sing verses four and five. Ear since by faith I saw the stream, thy flowing wounds apply Redeeming love has been my dear and shall be till I die And shall be till I die, and shall be till I die Reading love has been my theme, and shall be till I die. When this poorly spin stammering tongue lies silent in the grave Then in a nobler sweeter song, I'll sing thy part to stay. I'll sing thy part to stay. Part to stay, I'll sing thy part to stay. In a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing thy part to sing. Let's pray. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. Please be seated. Please take time to meditate and contemplate until the music begins.