The evangelization of the world in this generation That is the call of the late 19th-century student volunteer movement. Robert Wilder and his sister Grace saw firsthand the dire spiritual needs of India. And they dare to pray for a thousand missionaries to emerge from American colleges and universities. It started with Sunday afternoon studies of foreign missions with five fellow students at their home. With the help of D. L. Moody, the movement grew to hundreds. It soon grew to thousands, with names like John Mott, Samuel Dwimmer, and Robert Speer added to the list. By the 20th century, there were tens of thousands. In the twenty-first century, can we take up the rallying call again? The evangelization of the world in this generation. You might be skeptical Even if we replicate the student volunteer movement, you've got to be thinking, really? The evangelization of the entire world in one generation. One stat I found read that the world population was 1. 6 billion in 1900, 6 billion in 2000, and close to 7. 8 billion now. We may see these numbers and lukewarm churches all around us and be tempted to despair. We might scoff at the need for thousands of laborers when only few show up to church, let alone go to third world countries for Christ. But our Lord did not change the mission or our objectives Just as we read earlier, we the church have Jesus leading us, the Spirit empowering us, and the Great Commission in front of us. And we turn to passages like today's, Luke chapter 10, verses 1 to 12. So that like Robert and Grace Wilder, We too can dream of worldwide evangelization in this generation. Let's go there now. After these things the Lord appointed seventy others also, and sent them two by two before his face, into every city and place where he himself was about to go. Then he said to them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray the Lord of harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. Go your way. Behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves. Carry neither money bag, knapsack, nor sandals, and greet no one along the road. But whatever house you enter, first say, peace to this house. And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on it. If not, it will return to you. And remain in the same house, eating and drinking such things as they give, for the laborer is worthy of his wages. Do not go from house to house. Whatever city you enter and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you. And he will just sit there and say to them, The kingdom of God has come near to you. But whatever city you enter, and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say, The very dust of your city which clings to us, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless, know this that the kingdom of God has come near you. But I say to you that it will be more tolerable in the day for Sodom than for that city. Uh before my exposition I have to ask you, have you ever had those deja vu spiritual moments where you keep seeing the same verses, hear the same preaching? And feel the same prompting of the Holy Spirit over and over again. I mean, you might even have two Asian American brothers preaching two sermons on the same passage of Luke in the span of about two months right here from this pulpit on two Sunday mornings. Wait, it's happening right now. You you may recall that on September twenty-seventh, I invited Alex Chen from Campus Outreach. As guest speaker, and he delivered a sermon from Luke chapter 10. I didn't assign him this chapter. I told him about our church's need to grow. And he felt led to share from Luke 10. The sermon was entitled The One and Only Method And his main idea was the redeemed man is God's method for his majesty. I encourage you to go take a listen if you haven't already Because maybe God really, really wants us to meditate on this passage. My main sermon idea is that we must not only follow as Jesus commands us And we talked about that last time. But also go as Jesus sends us. Not only follow as Jesus commands us But also go as Jesus sends us. Principles for The sent disciples are as follows. Go with faith and urgency, verses 1 to 4, 2. Rest with peaceful company, verses 5 to 7. And 3. Proclaim with kingdom authority, verses 8 to 12. First, go with faith and urgency Before explaining this point, there's another deja vu we need to discuss. And if you have your Bible, turn back to Luke chapter 9 and take a look at the first few verses. I'll read them for you. Then he called his twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. He sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick, and he said to them, Take nothing for the journey, neither staffs nor bag, nor bread, nor money. And do not have two tunics apiece. Whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart. And whoever will not receive you, when you go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet as a testimony against them. So they departed and went through the towns preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. See how both Luke 9 and Luke ten begin with Jesus sending out his followers. He gave similar authority and instructions. He expected both sets of delegates to have faith. He prepared both groups of envoys for reception and rejection. An obvious difference is that earlier Jesus sent out the 12 apostles, and here he sends out seventy Some Bible translations have 72 instead of 70, but the lower number is supported by the majority of Greek manuscripts. It's not certain whether the 70 should include the 12 or be distinct. I think the 70 does not include the 12. So why did Jesus pick seventy? There's two major possibilities. One is that Jesus is acting as the new Moses. In the book of Numbers, chapter 11, God grants 70 elders, the same spirit that was on Moses. These men lighten the load of leadership. So perhaps Jesus is also lightening his own load of leadership and forming his own 70 to further his ministry. Another possibility is that Jesus is signaling his future ministry to the nations. Some commentators think that Jesus is making a connection with Genesis chapter 10. Their 70 names are listed in the table of nations Descendants of Noah populating the post-Deluvian world. Here are again 70, but this time for future evangelization of the world. For this end, they are getting some training now. Jesus focused on Israel during his ministry, but as his time on earth came to an end. He prepared more workers for the work to be done among the nations. After all, he is appointed to be a light to the Gentiles and salvation to the ends of the earth. So I prefer this second interpretation of the seventy. But unlike the names of Genesis ten These are unnamed. That's what Alex Chen pointed out for us. These unnamed followers of Jesus are known by him and given this awesome privilege to go and speak on his behalf. Like the twelve as seen in Mark 6:7, the seventy are sent two by two. They go in thirty-five pairs, so that none may despair alone. Also, they can corroborate their testimonies with multiple witnesses. But these guys need more than each other's company They need faith in God. And in verses one and two, we see reasons why they can have such faith. In verse 1, we read that they went where he himself was about to go. And here's Charles Spurgeon's commentary. Quote, what a mercy it is when the preacher knows that his master is coming after him. When he can hear the sound of his master's feet behind him, what courage it gives him. He knows that though it is very little that he can do. He is the thin end of the wedge, preparing the way for one who can do everything. End quote. And that's a great comfort to me. We go, but Jesus is coming behind us. Go with such faith In verse 2, Jesus uses an agricultural illustration to embolden the 70. He announces the harvest is truly great, but the laborers are few. Could you imagine if he said the opposite? The harvest truly is small, but the laborers are great. I mean what hope or encouragement would it be if only a few will respond to the gospel and there are too many messengers? Thankfully, the harvest truly is great. I believe this is still true today. You will never hear from me. There are too many laborers for the kingdom out there. Please don't enter ministry. There's plenty of work to do. You'll never be out of a job as a kingdom worker This is why the 70 prayed, and this verse is the reason that we pray. We pray to the Lord of harvests to send out laborers into his harvest. We're going out to collect what is rightfully his, what is already rightfully his, his harvest. Often soul winning is easy picking because all we need to do is be faithful witnesses, not some fierce debater or world-class apologist with a PhD. The harvest is plenty. Go with such faith The 70 must go with faith, and in verses 3 and 4, we see why they also need to go with urgency. They need to go with urgency because we read in verse 3 that they're sent out like lamb among wolves. I'm sure you've heard plenty of times that sheep are rather helpless creatures. As if that's not enough, the seventy are sent out as young sheep or lambs. We need to walk in faith and run with pace. We need to both trust our shepherd and distrust our foes. As Peter tells us, we must cast cares on God. And we must be careful of the devil. Sleep and rest in the Almighty, and be vigilant and resist the enemy. Go with such urgency. Verse 4 also combines urgency with faith. To carry neither money bag, knapsack, nor sandals requires faith. To greet no one along the road requires urgency. Now such haste may seem cold, but George Morrison observes In this commentary quote, In the East, greetings are so tedious, so full of flattery, so certain to lead on to wayside gossip That men who are out on a work of life and death must run the risk of seeming unsocial sometimes. They needed focus to be followers of Jesus and now they need focus to be laborers of Jesus. Go with such urgency. Even if they don't have time for chit-chat on the road, the somebody must invest in deeper relationships. Relationships with potential for discipleship. In verses 5 to 7, the 70 shifts, I'm sorry, the scenery shifts from outdoor road. To the indoor house. Just so you don't miss it, see how Jesus uses the word house five times in the span of three verses. In this setting, Jesus teaches us the second principle: rest with peaceful company. Besides the multiple occurrences of house, you see peace three times in verses five to six. A nice calm contrast to the wolves and frenetic pace outside. David Guzick Explains Jesus' instructions here. Quote, the customs of that time meant that they would likely stay in the home of hospitable people. Inns, if available, were often houses of prostitution and unsuitable for godly messengers. They were instructed to bring a blessing of peace to each house, if the home would receive it. But what kind of peace is this? Is it Hashalaom, the standard Israelite greeting, and wish for the well-being of others? Is it just people who are nice with calm demeanors? Commentator Joe B. Green thinks it's at minimum that, but far more. Green points to various passages of Luke that teaches us that true peace is rooted in Christ. We find it in chapter 1, 2, 1, 2, 7, 8, 19, 24. I can give you those passages later if you want. Green explains, quote, peace is portrayed not merely as something one might wish for another, but as an entity that can be transmitted and possessed or returned. Inasmuch as peace is the gift of Yahweh, the nature of Jesus' directive is to identify these sent ones as persons capable of extending the peace that is God's to others. Child of peace, that is one whose life is characterized by peace, then, is capable of more than one nuance. It can refer to one who has already begun to embody the wholeness these delegates of Jesus' mission will communicate. Or it can refer to those who are predisposed to welcome these messengers together with their message. So in other words, Green is saying that sons of peace not only accept the greeting of the 70, they are especially and particularly open to the message and the messengers of Christ. All the more reason to stay in their homes as long as possible and accrue relational capital instead of hopping from house to house In this way, Jesus is promoting long-term relational evangelism. I challenge you to be like the 70. Are there individuals, friends, family, neighbors, acquaintances, co-workers who are particularly open to the gospel? Are there sons of peace who may want to hear about the Prince of Peace While you may be busy in your schedule, can you rest with peaceful company in hopes that it will turn into a peaceful fellowship The world is grand, the people numerous, our calendars are full, and our to-do lists lengthy. But perhaps this autumn and winter, as our neighbors and friends are suffering from loneliness and even mental breakdowns, We might try to recreate the homey scene of verses five to seven. Yet the harvest is plenty enough and the world wide enough to evangelize town after town. In verses 8 to 10, we shift the scenery from an enclosed house to the cities where these homes reside. Note the multiple occurrences of the word city. You see it four times in five verses. Another repetition to note is the phrase, the kingdom of God has come near you in verses 9 and 11. It's the same exact phrase in the original Greek. This emphasis on the kingdom leads us to the third principle, proclaim with kingdom authority. This proclamation must be made at whatever city the seventh go and whatever way the citizens respond. One scenario is in verses 8 and 9. They welcome the messengers and show hospitality. With such reception, the members of the 70 are free to heal the sick there and preach the kingdom. Jesus grants power for physical healing in preparation for the spiritual healing. The miracles performed authenticate the message proclaimed. The kingdom of God has come near to you. The other scenario is in verses 10 to 12. They don't welcome the messengers and they don't show hospitality. With such rejection, the members of the 70 must go out into its streets, wipe off the dust off their feet, and preach the kingdom. These cities have rejected the most weighty message ever proclaimed. The kingdom of God has come near you. Now two questions. What does it mean for the kingdom of God to be near? And two, why is the same message presented twice? Now, first, how is it that the kingdom is near? During Jesus' ministry, he and his followers can genuinely say this Because the king and the Messiah was right there in the midst of Israel. And he had the authority to establish the kingdom. When the king's around, the kingdom is not far away. But what about the centuries that followed? Now almost 2,000 years later, can we still say God's kingdom is near? Back in May, while we were studying Revelation 1, 1 to 3, I cited a commentator named Alan Johnson. And he said, quote, the church in every age has always lived with the expectancy of the consummation of all things in its day. Iminency describes an event possible any day, impossible no day. Possible any day. Impossible no day. Even to us, the coming of the kingdom is near and imminent because it's an event possible any day, and impossible no day. So even if we're not sure when that day may be, we can assuredly proclaim today the kingdom of God has come near you. So proclaim this message with kingdom authority. The other question is: why is the same message presented twice? Shouldn't we change our message if they reject us? Shouldn't we try something different if they are indifferent? Absolutely not. We don't change the message because God doesn't change. Whether people accept the gospel or not, the kingdom is coming. This is good news for the saved, but bad news for the unsaved. The message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. There's one gospel, and we as Christ's followers spread his fragrance to two very different receptions To the one, we are the aroma of death leading to death, and to the other, the aroma of life leading to life. Though their reactions are two and different, our message must be one and the same. So proclaim this truth with kingdom authority. Individuals and cities who accept this truth have reasons to rejoice. When the prophesied day of judgment, the day of the Lord arrives. In that day the lofty looks of man shall be humble, the haltiness of men shall be bowed down, and the Lord alone shall be exalted In that day the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and appealing for those of Israel who have escaped. In that day, every man shall throw away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, sin which your own hands have made for yourselves. What a glorious day for followers of Christ! But see how that same day looks so different to the unsaved. Individuals and cities who reject God's truth have reasons to mourn when the day of the Lord arrives. It will come as destruction from the Almighty. The day of the Lord is cruel, with both wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate. And he will destroy his sinners from it. The day of the Lord is great and awesome and very terrible and dreadful. Darkness, not light, bitter noise. It is the day of the Lord's vengeance and anger. In that day the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burnt up. As Jesus says in verse 12, the fire that destroys Sodom and Gomorrah will seem like nothing compared to the fire of the day of the Lord. So will you face the stay with Christ or against Christ? Will you be born of the Spirit and enter the kingdom of God? Or be cast out into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth? There's no middle ground. At any moment we can die and be carried away by angels into Abraham's bosom or be in torments and Hades. Either we will be celebrating with the bridegroom, shouting with joy, or be shut out in the dark, shouting in vain. Lord, Lord, open to us. The gospel has been proclaimed to you with kingdom authority. What is your response What will that future day of the Lord look like to you? Are you ready for it? It comes as a thief in the night. If you're not a Christian, please listen carefully. All of us, at one point or another, have resisted and rejected the message of Jesus By nature, we're not sons of peace who welcome God's messengers. We are sons of disobedience. We broke God's laws in our thoughts, words, and actions. So we deserve his wrath. But we can be sons of light and sons of day. Confess that you're a sinner. Repent from selfishness and self-righteousness. Place your confidence in Jesus the Son of God and his works. He came to earth, went to Jerusalem to die on the cross for our sins. Rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. And someday our Lord will return to judge all mankind Will that day be darkness and fire for you? Or will the Son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings? Place your faith in Jesus now before it's too late. You cannot earn the salvation. He gives it to us by grace as a gift. For those of you who have already placed your faith in Jesus Are you living for him as Jesus demanded from the 70? Do you heed the Great Commission and go with faith and urgency, whether it's far or close? Do you rest with peaceful company in hopes that these unsaved people will turn to Christ? Do you proclaim with kingdom authority or shrink under the authority of man? If these questions convict you, if these principles seem impossible, impossible to accomplish in your own strength. If these demands are met with our failures, we know that God gives us grace and the filling of His Spirit to try again If we have responded to the Great Commission with the Great Omission, or twisted it to be the great suggestion, let us repent. Let us be comforted by the great consolation of Jesus. I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Let's dream of worldwide evangelization in this generation. Let's pray Lord, for two thousand years We have seen your plan on display in this world in history as the fullness of Gentiles come in. As we attempt to reach every people, every people group, every tribe, every nation. As long as you tarry, we have work to do here on earth. Lord, there are times when we don't like this agenda. We like to be in our comfort zones Lord, sometimes we feel the temptation to just throw in the towel. I put in my time. I've done my share of ministry. I put in decades and I just like to live for myself now. Lord, is it possible that we are lukewarm? Is it possible that we have lost our first love? Is it possible that our devotions have grown cold? That as the great devotional writer Oswald Chambers said That our spiritual life looks like the Dead Sea, more than the Sea of Galilee, where we receive and receive, but do not give and give. In the waters of blessing that you've given us. Lord, we know that you've given us different relationships and different networks and different neighbors and different family members and all these things. We pray that we we would take your word and apply it, not just in this hour of Service or hour of Bible study or Sunday school. But help us to apply your word in our walks, in our journey, in our encounters with people. May you convict us and empower us by your Spirit. And we're thankful that you are with us. That you do not abandon us, even though like Peter, we may even deny you, or we fail you, and we are not bold in our witness. But we're thankful that you hold us and you protect us and you are patient with us. And we're thankful for your son, who never leaves us Pray all these things in his name. Amen.