I invite you this morning to turn back to the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 8, verses 19 to 21, is where we'll be for some of our time this morning. And then we'll be looking at some of the epistles, depending on how much time we have this morning. God has set the solitary person in families. We know this because in the beginning, God made Adam and then he made Eve. Together, before the fall of mankind into sin, they had a perfect relationship. We can imagine what that would be like by taking all the bad things that we do to one another and just erasing them from the equation. And then trying to imagine what it would be like to have the perfect wife or the perfect husband. And if they had not fallen into sin, they would have had perfect children. Think of that. the perfect family. It was designed by God for the husband to be protector, provider, the wife. The wife follows the husband and submits to the husband, but is a joint heir, is the queen of creation. That is what Eve was. She was the apple of her husband's eye, to use a Hebrew term. She was the love of his life, and he was to love her all the days of his eternal life, perfectly, unselfishly, sacrificially. And diligently. And together, children that could have been raised with wisdom from on high, a walk in the garden. Imagine this, walking with God and asking him personally. How to raise your children, what to do today, and what God would recommend for one situation or another as they seek to teach their children. But you and I don't live in a perfect world, right? You and I are far from perfect. And so we have sinful spouses, sinful children, sinful families. And isn't it true, folks, that Jesus said that the nature of his ministry and his message would be so divisive that it would in fact divide families. And so in the years that I've been a Christian, I've met other Christians who the wife is saved, the husband is not. And there's a struggle in the families of what to do and how a wife can live out her faith when her husband does not have faith in the Word of God and in Jesus for salvation. I know, and you know, that being a part of a family takes work. And what we have here in Luke chapter 8, So far we have seen a lot about the Word of God. We had the parable of the soils. And we learn from that that what is required to respond to the Word of God, the seed, is a particularly kind of prepared heart, the soil, as Dale prayed this morning, that it would be plowed and turned up to receive the seed. It says in Luke chapter 8 that the heart of the person who can yield fruit is someone who having heard the word with a noble and good heart Now, this is not work salvation, that they are good and thus receive the word and are saved, but it is an emphasis on the kind of heart necessary to receive the word of God and bear fruit. We later learn that there is a particular kind of hearing that should be given to the Word. This is in Luke, I'll get you to look at this. And try to hold on to the theme of family for a moment. Look at Luke chapter 8, verse 16. We learned last time about the light. No one, when he has hit lit a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed. So it's the intention of God that the revelation that He has given be shed abroad, that the light shines. But there is a particular kind of hearing that should be given to the Word, a particular kind of response. Verse 18, therefore take heed how you hear. And this implies a diligent hearing. It is the will of God for us to diligently hear the Word of God and have hearts that are prepared to receive the Word of God. This, among other things, are some of the primary teachings of Luke chapter 8 thus far. What Jesus taught his followers, what Jesus taught the future apostles. But now we're in verses 19 to 21. And we see here that Jesus uses the illustration of the family. to talk about or to illustrate what kind of relationship he has with people who have a particular kind of relationship to the Word of God. And this really is the issue, isn't it? What has God said? Well, his word is like seed, and the heart needs to be ready to receive that and bear fruit. What has God said? Well, it's like light. It's on the hill. It has to be put on the lampstand. It has to shine and then diligently listened to. And then we have this. Look at verses 19 to 21. We'll just read this. Then his mother and brothers came to him and could not approach him because of the crowd. And it was told him by some who said, Your mother and your brothers are standing outside desiring to see you. But he answered and said to them, My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it. What these verses are, are this in keeping with the theme we have already seen previously of responding the right way to the Word of God, the necessity of hearing. And having a particular kind of heart. But in these few short verses, we have added to that an emphasis at the end of verse 21 on doing it. Obedience. There's a heart that's ready to receive the seed. There is a diligent hearing. And now there is do it, do it, obey it, do what the Word of God says. And this is so important that he uses his own family to illustrate the necessity of obedience because to be a part of the family, to share in the spiritual genetic makeup of this spiritual family is to have the word of God in your heart and to be in a particular kind of relationship to the word of God. And so, folks, what we have here this morning is Jesus teaching his brothers and the followers and the listeners what it means to be a true brother, a true Christian. Now let me back away from this text for just a moment and ask you, just sort of stir your thinking. Do you enjoy having a church family? I do. You know, I did a funeral a while back. It wasn't for anyone here, it was out of state. There was no church family there because the woman had never hadn't gone to church in 50 years. It was like seven family members. That's it That was such a shock to me because all the funerals I've gone to have typically been with you folks or another church And the church folks are there and they're sharing their love and comfort to that family. But in this funeral, there was no one And you and I are kind of used to being a part of the family of God. As we dwell on the joy of having a Christian church family, or of even just having part of the family of God at work, where you go to work and there's a brother or sister that you can talk to. We should remember that the true unity of that family, the thing that holds it together, is this idea of hearing the word of God and doing it. Have you ever tried to get along with someone who's a Christian and they really profess to know Christ, but they really don't do what the Bible says? I know you have. Because you've told me. I'll have somebody come to me and say something like this, yeah, I know uh, you know, my my uh Uh my friend that lives next to me in my house, he professes to be a Christian, but he doesn't go to church and he doesn't read his Bible and uh you know I know he's running around on his wife, but he professes to be a Christian and I think he's a Christian. Did you hear what was just said? Compare what was just said to what Jesus said, not to what I'm saying. My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. I mean, there has to come a point when you and I are honest and say, Maybe that person is not in the sense a mother, a brother, a sister of Christ. Maybe they really aren't a part of the family of God because they do not, in fact Obey the Bible. I mean, I don't see that in their lives. Now we're always quick to say, I don't see their heart, right? We can't see a human heart. When I say heart, I mean the inner man. We don't know what's what they're thinking. But turn to the letter that James wrote. Turn to James. In James, we have an epistle of sorts that is an epistle of wisdom. And it has the classic passage, one of them, probably one of two or three, that we often go to to remind ourselves of the necessity of not just hearing the word of God, but of doing the word of God. James has among its themes the how to respond correctly to trials And temptations. Does God tempt? No, He doesn't. It has among its themes the correct expression of faith. Real faith works What is believed in the heart comes out in the hands, in actions. And right at the hinge of of the activity of faith, if you could say the door that action swings on, the hinge that the door of action swings on, Is the whole idea of not just hearing the word, but doing it. There has to come this point If you look down here at James chapter 1, verse 21, there has to come this point where we move from just hearing it to doing it. And what we have in James 1. 21 is sort of the way we receive the Word of God. If you look at James 1. 21, it says. to lay aside certain things and then receive in a certain way the implanted word. So In this letter, the word here is filthiness and overflow of wickedness kind of has to be laid aside. And this is talking about the expression of of sin in your life. There has to be this act of your will. If you really want to hear the word of God, there has to be this initial commitment. To lay aside these things that are at that moment overwhelming. Take off the fills. and sort of the sin that's overflowing and and and then put that to the side for the moment and receive with a heart that is ready, that is willing to be meek in its reception, the implanted word. And we have here in verse 21 the fact that this word is able to save your souls. So as we hear the word of God, we want to make sure we're committed to it, we're willing to lay aside certain things, and we understand the power of it. Now you and I, we probably read a lot of books. Or if you were in high school, you might be familiar with Cliff Notes. How many of you know what Cliff Notes are? All right, when I was in high school, I had to take English class and the teacher told us to read these very boring books, and so all my my uh my friends would go out and buy the cliff notes and because I was a Christian I had to say no the teacher told me and I was I'd endeavored to be faithful to read the whole book because that's what the teacher said even if it was Shakespeare But they would get the Cliff Notes. And they would read the Cliff Notes, for example. How many of you ever read Moby Dick? Anybody ever read the whole thing? Awesome. Great. I never have. That's a long one. How about uh War and Peace. Oh man, John, that's great. The whole thing through? Well, yeah, he was an English major, so he had to read that. You know, think about the last book you read and the expectation you had of what you would get out of that book and the way you prepared to read that book. Take the Bible out of the equation. The last time you read a fictional book, what were you expecting to get out of it? Well, maybe some entertainment. Maybe a few hours of peace and quiet where you didn't have to think about anything important. Or if you were reading a nonfiction book, maybe you were learning about how I don't know how something in biology, something in chemistry, maybe it was a book for college, and you had to read that book to pass a test. Folks, compare that. Okay, there's this expectation of entertainment and sort of a blanking of the brain for peace and quiet. There's this expectation of shoveling data into your head so that you can make sure when you take the test that you're going to pass. And then compare those expectations to this, the expectation that the Word of God can save your soul. Slightly higher expectation. And that is why, and I'm being facetious, a very high expectation. And we should all have it. If we look at the Word of God as able to do that for us, and it does it in this sense. First, the proclamation of the gospel message. Romans tells us that faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And there has to be a preacher or the communication of that propositional truth to someone else The truth is Christ died for me and he rose again for me, that he died in my place on the cross, and so my soul is saved from the wrath of God and the punishment of sin when I put my faith. In the Word of God, the gospel, and I hear that and I'm saved. But there's so much more than that. Have you noticed how deceitful your own heart is? And how high the standards of God's Word remain. And have you noticed how dangerous this world is and how deceitful other people are? And how how much wisdom it takes to walk in this world uprightly. And how to deal with people at work and neighbors and families that can be so complicated. I hear people say Boy, life would be so easy if we didn't have families because it seems like all my problems have to do with my family. And yeah, there are a lot of problems in families. And in the midst of that, there is this propensity for you and me to continue in sin, to continue the practice of sin. See, when we get saved, the penalty of sin is taken off of us. It was placed on Christ. He died in our place. We're saved eternally from the penalty of sin. But as we walk with Christ, there is the practice of our sin. And there is this, even now internally, the desire to sin, and we need salvation from that And that is also certainly included in this context. Not only the doctrine of justification, but the doctrine of sanctification. Folks, the truth is all things work together for the good, and the good is for you to be conformed like Christ. And all throughout your days, the big part of that process is receiving the word that is able to save your soul from the practice of the things you tend to do. Have you ever been frustrated because you yelled at someone you should never have yelled at? Have you ever committed a sin that, well, no sin should ever be committed, but have you ever done something and then seen the destruction of it? Just seeing it blow up. I mean the thing that you did was like lobbing a grenade into your life. And then you did it again And then you did it again. And before long, it's like you're walking in a in a devastated city where all the buildings have been leveled, and it's your fault. Folks, have you ever felt and experienced the destructive nature of sin in your own life? You don't have to shake, you know, raise your hand or shake your head or but it would be The revelation of God is that sin corrupts, that it breaks down, that if that uh it destroys And you need salvation from that. Don't you need salvation from your own sinful practices? I do. And the Word of God is able to do that. And Jesus says, people that are my family, they're taking this word of God and they're listening to it. And they know it saves their souls, James would say. And then they transition verse 22 into being a doer of it. You know this passage, but be doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. They move from laying aside filthiness, overflow of wickedness, receiving with a particular kind of heart that's willing, meek to receive. Understanding it can save our souls. And now, what do I need to do? I mean when it comes right down to it, sometimes the reason Christians fail is because they don't have that action list. What are you going to do because you heard something? Now, I'm telling you that as a preacher and a pastor, I struggle with this all the time. I'm always listening to the Word of God, always studying it. And I am so tempted to think that when I understand a passage in the Bible or when I really When I preached a passage in the Bible, that that's enough. But it's not enough. Let's be completely honest. Think to yourself. When was the last time you can think in your mind when you were obedient to the Word of God and God the Spirit was helping you? And you know, okay, I can trace a line from this passage to this action item. That's what you're looking for. Folks, the truth is you won't grow if you don't have those lines somewhere in your life. Now sometimes we do these without thinking. And sometimes we just don't do them at all. And the scriptures are telling us here, God is telling us in verse 25, at the end of verse 25. At the end of verse 22 and then into verse 23, I'm sorry, that there's self-deception, that when we do this, when we receive and we receive and we receive, And we don't do, we don't do that we can deceive ourselves into thinking that we're all right This past uh two years I've learned a lot about trees from Tim, who knows a lot about trees, and and uh just being around them and looking at them. And we've gone out and looked at a lot of trees, when I say a lot. For me, one tree's a lot, but we had to take down two big trees over in the parsonage property, and there's another tree that needs to come down. And one of the first trees we took down behind the parsonage over there, it looked fine on the outside. It looked great. I could not tell anything was wrong with it. But then I don't remember if it was Tim or Pastor Treyer. He he went over, took a big long stick, and there was a little area in the bottom, like a little triangular hole, and he just put the stick right in. And it was completely, it was hollow on the inside. And here's the danger. We had this big, beautiful tree, but it was dying on the inside. It was rotten, it was corrupt. And surprisingly, it wouldn't take much for that tree to come over. And in that situation No one expects the tree to come over, but once it's over, you might be able to see, well, there was a rottenness inside. There was something wrong that no one could see. For someone to think they're okay when they're not is self-deception. And you could be that tree. You have to be careful. We and I have to be diligent to have those lines that go from hearing and doing the Word of God. A good Old Testament example of this would be Samson. Remember him? He was a Nazarite. He in some ways kept the letter of the law, but he missed God's will for his life. Now in the end, he was used by God in spite of himself. But instead of knowing God's will and Being a judge who really went after the Philistines and was used powerfully by God, he ran away from the word of God. He touched the dead animal. He, you know, he was with the enemies of God and their women. He just flaunted the Word of God in his actions. while kind of trying to hold on to his position as judge, Nazarite. This is not the way we want to be. What do we call that, folks? Hypocrisy, right? Now there's a difference between hypocrisy and instability. Someone who's unstable is trying, but they keep falling down. A hypocrite. Is self-deceived or is trying to deceive others. Folks, we're not going to go through all the verses 22, 23, 24, and 25, but I just want to point out That being part of the family of God, it means receiving and doing the word of God. That's what Luke is indicating. And the blessing is great. Because, verse 25, let's skip to the blessing. He who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work. This one is blessed, will be blessed in what he does. Let me read it again. He who looks into the perfect law of liberty, Which is another expression for the Word of God, with an emphasis on the influence of its ability to free us from the practice of sin, from the penalty of sin at the moment of salvation. It cleanses us. It offers us liberty. He who looks and continues as not a forgetful hearer, but a doer, will be blessed in what he does. There are a lot of preachers out there today who will tell you that the blessing of God is health and wealth. If you serve God, you'll have a big bank account and a healthy body. And so will those around you. That is not the blessing of God in the New Testament. In the Old Testament, if the Hebrews had obeyed God and kept the covenant, there would have been prosperity and all of that kind of thing, but they failed in that. The New Testament blessing, folks, is for you to actually be free more and more day by day from the practice of your sin And to enter in more by more day by day to conformity to Jesus Christ. The blessing involves liberty from the practice of your sins. And being more like Christ. Does that satisfy you this morning? Does that satisfy you? If you go back to Luke, go back to Luke quickly In the Gospel of Luke, we have the character of Jesus on display. We know that Jesus was a man and still is, retains his humanity. He was a man, and he was also God, the God man we call him, the mysterious hypostatic union, which no one can completely understand and explain. In his humanity, He had weakness. His ability to handle stress. His burden of ministry. What that did to him physically, the amount of sleep that he received, the food that he ate, the nutrition that he received All of this affected his ministry because his ministry was a ministry of incarnation. He had that physical body that grew tired to the point of needing to sleep in the middle of a storm in a boat. He was so tired. He didn't even wake up when the storm came. The foxes have dens, the birds of the air has nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lie his head. So he was out on the street at times. In the middle of the night, when the soldiers got him, where was he? He was in the garden praying. He was a man who suffered in his humanity, and yet he never, ever sinned. He had character that was able to endure and endure, and he showed compassion continually. He never allowed his anger to get the better of him Do you remember, for example, if you turn back in Luke, and I'm talking about the character of Christ that we should covet in a good way, do you remember if you just flip back a few pages? Let's let's go back to uh let's go to Luke chapter four, verse forty. This was a very full day for the Lord. It says, when the sun was setting, all those who had any that were sick with various diseases brought them to him. All those who had any that were sick. This is a lot of people. And he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them. And demons also came out of many, crying out and saying, You are the Christ, the Son of God. And he, rebuking them, did not allow them to speak, for they knew who he was. They knew that he was the Christ. Now when it was day, he departed and went into a deserted place And the crowd sought him and came to him and tried to keep him from leaving them, but he said to them, I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because of this purpose I have been sent. Now we read through that very quickly, but I want to remind you of the humanity of Christ. Verse 40, the sun is setting after a very busy day. He had already been healing all day and teaching and so on. The sun is setting, and yet there are still, verse 40, all these people who are sick with various diseases coming to him. And he is just patiently, without losing it, without venting his frustration, he's patiently laying his hands on these people, one after another, and healing and healing and healing. Then he has demons who are resisting his work and he rebukes them. And how late do you think that went? We don't know. That was a long day, perhaps past the darkness into the night. How many hours sleep did he get in this particular day? And then he gets up. And he goes out into a deserted place. Why did he do that? Because he had to put some distance between himself and all those people. But they all follow him out. They all follow him out there. And instead of turning them and saying, in this humanity, in the weakness of this humanity, and the weariness of this body, I've had enough. Look, just get out of here. I need a break. He patiently explains to them, I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this purpose I've been sent. He just In Christ, in his humanity, he exhibited the fruit of the Spirit in very tiring and wearying situations. Don't you want to be like that? The other day I was thinking, you know, what is true happiness? Is happiness having the house you always wanted? The car you always wanted, the spouse you always wanted, and the stuff you always wanted. Is that happiness? Christ had none of that. He had none of that. And yet he lived in a world of sin. He was discipling sinners. He suffered and died for our sin, and yet he was able to bear up under all that and be content in his God, rejoice in the Lord. He cracked jokes in his ministry. Swallowing a camel, that was humor. Don't you want to be like him? See, folks, the answer scripturally, conformity to Christ, it's what God is after in our lives And for you to get through a day like this and to not lose it and to have that patience, think of this: Jesus can turn to you and say, brother. Hi, brother. Hi, brother. Because you are like him in your character. You've got that, if I could put it that way again, spiritual genetics going on And you know all the stories we've gone through in Luke, whether he's touching a leper or preaching against the Pharisees or telling a parable. Jesus is unstoppable even in his humanity. And he does not, folks, does Jesus use his miraculous power? to bypass the weaknesses of his human body. Does he ever do that in the Gospels? What I'm talking about is the physicality, the his cardiovascular system, his the calluses on the bottom of his feet, I mean the fish bones he has to pick out of his fish. No, he never does. He does walk on water, but he's still a man. When you think about the family of God and you turn back to Luke chapter 8, and you think about being like him, of actually doing the word of God, And hearing Jesus say, Well done, good and faithful servant, or having, knowing that he thinks you are like his mother and brothers, sisters, you're someone who hears the word of God and does it. What other blessing could there be that would be greater than this blessing? When it comes right down to it, I know many of you well enough to know that. We've walked with the Lord a long time. Some of you in this room for decades and decades. And you're part of the family of God. You are. You hear the word and you do it. So don't stop. Don't have a spiritual midlife crisis where you decide that you've had enough, that it's getting too hard. Keep believing. Keep pressing forward. Don't let the weaknesses of getting older, of passing middle age and getting out into whatever age you are Don't let that stop you from hearing the word and doing it And maybe, well, we know this for certain, God will continue to conform you to the image of his son, and you'll experience more of the fruit of the Spirit. And you are part of the family of God. Let's pray today. Let's pray together.