Good morning. Good to see all of you. If you'll take your Bibles, turn with me, please, to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 1. And while you're turning there, a couple people asked me some questions about the mission today. First of all, I'd like to thank everyone here at Faith Bible Church who. Through the years have continued to support the Baltimore Rescue Mission with prayer and finances and other means of service as you come down monthly and do services down at the mission. We're so grateful for that. The reason we can do a service every night of the year is because folks like you come down and get get involved. You come out of your comfort zone Down to a place where it's not very nice and sometimes it may not be very safe, but we appreciate so much you're coming and God uses you and his word never returns to him void. I started Oh, let's see, 34 years ago, uh, as a volunteer preacher, I was pastoring up in Westminster area and came down with my wife's grandfather. He first invited me down to the mission. And I went down there on the third Monday night of every month with them and uh was one of the preachers down there that they used, and that's how the Lord got us involved in the Baltimore Rescue Mission. We've been there full time now for 30 years. As far as concerns go, we have a few. One has been an ongoing Litigation problem with uh a woman who has wanted to bring in a 13-year-old son into our Women and Children's Division, a Keras home Many of you are familiar with that story. That story is now over a year and a half old. We don't allow boys over nine years of age in there because it's a dormitory situation. And we can't have boys in there watching women and girls dress and undress and go in and out of the showers. To us that would be obvious. But when I said that to the uh investigator from HUD, Housing and Urban Development, he said, uh, what's the obvious reason? He didn't get it. Well, he got it. He just didn't want to believe that we really still had those old-fashioned morals. So anyhow, it's been over a year and a half. Our attorney is with Christian Law Association. And they have said that uh they have one case that's over three years old. So it's not over yet, may not be over for a while The other situation we've been dealing with is an ongoing horrendous water bill that uh started March 3rd. We they hadn't they hadn't checked our water, or they hadn't given us a bill for ten months And then they they slapped an enormous bill on us, and uh we have had to pay incremental payments over the last six months uh to keep up with that uh under protest. If we can prove that they are they are charging us they're charging us for more usage than what we are using, then then they will adjust the the payments we've made. Um however it looks as though it's a possibility that it's not just the usage but uh the amount of Uh price per gallon in Baltimore City over the last about six or seven years has gone up around 140%. And sometime in in uh the month of July it's supposed to go up another nine percent They've also added on a lot of infrastructure charges. We get two separate bills, one just for infrastructure and one just for the water. and the uh sewage. So there's a lot involved. We have people working on it. We've been working on it. Um and so if you'll keep us in prayer, God knows all about it. God's going to take care of it and He's going to bless us and provide. But we don't know how quite yet. So if you'll keep us in prayer, we appreciate that. So some of that has to do with a little bit of the meaning behind this message What on earth does it mean? The benefits of being under pressure. Well, we call pressure today stress. We call it stress. And uh one of the things that I like to do with stress is as soon as I get it to get rid of it. Because I don't like it. I don't know about you, but I don't like stress. It's not something that makes me feel good So we're going to see how the Word of God teaches us that we should handle stress in a way that really can be for our own benefit. The text is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. I'm going to read verses 3 through 8. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer, or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. Our hope of you is steadfast, knowing that as ye are partakers of the suffering, so shall ye be also of the consolation. Here's the text verse. For we would not, brethren, have ye uh ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, In so much that we despaired even of life. Let's pray together. Our Heavenly Father, if the Apostle Paul was pressed out of measure, above strength, To such a point that he despaired even to live. And he was a great example to us as a Christian, then certainly we should not be surprised when we ourselves. Become overwhelmed sometimes, it seems, with the pressures of life. They come from many different areas, many different directions. And they test us in many ways. So, Lord, we all are here today sinners. I'm sure most of us, if not all of us, are saved by grace. We all, mostly, I hope all, know the Lord is our Savior, and we know the Word of God. And even with all that Lord, sometimes we really get overwhelmed. Help us, we pray, to learn some principles today that will strengthen our faith. And help us to be victorious through these times of testing and trial. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to give you four things today regarding how to deal with stress in your life The word pressure is just another term for stress, and he says we're pressed, pressed out of measure. If your dream is to be be able to have a stress-free free life one day, I'm afraid you're a little delusional. You're not going to have a stress-free life. There's always going to be problems all the way up to the very last breath. I really, really believe it. I've seen it in the lives of people that have known. Stress is pressure and pressure takes us out of our comfort zone. We like to have everything under control. We like to not have bills that are bigger than our financial resources. We like to be able to have energy to be able to do the things that we want to and need to do We like to, and some of you that are younger and don't have to ever worry about annual checkups and and blood reports uh from the doctors. We like to be able to get good reports. We don't we don't like it when the doctor tells us we have a problem, especially if he says it's a serious problem or even possibly a terminal problem. We don't like that. We don't like it when we're not in control of our life. We like to be in control The only problem is it's kind of hard to live by faith when you're the one calling all the shots and having all the resources. So God puts us, he squeezes us, I believe, into situations that are bigger than we are. that will test us, that will put us out of our comfort zone and put us with our backs against the wall with no one to look to but him. Paul was in that situation here. In the first letter that he wrote to the Corinthians, it was a letter of condemnation. He's telling them, you're carnal, you're not doing it right. You're living in the flesh. And he gives them all kinds of reasons for all the things they were doing right, but he got word back. He got word back. They responded in a positive way to that first letter. And now he is not writing them a letter of condemnation. Actually, he's writing a letter of commendation. And he's thanking God for the good report that he heard. And now, as a minister of the gospel, as one who had great influence in their lives, now he can do something that a lot of those in ministry, especially in positions of authority, are not able to do. Now he can share his own personal heart. He didn't tell them the first time in that first letter all about his problems. He didn't tell them about all the things that he was suffering and all the anxiety that he had and all the stress and pressure he was saying about him That didn't come until later. But now he feels like that they have responded, they're walking in the spirit. Now he can share his burdens with them. And one of his biggest burdens was he is overwhelmed with life. He is overwhelmed with ministry And he says, to the point where he despaired even of life, do I think that Paul was suicidal? Not at all. I don't think Paul was saying he was suicidal. No, you can despair of life and not want to kill yourself. But Paul was just very, very weary of the battle. Very weary of the battle. So let's look at a couple of things. First of all, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 22, please. Luke chapter 22. I want us to first see this morning that pressure has a way of revealing our flaws. Do you realize you have a few flaws? Appreciate Brother Tim's Sunday school class this morning, and he was asking if any of us had gone very long without any type of sin in our life, including thought. Of course, nobody could raise their hand. We're all a work in progress. We're a work in progress. I find it interesting the context of this passage that I'm going to share with you. Has to do with the fact that they just had the Lord's Supper. And what does Paul say in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 to the church when he gives them instruction on taking the Lord's Supper? He said Before you take the Lord's Supper, let a man examine himself. Let him examine himself. Check your heart. See if you're right with God before you partake You don't want to do that unworthily or practicing known sin in your life. Now here they had just had the Lord's Supper. Look with me, if you will, down in verse number 19. And he took bread and gave thanks, and broke it, and gave them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood which is shed for you. But behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table. And truly the Son of Man goeth as it was determined, but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed And they began to inquire among themselves which of them it was that should do this thing, and there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. Isn't that just a super spiritual thought? I mean, here they are. The Lord's getting ready to be crucified. He's getting ready to be betrayed. This is the whole thing he's been telling them all along. This is what it's all about. And they're saying, I'm the greatest. No, I'm the greatest. And they're having an argument over who's the greatest. And you say, wow. Typical for a bunch of preachers. Well, maybe so. Maybe so. But typical for a bunch of Christians, too. Because, see, before anybody's a preacher, he's a Christian, hopefully. And we all think very highly of ourselves. Sometimes we think too highly of ourselves. That's why it's so good to read the Word of God. It's a mirror. It shows you your flaws. And so here, the stress of everything that was going on brought out. They're saying, well, if Jesus is going to leave, and I think this is what they're thinking was, if Jesus is leaving, if he's going to be crucified, somebody's got to take over. Well Me, me, me, me, you know, they're all giving reasons why it should be them I've been to a lot of meetings, a lot of different kinds of meetings, and some meetings of preachers and I I always find it interesting, just observe. Yeah, you can learn a lot just by listening. You can't learn by talking because you already know what you know. But you can learn by listening. And so I I'll hear some of them say to one another, How's your church going, brother? Yeah, well what's your attendance? For some that's the great priority, you know, how many people you have in church on Sunday morning. Well how many did you baptize last month? Well, what's your offerings like? Or uh I hear you're building a new building. Or did you hear about my new building? Yeah. You say, man, that doesn't sound very nice. No, it's not. None of that is really spiritual, is it? But it's what comes out of those who are even supposed to be leaders. And if leaders can do that, then so can followers. We have to be very, very careful. Matter of fact, they're so concerned about it that they argued over it in the midst of Jesus just having Given them the Lord's Supper and other accounts in the Gospels, it shows how he washed their feet to give them an example. And here they're worried about who's going to be the greatest. Throw me to Matthew 26, if you will, please. Probably one of the ringleaders in that crowd. You guessed it was probably Peter. Mr. Open Mouth Insert Foot. Hey, I like Peter. I I I'm so glad that Peter was was a real guy, and and I'm so glad that After God showed him his flaws that he repented. But it wasn't until Peter was under the pressure of persecution that Peter's flaws were revealed to himself. See, God already knows our flaws. It's nothing new to him. But God wanted to reveal Peter's flaws to Peter. You know the story. Matthew 26, down to verse number 30. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus said to them, All ye, notice the word all. We pick on Peter, but guess what? They all forsook him and fled. And he said, All ye shall be offended of me because of me this night. For it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered. But after that I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. Peter answered and said unto him, though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. I will never be offended. Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, this night, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee. Yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples. So it wasn't just Peter. Peter brought up the idea, and Peter embellished the idea. And then all the rest of them chimed in with him because kind of Peter was a natural leader, wasn't he? So look with me down at verse number 69 of the same chapter, if you will, please. And we'll see the rest of the story. Now Peter sat without the palace, and a damsel came unto him, saying, Thou also was with Jesus at Galilee, but he denied before them all. Saying, I know not what thou sayest. And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him and said unto them that were with there, This fellow was also with Jesus. And again he denied with an oath. I know not the man. I did not know the man. And after a while came unto him they that stood by and said to Peter, Surely thou art one of them For thy speech betrayeth thee. Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. There's the cussing preacher. Mr. Spiritual, Mr. I'll never leave you or forsake you. Mr. I'll never be offended by you. Be careful what you think of yourself. Be careful about how great you think your faith is. Maybe God's got a test right on the horizon. Maybe come Monday morning. Maybe come next week. A test that'll test your faith and your convictions to the point. Where it'll be either. It'll either be sink or swim. He says here, he denied him with an oath. Verse 73, and after a while Came unto him they that stood by and said to Peter, Surely thou art also one of the And he began to curse and swear down at 74 and then verse 75. And Peter remembered the words of Jesus. Which saith unto him, before the cockroach, thou shalt deny me thrice. He went out and wept bitterly, bitterly. He failed, but he wasn't a failure. He failed. Have you ever failed? If you're honest with yourself, you have. We've all failed. I'm talking about since we've been Christians. He was a Christian at that point. We've all failed. Why do you think the Lord put 1 John 1 9 in the Bible? If we, speaking of believers, confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's not talking about the unsaved. That's talking about the saved. Why is that there? Why does he say that we should do this in remembrance of him? And And in doing this in remembrance of him, why should we examine ourselves? Because over and over and over again, whether we like to admit it or not, we fail. We fail. Sometimes people see our failures. God sees all our failures. And we know our failures. And our failures reveal our flaws. The pressure of being tested. Ropes are tested to see how much they will weigh. Chains are tested to see how much they can pull. If I'm going to put a put a chain in the back of my pickup truck So that just in case I ever get stuck in the mud or in the snow someplace, or if somebody else gets stuck and I need to have something, I'm not going to go in there with a chain that's going to go on on the swing set that I swing my grandkids on, okay? It's not going to be that kind of chain. That chain's not going to hold another vehicle if I go to use it to pull it out of the mud. I'm going to go to a store that sells heavy chains, and I'm going to find out what the what the strength of that chain is. Because I know about how much my truck weighs, and I know I know about how much I need, I know how much power I need that chain to have to be able to pull another vehicle out of the mud Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier on October 14, 1947, in the X-1 aircraft. He flew over 807 miles per hour, which is Mach 1. That was back in 1947. Do you know up until that time people did not know that you could go through the sound barrier and survive? Chuck Yeager was a fighter pilot in World War II, but he also was a test pilot And the test was that he had to get in that X1 and push it through the sound barrier, and when it hit the sound barrier, he didn't know if it would fall apart and fly into a million pieces and him with it or if it would hold together. He was a test pilot. I can't imagine the feeling in his insides when he accelerated that X-1 rocket. I can't imagine what it must have felt like knowing he was pushing that aircraft to the absolute maximum that no other human being or no other aircraft had ever been tested. And he survived. He survived. But if he hadn't, he'd have died trying. He'd have died trying. Pressure reveals our flaws. God allows us to be tested, sometimes to our limits, sometimes beyond our limits. To show us that we have limits. To show us that we are not sufficient for these things. As Paul said, who is sufficient for these things? We're not sufficient for these things. I'm not sufficient to never was sufficient to be the director of the Baltimore Rescue Mission. I don't know why God put me there. I guess because he needed a sinner helping other sinners. I don't know. That's the only reason I can think of. But the truth of the matter is, through Christ we can do all things, because he strengthens us. Number two, it not only reveals our flaws, secondly, it refines our faith. Daniel chapter 3. If you miss Sunday school, you know you you missed a lot there that applies to this. But let's just take Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Shadrach, Meshach, and Gabnigo, they're in Babylon, they're in captivity, they're young men. They've been put under the tutelage of Melzar, who was the prince of the eunuchs. Now, since Melzar was over the Unix, 2 plus 2 equals 4. Very good chance that Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Nebendigo, and all the young men who were probably in their early teens were made eunuchs. That's my conjecture. I mean, I wouldn't know why you'd be put under the Prince of the Eunuchs if you weren't one. By the way, if you became a eunuch, the king didn't have to worry about you messing around with his harem. That's just reality. You were a safe person to be with. But here they are. They've been told that they have to bow down to the 90-foot gold-plated image that was erected in the plains of Durah. Bow down or go into the fiery furnace. And they said, We're not careful, O King This one we don't have to pray about. Why didn't they have to pray about it? Because they already prayed about it. They already had their convictions in stone. In stone. Are your convictions and what's the difference between a conviction and a preference? A preference is something that you really think would be the right thing to do. A conviction is something you will die for. Think in your mind this morning, if you will, with me. What is it that you have such great conviction? That you would die for. And I wonder how long your list will be. We have a lot of things that we think are the right thing to do. We have a lot of things that we say, yeah, you know, this is what the Bible says, and this is what you ought to do. But what would Jews get thrown into the fiery furnace for? Think that one through while we're going through this this morning. Daniel chapter 3, verse 16, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said, O King Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this manner. If so be, there it is. They had a nip clause in their faith. If so be, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us out of the fire and he burns. And he will deliver us out of thy hand, O King. But if not If not, be it known unto thee, O king, will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou set up. You know the rest of the story. It refines our faith pressure. Was that pressure? Oh, I think possibly, yes. By the way, here's a question I have. What about all the other Jews that were standing there? I believe that Daniel was in another part of the country. Do I think that Daniel would have bowed down to that stupid image? Absolutely not. I have no question in my mind that he was somewhere else. But I do know that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were there, and I also know that there were thousands of other Jews that had been brought over from Babylon that were there. And they're all bowing down as the coronet and the flute and the sack button and all those other things went off. They're bowing down. You know what? When everybody is bowing down around you, it becomes very obvious what you really believe. If you just stand. Paul said in Ephesians 6, having done all to stand in the evil day. My dear friends, we're living in an evil day. We're living in an evil day. And sometimes we wish we could legislate morality. We wish we could elect the perfect leader. We wish we could do this, that, and the other to make it all better. God doesn't say that we're going to make it all better, by the way. As a matter of fact, he said, in the last days, perilous times shall come. Do you not agree with me that these are perilous times? Folks, these are perilous times. Do you not agree with me that when Jesus said, When I come back, he doesn't say, Will I find any Christians? When he said that, he said, When I come back, will I find faith? Anybody that really, really, really will stand on my word. God's looking for a few. I looked for a man to stand in the gap and found none, he said. Underlined this morning, Brother Tim, in our text there, where it says, those of your sort. We're just talking about Daniel when he first came in. Chapter 1, verse 10. And the prince of the eunuch said unto Daniel, I fear my lord the king who hath appointed you meat and your drink, for why should he see your faces, who's like the children which are of your sort? What sort are you? You know, there's a lot of Christians running around out there or so-called anyway. And there's all different forms of worship today, and I won't get into a debate over worship. Or all the other stuff that's done in so-called God's name. But what God's looking for somebody that is the real deal. The real deal. Somebody who's just in it for the glory of God, not themselves, not praise, not accolades, not money. Just just plain to be obey. If you love me, just do what I tell you. Hey, to obey Saul said, Samuel said to Saul, to obey is better than sacrifice. Because what sacrifice can I offer God? Nothing that He hasn't already given me. The only sacrifice that he counts as worthwhile is the blood of Jesus Christ his Son, which cleanses us from all iniquity. I didn't have anything to do with the blood of Christ. He shed that for us. So if I put my tithe in the offering, that's no big deal. I'm only putting in what God already gave me. He gave me the strength and health to earn it. What he really wants from you and from me is obedience. It refines our faith. It reveals our flaws. It restrains our flesh. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, if you will, please. 2 Corinthians 12. Down in uh verse number seven. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to uh to profit with all. That means everybody. For the one spirit has given the spirit of the word of wisdom to another, the word of knowledge to another, the same spirit, to another, the faith, uh faith by another uh the spirit to another the gifts of healing by another to another the working of miracles to another prophecy to another discerning of spirit to another divers kinds of tongues And it says to another, the interpretation of, I'm sorry, I'm in 1 Corinthians. Somebody probably thought I had lost my mind, which I did. I didn't lose my mind, I just lost my place. That's all. Alright, 2 Corinthians 12, 7. There we are. Unless I should be exalted above measure, there is given uh Abundance of re through the abundance of the revelation that was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me. Why? Lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me, and he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, most for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Are you all right with that? Are you all right with God working through your weakness? Most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and Necessities and persecutions and distress for Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then am I strong. He restrains our flesh. Sometimes he allows us to come under physical maladies, infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon us. The people may look at us and say, how in the world do they do that? Some of you here knew my dear sister Barbara. Who died at 31 years of age. with some sort of weird disease. I call it bone cancer. I don't know what it was. Hopkins didn't even know what it was. I'd had a lot of disappointments in life. I'd had a lot of disappointments growing up in the church I grew up in and I had a lot of disappointments with Christians. And even Christians in my family. My sister Barbara was not perfect, but I saw in her life the life of Jesus Christ. That's what I saw. And I saw him through her suffering And when I was flaunting my sin as a rebel in my early twenties, the life of Christ broke through her life. I could see it. That's what happened. And it changed the soul center. And I repented. And I saw myself for what I was. And I thank God for somebody. Who probably, I don't know if she never taught a Sunday school class. She could play the piano, I don't know, but she was a very good singer She was a faithful housewife, but she was a witness for Jesus Christ. And she was a living testimony of his grace. And I saw it. I saw it. You see, we uh Folks, we have this this this thing that is our pride and that will keep us and we'll start looking at other people, especially lost people. They'll look at other people that are saved and they'll start Satan will start pointing out all their flaws and all their problems and all their It is so important that we walk with him. He might restrain us Physically. He might reveal to us the sin that is in our lives and in our hearts. Beware. The heart is desperately wicked above all. And deceitful. Who can know it? Who can know it? Hebrews chapter 12, 1 talks about the sin which doth so easily beset us. Man, we we could be here all afternoon talking about sin, but I want to say something to you. We all do and we all have. And there's some sins that easily tempt me. that don't easily tempt you. But I promise you, you in your heart know there are some t sins that easily tempt you. Now you may not have identified them as sin yet, because most of us don't realize when we're jealous or envious or covetous We don't even know that we are. We don't even know that we are envying people and that we are jealous of people and that we have malice in our heart. Malice is the d the desire for something bad to have some to happen to somebody. Maliciousness. They don't go out and kill anybody. They just are are going to shout the glory if you do get killed. They don't want to make something bad happen to you, but if something bad happens, you would be fine with you. We all have different kinds of sins. By the way, the Bible says in Proverbs 24:16, a just man falleth down seven times and rises up again. Pressure reveals our flaws, it refines our faith, it restrains our flesh. And finally, turn with me to Acts chapter 16 in closing. Acts chapter 16. That regulates our fervor. You say, well, who in the world wants your fervor regulated? Doesn't God want me to have zeal? Yes, he does, but he wants it to be zeal that is God directed. I heard preachers say, I've heard more than one preacher say this one. You can't take the gospel to the wrong address. I don't disagree with that. I don't disagree with that. I don't believe you can witness to the wrong person. I believe every God so loved the world he gave his only begotten son whosoever believed. It's not God's will that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. God wants people saved. He doesn't want people to go to hell. Well then what in the world is this thing you're talking about, Brother Chuck, about it regulating our fervor? Acts chapter 16, verse number 6. Now when they had gone through our Phrygia and the region of Galatia and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia, did you see that? Well Has God got something against Chinese or Vietnamese or Japanese What's all that up to? Hmm. After they were come to Mysia, they essayed to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not, said, nope, don't go there either. Wow. After passing through Mysti came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. And there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come unto over into Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. Well why didn't he want them to preach the gospel in Asia? You take that up with God when you get there and see him, okay? I don't really have the answer for that, but I do know this. I do know tru Romans twelve says this. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your body a living sacrifice. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. I did not want to go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission 30 years ago. Do you know that? Not every day. I don't like the city. Still don't like it. What has the will of God got to do with what I like and what I don't like anyway? Nothing Nothing. What the will of that God has to do is God putting a an obvious burden on my heart and putting an obvious call in my life. to show me this is where he wants me to do and this is what he wants me to do and where. Man, I you I We used to have what's called the Baltimore Breakfast Group, a group of Christian business people used to come to the mission once a month and had a prayer meeting at the Baltimore Rescue Mission in the morning. And we would have at different times missionaries would come in, friends of these different Christian business people, they'd invite their missionary friends in, man, one week I'm ready to go to Papua New Guinea. Hallelujah And one weekend I'm getting ready to go to Uruguay. Why? Because they came and they showed their slides and they shared their burdens and sometimes they brought some of their people with them that got saved, and my heart broke. And I said, I want to go to Papua New Guinea, God. We talked to a representative from Africa Evangelical Fellowship. We were going to go to Africa once upon a time. We tell you all that stuff. We went to Russia about 12, I don't know, 12, 15 years, I don't know what it was. All the family. I went we went there for a couple of weeks. How was it? Two weeks? Two weeks. Four four weeks. Two weeks we spent in St. Petersburg, Russia. I was teaching a a a uh a concentrated course uh in a couple of uh Bible classes for a guy who was starting a a a Bible institute in Russia and I w I I spoke through a translator for two weeks. Held some street meetings. They rented a place. We had an evangelistic meeting. Had a had a had a wonderful time. I fell in love with Russia My wife had to go down, had to go back to the mission because somebody's got to pay the bills, right? So she had to take the kids. She only got to stay two weeks. I went from from St. Petersburg, Russia, down to Kiev, Ukraine. I taught in another Bible institute down there for two weeks. While I was down there, I got a chance to sumble over to Moscow. I got to meet Peter Ramatchik, the man who spent more time on the gulag for the gospel than any other person before perestroika. And I got to preach in his church and I didn't feel worthy to shine his shoes. What am I saying? I don't know that I've ever had anybody present a ministry to me that I didn't want to be part of it. Does that make sense? But God only has one place he wants, Chuck Bittner. And it's not the place I picked. And it's down in inner city Baltimore in the ghetto Amongst drug addicts and prostitutes and drunkards and derelicts. And we see some of them get saved. And we see a lot of disappointments. And we have a lot of stress. And we're trying to learn. To be like Jesus. Can we pray? Every head bowed. Every head bowed. Oh dear friend. You say, man, I I wish I didn't have this problem. Dear friend, you've got that problem because God gave you that problem. I don't care what that problem is, you say that God couldn't have anything to do with this, brother Charles. Oh yes he does. Yes he does. Yes he does. Because he's gonna, if you let him, he's gonna work good out of it. If you let him, you're gonna find out that all things work together for good to them to love God. For those that are called according to his purpose. You love him? And his grandfather, old Jennings Long, every time I'd see him, he wouldn't say, how'd the Orioles do last night, Brother Chuck? He wouldn't even say, How's the mission, Brother Chuck? He looked me in the eye, old Jennings Long, over 95 years old, and he'd say, Brother, do you love him? That was the question Jennings Long had for you. Do you love him? Do you love the Lord? I pray you do. If God's spoken to your heart this morning, Will you let him have his way in your life? I don't care how you do it. Just get along with God sometime today and say, oh God. Help me to be more like you. Help me that my love for you would intensify. Help me to be more obedient. Help me to be like Jesus. We ask and pray this in his name. Amen.