So how did it go this week? Did anyone repent this week? I hear a yes! Amen. Praise God. Yes. Choose sides. Draw near. Clean up your act. Mourn and weep. Humble yourself under the mighty hand of God. I'm sure that if you have repented, God is blessing you. God is doing something in your life. Today we're talking about James 4, 11 to 17 And you have two sections here which seem to be significantly different. The first section says, do not speak evil of one another. And verse 13, the second section, 13 to 17, talks about planning. Talks about businessmen making money. So what how do these two fit together, or do they fit together, or are these just random pearls that James has chosen to Connect with a string. Well, I think that they fit together in what Jesus said back in Luke 18. Where two men went up to pray. You remember Jesus talking about two men going up to pray, a Pharisee and a publican? You know the story. But Luke introduces this story with the following statement He said, Jesus spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. The combination here, I think, is significant. They trusted in themselves and they despised others. I think James has that same combination So that in 11 and 12 you've got these people who look down on others. And in 13 to 17, you get these people that trust in themselves, that are confident in their ability. To go and make money. So this isn't the first time James has talked about the way we talk In chapter 2, he referred to an usher who gave a rich man a more favorable seat. In chapter 2, verse 15, he talked about the man at the front door who gave a starving brother and sister warm words and nothing else. In chapter 3, verses 14 to 16, he talked about the horror of envy, bitter envy and self-seeking. Which brings, can bring Satan and the forces of hell into the situation. So now he's giving more details about our arrogance in talk. I've entitled this section, The Talk of Arrogance. So I think these sections are linked by Self-confidence, by arrogance, by people who are sure they have it all together. So let's talk about each one of them Number one, trash talk is more dangerous than we think. This is verses 11 and 12. I'm reading. Do not speak evil of one another, brethren. He who speaks evil of a brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law. And judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who are you? To judge another. The word, the words speak evil mean to talk somebody down. It's got the the Greek has the normal word for talking, and then it has the the prefix preposition that means down or against So it's talking about running people down, talking in ways where you undermine or you criticize or you defame. Usually somebody who's absent We don't usually do it in someone's presence. You'll notice that speak evil appears three times. In this verse. And the word judge appears four times in this verse and one time in verse 12. Where it speaks about judging someone else. So there's a connection between speaking evil and judging In verse 11, you have one another, speaking evil one another. Then you have the word brother twice. And then in verse 12, you have the word another. So we're talking about the way people talk down others Why would this be so dangerous? Isn't this the all-American entertainment pastime? Talk people down I think James gives four reasons why this is so dangerous. Number one, they attack family. They attack family. Brothers implies that they're speaking about fellow believers. This is family talk. And it seems that our tongues always seem to be a little bit looser when we speak of our own brothers and sisters. Just think about the way you talked about your siblings when you were growing up. Did you speak to them and about them in hushed, holy tones, with reverence? No, you seem to be freer in your distribution of criticism and advice and judgment. They're brothers. They're sisters. This is talking not only about how we talk, but it's talking about what we intend. He's talking about a motivation, a motivation that my conversation will push them down, will undermine them. You say something that may sound complimentary, but the way you say it, the motive with which you say it, knocks the other person. I have a friend. And every time he talks about someone, there's a negative tone to it. Every time. Once I picked up on this, I just I thought, I'm going to just bring up a name and see what he says. And and it's it's It's something that's not quite, you know. It's statements like, well, he's in over his head. That kind of thing. So, do you ever do that? We don't need a show of hands. I'm assuming this is common, you know You hear statements like, do you know what so-and-so did? We need to pray for Mrs. So-and-so because Have you heard the latest about Sam? You know, uh this evil speaking, I think, is often connected with gossip. And then it can even be statements, you know, my that's a great looking dress. Too bad they didn't have your size Why waste time practicing? You'll never play the piano like your sister. Wow, you look marvelous. Did you have plastic surgery? When a man finally got up the nerve to tell his mother that his wife had left him, his mother snapped, what took her so long? All right, we may laugh. But contrast that way of speaking with the way that we talk about, let's say The astronauts in the Challenger disaster or the Columbia Shuttle disaster, we speak with honor. We speak with respect. We speak with reverence. Appreciation. It's almost like if anyone at in talking about them decided that they were going to talk them down. They would be attacked. That is not the way to talk about them. So why can't we have that kind of attitude toward everyone? Why can't we have that kind of attitude toward every brother and sister in Christ? Someone has said great people discuss ideas. Average people discuss things. Little people Discuss people. Great people discuss ideas. Average people discuss things. Little people discuss people. John Basagno says, through the years I have found it nearly impossible to get great men to discuss the faults of other people. Do you see the combination of lack of respect for others coupled with an inflated trust in ourselves? It's this combination, you know. Why do I talk others down? Because I am competent. I am able. I know more. Self-centeredness tends to make us experts at generalization. Generalization. So a brother says a foolish word and we respond with, he never says anything valuable. Generalization. A sister gets angry, loses her temper, and we say, she's always out of control. Someone fails to greet us in the way we expect, and we classify him as unfriendly, non-Christian in his response. We see a brother in a restaurant drinking a glass of wine with an unbeliever, and we say, as they said of Jesus, oh, a wine bibber and a friend of sinners. You know? All of these responses are responses of arrogance, self-confidence. How dangerous is it? Everybody does it. It's all American entertainment. I think James is reacting to this situation. With the kind of reaction that I had this week. I was in the gas, I was at the 7 Eleven, I was putting gas in a two-gallon plastic plastic can for my lawnmower. I had I had the uh whatever that is in there and I was feeding gas in, you know, and the gas smell was everywhere. A guy drives up in a pickup truck on the other side of the pump, gets out of the truck, smoking a cigarette. And I've I've got the the can on a on a pedestal about three feet up, and he's standing on the other side of the thing. I don't think he was four feet from from the gas can. And I say to myself, this guy's going to blow us both up. And I was trying to figure out, do I pull the handle out and stick it back in? That may cause more vapors. Do I stick the handle in there to shut off what whatever's coming out? So that's what I did. I stuck it in, I turned it off, you know, and so on. And I wanted to say to the guy, I was very strong about wanting to say, what are you doing? Do you know what you're doing? I think that's what James is saying James is saying, do you know what you're doing? Do you understand that you've got a lighted cigarette next to a gas tank with this kind of talk? So the first thing they do is they attack family. Second thing they do is they attack the law. He who speaks evil of a brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law and judges a law. How does he do that? How does someone speak evil of the law? What law are we talking about? Are we talking about the Ten Commandments? I don't think so. I think we're talking about the law that James mentions in chapter 2, verse 8. In chapter 2, verse 13. The royal law, the law of liberty, the law of love. God's law says love your brother. Love your neighbor. The word love, the command to love, is commanding us to help our brother and our sister. But by judging my brother or my sister, I'm saying that law doesn't fit this person. They don't need help. Peter says that love will cover a multitude of sins. This is 1 Peter 4:8. But we respond with, not in this case. This brother needs his sins exposed. So trash talk judging Does not obey the command to love. The actions are criticizing the law You're not submitting and obeying the law. You're setting yourself above the law, and you're saying, no, I need to do something else rather than obey and love. I need to expose. You ever done this? Ever talked down Arminians or Calvinists, or Charismatics, or Seventh-day Adventists Or teenagers? Or slower drivers in front of you on the beltway Driving cars that smoke blue smoke, or people who look different, or people who are irritating Does God's love cover our response to them? When you speak evil of a brother, you speak evil of the law. Jay Adams tells the story about a man who came in for counseling, marriage counseling. His wife was not fulfilling his expectations. And Jay said, Well, God's command is for husbands to love their wives. But the man said You don't understand. We have become so distant that I would not put her in the category of my wife. Oh, Jay said, well, God's command is for us to love one another. The man thought a minute and said, well, maybe she doesn't even fit in that category. Jay's response was, God's command is love your enemies. That stopped him. And that should stop us. Disobedience to the law of love is an attack on the law. Saying that that law is insufficient for this situation. So Christian trash talk not only attacks the family, but it attacks the law. And the third thing it does is it it makes the person who does this makes himself a judge. Makes himself a judge. He who speaks evil of a brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law, judges the law. But if you judge the law, you're not a doer of the law, but a judge. The act of talking down your brother is the act of setting yourself up as the authority A judge has to know much in order to make a good judgment. You, by opening your mouth against your brother, show that you think you know enough to make your pronouncement. It's a great temptation when you learn a little, when you grow a little, to assume an authoritative attitude toward other Christians. By doing this, we commonly assume responsibilities that we don't have. Paul cautions us in 1 Corinthians 4 verse 5, where he says, therefore judge nothing before the time. Until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Here's what we don't understand. We don't know the hidden things of darkness. We don't know the counsels of the hearts. How can we make a judgment in this situation when we don't even know their motives? Then Paul says each one's praise will come from God. So the temptation is to assume authority that you know. I have had training in public speaking. I have taught public speaking for 50 years. I have evaluated thousands and thousands of speeches and sermons, how easy it is for me to criticize preachers. Including myself. Yet the truth is that I don't know enough to judge. I have no idea as to how many obstacles the speaker has overcome in their lives. They may have been born without the ability to speak, like Helen Keller, and they have overcome far more difficulties than I will ever see. Who am I to judge? I don't know enough. But I think that's the attitude we need to have when we talk about other believers. Who am I to judge? So, not only do they attack the family and attack the law and they set themselves up as judge, but number four, they invade God's courtroom. They invade God's courtroom. There's one lawgiver, verse 12 says. Who is able to save and to destroy. Who are you? To judge another. In the entire universe, there's one lawgiver. One. Well, that is until recently. And you have added yourself to that number, huh So God has his own private courtroom where he judges cases and gives out the law, and you've joined him. The very fact that you have done this shows ignorance and arrogance. It shows you're unqualified because you're taking a pot shot at a special creation of God's He thinks he did a good job in creation and you think otherwise And you've concluded that it's time to assemble Judgment Day in order to deal with this brother of yours. His fault needs to be exposed. He needs to be publicly embarrassed, and you are God's vessel to accomplish this act. God's law commands that you love him. And cover a multitude of sins. But since you're superior to that law, you set up your own court and trial date. And James says in verse 12, Who do you think you are? You're assigning yourself a place on the throne of God that is already competently occupied. What laws have you authored? What ability do you have to save or to destroy? Your assignment from above is to join your brother to help him. Stand beside your neighbor to strengthen her, to be a humble doer of the law. Who do you think you are? You see what James is talking about here? Trash talk is serious stuff It's not a form of Christian entertainment. And it's a whole lot more dangerous than we think. It attacks family. It sets aside the law. Makes you a judge. It invades God's rightful place. There's nothing minor about this kind of talk Ephesians chapter four, verse twenty-nine. To me, Ephesians four twenty-nine fits These two verses perfectly. It says, let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification. That's the word to build up, to encourage, to strengthen. that it may impart grace to the hearers. What should come out of our mouths, what should come out is edification Something that ministers good, something that strengthens those that hear. So, this afternoon I'd like to talk about talk more about this subject, you know. I'm skipping a lot of stuff. I'd like to talk about why we do this kind of thing And I'd like to talk about how we should judge people without speaking evil. You know, how can I, as a speech teacher, judge somebody's speech? When I don't want to judge them, and I'm not competent to judge them. What do you judge? And then I'd also like to deal with how how do we deal with trash talk? When we're the recipient. You know, when somebody's talking about us. So that's this afternoon. Okay, so do you see number one? Do you see verses 11 and 12 are saying that trash talk, Christian trash talk is a whole lot more dangerous than we realize This is serious stuff, and God does not look at this lightly Number two, planning can be sinful. I'm reading thirteen to seventeen. Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city, spend a year there, buy and sell, and make a profit. Whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that. But now you boast in your egg in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. Therefore, to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin. Notice the description. Today, tomorrow, a year These were businessmen who had their schedule set. They knew where they were going to be, what they were going to do for the next year. They had the city chosen. They knew they would come back a year later from that city with full pockets. The talk is full of confidence. Arrogant confidence. We will go and spend a year and trade. We know what to do. And in addition, we will make a profit. They were sure they could do it. It was all settled. They'd already filled out their tax forms for the next year. They were confident of success. It wasn't let's try to make a profit. It was we will make one. The word for making a profit not only includes making money, but it includes the love of making money. So these guys are saying, and we will make what we love to make in one year. Remember, James is writing to Jewish people. Okay? You ever seen any Jewish people who know how to trade and make money? They are so good at it that it's natural to be confident. You know, I wish I had half their ability to trade and make money. I feel that when God passed out the uh the ability to sell and make money, I got none of those qualities. You know, I don't think I've ever sold a thing. I don't make money. I give I give my used cars away, you know, and all this kind of stuff I'm not in that category. And I'm jealous sometimes of these people who are so skillful at that. So what's the problem with this? This sounds like normal life. Sounds like rever regular American planning, doesn't it? These guys may seem a little too confident, but nothing that you would want to make a federal case over. But James views their planning as evil. Verse 16. Evil. Verse 17, he puts it in the category of sin. Why? What was there about these plans that made them wrong? Let me give you two answers. A, the problem is the arrogance that focuses on the wrong thing. The wrong thing. The key is the phrase boasting in your arrogance. Boasting in your arrogance. Boasting is the word glorying, and it can be a good word or a bad word. We actually had this word back in chapter 1, verse 9, and it was a good word. James says, when you fall into different temptations and trials and difficulties, boast, glory in your status change, God's that work in your life. That's this word, post. But it can be a bad word when it's connected with the word arrogance The word arrogance means insolence, empty assurance, which trusts in its own power, which ignores God's laws and human rights. I was interested to find that this word is sometimes translated by the word swagger. These are the New Testament swaggers. They are boasting in their ability to swagger. It's a swagger that's based on Being clueless. Ignorance. It's a large confidence in their ability to handle everything around them when they can't handle themselves. You know, my picture is that these guys act as if they've got the future under control, they've got it all figured out, how to stay alive, how to design, build, sell, how to make money. Ignoring the fact that they have stage four cancer. You know, it's this mindless kind of swagger That is not connected to reality. So what's wrong is not just the planning, but the arrogance that leaves out what's more important. It's the arrogance that leaves out what's more important. It's like the guy who decides to climb the corporate ladder at the expense of his wife and family. And even though his wife feels alone and his family grows and he's not there, he's providing for their needs, you know, and he keeps thinking it'll be just a few more years, he'll be at the top, he'll be able to retire and have time for everything. He finally arrives at the leadership position, you know, and the six-plus figure salary. It's a nice ceremony that emphasizes how much he's contributed to the success of the company. His wife is there, his kids are there, they all go home proud of his accomplishments. As he's driving home, he's killed in a Freak 3-car accident. He leaves his wife with a nice house, four kids, all well provided for, but virtually unaware of who their father was. What does he accomplish? Well, he's provided. That's a commendable thing What else? Not much else. He knew there were other things he should be doing, but he excused them with a thought that he needed to make a secure future. That needed to be his priority. Of course, for a time, and then he'd be done We have an entire generation of people that lives in this realm. Let's collect the cash. Let's get our retirement set up and filled up. Let's work for the company that pays the most, no matter what, how great the sacrifice. Let's seek first the money, and then all these other things will be added to us. Haven't you heard of that verse? Where God says, seek first the kingdom of heaven, then all these things will be added. So everything is driven by return. Buy money, by income, by cash. What programs are featured on TV? Programs that will generate money. What news is on TV? News that will generate interest and money. There was an interesting article in the Wall Street Journal. This is May a year ago. I cut it out and saved it because it talked about Harvard Business School. Now, my judgment, Harvard Business School is, you know, one of the top schools. That's the school that trains Wall Street leaders and business leaders. So wall the so uh Harvard Business Schools should have the best perspective on Starting a business, running a business, solving the economic issues in the world Instead, the article said that the school's educational platform was greatly influenced by the money that came in from big businesses The money affected the curriculum. In fact, one well-known faculty member, after praising IBM as a model company, Was found to have been on the IBM payroll for ten years. No wonder they're the ideal company. They pay me. Do you see what this is? This is that whole cycle, that this business cycle that's focused on money to the point of Ignoring the important things in life So it's an example of the arrogance that focuses on the wrong thing. I'm in B now. Another problem is that such arrogance overlooks. Reality. Making money the priority drops out other priorities. We forget other priorities because money becomes the king. How does God want us to plan for the future? I've got three statements there that come from James. Number one, we should plan in light of our frailty. Frailty. We are as permanent as a mist. Verse 14: For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Did you get that when we read this morning, Psalm thirty-nine? Lord, make me to know my end, and what is the measure of my days, that I may know how frail I am. Indeed, you have made my days as hand breaths, and my age is as nothing before you. Certainly every man at his best state Is but vapor. Surely every man walks about like a shadow. Surely they busy themselves in vain. He heaps up riches and does not know who will gather them. How does the vapor that comes out of your mouth on a cold day, how long does it last? And the great scheme of things, that's the picture of the permanence of your life. It means, what does this mean? It means that anything important that you're going to do, you need to do now. You need to do today. You cannot delay priorities. You need to put priorities on The burner for today. I've got some passages there for you, Psalm 27, that say the same thing as Psalm 39. Psalm 27, 1, don't boast of tomorrow, for you know not what a day may bring forth, and so on. Moses says in Psalm 90, teach us to number our days. That we might gain a heart of wisdom. Teach us suggests that we're not going to learn unless God stops us and interferes to teach us. You know, we walk on the graves of our fathers and mothers, and people die all around us, and 9-11 woke us up, and we all think we're going to be here for eternity And Moses says, Would you teach us? Would you stop and interrupt us and get us to think about the fact that we're not here for very long? So that we might focus on wisdom. What is most important? What do I need today? Would you change your plans if you knew you were leaving for eternity tomorrow? Would you be worried about making another dollar? Someone has said that they never heard anyone on their deathbed saying, I spent too much time with my family and children. I spent too much time in church with other believers. I spent too much prayer time in prayer meditation. It always seems to be I spent too much time at work. Too much time worrying about the things that weren't that important. Can God somehow give us that kind of insight before we're on our deathbeds? That's what James wants us to learn in this passage. These businessmen were planning for the future, worried about the future, living with their minds focused on the future to such an extent They were missing the present. They were putting off doing good. They were putting present responsibilities on hold for a year, and James says that's arrogance. That's evil because it's based on false assumptions, the assumption that you are going to be here next year. And you don't know that Number two, we should plan in light of our ignorance. Plan in light of our ignorance. Verse 14, whereas you do not know what will happen tomorrow. We can't see an hour ahead, much less a day ahead or a year ahead. They were ignoring their ignorance Tomorrow may prove to be another September 11, when we all sit around and watch our TV sets in fear and wonder what else might happen. We don't know. How did these businessmen know that circumstances weren't going to change? That terrorists weren't going to hit the city, that the stock market was not going to collapse. Matthew 6 33 Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. Therefore Do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow we're worried we'll worry about its own things. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Obey what you know are today's responsibilities And then number three, we should plan in light of our dependence, of our dependence, our utter dependence. Verse 15, instead you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that. If the Lord wills means that we're dependent upon his choice. We shall live means that we're dependent upon his supply of breath and life. And do this or that means we're dependent upon him for strength and health. These guys were underestimating their own weaknesses. They were ignoring the fact that they could be hit by Lyme's disease and suddenly have zero energy for anything. So making money while failing to do the right thing is sin Doing anything while failing to do what's most important is sin. So I have suggestions. Number one, start with little steps. Don't say, I'll wait till I'm in the mood There are some tasks, if you're like me, you will never feel in the mood for. You need to confront your friend about gossiping. But that could get ugly. So you read a book. You know? You need to clean out the garage, but that's an impossible task. So you do something else To him who knows to do good, to him who knows what good step he needs to take right now, and does not do it, to him it is sin. Solution. Shoopy solution. Take small steps. Take a small step. Break an insurmountable job into steps that can be accomplished bit by bit. Number two, have you written a will? Do you have a will? I'm not worried about Tim at the moment, but the rest of you, do you have a will? Will you do it this week? You ought to write a will this week. Do you need a will? Number three, is there someone you would like to thank before you die? Write him a thank you letter this week. Number four, is there someone you would like to get things straightened out with before you die? Do it this week Number five. Are you praying faithfully? Are you praying faithfully? Samuel says in 1 Samuel 12, 23, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. This verse says that what we don't do may be just as bad as what we actually do. In fact, what we don't do may be the reason why we do what we do. Why do we run off to do our own plans? Because we haven't prayed and asked God for wisdom. Do you pray faithfully? I've got a prayer list that includes unbelievers. That I'd like to see saved. That includes missionaries. That includes sick people. That includes people in problems. It doesn't have to be long, but you pray faithfully for certain people. And number six, are you sowing seeds of sacrifice? Sowing seeds of sacrifice. Are you sacrificing anything? Are you giving your time, your effort, your money to help? Is there any kind of sacrifice there? Hebrews 13. And do not forget to do good and to share with others, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. Therefore, to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin. A student came to see me with a very bad attitude. It wasn't Randy. I counseled her to deal with her attitude first. She agreed she needed to deal with her attitude, but then said she had to go to class. It was time to go to class. She had to go to class. She didn't want to flunk the class. My response was, no, you don't You don't have to go to class. If you go to class with that attitude, you're not going to get anything out of it I said, you need to go to your room, you need to get on your knees, you need to pray, and you need to stay there until God meets you and changes your attitude. Until your attitude has changed, nothing else is worthwhile. There are some things that are so essential that when you ignore them and pass by them and don't do them. It's wrong, it's sin