This might be the most laughable illustration I've ever had. January nineteenth, twenty nineteen, Las Vegas, Nevada, a judgment sentence was pronounced. It was not at a traffic court, nor at a district court, but the condemnation I'd argue is more serious than any traffic fine or time in jail. I'll read it to you before I reveal the judge. Quote To Mike Pence, who thinks it's acceptable that his wife work at a school that bans LGBTQ. You are wrong. You say we should not discriminate against Christianity. You are the worst representation of what it means to be a Christian. I am a Christian woman, and what I do know about Christianity is that we bear no prejudice and everyone is welcome So you can take all that disgrace, Mr. Pence, and you can look yourself in the mirror and you'll find it right there. End quote. You've already figured out that it was a lady who said this But it's not just any lady. Her name is Stephanie Joanne Angelina Germanata, better known as Lady Gaga. During her concert performance, surrounded by her fans, she denounced the employee of Emmanuel Christian School, located on the other side of the country in Springfield, Virginia. Consider what just took place. A musician exerted herself, claimed authority as an authentic Christian. Contradicted and reversed 2,000 years of history and the consensus Christian view on homosexuality. The pop icon, in the presence of her adoring fans, disciplined fellow believers. Um who in her eyes are either hypocrites, quote, worse representation of what it means to be a Christian, end quote, or perhaps not even Christians at all. What a grave sentence. Like I said, I'd argue that Lady Gaga's words are harsher than a fine or imprisonment. She's saying that the vice president and his wife are under God's divine judgment Does Lady Gaga have the right to discipline the pencils? Um her bands think so. think so. Uh many people who support the LGBTQ in the world think so. Sadly I think even some people who call themselves Christians think that as well. But we don't. We highly, highly doubt that she has the right faith like Peter's and what we saw in Matthew. Matthew sixteen, she misreads the scripture's clear message on sexuality as well Last week I said that the authority of the church, the keys, belongs to the one who rightfully confessed Jesus as God's Son, the Messiah. But the keys are useless unless they lock and open. And I said as my third point then that the authoritative church makes proper biblical judgments. And today we'll get to see how church authority ought to be exercised through church discipline. You could say that it's one of the main doors of the church. But before we turn to the passage in Matthew eighteen, I want to remind you that we are in still in that section in Matthew where Jesus is training his disciples. To lead the church during the time between his first and second coming. So as we arrive in chapter 18 We encounter one of Jesus' major discourses. It's often called the community discourse. It may not be as well known as the Sermon on the Mount, the first major discourse, or the parables which I touched upon. pawn a couple weeks ago. But the community discourse is important. And the overall theme here is humility. And it permeates in every topic. Entrance into the kingdom and the greatness in the kingdom, thoughtful consideration of others' spiritual health. And forgiveness. I encourage you to read the entire chapter. Well, we're just reading six verses out of this chapter. But we should understand in general that church should be a humble community. that takes care of each other. But humility does not mean that we do not confront sin. Jesus taught that causing younger ones to stumble into sinfulness is such a grave offense that we ought to be drawn on for doing so Sin's consequences are so terrible that doing away with body parts that causes to stumble is not overly drastic. That's why we need the church discipline. I argue that church discipline exactly is exactly the way we as a church pursue the unrepentant sinner. You may have noticed that we were singing some songs with the shepherd. Let's read verses twelve to fourteen, the short parable that precedes the passage for today. What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine and go to the mountains to seek the one That is strength. And if he should find it, assuredly I say to you, he rejoices more over that sheep than over the ninety-nine that did not go straight Even so, it is not the will of your father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. That's what Jesus does for the wandering sheep. He leaves the flock to seek the one's strength. The father wants to find and restore the young believer and bring him or her back into the fold. Now where does that leave us, the community? Do we as the 99 just sit there? Just after the parable, which reveals the heart of our Father, we have the didactic section for today. Jesus takes the illustration of 12 to 14 and gives us the instruction of 15 to 20. So let's read that now Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and a text. Assurely I say to you, whatever you find on earth will be found in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning Anything that they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them. How does a church practice discipline? There are six verses with six answers. I will group them into two groups of three points. The first three, I believe, are focused on restoration. And the latter three have to do with confirmation. So, first three, restoration, the latter three, confirmation. I will list them in verse order. First, restore the sinner individually. Second, restore the sinner as a small group. Third, restore the sinner as a congregation Now we're going to 4, 5, and 6. Principle number 4. Confirm the discipline with church authority. Fifth, confirm the discipline in corporate prayer. And six, confirm the discipline in Jesus' name. I'll repeat all those points as I go along First, restore the sinner individually. Let's reread verse 15. Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. This is quite revolutionary. When someone sins against you, it's up to the offender, not the offender, to initiate. When a person insults or degrades, even if it's not done on purpose. I certainly would not want to be the one to confront him or her. I'll probably ask for a mediator, whether it's a mutual friend or an authority figure. But Jesus in his wisdom wants the offended to seek the offender. Note how bearing the insult by gritting your teeth or taking the high road is not what Jesus says here. He says, take the direct path, not the high road. And that demands some humility and sacrifice. As you can see here. It also prevents gossiping and rumors from dividing and fracturing the community. When there's a s offense, take care of it right away. At least initially it keeps the conversation between the ones who understand the situation the best. Hopefully most sins in the community end at this um first level of accountability. Now two c clarifications here. We can only discipline known sins and unrepentant sins. First, as a church, there's no way we can address every single sin. Only God knows all those. Our job is to deal with sins that manifest. But speculations of sin will not do. Only sins that are known. Second, when a person stubbornly refuses to confess and repent of a specific sin, he or she is beginning to show signs that the gospel truth is not in them. Now, one safe always says that's true, but how do I know whether a another person, a brother or so-called brother or sister, is truly saved? Well, we observe it in their lives. There will be signs of their salvation. There will be growth. But when someone starts to deny that they have sinned, when it's plainly obvious they have, that person is blaspheming God. If this continues on and on, we as a church community start losing confidence in his or her salvation. We know the words of 1 John chapter 1, verse 8 to 10. Let's turn there real quick. Or maybe you already memorized it. It's a common verse. I think I have to memorize it for evangelism explosion First John chapter one, verse eight to ten. First John chapter one, eight through ten. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. And the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar and his word is not in us. It's not just about the relationship between one offended and the offender. Unrepentant sin says a lot about the relationship between that offender Now what happens when the confronted sinner does not listen? Don't just throw up your hands in the air and just say, Oh well And the same person in verse fifteen must proceed to sixteen, and if that doesn't work, to seventeen. We have the second principle in verse sixteen, restore the sinner as a sinner. Small group. Let's reread. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Now, why create this special committee of two or three? Jesus cites Deuteronomy 19:15 there. It's a law of Moses over Israel as a precedent for church discipline. In Israel, two or three witnesses or testimonies would be required for transgressions that have death penalty as the punishment. The guilty Israelite would obviously be removed from the community once and for all. Um well the church doesn't have that kind of political authority. That's why the church is different than Israel But it does have the right to make judgments about whether an individual belongs in their midst. We shouldn't condemn every sinner, like I said before, just the unrepentant sinner. And like I said, unrepentant sin is a grave, serious matter. And the sinner must be made aware of it that his soul or his her soul is in Great danger that we're doubting their salvation. By taking this step, taking multiple witnesses, gathering multiple witnesses, we are headed toward the exclusion. of a member. Now you might say, why make a big deal out of this? Who are we to judge? I'm sure God will take care of it. Yes, he will. Through you Right? Through your living loving reproof. Confronting sin is a important matter in every dispensation. Israel did it. Jesus wants the church to do it as well. That's because whether you're an Israelite thousands of years ago or you're a Gentile today, the saved community represents the holy God, like we sang. Be holy, for I am holy, is not just found in Leviticus. It's found in 1 Peter 1:16. It's for the church, it's for the Israel. So church discipline has all kinds of implications, their relationship with our holy God, the church's public image, the judicial procedure, and what we see here is that evidence of unrepentant sin is gathered with There's something else too. All these procedures protect victims of sin in the church of Christ. A victim of sin in church should never feel alone. Consider with me how churches, whether first century or now, protect such victims. I talked about it a little bit a few weeks ago. Greek speaking widows in the Jerusalem church were being overlooked. Did the younger members just sit there? No, they went to the twelve and asked for solution. And they got it. Do remember what Peter did in Antioch. He stopped hanging out with his Gentile brothers when some Jews arrived there. Did Paul let that slide? No, he confronted Peter publicly, called him out on his hypocrisy. What if a certain member shows favoritism to rich newcomers and dishonor the poorer members of the church? Church. It happened. Read James 2. Those who help the victims must be courageous. In churches today, there will be victims of bullying, abuse scandal sadly from their own members. After the meeting hopefully the group will have a wonderful record of praise when the individual realizes his or her faults and records. But inevitably, at times we will have to reach step three, restore the sinner as a congregation. That's in verse seventeen. And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses to even hear, even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and a tax collector. This is the third and final step before the relationship with the unrepentant sinner officially changes. If the individual doesn't listen to the entire congregation, we have reasons to treat that person as an unbeliever outside of the community. Like the ancient Israel judicial process, the sinner has been identified, the unrepentant warned, two or three witnesses have come forward, and the verdict is delivered. Now, people take this as a proof text for a term called excommunication. But I really don't like the word. I as you see in my points, I kept using the word restoration. I think that's the goal. We want to restore this unrepentant sinner. To repent I think a disciplined individual should continue to come and observe us in public meetings. Hear the word. The 99 should continue to pray for that one lost sheep. That the Lord would lead him or her back into the fold. But then what would be the difference in the relationship before and after? the discipline. How do we treat him or her, quote, like a heathen and a tax collector? What did Jesus mean by that? Now that sounds a bit archaic to us, Hedon and text collector, but it was really easy for the twelve disciples of Jesus to understand, the first century Jews. They understand exactly what that meant. They learned from the Bible since they were very young to how to be separate from Gentiles. Now, Gentile wasn't just a racial term, it was also a religious term because they did not worship the same God. So they could share public jobs and society with them obviously, but they could not be intimate and table fellowship. And even the monotheistic Jew, if he is an unrepentant sinner, could not point to his heritage to enter into table fellowship with Pious Jews, good standing Jews. For example, Jesus cites it there, the Jewish tax collectors of Jesus' day. Typically took more money than they should and stole regularly without remorse. That's why they were often excluded How would that look today? We will no longer bind the unrepentant individual to follow the statement of faith and the covenant of membership. Since Jews did not share tables with Gentiles, we will warn him or her of this. To participate in the Lord's Supper at the Lord's table, while still an obvious unrepentant sin will be to take partake in an unworthy manner described in First Corinthians eleven. You might remember what I said last week um before the communion, it's not enough to believe and be Now these are some weighty decisions to make. Often churches are good about keeping doctrines but not practicing discipline. I mean I I think it would be sort of strange that let's say a church existed for let's say eighty years and let's say they have two thousand members And in all those years, not once that discipline has happened, either they are ignoring this text or maybe they're scared To obey these verses. It's countercultural. Why not be welcoming? The world asks us. I believe Jesus anticipated such fears and opposition. That's why we have the next three verses to confirm our discipline. The fourth principle is this. Confirm the discipline with church authority. Let's read verse 18 again. Assuredly, I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Now does this first sound familiar? I talked about this last week during um last week's sermon. And this is what Jesus said in Matthew sixteen, verse nineteen. Maybe you can flip back real quick Sixteen ninety. We're comparing it to eighteen eighty. And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven and whatever you bind on earth. Will be bound in heaven and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. This is sort of like the joint that connects Matthew 16 with Matthew 18. When these two verses, sixteen nineteen and eighteen eighteen, are juxtaposed, it helps us to better understand what binding and loosing is all about. First, binding and losing have to do with holding the keys of the kingdom of heaven. The right confessor, Peter, who confesses the right confession, must make the right decision. Like I said, Lady Gaga probably does not uh qualify to hold those keys. Secondly, as I said last week, the U in 1619 is singular. While the U in 1818 is plural. Jesus never intended the authority to reside in one person, Peter. The keys belong to the entire congregation, the gathered church. We make decisions that heaven confirms, especially when it comes to church discipline. Um you know in my keychain, I don't know if I have it with me, I have three keyrings here. Um one of them includes my car key, my home key and church keys. I use those the most. In my two other rings, there are other keys and a fob. If you ask me right now what doors these ladder keys open, I couldn't tell you. Like I I don't even know what w how I got these keys. Um thankfully when I arrived here, the council made sure that I received the key use policy document and that I signed the issue and return law Even the church keys themselves are marked with special codes so they don't get mixed up with others. That's very wise, very smart. I should have done that that. Um we should know who has the keys and what they open. Now when I first started using the building keys I'll be you know fumbling them around and Trying to figure out which doors open what, dropping them on the ground. Um I remember one time I was moving a couch into my office. Um with my brother in law. Uh we climbed the steps and I tried to take the keys out of my pocket. I got it in the doorknob, but it did not turn properly or I was I don't know why I couldn't open it. It seemed to be a little bit fiddly there. But here we are. Two of us struggling with the heavy couch in our hands. Right. Out in the freezing cold, with the pastor trying to open a ch church door. Um I of all people should know how to open doors here. And know what keys open what No, where am I going with this? I like Charles Furden's commentary on verse 18. Each church has the keys of its own door. When those keys are rightly turned by the assembly below, the act is ratified above. Each church has the keys of its own door. When those keys are rightly turned by the assembly below, the act is ratified above. We must recognize that we have the keys at the local church. We the congregation have that authority. We must rightly turn the keys here on earth and if we do that biblically we will have heaven confirm our decision We must always ask whether we are binding and loosing, opening and closing according to scriptural standards. And we should do this with lots of prayer. That leads us to the fifth principle: confirm the discipline in corporate prayer. Look at verse nineteen. Again I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning anything that they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. It's really important to read this verse in relation to the surrounding verses. Just imagine how a prosperity gospel church might completely rip this verse out of context. Um the church isn't this verse is not for you know a prayer for a nice car. It's not for health or wealth. We have to see that this prayer has to do with the immediate context of church. This The unrepentant sinner. It's about the individual who refuses to listen. Now this isn't a prayer saying God will guarantee that person will be returned. But po the prayer probably sounds like this Lord, we are going to remove this person from our membership. We know that this decision and our behavior toward this individual will communicate to all that his or her soul is in danger. Please give us confidence and confirm our decision. And the L Jesus is saying that prayer is a guaranteed yes. We'll definitely get a yes for an answer. This is the comfort that we have, a blessing we already have. Kind of like our keychains, we don't need new keys. We just need to realize what we already have. So closely related to this is the sixth principle. Confirm the discipline in Jesus' name. Verse 20, for where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in the midst of them. We already have the confirmation of witnesses. We have the keys of the kingdom. We have the promise that our Father in heaven will answer our prayer. Now we have the promise of Jesus being with us. When we represent Christ, we have the presence of Christ. This is the same promise found in the commission at the end of Matthew, which I'll preach on later. In the last words of the gospel, Jesus says, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Yes, he is always with us when we go out on missions, when we follow the Great Commission. But He is also with us, especially with us when we make tough decisions right here at church. We need not fear what the world says. We need not fear how liberal churches would criticize us. Now, did any church in the Bible practice such discipline? I guess a quick question might be with the Corinthians. Let's turn to First Corinthians five And we're going to see how Paul must have read this passage and is basically telling the believers there, please follow Jesus' instructions. First Corinthians five. As we read this, I think that we need to Delivering one such one to Satan means delivering them to the world, meaning outside of the church walls. But um other than that, I think it's a very straightforward passage. I've got to read the entire chapter. It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and such sexual immorality as is not even named among the Gentiles, that are A man has his father's wife. And you are puffed up and have not rather mourned that he who has done this deed might be taken away from among you For I indeed, as absent in body but present in spirit, have already judged as though I were present, him who has so done this deed In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you are gathered together, along with my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus. Your glorying is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Therefore parch out the old leaven that you may be a new lump Since you truly are unleavened. For indeed Christ our Passover was sacrificed for us. Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness. But with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth, I wrote to you in my epistle not to keep company with sexually immoral people. Yet I certainly did not mean with the sexually immoral people of this world or with the covetous or extortioners or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. But now I have written to you not to keep company with anyone named a brother, who is sexually immoral, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or drunkard, or extortioner, not even to eat with such a person. For what have I to do with judging those who um also who are outside Do you not judge those who are inside? But those who are outside, God judges. Therefore put away from yourselves the evil person. That last phrase, put away from yourselves the evil person, is found five times again in Deuteronomy, each time referring to a death penalty. Again, that's beyond the powers of the church. We don't have the sword to do that. All that is required of us is to remove them from membership. The Corinthians didn't and thought that they handled the situation well. Instead of mourning, they became prideful and said that this is no big deal. Do you see the in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ there in verse 4 occurring First Corinthians five. We saw something like that in Matthew eighteen twenty. Do you see not even to eat with such a person in verse eleven of First Corinthians five? Where do we see that? Matthew 1817. Paul saying obey Jesus' commands. We should tolerate unrepentant sin in the world, but not within the church. Now even a few decades removed from Matthew eighteen, churches were having trouble listening to Jesus and the same problem persists today. Chuck Colson who wrote about who knows all about the consequences of Now I said that church authority comes from right confessors and the right confession and the right decision. But if those same confessors who confess those same confessions Okay. Live in obvious sin, the church author authority erodes and breaks down. Our witness in the world is hypocritical, I think. Yes. Discipline is the solution to this. But remember this too, that we as individual victims of sin, when we confront the sinner, when we stand with the victim, go together and confront the sinner. Again. When the entire church protects the victim and pursues the unrepentant sinner, we're not just the ninety-nine of the flock. We imitate Jesus, the good shepherd, the Son of Man who came to save that which was lost. Now today I've mostly addressed the offended. If you're the one wandering sheep, please pay attention to this passage and the words of the final hymn. Which we're gonna sing. Know that Jesus is waiting for you. He died on the cross and rose from the dead to pay for your sins. Maybe somebody in this congregation grew up in the church and left it. But he's saying come home and do it as soon as possible. The final hymns, third third verse, and the chorus goes like this. Time is now fleeting. The moments are passing, passing from you and from me. Shadows are gathering, deathbeds are coming, coming for you and for me. Come home. Come home. You who are weary, come home. Earnestly, tenderly, Jesus is calling. Calling, O sinner. Come home. Please don't let your family, friends, and especially your church doubt your salvation because of unrepentance. Lord we thank you for the gift of forgiveness. Lord, that you did not give up on us when Adam and eaves and against turn them away from you. No, you didn't just cast them out of the garden. You allowed a sacrifice to take you had a sacrifice so that you could clothe them. No, from the beginning of time you knew that we would turn away from you and you pursued We thank you for the gospel. And we thank you for the gospel that first saved us. And Lord, we thank you for um those who have never really backslid and we for many of us we mostly grew up in church settings and heard the gospel from our parents or and we're thankful for that because we may have believed at a young age. But Lord, if there are people that we know um in our family Families, people who may have even gone to this church, who decided to turn away from you, become the prodigal son, who left us because they were never really part. So may you speak to them today. May you use us to speak to them. May we go and tell them that they're in danger. To preach the gospel to them. Though it may be hard for us to accept, though we may remember them attending our Sunday school class. Or taking a wana. Help us to go to them and tell them that their lives do not show any evidence of God's grace. And may we be bold, may we care for that person. May you give us opportunities this week. We thank you, and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.