It's always good to be here to see my parents and to see some friends that go back a long time. People who used to teach me in Sunday school when I was a kid, Miss Nancy. It's nice to see uh God's faithfulness in your lives uh throughout history, throughout my life, and um it's a blessing to be here. There's a lot of things that we can define ourselves by. There's a lot of entities that we can say, I'm one of these. How many times do you see a bumper sticker when you drive by? I'm the NRA. I vote. I'm pro-life and I vote. I'm number one Orioles fan. You know, there's lots of different groups that we can associate ourselves with. Uh we could be it could be a sports team, it could be A music group, it could be a political group or a country. So there's different ways that we can define who it is that we define ourselves as. I can say this. But as As we look at the scriptures, we realize that there's really one entity that should be the defining thing in our lives, and that is the Church of Jesus Christ. For all of those who know him, for all of those who love him, have been Saved by Him, the very first thing that should come to mind when you say, when somebody asks you, Who are you? should be the thought that I am a child of God, I am a member of His body. And this is what defines me. Everything else. Almost every other relationship in life can change, but my relationship to Christ will never change. And that is the thing that should be the defining point in your life. And I hope we will see that. As we look today, you can start now by looking at Ephesians chapter 4. We'll be in verses 11 to 16. I'm not going to read that right off, but you can get started by getting to that point. You know, throughout the New Testament, there are lots of different ways of describing the church. Sometimes she's called the Bride of Christ. Sometimes she's called the temple of the Holy Spirit, the temple of God. We're called a flock. We're called different ways that we get we are described as God's children. But one of Paul's favorite descriptions for the church is the body of Christ. And only Paul uses this. So it's interesting. This is just a passion that Paul has to talk about the church as the body of Christ. And so we're going to focus primarily today on what is the body of Christ and how has God provided it. For the body of Christ. We know that Jesus had a body. The body of Jesus. We've just celebrated Good Friday at Easter. And so there's a lot of talk about what do we do? Joseph of Arimathea. Asked for the body of Jesus to be able to take it off a cross and put it in a tomb. And then when the disciples went to the grave, they couldn't find it because his body was gone. And so we know that Jesus was human and he had a human body. And he He remains in that human body. He was resurrected, he was ascended to the Father. He still is in that human body today. But the problem is that human body can't be on earth and heaven at the same time. And so right now His human body is in heaven with the Father, and yet he also has a body here on earth. He's ascended to the Father, so he's not here in bodily form. And yet the church, his called out people Have become the presence of Jesus here on earth. Jesus, as God, has a spirit, he's everywhere. And so in that sense, he's here on earth. But physically, Jesus is represented on earth through the body of Christ. Christ, which is the church. And so I want you to take encouragement from that today because you're going through a challenging time. You're looking for a pastor. You may be concerned about What does the future hold for our church, or how long might this process last? But I want you to know and be encouraged by what we look at today that God has provided for his church. Jesus cares more about this church than you care about. This church. This is his body. And just as we make provisions for our body, we are, we know we need diet, we know we need exercise, we need sleep. And these are things that we this that I want to take care of this body, these are things I need. I need I need diet, I need exercise, I need sleep. And so I need to make provisions for so that I can get those things. If I need sleep, I know that I'm gonna have to go to bed at some point. So we make provisions to provide for our body. And in that way, Christ, as he cares for his children. church, he has made provisions that this church would be healthy and would grow and mature. And so when you look at the church from the world's perspective, we're a bunch of cast off. We're a bunch of And Paul even says that in 1 Corinthians 1, that not many wise, not many noble are called. You don't see a lot of famous politicians, a lot of famous actors, a lot of famous wealthy people Filling that they don't they don't come walking down the church aisles. Now occasionally God may save someone like that, and we thank him for that. But by and large, the people who join God's church, the ones who are called as Salvation are not the rich or noble people of the world. But God through Christ is building a people for Himself. And it says in Ephesians three twenty-one that to him be glory in the church by Jesus Christ to all generations forever. Ever and ever. Amen. So the church is the center. I like to say the church is the center of God's universe. In our country today, in most countries around the world, the church is despised. It's an irritation. It's light shining in darkness, and people can't stand it because they want the light to shut off so they can continue their darkness. But in God's eyes, you, me, the local church Churches of this area and around the world, the church in Hong Kong, this is the center of what God is doing in the universe. And someday, as the songs that we've have been singing have said, the church will be be the church at rest. We're in the the the phrase that is used is right now we are the church militant. We are the church that is fighting. We're the church that is bringing the truth to the lost world. But someday we will be that church victorious in the church And so I want to say as we look at these verses this morning is to see what provision has God made for this local church, for his universal church, and for this local church specifically, so we can take comfort in knowing. that he has made provision for us. So let's read verses 11 through 16 of Ephesians chapter 4. And he himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, for the equipping of the saints, for the Work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come to the unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. But speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body joined and knit together by whatever Every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in life. So I want to break the this section, this passage into three three little questions. One, what has Christ given? Two, what is the point of And three, what is the goal of what he is given? And I may reword that or forget what I just told you. But those are the three general terms. And so if I don't reword them specifically Don't worry about it too much. But first, what has Christ given? And look at verse 11 for that. He himself gave to the gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists. and some pastors and teachers. And so what we're looking at here are some of the spiritual gifts that God has given to the church. Now as you look at other passages in scripture, you'll see that this is not an exhaustive list of Spiritual gifts. There are many different gifts that God has given to His church. But there's some special, unique things about these gifts that He speaks of here in this passage. And as we will see, these are equal Equipping gifts. These are gifts that prepare the church to serve and to grow and to maturity. And we'll break this into two categories: foundational gifts. The first two gifts he talks about are apostles and prophets. Now, your church and myself as well believe that God does not give apostles and prophets today. Some of those gifts were foundational gifts. And if you look back at chapter 2 and verse 20, you'll see that these are foundations. Ephesians 2, verse 20 says, having been built on the foundation of the apostles. Apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. So some of these gifts were given back in the first century and were given to build the foundation of the church. Or architects, or may do some kind of construction work, and you know that without a good foundation, nothing will stand forever. So it could be a building, it could be an institution, but whatever whatever that is, if it's not built on a good foundation, It's not going to last. It may look like it's going to last, but it won't last very long without a good foundation. Eventually it will crumble and fall. And so Jesus Christ, again, we are the body of Christ, and he carries So much about caring for his body that he made sure it had a good foundation. He gave apostles and he gave prophets to build that solid foundation. You think about the kind of people that God chose to be apostles. We we look at ourselves here in the church today and we think, what can I ever accomplish? I'm not very gifted. I don't have a lot of skills. I don't have a lot of money. We see so many people dying without Christ. Thirty thousand people with you said this morning within ten or fifteen minute walking distance of of where their church is meeting. How could we possibly, we few people, reach so many people? And and we get discouraged and we think, well What's the point? But look at the kind of people that Jesus chose for apostles. Would you have chosen the fishermen? Would you have chosen men who didn't have an education? Would you have chosen a chosen And a tax collector? Would you have chosen Simon the Zealot, a rebel against Rome? These were not men who were highly educated. Now, Paul was an exception. But by and large, Jesus takes, as John MacArthur has a book called Twelve Orbit, Ordinary men. Jesus takes men who are of not high repute, men who are not respected in the world, and he takes them, he shows his power in these jars of clay to accomplish results that two thousand years So he gave early on, he made sure the church had a good foundation. And the apostles and their prophets. And since we don't have them today, I'm not going to spend a lot of time talking about them. What I want to look at now are what I call the continuing gifts. He didn't just give apostles and prophets there. the foundation, but he gave what it says next, some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. These are gifts that we still can see would say we can see continue today. Now, there's some question, and I'm not going to get into that right now, as to whether these are gifts or whether these are offices in the church. So we see an evangelist as this is a person. Who functions as an evangelist in a church, a pastor-teacher who functions with the office of a pastor teacher in the church? But what I want to look at now is not so much whether these are offices or not. Whether it's just the gift that Christ has given to his church. And the first of these is that of evangelists. I think you all know what an evangelist is, someone who with the gift of evangelism was mentioned. Here at um at the end of Sunday school this morning. Someone who suffers physically and yet wherever he goes is able to somehow quickly get to the gospel. Some we we know that as Christians we all have an obligation to To preach the gospel, to share the gospel with other people. But some are uniquely gifted to reach out, to build bridges with non-believers, and to bring in the fish, as it were, as Jesus said he would make peace Some are uniquely gifted in that way. And so, God, as it were, if you're going to have people in the church who are discipling or bringing up the baby Christians, you need to have someone else who's really gifted at Delivering the baby Christians. So you can think of the evangelists as being sort of like the midwives or the ones that work in the pediatric or the delivery section of the hospital, the ones who are good at helping To bring people from darkness to light. And so, because he cares about his church, because he wants his church to grow and to develop, not just in number, or not just in health, but in size, he has given the church evangelist. Evangelists. So some of you may be gifted with these gifts of evangelism. And if you have that, I encourage you to use that. Your gift is necessary, and it's a foundational, needful part of the church. But he's also given the church the gift of pastors and teachers. Again, there's some question, is this is this pastor-teacher hyphenated, or is these two separate gifts? And there's You may have an opinion on that, you may have studied that. I'm not going to get into that. So basically, we have a gift of pastoring and we have a gift of teaching. The question comes down: is are these combined in one person or are these separate gifts? But But the point I want to emphasize is the fact it really doesn't in one sense matter because Jesus has provided for the need of pastoring and the need of teaching. Now whether that happens in one person or whether that happens in two different types of people. We can think about it another time. So he's provided a foundation. He's provided a way of bringing in those who don't know the Lord. But then he's provided this other foundational, this equipping gift. What has Christ given? He has given pastors and teachers. Now, this word pastor is an interesting one one because the Greek word there is poimane. What's that to you, right? You may wonder if you don't know Greek. Well, poimane is the word that we see in Luke 2 when they were poimed out in the flocks, out in the out in the fields keeping watch over their flocks by night. So Poin is a shepherd. And almost every time that this word is used in the New Testament is talking about the guys who work with smelly sheep. The guys who take care of sheep. They're shepherds. And that's what the word means. In fact, I went to Google Translate. The word pastor is actually a Latin word. If you go to Google Translate, those of you who like to do things on the internet and you we can type in like choose a language type in a word and it gives you the English translation over there. If you go to Latin and you type in the word pastor on the English side it pops up Shepherd and that's what it means. Pastor is shepherd. Why it's been translated pastor here and nowhere else is a curiosity, but the the main point of the passage is the fact that a pastor is as a shepherd. He has given the gift of shepherding to the church. What does that imply then? That implies what do shepherds take care of? They take care of sheep. So if Jesus has given shepherds to the church, he basically knows that most of us are sheep and we need to be shepherded like sheep. May not be an encouraging thing because some of us don't like to feel like we're sheep. We like to feel like we know more than the average sheep does. But how many times, off on your own, by yourself in the evening, temptation may come? What do you tend to do? You tend to be like a sheep Sheep and wander down the same path of temptation, the same path that will lead to sin, time after time after time. And you need shepherds, you need local men who've been gifted as shepherds to guide you up. Back. You need men who can feed you, men who can care for you, men who can guard you. And that is A recognization that Christ had that the sheep would need shepherds. And so he's given the gift of shepherds to the church. Now Peter will remind us that even the shepherds have a shepherd. If you look back at 1 Peter 5 for a minute, you'll see that. Even the sheep, even the shepherd is ultimately himself a sheep. Let's read from me first 1 Peter 5 and verses 1 through 4. 1 Peter 5, verse 1 says, The elders who are among you I exhort, who am also a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker of the glory that will be re Revealed. Shepherd, and there's our word again, pointing. Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, serving as overseers, not by compulsion, but But willingly, not for dishonest gain, but eagerly, nor as being lords over those entrusted to you, but by being examples to the flock And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. And so you can see that here that the shepherds, they're shepherding the flock that is among them. They're not over the flock, they're amidst they're in the midst of the city. Midst of the flock, they're in the flock, they're taking care of the flock, but even they have a shepherd. And so we see Christ as the chief shepherd, the good shepherd who lays down his This is his body, remember. He cares for his body. He cares for you. He cares for me. And he's made provision that this local church or any local church will not allow Ultimately fail or perish, because he cares more about this church, probably, I think, and but we can say with confidence than than any of us would ever care for this church. Look at look for him in Ephesians chapter five, just to be Reminded of how much he cares for this body of his. Ephesians 5 will get us close to back to our text, so it's we're working our way back. Ephesians 5, we we have the great illustration of husbands and wives and how that's a very important thing. a picture of Christ in the church. But one thing Paul emphasizes in that, towards the end of that section, is how much people tend to care for their own bodies. Paul says in verse twenty-nine, For no one ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. You think how much you love and care for your body. You want to make sure it doesn't suffer, make sure it gets everything it needs. That's how the Lord treats his church because it is his body. Body. For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother, be joined to his mother Wife, the two shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. And so again, the emphasis is that Christ cares for his church. For the church. One of the ways we see that is providing the gift of shepherding, providing for those who can guard and care for the flock. Want to spend a little more time on this? Let's go over to Acts chapter 20. Paul had a great affection and love for the people at Ephesus. He spent a lot of time in Ephesus. And the people there were dear to him. In Acts chapter 20, we see Paul taking his departure from the Ephesian church, and he knows this will be the last time he sees them. He knows on This earth he will never see them again. And so he leaves some final words with them. You know, the words that as people, as they're dying, we know it might be the last time we see them. We we hold on to them. those words because they're that was if if they could communicate anything important for us to keep keep with us and to move forward, it's those last words, especially when they know that That they're dying. And so Paul is talking to the elders in Ephesus. He calls them together. It's a lengthy passage. Well, this has come down here to verse 28. And see the counsel that Paul tells the elders at Ephesus to do as shepherds. He says in Acts 20, 28, Therefore take heed to yourselves and To all the flock, among which, does that sound like 1 Peter 5? Among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which he purchased with his Why do they need shepherds? Why do they need to shepherd the flock? Verse 29 For I know this that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. Also from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. Therefore watch and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day. day with tears. So now brothers I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified. So, what are Paul's words to the Ephesian elders? Shepherd the flock that is among you. And how do they do that? They do that by guarding against false doctrine, by guarding against false teaching. And I think as we look here in Ephesians 4, this will be the main point of shepherding, the provision that Christ has made for his church is the shepherds, the teachers, are the ones who guard the doctrine of Christ. of the church. They're guard the teaching of the church. Because without right doctrine, without right thinking about how the church works, about how the world works, we will never live. Properly. Our living is always based on our thinking. And that's why Paul is jealous to guard the sheep and to guard the flock, to make sure that there is wisdom, to make sure that the word of God is preached and proclaimed and is held true. True, held true, held to faithfully. So these are the gifts that Christ has given. But why has He given them? Let's look down and ver back to Ephesians 4 and picking up again in verse 12. Why has Christ given these equipping gifts, these gifts, gifts that prepare and help the church? Ephesians 4. 12 says, These gifts were given for the equipping of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, for the equipping of the saints. For the work of ministry. These were equipping gifts. And we might wonder: well, what does that exactly mean Now, there's some debate and some discussion as to whether how much of this applies to the equipping gifts. Are those with these gifts of equipping the church, are they for equipping the saints? And are they given for the work of ministry? Or are they given to equip the saints so that the saints can do the work of ministry? Do you see the difference there? Did Christ give the gift of pastor and teacher and evangelist and apostle and prophet so that those men, those men who are gifted with that, can equip the saints and so that they can do the work of ministry? Or did he give the gift so that the saints could be equipped and that the saints themselves, the the corporate body, the gathered body, they are the ones who do the work of ministry? And I think from the context here because Clear that the equipping is so that the saints can do the work. It's not the calling of the shepherd and of the teacher to do all the work of the ministry of the church. It's the the church, the shepherds, and the teachers are there to to guide the sheep, to lead the sheep, to guard the sheep, so that the sheep can do the work of ministry. think that's pretty clear here as we look later in the text we'll see that it's when every part does its share and works together that is when the church So we don't put all the all the work on the guy who's the paid guy and say, well, he's we pay him to do the work of the ministry. No, we pay him so that he He can devote himself to the study of the word, but by studying the word, then we then have the freedom and the flexibility to know we're walking the right path. We're free to express ourselves to do the work of Christ. So that that is the point of these gifts. It is not so that the pastor does all the work, the full-time guy does all the work. And see What you see from that then is that the church, while it depends on a pastor, while it depends on a shepherd, while it depends on teachers, the church doesn't rise or fall based on one man who may come or go. Or one man That we may depend on or pay full time. As Linda said over in Hong Kong, the pastor, the one who leads the church, is a bivocational pastor. He doesn't have, he doesn't get paid by the church. He doesn't have the freedom to devote all his energy to leading the church. He's got to work a full-time job and in his spare time get ready to preach a sermon or to kiss. Counsel people or whatever. And so here in America, we're blessed to have that, and there's a New Testament pattern for that, for providing for those who rule well, for those who teach well, so that they can devote themselves to this kind of ministry. But the ministry of the church does not depend solely on a person that we may pay gratefully to lead us and the guidance and to teach us. Because the shepherds are given often as as many tim many often given to many different men in the church. We may just pay one so he can devote himself to that full time. But it's for the work of the ministry, for the building up of the body of Christ. Christ. What is the work of the ministry? Was it what what what phrase or what What picture comes to mind when you when you think of m the ministry? We often think of the ministry. I was called to the ministry, so I'm a pastor. I'm called to the ministry, so I'm I'm a missionary. I I preach Preach and I teach the Bible. But the word there is the word from the word ministry is the word from which we get the word deacon. It's diacona. It's just the general service of the church. It's the nuts and bolts of what makes a church function and thrive and grow in a local community. It's the getting stuff ready for VBS. It's making sure that the trash is picked up off the parking lot. It's making sure that the kids are taught in Sunday school. It's making sure that when someone's sick in the hospital, they get visited. Or when someone needs a meal, they get visited. And so as the saints are equipped to do this, the the workhorse of the church. You are the workhorse of the church. You are the one that makes the church work. And so you may not feel like you're very important or you're very gifted, but each of you who knows the Lord, who's in this church, has a special gift that nobody else has in any. In a certain way. No one Christian has all the gifts. No one person is fully qualified by God to build the church. We function together. What is a body? Paul will tell us in 1 Corinthians 12. Body has many members, but it's all the same body. So you might think, well, I'm just a fingernail. I'm a fingernail in Jesus' church. I'm I'm a buddy, what's what gets a fingernail? I don't feel like I'm very gifted. I don't have a whole lot of skill. Or abilities. But think of the glory of fact. You may just be a fingernail, but you're in Christ's body. You're in the body of Christ. Just being in the door is phenomenal, eternal blessing. And you know, you how many of us have smashed a fingernail, lost a fingernail? You know when the fingernail is missing. You know when it's hurt or it's torn. Your presence, if you're not here, if you're not involved, even if you don't feel like you're very gifted. is essential and the body's not going to grow to full maturity without your involvement. Whatever small feeling like you might have that you're not very important, your this church will not grow healthy and strong without your involvement because Because you have a gift that no one else has. And that is how the the the body works together for the equipping of the ministry that that service that the working together of the of the community, the body of the Of Christ. That's how the church grows and that's how it's built up. So Christ has given gifts to the body. He's given uh these equipping gifts. That was our first point. Second point was what was the point of the gifts? The point of the gifts is it so that the church can be built up, so the church can be strong and get the work of the ministry done. But what is the third point then is what's the ultimate goal? What is the ultimate goal? Goal of these gifts. And that will take us through the rest of the passage, picking up in verse 13 through 16. Until we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God. But speaking the truth in love may grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and knit together, by which What every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. So the whole goal of all these gifts The equipping of the saints is it so the body can grow. We want the body of Christ to grow into its full maturity. And that is what Christ wants for the church. He wants it to be Now, we are called the body of Christ, and yet he wants us to grow up to become the full the measure of the full man. came up with a couple of mental illustrations for this. So the way that we the way I can picture this is that say that you have a large silhouette, six-foot-tall silhouette. Say that's the body of Christ. That's what Christ in his fullness looks like, this large silhouette. But inside the silhouette, maybe somewhere right in here, little tiny stick figure. Little tiny stick figure that's somehow inside the guy or on his chest. And that's the church as it is right now. So we are his body, we're in his body and yet we need to f fully expand and grow into the full expression of what his body will be like. There's maturing that has to happen. There's m there there's Growth that needs to happen. We are his body, and yet, in some sense, we can be so much more his body as we grow and work together to get that full expression. I mean, when Jesus was on earth, he did these miracles that People looked at and were, who is this man that does miracles like this? He was he was a lightning rod. People either worshiped him or they rejected him, but they knew that he was no ordinary man. And as we look at the church, the 60 or 70 of us that may be sitting here this morning, we just look like ordinary people, but we are no ordinary group of people. We are the body of God. Of Christ. There's a book that came out a couple years ago called The Compelling Community. And it is a discussion about what is a church's function. What defines it church. You know, a lot of times churches get together or groups get together even within a church and say we have, here's a group over here where it's all the people with little kids. They get together and have a meeting and here's a group of uh uh all the guys that like to go hunting they get together and they do their hunting thing and you can say well it makes sense that they would get together because they like to hunt or they make sense that they would hang out Together because they've all got little kids. But the the the emphasis that what Christ says about his church is that the church should be comprised of people who would never sit together for any other reason except that they have Christ as their We should be a community that cannot be explained for any by any other way than by saying there's something supernatural going on in here. Why would this person and that person ever sit together? They would have no association if it weren't for Christ. Christ. Why would Paul just says that in Ephesians chapter 2? He's talked about Jews and Gentiles, mortal enemies, completely divided throughout thousands of years of history, and yet suddenly they become one new man in Christ. Christ. The dividing ball has been torn down, and only Christ can explain how a Jew and a Gentile can sit together and worship together. When we were in Bible college, we had it was a neat uh uh situation where we we met we we knew a girl who was is a was an Israeli a Jewish lady she'd been in the Israeli army and then over here was a a Palestinian Arab, but they're both Christians and they're friends here at this Bible college in DC. And I thought what what a picture of the church. I mean they would be throwing rocks or shooting at each other over there, but because of what Christ has done in both of their lives, here they sit together, they go to Bible College together, and you know, someday they'll be in heaven together. And and that's this that's the picture of what the church is supposed to be, where you have people who would not sit Normally associate with each other. But as the church matures and grows into the fullness of the expression of what Christ wanted wants it to be, we see that broadening of the church. Maturing of the church. But this doesn't come without work. Look at verse 13. He says, till we all come. This one look at that phrase for a minute. Till we all come. The English Standard Version should translate the word come as attain. Until we all attain. To the maturity. And I think that's a better translation because, you know, when you say I came, that could be, you can come in various ways. You know, uh, you could be a missionary who just had to get 14 miles through the jungle by hiking, or you could have flown there in five minutes and you could have said, I came here. But the journey was much different for those two people. Whether you hiked 14 miles, 14 hours through the jungle, or whether you Flew there, your experience of how you got there is gonna be much different. The all and results the same, but your your experience will be different. And so the idea of attaining to the maturity of Christ, I think is a better way of expressing that word and and Actually that's how it's often translated. When Paul arrived at his destinations through shipwreck or through storm or through robbers, when he finally got to the next city, he didn't just come there. He got there. He attained that. And he even uses this word in Philippians 3 when he says that I do everything I can to hopefully attain the resurrection of the dead. It's something I aspire to. And I think that as a local church, that's what we want as well. We want to have a goal that we look for. What is the goal that we look for as a local church? Not just to keep the pews warm and to keep the lights on. In the church, but we're striving for something, and that is full maturity as the body of Christ. So that someday we will be everything Christ wants us to be. But you see that What's in that phrase there? It's not just me when I attain the full maturity. It's we. We all come. It's a joint effort. We don't get there without each other. Just as Paul said, Every part doing it d has to do its share. We don't get there by ourselves. We don't grow in Christian maturity. We don't grow in the maturity as a as a And as Cain once said, Am I my brother's keeper? And we know the answer was yes, you were your brother's keeper. And yes, we are our brother's keeper here in this church. Coming for you for a few weeks. We won't just say, Well, I guess they're not coming anymore. Call them up. Haven't seen you in a while. Is everything okay? Don't just let people drift off to the side. We are our brother's keeper. We don't grow. We will never grow without looking out for each other. And because the one of the one of the beauties of this is that In Galatians 6, Paul says, those who are weak are supposed to help, those who are strong are supposed to help those who are weak. But don't we all know from life experiences that this week I might be the strong guy? And next week you might be. And so when I'm strong, I may need to strengthen you because you're weak. Because in six months' time, you might be the strong one, and I might need you to come help me because now I'm Weak. But if I didn't help you while I was strong to become strong again, then you're not going to be there when I need you to help me be strong again. And so we work together as a body. And that's why I said that we can define ourselves as sports fan or polit political party or this country, but this church, the church of Christ. And for us, it's this church, needs to be the defining thing in our lives. This should be what defines our activities, our schedule, everything else, because this is where Eternity happens. It happens in the outworking of what goes on in this local church here in Elk Ridge. So we all come together. We all arrive together. We don't aspire to win the race and be first and forget about everybody else, but we work together to get there. One of the problems in getting there together is that sometimes Sparks may fly. We all like the phrase iron sharpens iron. What happens when iron comes against iron? It gets sharp, but you see some sparks flying. And the iron gets hot. And that's what's going to happen in a local church when it's growing to maturity together. There's gonna be tension. There's gonna be difficulty. How many of you grew up with brothers and sisters? Everything was always fine, never any arguments? I'm sure. Right? I know there were number of problems on our house growing up. Um I ri I wish now that I had the the same love for my brothers then that I do now, but Now we're spread out thousands of miles apart, but um one of the str one of the problems with I would say American Christianity is we're too prone to to bail ship. We're too easy, too prone to jump shit when things get difficult. I can't stand this guy in this church, I'm gonna go find a different church. Problem is that guy who's the the the irritation in your life might be just the person God wants you to be around so that you can't. You grow in maturity. You know that that that sand in the oyster becomes the pearl, but it's an irritation until it becomes a pearl. And so there's a there's a tendency we have is American Christians, I would say especially, to to bail when things get hard, to to jump ship. But we're not gonna get that growth we need unless we're Forced to live together and say, like it or not, this is who we are, this is the church I've committed to. And until something significant changes, or I feel the sense that God leading me away, I'm going to stick it out here because this is where we need to grow. We need to there's another book out. It's called Stop Dating the Church. Because that's what that we have a tendency to do. We'll hang out with this church for a while and still, yeah, I'm okay. It's going to get hard, and it could be for this local church or any local church. But plant your flag, commit yourself, and grow together to see everything that God wants you to be. But how does this happen? We work together, we strive together, we grow. Paul says here in verse 14 that we should no longer be children tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind. Does that imagery sound interesting to you? Rushing waves, blowing wind? Do you think Paul ever experienced those conditions? How many times was she shipwrecked? How many times did he sail the Mediterranean on his next missionary voyage? Paul was writing from experience here. As he sailed that Mediterranean Sea, as he floated on the The waves there, it was blown around. He saw that as a metaphor for people who don't know the word, what their experience of life is going to be. Paul said, Don't let's not be children anymore. Now he's not saying don't be children. I mean the innocence of children, the faith of children, that's always exalted as a high point, something we should aspire to. To. But he's talking here about the ignorance of children that as growing Christians we should not be characterized by. We don't want to have ignorance as we grow. We can't be mature Christians and be ignorant. And that is again why he's given these equipping gifts, the teachers, the shepherds of the church, to guard against the evil wolves. You know, wolves don't look like wolves, or the sheep wouldn't let them in. So sometimes false doctrine, false teaching can be very deceptive. It doesn't mean you need to have a seminary degree to be able to guard against false teachers, but it does mean that you need to have people who do know their scriptures and who study the Bible well. We can feel that I don't need I don't need my brothers and sisters in this local church because I can understand the Bible for myself. We don't need a priest, which is true. We have the Holy Spirit. Spirit, which is true. And yet we do need if if we could all come to full understanding of the scriptures by ourselves, then why would God give the church teachers? We need each other. To kind of guard ourselves from the errors that are out there. You know what happens to a sheep when it gets separated from the flock. It's not long for this world. And so as important as doctrine and good teaching is As I said earlier, teaching is the foundation upon which we build our lives. If we don't think right, we're not going to live right. Another error can be that all we ever do is think. I've met Several people through the years who they love theology, they love to study the scripture, and yet they can never stay in a church long enough because, oh man, they're really off on this doctrine here. They're really off from this doctrine here. These are people who love theology, but they're never able to realize that that's got to happen in a local church. You can't just say, well, yeah, I you've got to be able to identify which doctrines. Yeah, I'd like if everybody agreed exactly on this point, but it's not the key point of the gospel. It's something we can dis agree to disagree on. Hopefully we know there's a truth. Maybe he's wrong, maybe I'm wrong. maybe we're both wrong, but there is truth out there. We're not gonna we're not gonna uh break a church over this issue. So while we need to guard against uh not caring about learning We need to be carding also guard against caring about learning so much that we can never get along with any other Christian and just have to have a church of one in our basement or in our cellar somewhere. That also is a rebuke. Because how can you be a body of Christ if you can't even find a look? Church to join. How can you be a body of Christ if you if things get so bad? Well, I'm just gonna have to have churches by family here. I've seen that also. That is not the body of Christ. That is not being able to prioritize the doctrines or to establish which doctrines are foundational. Enough that although we disagree, I will love you as a brother, we will meet together in church on Sunday, we will worship together, we will build the kingdom together. So that's what we're striving for, this mature manhood. How does it happen? Paul reminds us again. Every part of the does its share causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. Now, Paul's subject and his verb are really separated in there, so you may not see what he means. He's doing. But at the end of verse 16, look at your Bibles for a second where it says, causes the growth of the body. Who's causing the growth of the body? You've got to look all the way back to the end of verse 15. To see who's causing the growth of the body. Christ is the one who causes the growth of the body, and yet, oddly enough, it says he causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself and love. So why is the body growing? The body's building itself. It reminds me of the verse in Psalms where it says, Unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain. You know, we don't depend on, well, Christ said I he said to Peter, this is the rock and I'm going to build my church and the gates of hell won't provide. Well, when he said I'm going to build my church, he didn't mean he was going to do it all by himself. He didn't mean that he's going to have all the believers just sit back and watch the church build by build itself. He said, I'm going to do the working, I'm going to do the spirit. spiritual regeneration, the spiritual transformation needs to happen. But you're the body of Christ, you're the one with the mouth that can speak. You're the one with the hands that can serve. So as you build yourselves up in love, every part doing its share again. Then Christ causes the body to grow. He goes into a lot more detail of that in 1 Corinthians 12, where he's talking about one body with many members. He says, well if if every if every part were the eye, then where would the where would the feet be? Or how how could you walk if every if you didn't have any feet and all he had were eyes? The other night I I read a account of a guy, thank you, Linda, this morning for uh helping me with his pronunciation. Uh was it again? No, I'm gonna get it wrong. Liu Y, I think his name was. We'll fix it again later if it's wrong. But he's a he's a Chinese guy who was he's a kid and he's playing. Playing hide and seek. But as kids do sometimes, he accidentally grab an electric watch. And was severely burned and lost both of his arms. But he always aspired to be a piano player. So when he was 18, he started to teach himself how to play the piano. with his toes. And he was recently, a few years ago, he was on China's Got Talent, some cable show over there. You can pull him up on YouTube if you're curious. But he sits there and he plays the piano with his socks off and plays the piano with his feet. Now his playing is incredible to realize what can be done when you've set your mind to do something. But he says, you know what? There's things I can't play because I can't reach an octave. My toes won't spread far enough. And I can't do everything with my toes that I could do with my hands. So yeah, it's phenomenal to watch him play with His feet. But imagine what he could do if he had fingers. And so if you are not doing your part, then you've got somebody else who is a toe trying to do a finger part. And the church will grow, but not grow like God wants us to grow. Because without every part doing its part, it will not grow into the full maturity that Christ intended for his church. So think of that Chinese peanuts next time you're tending to think, well, you know, I'm just so busy, I don't have time. And I'm not saying the events of church, I'm not saying the programs of the schedule, but but being involved in the lives of other believers. That is the key. That is how we grow. It doesn't have to be an official church event. But how much are you involved in the lives of other believers? That is the key. How much are you busy with that? How much are you concerned with the building up of this local church? So that's that's what Paul shares with us today from Ephesians 4. We are the body of Christ. Christ cares deeply about his body. Body. He will not let his body suffer. It may be a trying time, as Linda reminded us this morning. Those those years of being patient and wondering why God Are you doing it this way? I wouldn't do it this way. Why would you make us stay in a as she said why would you make us stay in an apartment that we have to keep renting even though we're not allowed to do any more ministry in this area? And so we feel like we're wasting our time. time and our money when there's other things we can be doing. Christ isn't wasting his resources. Christ isn't wasting his time. He's building his church. We can't always see exactly What's going on? So take encouragement from this passage. He has made ample provision for his church to grow. But if you need to. Be rebuked if you've been pulling back, if you've not been the part that you need to be playing in this in this this local church. If you know of someone who Who's drifting away and they're not going for good yet? Give them a call this week. See how things are going. If there's tension, if there's difficulty, maybe don't say, well, come back To church on Sunday, say, can we get together for coffee? Can we just meet together? Can I encourage you? That's how the local church, that's how ministry is supposed to happen. It's supposed to happen as believer by believer. It should look like a spider web of this guy over here is connected with this guy over here, and she's he's connected with these two people over here, and there's this this web that unites the local church. It doesn't need to have yes, it should have the corporate gathering on Sundays, but it doesn't need to have Service after service. There should be a network of interacting throughout the week, and that's how life in the body happens. And that's how Christ's church is built. So let me just read this one line from One of the hymns we sang this morning, and we'll close with this. Mid toil and tribulation and tumult of her war, she waits the consummation of peace forever and ever More, till with the vision glorious, her longing eyes are blessed, and the great church victorious shall be the church at rest.