The nineteenth-century Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard once wrote a parable about two robbers who broke into a jewelry store. Here's the kicker. They didn't steal a single item. They did something very strange. The robbers switched all the price tags. They took the high price tags off of expensive items and put them on custom jewelry. And they took the bargain price tags and placed them on expensive jewelry. Next day, the store opened as usual. Unfortunately for the business, no one noticed their caper for several weeks. The jewelry store was selling ten thousand dollar pieces for just a few dollars, while cheap necklaces worth a few bucks went for thousands of dollars. Kierkegaard thought that this story described his country well. He wrote, quote, My point is obvious, isn't it? The people of my day have no ability to tell the truly valuable from the virtually worthless. Not just in commerce. But in the world of ideas too, our age is putting on a veritable clearance sale. How about us? Do we unduly value the less worthy things of life while we devalue the truly valuable? It may be that our systems of evaluation are all out of whack. Jesus said, seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness first, but we have sought all these things first. Paul told the Colossians, set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. How often do we set our things on the earth, not on things above? The list goes on and on. If only we would align our priorities with Christ, if only our agendas match the kingdom agenda. If we could only see how God sees the world, filled with the lost, men and women created in his image. Then we will sense how urgent it is our task, our need to outreach, to pray for them Jonah was someone like us. He was out of line, misaligned with God multiple times. We saw it at the beginning of the book. We see it again in the final chapter. He was harsh and inflexible in areas where God wouldn't be. He wanted those words he preached to come true. Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be overthrown. He will prefer that to be their death sentence, not an offer of pardon. Such rackful relentlessness could only be overcome. By the greater relentlessness of God's mercy. Now let's read a chapter together and see whether we, like Jonah, are out of line with God's will. Jonah chapter four. I'll read the entire chapter together first. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he became angry. So he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah, Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I fled previously to Tarshish, for I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. Then the Lord said, Is it right for you to be angry? So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city. There he made himself a shelter and sat under it in the shade till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be shaped for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned the next day, God prepared a worm, and it so damaged the plant that it withered And it happened when the sun arose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat on Jonah's head, so that he grew faint. Then he wished death for himself and said, It is better for me to die than to live. Then God said to Jonah, is it right for you to be angry about the plant? And he said, It is right for me to be angry even to death. But the Lord said, You have had pity on the plant for which you have not labored, nor made it grow, which came up in the night, and perished in the night. And should I not pity Nineveh, that great city, in which are more than 120,000 persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left and much livestock? So I want to ask you a question this morning. Are you out of line with God? If you think God is out of line, then you're probably out of line with God. Like the opening illustration, I hope that if I could check your heart like that jewelry store, I will find the items properly tagged. I pray that all of us here can properly value what God values. Perhaps we can start our heart audit with these three points. Often like Jonah 1, our attributes are out of line with God's attributes. That's in verses 1 to 4. Our attributes are out of line with God's attributes. Secondly, our pleasures are out of line with God's pleasures. Verses five to eight. Our pleasures are out of line with God's pleasures. Number three, our compassions are out of line with God's compassions. Verses 9 through 11. Our compassions are out of line with God's compassions. So I'll repeat those points as I go along. First, our attributes are out of line with God's attributes. Verses 1 to 4. Let's look at the first four verses again. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly and he became angry. So he prayed to the Lord and said, Ah Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I fled previously to Tarsus, for I know that you are a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, one who relents from doing harm. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. Then the Lord said, is it right for you to be angry? Now when I talk about attributes, You might think I'm referring to a chapter in systematic theology, names of God, his characteristics, etc. You would be right, but please stay with me. Studying the attributes or what my old professor called perfections of God is not just an academic exercise. It's not merely a topic in tones of authors from decades and centuries ago. Learning about who God is teaches us how we should live. Here's what I mean. Many theologians have divided up God's attributes into two types, communicable and incommunicable. Communicable and incommunicable. There are certain descriptions of God that will never apply to us I will never be omnipresent. I'm a human being. I cannot be everywhere at once. Your spouses or your friends may think you should be, or you but that's not possible. I'm a human being. I will never be immutable because I changed by the moment. I was transformed by God's grace at conversion, and again by God's grace, I am being shaped into Christ-likeness. Omnipresence and immutability are incommunicable attributes belonging to God alone. But there are other attributes that I can imitate in a limited degree. Human beings can become more loving, like the way God is loving. Believers must be holy as He is holy. As a body of Christ, we can even reflect the tri-unity of God when we are one, just as the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are one. Love, holiness, and unity are communicable to His saints, to God's saints So an important verse in this discussion, and that which ties us back to this passage is Exodus 34. And why don't you keep your place in Jonah and turn with me there? The Israelites are in some major trouble in that context because They are bowed down to a golden calf, right in front of the mountain of God, while Moses was up and away receiving the law. Upon returning, Moses rebukes them and intercedes on their behalf. Then he makes a bold request, please show me your glory. Now seeing God's face will kill any human being, so God allows his prophet to see his back in a theophany, which So let's go to Exodus thirty-four. Exodus thirty four and we're going to read verses five to seven Now the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children to the third and the fourth generation. There is absolutely no doubt that Jonah knew this passage. And I'm sure he liked reading it He was perfectly happy with the implications of this passage as it applied to Israel. Of course he wants God to be gracious, merciful. Slow to anger, abundant in loving kindness, and relenting from doing harm with his own people. But what if he's the same God with the Gentiles? Yes. That's why he ran away to Tarshish. That's why as he wraps up his ministry at Nineveh, he's upset Here's the root of the problem. Jonah knew God's attributes, but they didn't become his attributes. They were communicable, but sadly they weren't communicated to his stubborn heart. God is gracious. Jonah wasn't God showed mercy. Jonah didn't. The Lord is slow to anger. Jonah was quick to anger. The prophet was poor in love and kindness, while God was abundant in loving kindness. God relented. Jonah was relentless. How are we doing in our study of God and His attributes? Do you have passages like Exodus 34, 6-7 stored and locked away in your minds? If you can remember hundreds of verses about God and even sloths of scripture passages, I commend you. I encourage all of us to do that in our personal devotion and teach others to do the same. I bet Jonah did that too, and he probably was better than many of us because he was millenniums away from the printing press, so he probably had to memorize a lot of passages. But friends, if that's where we stop, at the mind, and it doesn't go to our heart, to our hands and feet, we would fail as a disciple-making church. If you profess to be a Christian and read the Gospels, how can you not be more like Jesus? How can we be God's children crying Abba Father and not imitate his goodness and mercy? Could our attributes be out of line with God's attributes? Secondly, our pleasures are out of line with God's pleasures. That's verses 5 to 8. Jonah seems to ignore God's question in verse 4. So God needs to get his attention. We read from verses 5 to 8. The following. So Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city. There he made himself a shelter and sat under it in the shade till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be shade for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned the next day God prepared a worm, and it so damaged the plant that it withered. And it happened when the sun arose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat on Jonah's head. So that he grew faint. Then he wished death for himself and said, It is better for me to die than to live. Charles Feinberg, I recommend his book on the minor prophets His commentary highly. Charles Feinberg calls Jonah the spiritual twin of the older brother in the parable of the prodigal son. Can you picture it? Both he and Jonah represent religious authorities who couldn't accept sinners repenting and finding mercy. Both the prophets here and the elder son in the parable isolate themselves outside of the party, too angry to join the festivities. God in Jonah and the Father in the parable, who represents the merciful heavenly father, plead with the leaders of Israel, the ones who knew the Lord longer and should have known better. There are some differences though, and the one I want to point to is this. Jonah found temporary reprieve avoiding the issues of his heart. It was in a plant that provided a crucial shade. The plant was a gourd known as the Ricinus plant, found in Europe, Africa, and Middle East. At its peak, it can reach a height of 8 to 10 feet with large leaves over a few days. But here, God miraculously accelerated that growth. But due to its tender stalk, it is susceptible to withering through injury. This is the first time we find Jonah happy. James Montgomery voice notes: quote, Jonah was pleased because at last, after all the compassion God had for other people. God was finally doing something for Jonah. Selfish, of course it was. And petty too. To reveal the troubles of Jonah's soul, God prepares a worm to destroy the plant. That insect didn't just eat away at the gourd, it ate away at its heart. On top of that, God prepared a vehement east wind to beat on his prophet's head, to get through that thick skull. Just as he complained in verse 3, he says, It is better for me to die. than to live. Now if I were to bring an object lesson to the pulpit, I'll probably locate this gourd or plant genus. I would probably ask what Frederick Meyer asked. Quote, How often our gourds are allowed to perish to teach us these deep lessons. In spite of all we can do to keep them green, their leaves turn more and more sare and yellow until they truth and die in Christ. What is your gourd? That might be the strangest question you've been asked in a while. What is your gourd? But what is it? Give us some thought. Is it our jobs or careers? Is it our education and degrees? Is it our pet projects or hobbies? Ask the king who had everything, David's son, King Solomon, who concluded in his book of Ecclesiastes: Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Friends, know that God brings both joys and calamities, good times and bad. He shades us from the sun, exposes us to the same. Why? So that we would find our all-sufficiency in Him. In the very moment you think God is upset with you, taking things away from you, know that he's actually bringing you closer to himself. He wants you to find pleasure in him. In his presence is fullness of joy. At his right hand are pleasures forevermore. Just look in this passage. Observe how our sovereign Lord arranges circumstances for Jonah's good. The key word repeated four times in the book of Jonah is the word prepared in NKJV. You have to first go back to chapter 1, verse 17. And I'll just read it for you, or you can flip back a few pages, but we'll be back in chapter four. So in one seventeen it says this Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. We see it three times in chapter four, verses six to eight. And the Lord God prepared a plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be shaped for his head to deliver him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned the next day, God prepared a worm and it so damaged the plant that it withered. And it happened when the sun arose that God prepared a vehement east wind, and the sun beat on Jonah's head so that he grew faint. Then he wished death for himself and said, It is better for me to die than to live. God has prepared in the same way your preservation, allowing you to live another day. Even better, he prepared our eternal preservation He gave us eternal life through Jesus Christ, who died on the cross and rose from the dead for our sins. If you have not received this promise of preservation of our souls in heaven, please ask Jesus to save you today. As if that wasn't enough, he bestows upon us the pleasures of life. Like air conditioning, which we'll be thankful for very soon. But God also prepares worms and winds to test our foundations. These tests reveal where our greatest pleasures lie. I can't leave this topic without citing John Piper in his famous axiom, God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in him. Is your pleasure aligned with God's pleasures? Even better, is your pleasure in God Himself? Thirdly, our compassions are out of line with God's compassion. That's in verses nine to eleven. Then God said to Jonah, is it right for you to be angry about the plant? And he said, It is right for me to be angry, even to death. But the Lord said, You have had pity on the plan for which you have not labored, nor made it grow, which came up in the night and perished in the night. And should I not pity Nineveh, that great city, in which are more than one hundred and twenty thousand persons who cannot discern between their right hand and their left and much livestock? We see in verse 9, God asked me the same question he asked earlier in verse 4. Now Jonah is interested in talking because God took away his little comfort. He defends his misaligned pleasures. And then we see in verses ten and eleven the explanation of the analogy, the application of the object lesson. Jonah had grown so attached to a plant that he had no hand in planting or growing to the point of pity at its withering. And you see the word pity twice there. In contrast, God formed the Ninevehes in his own image. They were fearfully and wonderfully made, just like the Israelites. He saw the multitudes grow up, and his heartache as they turned away from him in willful sin That's why he sent Jonah in the first place. He cared deeply for the 120,000 children that would have suffered with their parents. Here we see God's concern for the animals as well. The despondent Jonah was occupied with himself and the one plant that he had as a friend. Instead of pitying them, he had a pity party for himself. We sing, thy compassions they fail not, but ours obviously do. Maybe we can't have pity on other people because we have forgotten how much we have been forgiven. How much God showed pity to us. You may recall from the sermon on church discipline that we looked over some verses from Matthew 18. I'm sure many people found the steps therein challenging. As it involves confrontations and public airing of unrepentant sins. Many people who read that passage say Jesus' instructions are thought to be too harsh, too difficult to apply. But it's interesting what Peter says. He was actually afraid that someone would take advantage of the allowance for repentance and restoration. So he wants to put a limit to all this restoration talk. Then Jesus goes on to teach the disciples through the parable of the unforgiving servant. Let's read it together. It's Matthew 18. Verses twenty-one to the end of that chapter. Matthew 18, 21 to the end of that chapter. And pay attention to the word compassion as you go through that. Then Peter came to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Up to seven times. Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king. who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. And when he had begun to settle accounts, one was brought to him who owed him 10,000 talents. But as he was not able to pay, his master commanded that he be sold with his wife and children, and all that he had, and that payment be made. The servant therefore fell down before him, saying, Master, have patience with me, and I will pay you all. Then the master of that servant was moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt But that servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denari, and he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me what you owe. So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay you all. And he would not, but went and threw him into prison till he should pay the debt. So Wahin's fellow servants saw what had been done, they were very grieved and came and told their master all that had been done. Then his master, after he had called them, said to him, You wicked servant, I forgive you all that debt because you begged me. Should you not also have had compassion on your fellow servant, just as I had pity on you? And his master was angry and delivered him to the torturers until he should pay all that was due to him. So my heavenly Father also will do to you if each of you from his heart does not forgive his brother his trespasses. If we haven't forgiven so much, how can we withhold forgiveness to others? That's what Jonah needed a reminder of. The first servant experienced the king's compassion, but his compassion did not extend to his fellow servant. Matthew 18 is not only about distancing from the unrepentant person, it's also about embracing the repentant. Are you truly God's servant if you can't show pity to a fellow servant? If you're unable to receive a forgiven sinner, and that is evident to all, perhaps you yourself may need to be disciplined. If God has shown compassion, how can we not do the same? The poet Robert Frost said, after Jonah, you could never trust God not to be merciful again. He is not bound by our prejudices and preferences. He is sovereign in grace. Jonah is relearning what he said in chapter 2 verse 9. Salvation comes from the Lord. If it came from him, the Ninevites would already be destroyed. I hope dearly that Faith Bible Church is aligned, we're doing our best to align ourselves with God's attributes, pleasures, and compassion. What is the anti-Jonah? The one who was perfect in following God's attributes, pleasures, and compassions, was the one and only Son of God who shared. His attributes, pleasures, and compassions. He became one of us. And while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through his death. Even as he was crucified, Jesus forgave. He pardoned the mockers beneath him and the thief next to him He welcomed sinners, prostitutes, tax collectors, and Gentiles who came to him in faith and repentance. I don't know about you, but I still have a long way to go to be like Jesus. Praise God that the Spirit is working in me and hopefully in you to be more and more like Christ. How is the Lord working in you? Here are some challenges that were thrown my way. Many years ago I heard that Jeffrey Dahmer was baptized as a Christian. For some time, Dahmer struggled to understand the depths of God's grace. But that pastor who baptized him, Roy Ratcliffe, called Dahmer by his first name Jeff. Quote, he became a real person to me, so I referred to him by the same way I would anyone I knew personally, Ratcliffe said. He was ready to die. I was the one who was unprepared. I'm prepared for this conversion. Most of the world wasn't prepared and still isn't. One professor said in response to this news of Dahmer's conversion. If Dahmer is in heaven, I don't want to go there. About 15 years ago, I saw the movie End of Sphere. In that film, we follow Steve Saint, one of the sons of the martyr missionaries to Waldani people of Ecuador. We watched him struggle with forgiving. I was a bit surprised, however, to find that in real life, Steve never had trouble forgiving the people who killed his father. Here's what he said, quote, I knew that my dad and his friends had guns, and I knew that guns always trumped spears The only reason the only reason that I could figure the Wa Dani were able to kill my dad, Roger, Pete, Ed and Jim, is if they had allowed themselves to be killed rather than the Waudani. As my dad said, and as it was quoted in the movie, we're ready for heaven, and they're not. So if they attack, we can shoot our guns in the air, but we won't kill them. Steve continues, quote, I watched my mom, and every night when we would have family devotions, she would pray for the people who have killed my dad. So I knew they were special to my dad. Or else dad and his friends would have fought back. And they were special to my mom because she prayed for them. And my Aunt Rachel and Aunt Betty wanted to go back and live with the Waudani, knowing they might be killed. End quote In a way, the missionaries and the families did the right thing by fighting back, but not fighting back with weapons. But with grace, mercy, patience, loving kindness, restraint In heaven, Ninevehes and Israelites will worship together. Atip is walking in paradise with Jesus. Stephen and Paul are going to be buddies. There will be ex-murderers there. Jim Elliott, Nate Saint, and Waldani Mike Cherok Holde sac. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Does God's mercy triumph over your judgment? Ask the Lord for victory this week. Let's pray. Lord, we confess that so often we are not merciful. We are not long suffering. We are not loving. We are not kind. We fall so short. Even After taking on positions of leadership or walking with you for many years, Lord, we know that there's so much things that we need to reform in our hearts. Make me like you. Make us like you, Lord. Transform us into the image of your Son. Lord, may we delight in the things you delight, in the conversion of the lost, in seeing many different people come and tribes come to you through the gospel to enter your kingdom. May our pleasures be aligned with yours. May our compassions this week. May our hearts break for the lost. So may we pray and lift up those who are going astray, our neighbors, our family members who do not know you, our friends who have turned away from you, or those who have left the church because of sin. Lord, if you should have mercy on them, how much more should we? Lord, we have experience your mercy Lord, and we pray that we will show that mercy in praying for them, in loving those who are lost. We thank you, and we pray all these things in Jesus' Christ's name. Amen.