I'd like to call our attention this morning to the first chapter of the book of Colossians. Beginning at verse 19 and reading through the end of the chapter, Colossians Chapter 1, beginning at verse 19. The Apostle Paul is speaking here by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of the preeminence of the Lord Jesus Christ. And after having said many other things about our Lord, he says this, verse 19, he says, for it pleased the Father. That in him that is in the Lord Jesus Christ all the fullness should dwell, and by him to reconcile all things to himself. By him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross And you who were once alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. If indeed you continue in the faith grounded and steadfast And are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you have heard, which was preached to every creature under heaven, of which I, Paul, became a minister. I now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up in my flesh what is lacking in the afflictions of Christ. And by this Paul is speaking of Christ's afflictions before he went to the cross. for the sake of his body, which is the church, of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God which was given to me for you. To fulfill the Word of God, the mystery, which has been hidden from ages and from generations, but now has been revealed to his saints. To them God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. To this end I also labor, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily. Let's look to the Lord again in prayer. Our Father, we are again grateful for the privilege of assembling to sing your praises, to read your word. To focus our attention this morning upon your word. And Father, there are many things on all of our minds this morning outside of this place. Things that are going on today, things that are perhaps in the past which trouble us, things that will be happening tomorrow and in days to come. Many things that could distract us. But this morning, Father, at this time, may your Spirit focus our attention upon your word and upon our Savior. That we might learn of him. We pray in his great name. Amen. This morning I want to call our attention in particular to the next to the last verse that we read, verse 28. Where Paul says this, he says, Him, Jesus, we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect. In Christ Jesus. Why am I standing in front of you this morning? Why does anybody stand in this pulpit? Why is this church so diligently and carefully seeking the next man that the Lord would have for you What's the point? What's the goal? We may think that's an easy question. And in a sense it is, because I believe that we find the answer right here in Colossians chapter 1 verse 28. So I'd like to invite you to consider with me this morning this question of what's the point of what we do each Lord's Day? What's the point Of a man coming and standing in a pulpit and preaching to a congregation. In the opening verses of this book, Book of Colossians, Paul declares the preeminence of Christ. Before we get to the verses that we read, he declares the preeminence of Christ in three different areas. He declares the preeminence of Christ in verses 9 through 14 in the gospel. The gospel is the gospel. The gospel is the good news because the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ is central to the gospel He is preeminent in the gospel. Man is not preeminent in the gospel. Christ is That's a fallacy in so much of the organized church today that man has become central to the gospel in many people's thinking, and the preeminence of Christ in the gospel has been lost. So Christ is preeminent in the gospel, Paul says. And then beginning in verse 15 through verse 17 of chapter 1, Paul declares that Jesus Christ is preeminent in the creation. The Apostle John gives us the same thought at the beginning of his gospel account. All things were created by him. Without him was not anything made that was made. And in both Colossians and in Hebrews, we're told that the created order, as we now see it, as we now live in it, is sustained personally in all of its aspects by the Lord Jesus Christ, the Creator Himself. So Christ is preeminent in the gospel. Christ is preeminent in creation. And then thirdly, verses 15 through 17, Paul declares that Christ is preeminent in the church. And this is a logical order. Christ is preeminent in the gospel because Christ is preeminent in creation. And Christ is preeminent in the church because he is the creator God and because he is the savior of men. And then we come to verses fourteen through twenty-nine And the Holy Spirit through the Apostle Paul declares a fourth area in which the Lord Jesus is preeminent. And that's the realm of ministry, the realm of preaching. And so we come to verse 28. Paul summarizes all that he's been saying about the Lord Jesus in this focal statement in verse 28. He says, Him we preach, Christ we preach. warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man, every person, every believer, perfect or complete or mature in Christ Jesus. And so in those few words, that one verse, the Apostle Paul, by the Holy Spirit, is telling us what it means to truly preach Christ. Telling us what is supposed to be going on when we gather together and someone stands before us and preaches. Now there are many churches and many preachers that claim that they preach Christ. Popes and priests and cardinals and bishops claim that they preach Christ. Others in other circles claim that they preach Christ. Now some have the right to say that. They're truly preaching Christ, as we'll see. They're preaching the genuine Christ in the way that this passage says that Christ must be preached But there are also many churches and preachers in our time, whether they bear an evangelical label even, or a fundamentalist or a Bible-believing label. There are churches where Christ isn't preached according to the prescribed pattern that we we have here before us. Christ has been replaced, and the preaching of Christ has been replaced by other things. What kinds of things? Well In many churches today, a con a conversation has replaced preaching. I c I can't remember exactly how it came about, but a few years ago, somehow uh I heard from a woman preacher In Columbia, very close by. And she was talking about the service that they have every Sunday morning And she's someone who went to college, went to seminary, went through all kinds of training, liberal training. And she said, you know, every Sunday morning we just have a conversation. We just get together and we talk about things. And what that amounts to is that they're talking about their opinions. The Bible may be thrown in occasionally. from what she said in in certain ways. But uh it became clear that what their service is about in that particular congregation, it's all about what man thinks about spiritual things. what God's Word says. A conversation. And there are more and more churches where that kind of thing is replacing preaching. In many other churches, storytelling has replaced the preaching of Christ. Preacher stands up and spins out some kind of a yarn or fable and applies a a moral application to it. But there's rarely any mention of the Bible except maybe in passing and Nobody ever tells you what the Bible actually says about Jesus. Nobody tells you how to be saved. Nobody tells you how you're to live in the light of what the Bible actually says. about the person and work of Christ. So we have conversations, we have storytelling going on in many places today. We also have psychological presentations that have replaced the preaching of Christ. I was talking with a man in the in the barber shop recently, and yes, even I have to go for a haircut sometimes. Takes about two minutes. But this man I was talking to, he goes to an evangelical church. And he said, you know, much of the time when I go to church, I don't feel like I'm in church anymore. He said, I feel like I'm in a rehab meeting. He said, the pastor is telling me how to do three things or to do ten steps that are supposed to help me deal with my problems, but none of it comes from the Bible anymore It's all psychology. That's what he said. And he said, I just don't feel like I'm in church anymore. That's a sad situation in many places today. And often these three things are to be found in combination. Many of the, you know, turn on the TV, turn on cable, and look at what's going on. You have. These creatures on these glitzy stage settings who are combining a conversation and storytelling and psychological uplift uh with the glitz and glamour of that stage setting. Even though it has the glitz and the glamour, it's a shabby replacement for the true preaching of Christ. There's also another extreme. And I'll call it just to put a label on this on it this morning. Dry orthodoxy. Dry orthodoxy. This often happens because the church places what I'll call a man-made matrix over Scripture that really obscures Christ in the preaching. Sometimes that matrix is based on a doctrinal distinctive. There's a church, for example, near us, near our office in Westminster, that insists that you must be baptized with water in order to be saved. And that's their emphasis week after week after week after week to the exclusion of most of the rest of Scripture. There can be other doctrinal distinctives that are legitimate in themselves, but if you start just focusing on that one thing, and that takes the place of preaching all about Christ, then That's not what God's word is about. That's not what God's word is telling us to do. In other cases, the matrix that obscures Christ is. A confession or a creed. There are churches that emphasize that kind of thing. Now, if it's a good one If it's a good one that truly states Bible doctrine, summarizes Bible doctrine, that's fine. That's a useful teaching tool, and that's a useful marker to go back and look and say, okay, you know, in in London. In the 1600s, the Baptists composed this confession of faith because they wanted the world to know exactly where they stood. On the great doctrines of the faith. And that was fine. That was good. But there are churches where that has become the focus of preaching. A confession, a creed has become the focus of preaching. instead of the word, instead of Christ. These things happen. And there can be a pride in that kind of orthodoxy that can build up But not spiritual power. To truly preach Christ is a very different matter than any of these things. And the Apostle Paul tells us that the true preaching of Christ, Colossians 1. 28, has four characteristics. Four key characteristics. First, Paul says that Christ must be preached. And he said this in the preceding verses. Christ must be preached because he's the only hope of sinners. To preach Jesus Christ is to proclaim the person and work of Christ as the creator of the universe, the savior of sinners, the Lord of the church. And second, Christ must be preached, Paul says here in verse 28, because every Christian needs to be warned. And thirdly, Christ must be preached because every Christian needs to be taught. And then finally, Christ must be preached because every Christian needs to become mature in Christ. I have a note in my Bible next to this verse. That says simply this there are no spiritual elites. And that's what Paul's saying here. Every one of us needs to be warned. Every one of us needs to be taught. Every one of us needs to be made mature in Christ. None of us have arrived. Paul himself said, I haven't arrived yet. He said that in Philippians. I haven't arrived. My quest is that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of his sufferings. And this was Paul's consistent approach in his own preaching. His first focus was on the person of Christ and on who he is. The second focus of Paul's preaching was on the work of Christ and on what he had done. And Christ's person and Christ's work must never be separated in preaching. They go together. Because Jesus Christ could not have done what the Bible says he's done unless he is who the Bible says he is. And that was Paul's consistent approach. You go back to Acts chapter 17, we find Paul coming to Thessalonica as his custom was. He goes to the Jewish synagogue. And for three Sabbath days he reasons with them from the scriptures, explaining and demonstrating, we're told, that Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, that the true Christ had to do this work. This saving work. And he concluded by saying, this Jesus, whom I preach to you, he is the Christ. He's the one who did it. That was his message to the Jews in the synagogues. And here in Colossians chapter 1, Paul has just finished telling the Colossian believers who Jesus is, that he's Almighty God in the flesh. Only God could create the universe. Only God just could sustain the universe at this present moment. Only God could do what is necessary to save sinners. Only God could be the head of the church Only God could bring redeemed people to glory and perfection. No one else could do what Jesus has done because no one else is who Jesus is. God Himself. That's why we preach him, Paul says. That's why we preach Jesus Christ. He's the one who is the image, the exact representation of the invisible God. He's the one who existed before anything else existed. He's the one for whom everything was created. And that includes you and me. He's the one who's the head of the church. He's the one on whom you must believe in order to be saved. He's the only one who's qualified to save you. That's Paul's message. That's what it means to preach Christ. But Paul tells us more. In verse 28, he answers additional questions. He tells us what the method of genuine Christian preaching is, what the goal is. We find something in the language here that's used by the Holy Spirit that's very important in helping us understand the nature of genuine Christian. Preaching. When Paul says him we preach, the word for preach there is not the word for evangelism. But it is a related word. Repeatedly in the New Testament we find The word that's translated in our English as preach being the word from which we get evangelism, the proclamation of the gospel. But we have a different word here. It's a different but a related word. It has a different focus. The focus is on teaching. The focus is on doctrine. And in the context of Colossians chapter 1, Paul speaks about evangelism. He speaks about the proclamation of the good news of the gospel to all men. But he speaks more specifically here about the preaching that must occur in the church to Christians. To those who have already believed the gospel, if they're going to grow into spiritual maturity. That must be the primary focus of preaching in the church. Paul's speaking of the kind of preaching that we as believers need to hear week in and week out, year in and year out, so that we can become more and more mature and complete in Christ. That's the focus when Paul says, him we preach. We teach about Jesus And genuine preaching proclaims Christ and everything about him in such a way that the end result is that Christians Will grow and mature. That's Paul's goal here. And that brings us to a second Question that Paul addresses. What about the method? What's the method? And we find the answer in the next part of Paul's statement, and he makes three points in this connection. He says, first of all, he says we preach Christ warning every man. Warning every man. What does he mean by warning? Well, the word that's used. is a word that means to impart understanding, to instill a way of thinking. And it's a word that also means to do that in such a way that this new understanding, this new way of thinking. will have a corrective influence on someone. The goal is to develop an understanding that will be put into action. Genuine Christian preaching is designed to set someone right in his thinking in areas where his thinking has been wrong. It's the same thought that we have behind the Greek word that's used for repentance in the New Testament, the Greek word metanoia, which literally means a change of mind. A change of mind. That's what repentance is all about. And it's the same thought that's behind Paul's exhortation in Romans 12. 2, where he exhorts us to not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing. of your mind, literally the renovation of your mind, a complete change in our way of thinking. That's what Christian preaching, genuine Christian preaching is all about. And Paul uses the phrase every man three times in this verse. Every man, every person, warning every man and teaching every man that we may present every man. What does he mean by every man? Well, this is an interesting construction in the original language. The focus of the grammar of the original here is not on all mankind. That's not the focus. It's on a particular class of individuals that's determined by the context And the context is clear from verses 27 and 28. Obviously, not every man in the entire human race is going to be presented complete in Christ. Paul is speaking of every man among those who have, as he says earlier, Christ in you, the hope of glory. He's speaking to Christians. He's speaking about Christ. Christians here. Paul's speaking of those to whom he addresses this letter in chapter 1, verse 2, to the saints and faithful brethren who are in Christ. In other words, every man in this context means every believer. Every believer. That's the focus here. The preaching of Christ within the church is to be aimed primarily at the believer. It's not that Christian preaching is not evangelistic, but the primary focus of genuine Christian preaching within the church is believers. And first of all, so that every believer may be warned. So that every believer will undergo a renovation of our thinking, a change from thinking after the ways of this world to thinking the ways of Christ. And secondly, Paul says that genuine preaching, genuine preaching of Christ involves teaching every man, every individual, every believer. And what does he mean by teaching? Well, he uses the word that's used frequently in the New Testament. It's translated doctrine. Or to impart doctrine. Or to indoctrinate, we might say. We're warning every man. We're also in the process of indoctrinating every believer, building up the saints in doctrine. Indoctrination is not necessarily a bad thing. We can be indoctrinated in a lot of wrong things. Our news media are great at that. But there is a place within the church of being indoctrinated in the right things, in the truth. There's a place for that I think it was Dr. Bob Jones III. I heard him speak a couple of years ago down near Annapolis. Uh, and he said We've got to recognize that all education is indoctrination. But is it going to be the right kind of indoctrination? That's the point. That's the question. About his person, about his work of salvation. But beyond that, also doctrine about the life that the saint is to live in light of the doctrine of Christ, in light of his salvation. The life that we're to live in our relationships with God and with other believers and with the unbelieving world. You know, you can teach an unbeliever how to live a moral life from the pages of the Bible And this nation has been blessed to have in past generations at least. A population that grew up under the influence of Scripture, even if they weren't believers. People were taught how to live moral lives from the Bible. And many churches still do that. Many people take the moral precepts of the Bible as a guide for life. How many people do we hear say, Well, my religion is the Sermon on the Mount. I try to keep the I try to practice the Beatitudes or whatever. Not realizing that if you really read those three chapters of the Sermon on the Mount. It is the most condemning thing, condemning of self-righteousness that you'll find anywhere in the Word of God. But that kind of moral living, moral living that's not based on the foundation of regeneration in Jesus Christ. It does those people absolutely no eternal good. It doesn't save a sinner. It simply makes a moral man who is still on his way to hell. Faith in Christ must come first, and then only a genuine change from world-centered ways of thinking to a Christ-centered way of thinking. That's the only way it can come. It is only then, as Jesus said in Matthew 3, verse 8, that we can truly bear fruits that are worthy of repentance. Works that are in agreement with the fact of repentance. So, warning every man, teaching every man. And there's another phrase there that's interesting. Paul says that genuine Christian preaching is in all wisdom. And literally this means in every form of wisdom, in every kind of wisdom, in every area of wisdom. And the reference here Those words in all wisdom are linked to both the warning and the teaching. Warning every man in every area of wisdom. And also teaching every man in every area of wisdom. It's related to both. And you know, it's interesting, we find many times in the book of Colossians. If if you study the book of Colossians in detail and look at some of the commentators, you'll find that they refer to the fact that Paul often uses, not only in Colossians, but elsewhere, He uses the words that the pagans and the false teachers of that day had hijacked, had misappropriated for their own evil purposes. And this is one such instance. The false teachers at Colossae, and there were many of them, Paul talks about some of them in chapter 2. He talks about the fact that there were those who were teaching worldly philosophies, there were those who were teaching legalism. And there were those who were teaching false doctrines, man-made doctrines And those false teachers at Colossae claimed that there was a higher knowledge for a few, for the select few, the elites. For the people who were of a philosophical turn of mind. And for everyone else, for the ignorant masses. The great unwashed, as they saw it. All that remained was an unthinking kind of faith that simply went along with whatever the spiritual elites said was true. But that's not what the Bible teaches, Paul says. What I'm telling you, Paul says, is that the highest wisdom, the wisdom that is in Christ and in his word, every bit of it, it is freely open to all, all believers. So this then is the methodology of genuine Christian preaching. It's preaching primarily to believers. It's preaching of the person and work of Christ in all its fullness and all its implications. It's preaching that renovates the believer's mind. It's preaching that imparts sound doctrine. It's preaching that deals with every kind and every area of wisdom from the one source of wisdom, Paul tells us, which is Christ and his word. And then Paul comes to the goal. What's the goal? It is, Paul says, that we may present every man, every believer perfect in Christ Jesus. Notice first of all the very there's a very special significance about this word present, this verb present in this verse. Paul had used the same word back in verse 22, which we read earlier. Actually, just to start with verse 21 to pick up the beginning of that sentence, he says, and you who were once alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he, Jesus, has reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and blameless and above reproach in his sight. And Paul says the same thing in Ephesians chapter 5. He declares that Christ also loved the church, gave himself for her that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word. that he might present the church to himself, a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. And the writer to the Hebrews in chapter 2 speaks of this also when he declares that Christ is the captain of our salvation who is bringing many sons to glory. But in Colossians 1. 28, Paul is also speaking of a second aspect of this presenting that's going to happen. He says that it is the goal of Christian preaching that Paul and other ministers of the Word may present Every man, every believer, perfect or complete or mature in Christ Jesus, the obedient, faithful minister of the word. who has preached the gospel and instructed saints as a faithful under-shepherd of Christ has a share, Paul is telling us in that presenting on the last day. Paul speaks of this in other epistles as well. He talks about this in 1 Thessalonians. He says chapter 2, verse 19, What is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Is it not even you, Colossian believers? in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming. You're going to be our joy and our crown at His coming when we present you He speaks of that also in Philippians 4. 1, that the Philippian believers were my joy and my crown. And he speaks of it also of the Corinthian believers. That messed up church. And that was a messed up church. They had serious problems. That had to be corrected. But Paul says to them at the beginning of his second epistle, he says, you he says, we are your boast. As also you are ours when in the day of the Lord Jesus So here in Colossians 1. 28, Paul says that the goal of his preaching is that he and Timothy and Epaphras and by implication every other faithful preacher of Christ. May present the believers to whom they minister perfect. And literally that word means that We may present a finished product, lacking nothing. In other words, in the context it's speaking of maturity And here again, Paul is using language, again, that the Colossians would have heard from the false teachers. This was another term they had hijacked, this term of maturity. They said that you needed to be gradually initiated into the mysteries of their religions, the Gnostics and others. In our times, the the Masonic Lodge, which is a religion itself, and other mystery religions say the same thing The Masons say that you have to go through 32 or 33 degrees of initiation before you reach the top of the ladder in their religion, before you can know its deepest secrets and practice them properly. And the Jehovah's Witnesses in Christian science, Scientology, the Eastern religions, they say the same thing. Roman Catholicism also emphasizes this counterfeit kind of mystery or mysticism. And the doctrines into which these religions initiate their followers are the soul-damning words of fallen men. But Paul is saying that although genuine Christian doctrine needs to be learned, And although genuine Christian doctrine, yes, has its mysteries, he uses that word. He's speaking of things that were hidden in times past which are now revealed, as well as things that are yet to be revealed in the unfolding plan of God. But he says these things are open to every Christian, not to some elite group. In Christ, the goal is for every believer to be mature, for every believer to be fully initiated in all the wisdom that is in Christ, and to put it into practice in this present life as preparation for the life to come. Christian maturity is the process of growing in sanctification through the inculcation of sound doctrine about Christ. That's the purpose of preaching in the church. It's just as Jesus prayed to the Father in John 17. And we we have this verse, John 17, 17, on our ministry logo. Sanctify them by your word. Your word is truth. The goal of genuine Christian preaching is maturity in Christ, not maturity in the things of this world. Recognizing that all wisdom, all truth has its source in Christ. Not going and looking for the source of wisdom anywhere else. Not looking for it in lodge religion or in philosophies or in psychology or in the cults or in a feel-good church because we won't find it there. We'll only find it in Christ and His Word. And we also need to understand that we must view all of human knowledge and human wisdom through the lens of Scripture. We think of that Yeah, that's something that's brought up often in in relation to creation science, six-day creation. The unbeliever, the evolutionist, looks at the world through his lens. The believer who understands that God created in six days and is the sustainer of all things looks at it through the lens of Scripture, looks at the same thing. But with two very different outcomes, very different results. It's that way with everything. We need to look at everything in life through the lens of Scripture. Whether it's history or politics or what's going on in our families, what we receive in school, Any of it. We need to look at it all through the lens of Scripture. It applies to every discipline, every area, every walk of life, not just what we might categorize as spiritual things, quote unquote. God's inspired and errant word must be our sole authority, our infallible critic in every area. And developing maturity in Christ has very practical purposes. Very practical. It's part of our preparation for the life to come. It's also our witness and testimony to this world and our example to fellow believers in the life that we now live. Maturity in Christ should and must impact every thought, every action of every believer every day. Whoever you are, whatever you do, the word of God must determine the way you approach things. Because all wisdom has its source in Christ and Holy Scripture. If you work behind the counter at McDonald's or Chick-fil-A, I'm a nephew who does. And the Word of God determines how he approaches his job, the way he does his job, and people notice that. And they ask him about that. I'm grateful that that's the case. It's been an opportunity for witness, just the way he goes about what he does How he deals with his boss and his co-workers, how he deals with customers, how he deals with the product, the handling of the product, the right handling of it. For Christian medical doctor. Just to pick another example, the word of God must likewise determine the way that doctor approaches his job and the way he does it. It must define his ethics. It must inform the way in which a doctor applies his scientific clinical knowledge to his patients. It must govern his thinking about the preservation of life. We've we've just had this experience within the last two weeks within our own family. Uh my mother-in-law had to be hospitalized uh on an emergency basis. It's been over two weeks ago now. uh had to have surgery. Uh the surgery, it appeared, did not go well. And the surgeon said, he actually said it in these words, I think you should just send her to hospice and let her die in a few days. Well, we were not satisfied with that. We got in touch with other people, other doctors. We ended up having her moved to Hopkins. And the doctor that we're dealing with there, although she is not a believer, her thinking is clearly informed by biblical principles. She takes an entirely different view of the case. And I would say that the key thing that is a difference between one doctor's view and the other doctor's view was that the doctor at the first hospital viewed this patient as just a collection of statistics The other doctor views this patient as a soul. Very different way of looking at things. And I think in the medical field that's something that really characterizes something that's been lost in many cases today. There's no longer thinking about souls. Just thinking about statistics and about measurements, and that's all If you're a salesman, the word of God must convict you of right and wrong so that you always deliver an honest salesman. pitch. You never cheat a customer. You never fill out a dishonest expense report. If you're a wife. Working long hours to take care of your home, to take care of your husband, your children if you have children. Same thing is true The Word of God must determine how you love and submit to your husband in the Lord, whether he's a believer or not. It must determine how you love and teach and discipline your children. The word of God must be your resource and your guide in the most difficult and trying circumstances that you face in the hard work of homemaking and When anybody says to a woman who's a homemaker, Do you have a job? Yes, I'm a homemaker, and then you know the reaction is eh. That's not a job. Oh, that's a job. That is a job. That is a calling. And praise God for faithful women who do it. Thank God for faithful mothers and fathers who are seeking to make the Word of God that which governs how they deal with each other. and how they go about setting a godly example of a loving relationship before their children and before others outside their home. Praise God for faithful parents who let the Word of God determine the things that their children watch on television, on their computers, and on their smartphones. And what the parents let themselves watch as well. God's word must govern the kind of music that a family listens to. to. God's Word must govern the kinds of things that we read and don't read, the places we go and don't go. The wisdom of the Word of God should cause parents to place great priority on the family. On the vital place of the family unit in the plan of God, the importance of family relationships in the plan of God. Things that are so much missing even in many Christian households and many Christian churches today. And because we're talking about preaching, we can't leave out the preacher. For the preacher, maturity in Christ means setting a Christ-like example in every aspect of his life and ministry. In his home, in his family, in the preaching of the word, it means not allowing the tyranny of a host of demands undermine his family. And that's great pressure for the man who is a pastor. It means that a preacher must always keep before his mind the fact that the people under his care face a thousand challenges to their faith. And he's their shepherd. And he needs to warn them and teach them. That he might build them up. It means that the preacher must recognize an unsettling fact of our time, and that is that maturity is lacking in the church in many cases in many places. We live in a time when postmodern evangelicalism has produced a generation largely made up of spiritual adolescents, no matter what their age according to the calendar. Maturity in Christ is the crying need of this hour in the church. And it means that the preacher must always keep in mind the definition of genuine Christian preaching that we have here. God's prescribed method and the goal for both this life and the life to come so that the faithful preacher may participate in that great day in the dual presenting of every believer in his care. Perfect. Christ Jesus. May God by his Spirit enable us to do these things. All of us. It's so easy to put it off on the man in the pulpit and say that it's just his job. No, it's not just his job. May we resolve to be under the faithful preaching of the Word, the faithful preaching of Christ, and may each of us take to heart the warnings and the teachings. of the Word of God through the Spirit of God. And may each of us strive to be equipped in all wisdom in Christ. And may each of us live our lives with that great day in mind when we shall be presented to the Father, perfect, mature, complete in Christ. Let's look to the Lord in prayer. Father, thank you for these great gifts that you have given to us through your Son. Through the indwelling of your spirit, through your word. Oh Father, what riches we have, and so often what Paupers we are because we stand next to the pre the precious treasure chest And never even bother to open it. Forgive us, Father, of our failings in these regards. Equip us by the warnings of your word, by the teachings of your word, that truly we might grow and mature. And be used of you, Father, in ways that we may have never thought possible. We pray all these things in the name of our great Savior. Amen.