Hebrews chapter 6 Much of what I have to say today as I sat in Sunday school class is oh my you just could have sat in Sunday school class and got the same thing that I'm about to say but oh well Review is good, and some of you weren't in Sunday school, so you can hear it again a second time, and hopefully we can bring out some things there. I had the privilege of being born into a family That had four children. And I was the youngest of the four. And I was not only the youngest of the four, I was the only boy Now let me just say this, that being the youngest in a family of four has its advantages and it has its disadvantages. One of the disadvantages is when you are the youngest one, your siblings always beat you up. No matter what happens, and they never tell you anything because the youngest one's always a blabber mouth, and so all secrets are always kept from you. And there's nothing worse than being a boy getting beat up by girls all his life. Does wonders for your ego, let me tell you that. So when you get to school, uh uh competition with guys, you're not into competition too much because you've been beat up so much by your system However, it also has many great advantages. And one of the great advantages was when things would take place, I was always too young and stupid to be at fault. I can recall one time on my mom's vanity. For you people going back, if you know what a vanity is, you sit there in front of the magic mirror on the wall and you do all your hair and become something beautiful, and this was my mom's treasured thing, one of my siblings decided to scratch the name uh uh uh with a little gold well off the chandelier, took the little metal or the little glass thing off, and wrote the name of the other sibling Right across the woodtop. Mom was not happy. Dad was not either. He was determined to get at the bottom of who was the person that wrote in there. Well, immediately my oldest sibling was dismissed because she wasn't even there. After that was dismissed, everyone turned towards me, and the other two said, Behold the man. And I gulped. I thought, oh, I'm gonna get this. I did not do this. And my dad, though he was a wise man, did not possess the wisdom of Solomon. He said Yeah, I don't think so. Randy's only three and a half. He doesn't know how to write yet. So a long debate took place. Neither one would give in, neither one fessed up. So they went into the room of correction. And as a young person, I was just standing there listening as the rod of correction was being administered, and each one would zip out of the room and go upstairs and There was much weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. And I cannot tell you the great impression that had on my mind to watch, I won't say tortured, but w to watch your siblings get the rod of correction. Whether it was right or wrong that both of them should get it, we all talk about that to this day. However, we did finally find out who did it. Alright, a second time uh there was a fire across the street and we went out and it was uh ooh we want to watch the fire. My dad said, uh I don't really know. That I well at least you go there, but we went out there anyway, and he said, Whatever you do, you gotta stay on the street Can't get off the blacktop. But it was too much. I mean the fire went down over the hill and the firefighters were there and all the kids in the neighborhood, they were out there and I thought, well, yeah, why not? So I went out, and of course, hey, you're not supposed to be out there, Rainy. I went anyway, and my siblings followed, and then my dad followed and caught them. Once again, we marched back to the house into the room of correction. And the right of correction was administered again. And as it was happening, one of the siblings turned and said, what about Randy? He's the one who went first. An advantage of being young. Now Ranny's too young and stupid. You were supposed to watch after him and you didn't. So once again there was weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, and I got to sit there and smile. Much of the A third time a poor friend of our in a neighborhood had a nice necklace with beads and it broke. And we had company, it was on a Sunday, and we thought we were being doing a Christian thing if we thought about it at that time, to gather the beads. It kept falling and so we all grabbed a handful of beads. And we helped her to go back. We weren't supposed to leave the property and we left. And in order to get to her house, there was a huge field. My dad was a farmer. He was raised as a farmer And one of the things you don't do if you're a farmer is you never walk through their fields. You don't go through the alfalfa field or the grain field or the cornfield. Because this is a man's living, and my dad took it seriously, and it didn't go long, and sure enough my dad cries out, Randy, Karen, Sandy's over, is like out It's dad, what do we do? Quick, into the wheat field. And there we stood, and my dad stood at the other end of the wheat field screaming and hollering, and finally, after he called out my name, I stood up. And of course my siblings are laying there going, oh you're gonna get it when we get such. So the game was up and once again we went into the room of correction and I got to watch And of course my siblings turned and said, What about the man? And it was like, yeah, no, he he was just a follower and you guys were guilty for dragging him in on it. So I learned a lot from just watching in life and just following in life. We later moved to another town to be close to the local business And as a young person there in second grade in a school, I didn't have any friends. And a bunch of people came up to me and they said, well here W would you like to play a game with us? And I said sure, why not? And it was called Follow the Leader. I don't know if you ever played that when you were in school. I don't know how you played it, but we were in a long line and one person was a leader and they would run up and Hit the window and you just followed wherever they went. They went up the steps, you went up the steps. They slid down the railing, you slid down the railing. They went underneath the monkey bars, you went under the monkey bars. If they went up the ladder, you went up the ladder and you just followed, and everything they did, you did. And if you didn't, you were kicked off the line. Oh, you didn't jump up and hit the he's gone. Okay, that game was a little simplistic, and so we moved on to something a little more sophisticated. It was called Time and Says. You know, we would stand there in a line, someone with Simon, and they would go, Simon says, touch your nose, and they would go like this And if Simon said you were supposed to do it, you were supposed to copy what Simon said. And as the game would go on, it you the the goal was to get eliminated. Well the goal was not to get eliminated, but they were trying to eliminate you And they would say, Simon says, touch your nose. They do all sorts of things to try to throw you off. Simon says, touch your nose. And if you went like that and followed, You were gone. I said, my nose, not your ear. And they would be gone. Simon says, touch this, touch that, touch your nose. And that quick you touch your nose. Ah Simon didn't say to do that. You weren't listening. You didn't follow. You're out of the game. A little bit later, growing up, I went to work part-time for my dad when I was in school. I was in seventh grade. I learned from my father. Many things. And and and as we're going through these things, may I just say that most of these things that I've been taught my dad, I don't know if he tried this or it was just because he had a good upbringing. But I see spiritual parallels between the two. So as we're going through this, maybe you can pick out some spiritual parallels as well. My father one of the fur one of the first jobs I had was w wintertime and we were up it was in December and we were digging holes for shade trees. And these trees aren't small. I mean the balls on these things were, you know, sometimes this huge, you know, really this this tall and I got oh boys, this is great. You know, it's like this I'm gonna tear into this and so I jumps and I'm jumping around and bouncing off the shovel and I'm going to town and I thought I had it done and I was getting ready to try to roll the tree in the hole. My dad said, That is not how you dig a hole. And I thought to myself, what idiot doesn't know how to dig a hole? Well you're looking at him. And I was like, what's the matter with the hole? And he said, your sides aren't straight. I said, yeah, they are. He said, yeah, yeah, Randy, they are straight if you're if you're using an upside-down triangle. But they're not supposed to be straight this way. They're supposed to be a flat bottom, 90 degrees and up. You understand what I'm saying? Alright, they should be like this And if I and I do you know, I know you can you can laugh about that, but if we went out and dug a hole, I bet most of you want to know how to dig a hole. Not only just how to dig the hole for the safety of the plant. All right, what it's supposed to look like, but how you go about it. I mean most of you probably don't even think about how to dig a hole. You just jump in there and start splailing away. I think about how to dig a hole. There's a method to it. There's a plan. There's a way to do it in such a way that it makes it quicker and easier. I bet you never heard that before. But it's true. And with my father, every lesson in landscaping was a lesson in anatomy. What are you doing? You're gonna blow out your back. Do you want to lose a finger? Get a chainsaw like that or come back and cut half your face off. So I was always paralyzed because if I didn't follow what he was saying, I was going to get hurt. And and indeed I actually did. I fell out of a tree and broke my hip. And it didn't follow. As a result. So I I discovered that in doing this Everything was laid out for us in landscaping. It was sort of interesting. I didn't have to invent everything. All I had to do was look and follow and copy and watch. And I could be very successful. I could get on with the job very quickly without being hurt. I was digging one time at a local church down there and my wife worked it's risk management in Anneronal County and the lady who was in our church was in charge of that and she said, Whoa, Randy, if I were you'd have to write you up for how you're digging that hole. Oh the the way you're standing. And I said to her, Oh no, you wouldn't. You're not looking very close at how I'm digging. Well, you're going to blow your back out. You look again. My dad taught me, right. I am hardly putting anything on my back. In fact If you were looking close, you will notice that the shovel was on my thigh of my leg, and it was acting as a lever, almost like a seesaw. And I was using hardly any back pressure. And I could go this way, that way, and I still do that to this day. Of course, I I learned that from my dad when I got in and I started doing this like most of you probably do. My dad's like, hi, you want to walk around a cripple the rest of your life? Remember this, Randy, if you get hurt, the only one that's gonna feel it is you. It's you. You're the one that has to live with the pain. And I thought, well, that's true. Yeah, I don't like pain. So I did it the way Dad said, and so you really yeah, I know I'm banned over, but you're and you can go really quick and really fast. Later on in life I grew up and I became no longer someone underneath a supervisor, but I became a supervisor. And as a supervisor It was always interesting to me that you had to work with, in landscaping or where I'm at now, you had to work with people in order and you had to train them. And the thing that amazes me the most about this, and this is what the point that I'm getting to is. How when you're when you're working with training people, how often people just don't want to listen? They just don't want to follow. Why do you want to make it so hard on yourself? Why do you want to make it so difficult? My dad would say to me, no, no, no, that's the hard way. Watch, this is the easy way. I'll show you how to get done quicker. And with us being in business, you had to make time. You know what that means? That's a word you don't hear too much anymore. You gotta make time. We bid this job for five hours at this. It took you seven. We lost money. You didn't make any time. I got done trimming a tree one time and he said he said, yeah, yeah, you you did pretty good. And you did you made time. You did a great job, but look at you, you're worn out, you're beat You're tired. The trick, Randy, is to be able to do it, make time, and not be worn out. I thought, oh, there's one more thing I gotta work on. How do you get up in there with the saw? Chainsaws weren't invented in my day. You know, you were up there going like this and you're cat so my dad had this. And now the this has all these examples and I don't say these in vain. I don't know if you were catching parallels. has everything to do with the text that we read. Hebrews chapter 6, verse 20. It says, whither the forerunner is for us entered. Even Jesus. In Greek, the progamus, the forerunner. In the Bible, a forerunner was one person, a person, and it had several roles in a military way. They were sound ahead. They were supposed to scout for the military. They were supposed to seek out the enemy. Find out its weaknesses, come back and give out the strategy of how they were laid out and told. For kings, they were sent ahead. You remember John the Baptist. He was called the forerunner Right? They would go ahead. Isaiah 40 and verse 3, it says, I send my messenger ahead, right? Make a road in the desert. Make it straight. Make it smooth. Every mountain shall be brought low. Every valley shall be exalted. Why? You want to go the straight way. It's the shortest route. You know, the crooked shall be made straight. You don't want to zigzag go back and forth. You don't have to climb up over a mountain, go around the mountain, go through, or dig a tunnel, go through the mountain. You're making it too hard. You're making it difficult. We don't have to do that in the Christian life. Why? Because we have a forerunner. Jesus Christ, our forerunner, like a foreman, has gone ahead. He has scouted it out. He has come across every obstacle. Oh look, there's a rock in the way. He would remove the rock. He would lift the valley. Don't want to build a bridge. Don't want to have to go. Some of you have been at the Grand Canyon. You walk up in there and be like, oh, we got to go down through that. To get over there? Ho ho. Ho ho ho. What a what a job. He lifted it up. Oh, now I can cross in smooth ground, sort of like the Red Sea. We had to cross over through there. Oh here, wait. I'll separate the water now. You can walk. Jesus Christ has done that for you and me. Now the amazing thing for me When I was young and coming up, under somebody who was a, if you will, a forerunner, as my dad would always say this. He dropped me off and he said, Now that guy over there is your foreman. And Randy, let me just tell you this. Your job is to make his job easy. You see a spiritual parallel? And then he said this: Your job is to make him look good. Well, you don't see that in the workplace anymore. Nowadays it's dog eat dog, and how can I get around that guy? And if I can do something to undermine him, I can remember one of the first times I moved a motor coach at work. Where I came from when you were backing up and people were standing there going like this, it'd be like, ho. Not at where I came from. The first bus I ever moved for going through charters, I ran into a telephone pole. I was backing up. They looked back. I see him in the mirror. I kept going back a little at a time. Stop, start, stop. Pow! Hey, he just ran into a telephone pole. Yeah, I know I did. When were you gonna say ho So I told my boss, that'll never happen again. I won't trust anybody. I'll get out and look for myself. Of course, I do have people now that I can trust. But the thing that amazes me is how as a supervisor you can stand in there and people don't want to follow. They want to make things difficult. Why are you doing it like this? Look, you go, you show them, you teach them, you explain it, you turn around. They're doing the exact opposite. I don't get it. I'm amazed. I am really, you know, I've gotten to the point wherever I've gone, the Lord's put me in positions of leadership. But it got to the point it's like, I don't want to be in leadership anymore. I just want to go off and work by myself. I don't have to worry about this guy and that guy and this person and that person. and have to worry about making time and whether or not they miss something or skip something. Why? Because people just don't seem to want to ever listen. They don't want to follow. We did have a young man down the street from another church. He worked for us for a couple summers. First day he started, I said, look, man, you really started on a bad day. I mean, we are swamped. Our work comes in and goes out, so it's not like, oh, that can wait till tomorrow. Uh-uh. You've got X amount of time. You've got to get it done. All right? It may mean you work seven hours straight nonstop. I know it's against the law No lunch break, no breaks. Mm-hmm. Guess what? You'll get it in the end, but right now we gotta get it done. And so I said to him, I say, look, I don't have a whole lot of time to explain what's going on here. Here's what you need to do: you need to watch me, follow me, copy me, and everywhere I go, you go. You know? And hang on, because it's going to be a hard night. And he did. And he really did a good job. It was because he listened. He paid attention. He followed. One man said to me one time, Randy, I just I just got to figure this out for myself. I said, why? It's already figured out. This is not a difficult job. It's like wiping a table off This is not hard. But I I just have to, you know, and I thought to myself, oh, great. This is the old Isaiah 53 syndrome. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have what? Turned everyone what? To his own way. What did the guy sing years ago? And I did it my way. Now I understand that because as we grow up we have to learn, we have to do things, and you know we're we're we're not trying to qu squelch creativity or anything like that, but Why? When it's already been done. Don't you think we do the same thing? This is what the Lord says to me. Every time I see this and I shake my head, and sometimes I have to share what you're saying. Jordan is like, I just don't get this. It's like, Lord, please help me. And it's just like, he comes back to me and says this, do you not do the same thing to me? Have I not gone on before and cleared the path? Have I not smoothed everything out? I just ask you to follow. Watch and follow. And it'll all be taken care of. I want to look at three areas today how Christ, our Pradhonis, the forerunner for us, has gone ahead before. Now this is where we overlap in from Sunday school class. Just three areas very quickly, and our time's escaping. Three areas. I want to look at sin. I want to look at situations, and then I want to look at service. So if you take your Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 4, We looked at this in Sunday school this morning. I just want to add one or two thoughts that perhaps they didn't cover, and they've been going over this subject for some time. So maybe they covered this, but I thought it would be helpful because it's been helpful to me. In Matthew chapter 4, in verse 1, as you know, this is when Christ, it says verse 1, was led up. Of the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, into the wilderness to be tempted to the devil. And he had fasted forty days and forty nights afterwards and hungered And when the tempter came unto him, he said, Since you are the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said unto them, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God Then the devil taketh him up into a holy city, and setteth him on the pinnacle of the temple, saith unto him, Since you're the son of God, cast yourself down, for it is written he shall give his angels charge concerning thee And in their hands he shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone. And Jesus said unto him, It is written again. Written again. Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again the devil taketh him up into an exceedingly high mountain and showeth all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. He said unto them, All these things will I give thee. If thou fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Several things I want to point out, some in we've already talked about in Sunday school, but the first thing is that Christ, as our forerunner, was tempted. Are we not tempted? Yes. Was Christ tempted? Yes. He was tempted. And he was tempted by the devil. Do we get tempted by the devil? Well, I believe we get tempted by the devil. I don't know directly by Satan, but from some of his Hosts, the Bible says we don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and spiritual wickedness in dark places. Christ was tempted. I get tempted as well. Another thing, you'll notice the resources of Christ. It says he was led by the Spirit and He used the Word of God Now here's an interesting thing that I want you to stop and think about for a second. Many times when we talk about this, and I heard it as a child, we tell people, how do you deal with sin? How do you deal with temptation? Oh, quote scripture. And I remember saying that in Bible college, and if one of the speakers ends up coming here in a couple weeks, that particular speaker, I'll never forget it. I thought, uh he said, well, Randy, I don't think you you'll find quoting Bible verses really helps that much. And I thought, oh, what's he saying? I'm in Bible college, and behold, a heathen is amongst us. Everyone tells you to quote scriptures, do they not? And yet does it not say in the book of James, be thou therefore a doer of the word, and not what? A hearer only. Because he that hears and doesn't do is like a man beholding himself and sees his face in a mirror and he's all messed up and he looks at it and goes, wow, and he does it goes off and he doesn't do anything about it. You have to do what's being said. Or there's no profit. And it says, you deceive yourself. So maybe that's why I didn't have success in my early Christian life. I was quoting Bible verses, nothing was happening. He doesn't run just because you quote a verse. He didn't run from Christ, and he's not going to run from you. Alright, so think about this. You have to do it. So when Christ was quoting these verses, he's stuck between two worlds, and so are we. There's the visible and the invisible. There is the spiritual and the natural. There is the godly and the ungodly. And both sides have voices. And both sides asked you to do their will. And Christ was just simply saying, as the devil said, hey, why don't you turn that into bread? He was just saying, no, no, this is what the Bible says, and I want you to know I'm going to follow that, yield to it, submit to it, because I'm going to obey the word of God. I'm being led by the Spirit of God. And I'm I am yielding myself to that word and not to your word. That's one thing I think is important because sometimes we teach children, just quote scriptures, and I don't want to see kids grow up like I did and make the same mistake. You have You quote Scripture, you memorize Scriptures, yes, why? So I can do what it says by yielding my life. When I make a choice to yield and submit myself to God's word, the Holy Spirit empowers us And produces in us the godly life. Alright, that's one thing. Second thing, another thing I want you to think about with the devil is He came, he got, he got tempted by the devil, and for us, I always like like in our temptation as a toothpick. I see ourselves as a toothpick between two cement blocks. Okay? And the devil comes with his temptation as a giant sequoia tree. Now, if the sequoia sits on the toothpick, Who's gonna win? The sequoia. Okay. However, with Christ, the situation was reversed. He was the sequoia between the two blocks. And the temptation that came from Satan, though it was very real, was the toothpick. You see, we start out as toothpicks very small in our ability to withstand temptation. But the goal is to become a sequoia So Christ took everything the devil could throw at him. What does the Bible say about us? There is no temptation taken you, but such is common to man. But God is faithful. Who will not permit you to be tempted above that which you are able? You'll never face the full force of temptation and all the powers of hell like Christ did. That makes him the best forerunner for you because he has handled. everything the devil could throw at him. And he beat it. He knows how to beat it. Don't be difficult. Paul said this. Make his job easy. Paul said, I don't frustrate the grace of God. Did you know you could do that? God comes, he wants to pour his grace, he wants you to win the victory, and you frustrate him. I want to go this way, I want to try that. I think I should do this. I'm going to go that direction. I want to head my way. Just follow the leader. A young girl said to me one time, the Bible says, That we should come boldly to the throne of grace when you have problems, temptations. We have a high priest. who had who has been touched with the feelings of our infirmities. Well, he's the foreer runner. He went ahead. He's experienced it. He knows what it feels like. You know, you know what I'm talking about, that pool, oh come on, come on, do it. No, yeah, come on, do it And it's not bad enough that you're dealing with the thought or the mental image and you've got the feeling inside. It's pulling and yanking at you. He can be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He was tempted in all points like we are, yet without sin. Therefore, let us come boldly to the throne of grace. that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. So I said, pray. And the young lady said to me, ah, yeah, I tried that. That doesn't work. Now, if someone said that to you, what would you say? Well, everybody tells you to pray about it. I prayed and it didn't go away. I prayed and got off my knees and it was still there. I tried it and it didn't work. How would you answer that? And this is the point I want to I don't know if Tim brought this out in Sunday school class, but I'll just say this. Oh, I would say to you, oh yes it did. Does God's word fail? Is God a liar? Not according to the text we wrote. Therefore, if I come boldly to his throne of grace to receive mercy, he will kill it. But here's the trick. The devil doesn't give up. And sometimes when you pray, whatever the thought or feeling or whatever it is may be, when you get up, as soon as you get up, It comes back again. And you say, there it is again. It didn't go away. Yes, it did. He killed it. It's just a new one that looks exactly like the other one This is a trick of the devil. The Lord is faithful. He will stop it. He will kick it, but it will keep coming back. And it'll keep coming back. It'll look the same. And if you fall into the trap of saying, well, I tried it and it didn't work. It is the same thing and it feels the same and it looks the same, then you'll fall. You'll give in. But I know better now. When I get up and it comes back, I say, ah, I know what's going on here, Lord. And then I start to say, Lord, I thank you that when I prayed you killed that first one, and now I know that the devil or my flesh is coming back with exactly the same thing. I know what it is, I won't be discouraged, and I will come again. And by the time you're done doing that, usually the thought's gone by then. Because you're thanking and praising the Lord for what he has done, that he is faithful, that his word is true, that he does not lie, and that he has dealt with the first temptation to begin with. That's a trick of the devil. I think we need to teach children that too, lest they get discouraged and trip and fall. Now, some of you Christ was tempted at all points like earth like we are. Yet it says without sin, someone might say to me, Oh yeah? Well, what about him? What about her? He's not married to her or him. Christ was never married. And I would say to you, oh yeah? Well I look around this room at each one of you, and you look at me, are we not beholding the bride of Christ? I got one. How many does he have? I have to deal with one I look around the room, I'm like, good grief. How many does he have to deal with? He doesn't know And if I were to ask you who got the better of this marriage, you would probably say as a Christian, oh, we did. And Christ would say, no, I did. And then he'd say, You're quite a catch. Yeah, you. Oh, what a find. Is that how you see yourself as a Christian? God says I'm quite a catch I'm quite a find. A second area. Situations. James chapter 1. If you turn to James chapter 1 very quickly, I've got to keep moving here. I have to confess I forgot we were having communion today, so I prepared a little longer. But I'll keep it short. James chapter 1, beginning at verse 2. Situations in life. It says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various trials, temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience But let patience have her perfect work that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Christ can deal with our sin because he's the forerunner, he's the predominant, he's gone ahead, he's removed everything. It's easy. Will I make his job easy? Will I make him look good? And he can also deal with situations. Now you notice here it says, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into various routes. It's one of the last things you want to think about when you hit a problem in life is to consider joy. Okay? But I want you to think about this. After all the people in Hebrews chapter 11, with all the situations in life hard and difficult that they went through. Chapter 12 says, wherefore, seeing we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, all the people in chapter 11, Let us therefore lay aside every weight and thus sin, a definite article of unbelief, referring back to faith in chapter 11, that does so easily beset us. And let us run with patience. The race that is before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Who? For the joy that was set before him. When I break a leg, I don't say, thank you, Lord, this was great. It felt good. Mmm. How about breaking the other one? Give me some more. Get a thing or two while we're at it. You know? Maybe a back. Part of the back. Can you get part of the back, Lord? There's no joy in that, and we shouldn't tell people there's joy in that. It was joy that was set before. As if I'm looking out that door out there, the door's out there, and it's before, and I've got to go and I've got to endure and I've got to go through it to get to the joy. And he says here, count it. The word is consider. When you come into trials, he says, I want you to stop in trials and consider joy. How about gimme joy? That that happens too, but consider joy Consider the joy of Christ when he was going to the cross, when it was all going to take place eventually. What would happen? First of all, he would bring glory to God Secondly, as he prayed in his high priestly prayer, return unto me the glory that I had at the beginning when I was with you. He receives glory. And secondly, the joy of defeating the greatest enemy of all. Death. But in order to defeat it, he had to experience it. He had to go to the cross. He had to be buried. He had to be resurrected. That's joy. Why? The joy to save your soul So while he was sitting there getting nailed, thorns beat, hit, whipped, he had you in his mind. You were on his heart. And he considered that a joy. Considered joy, the text says. That's the first part. They're all start. The first one is count. The second one, verse 3, no. Know what? Knowing this, that the trying of our patience of your faith works patience, endurance, strong willpower, all right For all the heartaches and the tears, for all the anguish and the pain, for gloomy days and fruitless years And for the hopes that lived in vain. And I do give thanks, for now I know these were the things that helped me grow. We can go through and consider joy by giving thanks. A. Be thankful. B it says here, knowing this. The testing of your faith works patience. Welcome them, trials, as friends. Now I did this with Lisa a couple times, and I forget where we were. Something broke. Something happened. And she looked over at me and was like, this is not good. This is not fun. And she looked at me and she said, friend. I'm like, yeah, I preach it, so I gotta live it now. It's like, friends. It's like we look at each other and say, oh, here comes a friend. Oh no. A tree fell in the house. The car broke down. Another bill. Friend, welcome. Why? These are the things that helped me grow. For every hill I had to climb, and for every stone that bruised my feet For all the blood and sweat and grime, for blinding storm and burning heat, my heart sings but a grateful song. These were the things that made me strong. Finally, it says in verse 4, but let patience have her perfect work. Let purpose to go through the trial. We talked about this In Sunday school this morning, what is the way of escape that you may be able to bear it? The way is what? Through it. The way is through it. Purpose in your heart. Give thanks. Welcome as friends and purpose to go through it. Because it's not the softer things of life which stimulates man's will to strive, but bleak adversity and strife. Do most to keep man's will alive. Over rose stream paths, the weaklings creep. But brave hearts dare to climb the steep. We've been called to go through it, so we must Why? Because our forerunner has. He's done it. It's easy. I'm not saying that going through with a broken leg or dealing with what is is necessarily difficult, but he can go through it and emotionally and mentally. All those things have been removed. There's no need to sin in the midst of it. There's no need to worry. There's no need to go, aha. Are you worried about your retirement plan? I think about it, but then I keep saying. He's got it. I've never seen the righteous forsaken Nor begging what? Bread. Having food and clothing there, let us with be content. My father said we were in business and everyone likes to sue you and get you for whatever they can. So we had all sorts of Protection. And then uh he said, let me tell you something, son. They could take everything I had, give me a tent and a sleeping bag and a little food, and I'd be happy. I'd be happy. Lastly, service Just consider this quickly. This I think you can apply to any area of Christian service for the Lord. I just want to look at one area. I want to look at witnessing. Consider with me for a second. How crisis our forerunner has gone through and made it so easy for us to witness. Alright, consider this. I know we get scared, I know we get nervous, but this is something that I did. And I can remember when we went out When Fred and Penny had the EE program and we went out and there was a guy by the name of Bob. I was with Bob and I was with um uh Sharon. And we all went out and we had a good time and almost every time we went out, if not every time on that one quarter, we had the opportunity to lead someone to the Lord. Now were they did they really get saved or not? I don't really know. But we we led them in prayer and they made a profession of faith. And I can remember the one night we were there in a circle and it was getting late and they said we have some time and I was like, oh I'd just rather go home. I gotta go to work yet, I work night shift. And then it was like, well, okay, we got some time and we were trying to decide what house we were gonna pick and I think it came down to Sharon's choice of the flower pots or something looked nice on the outside of the building. I don't remember that And and we said, let's go with that one. Sharon says it looks nice out. We went in. And once you know it, we led someone to the Lord. Have you ever stopped to consider in Christian service we're in witnessing all the ingredients that are involved? Let's consider them really quick. I want to fly through these, so forgive me for speaking quickly, but our time's passing. Consider this, for instance, God's involved. Is he not? God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. What does God say about witnessing? He says, what? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. But have everlasting life. 2 Peter, God is not willing. He's not slack concerning his promises as some men count slackness, but he's long-suffering towards us. Not willing that any should perish. 1 Timothy chapter 2. This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved. Does God want people saved? Is he willing? Yes. Pray that way. Lord, I know you're willing. You gave your son. You said in John 3. 16. You said in 2 Peter. You said in 1 Timothy. What about Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ said, I am come to seek and to what? Save that which was lost. Last time I knew we were all lost. And that seems to me includes everybody, not just a couple here or there. Skip this one and hit that one. Everyone's lost. I came to seek and save that which was lost, and to give my life a ransom for many. 1 John chapter 2, it says, Christ is the propitiation for our sins, and not for our sins only, we who are saved, but also for the sins of the what? The whole world. Who is the Savior of all men, especially to those that believe? What about the Holy Spirit? What's his wrong witnessing? He has come, John says, that he might convict the world of what? Of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Not my job. Not yours either. His job. That's pretty good. Yes, I gotta quote the Bible verses. I gotta read read them out. I gotta lay out the plan of salvation. Yes, I use apologetics. Who's gonna convict? Not me. Him. Pretty easy. Consider this. There's the word of God. I'm not ashamed of the word or the gospel of Christ. For it is what? It is the power of God unto salvation. So we get ready to witness, we get ready to go out. We pray these things back to God. God, your gospel is powerful. Hebrews chapter 4 verse 12 The Word of God is quick, alive, powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to dividing of the soul and the spirit and the joints and the manner, and is discerner of the thoughts. and the intentions of the heart. So when we go forth tonight, Lord, we pray through your word as it goes forth to do what your word said it would do. Because Isaiah says as The snow comes down in the rain, and it waters the earth, it gives bread to the eater. So is my word that goes forth, it will not return unto me what? A void, but it'll accomplish the thing that I send it to, and the thing that I please. And then there's us. What about us? Paul said this, I planted. Apollas watered. But God did what? He gave the increase. Lord, we're going out here today. We want to witness. We want to see people get saved for you. But you know what? That might not be what you have in mind today. Today, you might just want me to plant. I'm okay with that. Today you might want me just to water whoever I talk to. That's okay too. If that's what you want me to do today, Lord, that's fine. That I plant. That's okay if I water. But Lord, we want a harvest. Stay not there yet four months, and then comes the harvest, Jesus said. Lift up your eyes and look under the fields, for they're white. On the harvest. Okay. You said that. Is it true? Is it? Are the fields out there waiting to harvest? Yes. Which one? Don't know. Does God? Yes. Lord, you're going to have to direct us. You're going to have to show and push and guide us. Where? We called them divine appointments, right? When we were doing E, oh we pray, Lord, for a divine appointment. Yes. I don't know. Bible says we need to be clean and pure as we go out and witness. And what about the devil? We were at a distance Sunday school class as well. The devil does what? To the minds of those that don't believe. He blinds. The seed is thrown, he snatches. Can we pray that a hedge is put around the people we speak so that he doesn't do that? Have you considered my servant Job? I can't touch him. You put a hedge around him. Well, why can't you do that for the unsaved when you go out and witness? Lord, peel it back, protect it, and keep it. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, right? And the weapons of our warfare are not what? With my fist They're not carnal, right? But they're mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds Do you believe that? All these things the Lord has done for us because he is our forerunner. He has gone before. Of course there's the lost, we talked about that and all the things that they need. Oh Lord, open their eyes and their hearts and their ears and allow all these things to take place I want you to stop and think today. I I just I get gripped by it because I I'm in it every day as a leader trying to show people how to do it and they just won't follow. I can't tell you how frustrating that can be. Especially when you sit there and you say, it's all been planned out. All the work's been already basically done. You you you don't have to reinvent the wheel here. I've done it all. All you need to do is follow, trust, believe, have faith. Even Christ, Mark 135, said, rising up a great while before the day, went out into a solitary place, and there he prayed. But we need to pray too when it comes to service, especially when it comes to witnessing. So there you have it. Christ is our Pradomus, and he is gone before. He's our forerunner. Our job is to make his job easy. Our job is to make him Look good. And if you don't remember anything from this message, if you don't get anything out of this message, may you just leave with this one thought. Remember this in his eyes. You're quite a catch. You're quite a find