In nineteen fourteen, Robert Frost wrote a poem entitled Mending Wall. It's about a spring ritual shared between two neighbors. Every year they walk along the wall of rocks that divide them and they repair it. One of them, however, begins to wonder why they even need this wall. He has apple trees And his neighbor has pine. It's not like the apples will roll over and eat the pines. It's not like they have unruly cows that will trespass. But the other neighbor insists good fences make good neighbors What do you think? Do good fences really make good neighbors? Before we even talk about fences, it's most important to ask, what is a neighbor? What is a good neighbor? Thankfully, God provides answers in today's passage. Let's turn to Luke chapter 10, verse 25 to 37, and read it together. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him, What is written in the law? What is your reading of it? So he answered and said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have answered rightly, do this and you will live. But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Then Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, who stripped them of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Now by chance a certain priest came down that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Likewise a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. On the next day when he departed, he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, when I come again, I will repay you. So which of these three do you think was neighbor to him who fell among the deeps? And he said, He who showed mercy on him. Then Jesus said to him, Go and do likewise. The main point of today's passage is that a good neighbor is one that loves you as him or herself. Three principles elaborate on this. One, love is God's demands fulfilled. Verses twenty-five to twenty-eight Two, love is divine opportunity missed. Verses twenty-nine to thirty-two And three, love is neighborly mercy revealed. Verses 33 to 37 First, love is God's demands fulfilled. It will be good for us to retrace our steps and connect verses 25 to 28. To what happened in verses 21 to 24, which we looked at last week. Recall how Jesus has just given thanks to the Father because he has hidden these things, kingdom truths, from the wise and prudent. And reveal them to babes. That's in verse 21. Jesus also told his disciples privately: many prophets and kings have desired to see what you see and have not seen it. And to hear what you hear and have not heard it, and that was in verse twenty four. These followers of Jesus were privileged beyond the scholars and the learned people of their day Right after he said these things, we have in verse 25, and behold, a certain lawyer. This one's the epitome of the wise and prudent. This one's closer to prophets and kings than fishermen and tax collectors. Now, lawyers are not jurisdoctors of today, but experts of the law of Moses. They're synonymous with scribes and probably the same as the teachers of the law. One way to look at lawyers in this passage is to see them as priests off duty. They served as legal experts when they weren't performing their temple duties. But all this knowledge would not do them good. We saw earlier in chapter 7, verse 30. That they, along with Pharisees, rejected the will of God for themselves, not having been baptized by John. They would also reject Jesus the Messiah, whom John the Baptist proclaimed. So reading today's passage in context, we shouldn't expect too much from our lawyer friend here, even if he stands tall and impressive. Behind this eloquence is an ulterior motive. The word for test in verse 25 is found three other times in the New Testament. And in each instance, there's a warning. Do not put God to test. Ironically, this Bible expert doesn't realize he's testing God. Jesus is no mere rabbi. He is Lord. He is the Son of God who reveals the Father It's likely that this man wanted to detect a mistake or expose some ambiguity in Jesus' words. But our Lord is too wise to fall for this trap. So he takes over the questioner role and has the man answer his own original question And without fanfare, the Q<unk>A session is over, and the discussion ended quicker and shorter than expected But let's slow down for our soul's sake. Even if the lawyer's motive was off. The question of eternal life is too important for us to speed tasted. Eternal life is tied up in God's demands. And all of God's demands are tied up in two commandments. One is in Deuteronomy 6. 5, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind. The others in Leviticus 1918. Love your neighbor as yourself. Love your God above you. Love your fellow man near you. This twofold love is the fulfillment of God's demands. Jesus stressed the supremacy of these two loves at least two other times, once to a rich young ruler. and the other time to another lawyer in Jerusalem. This lesson was not lost on Jesus' followers like James and Paul, as you see in Romans, Galatians, and Seems simple Prioritizing love is simple, yet humbling. Is that really all that is? You might say to yourself Is love a concept that's difficult to grasp? No, it's found in childlike faith, not in ivory towers. Is love for the elite of the society? No, it's found among the lowly and the poor. Is love what most worldly career-driven types consider as a source of pride? No, it's sacrificial and takes the focus off of us. Love is God's demands fulfilled. God's demands are there so that we can enjoy a harmonious relationship with Him and our neighbors. But what happens when there are demands without love? They would be empty. Maybe you'll get a taste of this in this illustration. Uh a few years ago I read what Albert Einstein wrote to his first wife, Maleva. Sadly, it wasn't a love letter. His marriage was floundering, but for the sake of the children, he wanted to keep it going. So he wrote his wife a list of demands. Here it goes Quote, you will make sure that my clothes and laundry are kept in good order, that I will receive my three meals regularly in my room. That my bedroom and study are kept neat, and especially that my desk is empty for my use only. You will renounce all personal relations with me insofar as they are not completely necessary for social reasons Specifically, you will forego my sitting at home with you, my going out or traveling with you. You will obey the following points in your relations with me. You will not expect any intimacy from me Nor will you reproach me in any way. You will stop talking to me if I request it. You will leave my room, bedroom, or study immediately without protest if I request it. You will undertake not to belittle me in front of our children, either through words or behavior. End quote Here's a man who studied the laws of the universe, but not the laws of love. Here's a man who developed a theory of relativity, but not his relatability. Here's a man who wanted his demands devoid of love, but not God's demands fulfilled by love. A man brilliant in mind, but dull in heart. In his research, he changed the world far and wide. In his marriage, he destroyed his home, close and near. But let's not be so hasty to Judge Einstein or this lawyer in today's passage. Maybe we're like these two when it comes to knowledge, but could it be that we lost sight of love? Do we not also fail to love God with everything? Do we not find the knowledge of this command easy, but the obedience of it difficult? Do we not want to disjustify ourselves by thinking that we've done a good job with our neighbors? And that leads to the second point. Love is divine opportunity missed. After failing to stump Jesus, this lawyer was about to get dismissed. Not so fast, he probably thought to himself, I'm going to take this Galilean apart. And show my piety with an extended talk on the word neighbor. I'm going to show everyone that I have in fact loved my neighbor as I loved myself. That's probably what's going through his mind. That's when Jesus begins the parable, and it's about a man traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho. In all likelihood, a Jew completing some religious duty. The story mostly takes place on the road between the two cities. Josephus, the first century Jewish historian, informs us that city to city it was about 17 miles. Within that distance was the harrowing descent of about 3,000 feet. We add to this natural danger, the danger of ambush by thieves. And this is exactly what the man falls victim to. There's no need to overthink this and say he was dumb to travel alone or he must have done something wrong. He's a victim of human evil. And there are many victims of human evil out there. Victims of rape, human trafficking, abuse. List goes on. While we can't help them all, God may bring just one of them to our path. Are we ready to help? Providence first affords the opportunity to a priest who also left Jerusalem for Jericho. As I said earlier, priests shift to their legal expert duties as soon as they fulfill their obligation in Jerusalem. So this priest in the parable is quite similar to the lawyer speaking with Jesus. And see how the priest fails. Yes, his obligation to the sacrifice at the altar is done, but his obligation to love on the road is never done. Sadly he passes by the wounded fellow Israelite. Perhaps the priest half man, half dead meant fully dead. Perhaps he feared that the robbers would return to the scene of the crime. Whatever the excuse, love is divine opportunity missed Next, a Levite comes along. Our Canthus reminds us that Levites were not as widely recognized as priests, but they still played a uh still played key roles at the temple. They held privileged positions as liturgists and overseers. You could compare their office to the Christian office of deacons. The wording in verse 32 suggests that at least this one went up relatively closer to get a better look at the victim. But the end result is the same. He passed by the other side. Again, whatever the excuse, love is divine opportunity missed. Before we get to the climax of the parable, we should stop and ask whether we're like the priest and the Levite. When God gives us opportunity to show mercy, do we close our eyes, hold our nose, and pass by the other side? Are we asking in prayer, God use me as your instruments of mercy, but saying in secret, I don't want to get my hands dirty. Is love an opportunity you seize, or is love divine opportunity missed? We can talk about God's love all we want and recite John 3. 16 from memory. But do we know 1 John 3. 16? By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. And we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. He continues in the next verse. But whoever has this world's goods and sees his brother in need and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him? We can have faith moving mountains, but is your faith moving to help others James 2, 14 to 17. It says, What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and wannabe says to them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled. But you do not give them the things which are needed for the body. What does it profit? Thus also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Of course, I'm not saying your good works of charity can save you and get you into heaven. Only Jesus and his finished work can save you. But God's children who genuinely trust in their father will bear good fruit and shine their light in the dark world. They will eventually repent from these sins of omission in due time if the scriptures convict them. They will not perpetually miss divine opportunities if the Holy Spirit is working in them. Vessels of mercy will become instruments of mercy. And that leads to the third point. Love is neighborly mercy revealed. Jesus is the author of this parable, so it's entirely up to him how to deliver the punchline. The third and the final man to encounter the victim could have been an Israelite layman, not Samaritan. He could have been an Israelite regular blue-collar worker. Then the point would be that religious elitism does not lead to mercy. Or Jesus could have said, but a certain tax collector or sinner It would make the same point, but more forcefully. It would still be scandalous. But nothing prepared for what followed But a certain Samaritan. Imagine the shock of the crowd I wonder if there were audible gasps, murmurs, heads lowered from awkwardness I wonder if there were teeth clenching, arms crossed, or even individuals getting up and leaving. Imagine the shock of James and John. Back in chapter 9. They wanted to call down fire from heaven to consume a whole lot of them. This was too much. A Samaritan? Really? Imagine the shock of the lawyer. He read of the Samaritans' syncretistic and mixed race origins from 2 Kings 17. He knew that they set up a rival religion with their own version of the Bible. They established their own worship center in Mount Gerizim, though it was destroyed about a century and a half ago. He was familiar with the current strife between his people and them. According to Josephus, Samaritans harassed Jewish pilgrims They scattered human bones in the Jerusalem sanctuary. The Jews counter-attacked their villages and there were rabbinic prayers asking God to not remember them in the resurrection. Commentator I. Howard Marshall thinks that if the Jewish victim wasn't half dead, he would have pushed away the Samaritan and refused his help. This was too much. Samaritan, really But the man was not in a position to refuse help. The Samaritans saw him and had compassion. Again, Jesus as the author of the parable could have shortened the story, just say the Samaritan helped the poor man at the end. No, Jesus will continue with details that are no doubt excruciating for the Jewish audience, the Samaritan. Based on what he had in his possession was most likely a merchant who had business in Jerusalem. Why else would he be in Jerusalem? Though hardly a holy man, he went and bandaged the wounds, probably ripping off his own garments to use as wraps. According to Joseph Fitzmeier, olive oil would cleanse and soothe the wounds, and the wine could work as an antiseptic. The Samaritan gets the man on the donkey and brought him to the Jericho Inn to care for him. Next day, this foreigner ensures his long-term care. He obligates himself to a stranger. He pays initially for a few days, say, and opens up a running tab with the innkeeper. It's clear the Samaritans, the hero of the story. The priest and the Levite are not To make things more awkward, Jesus plainly asks in verse 36, so which of these three do you think was neighbor to him who fell among the thieves? The lawyer could not bring himself to say the Samaritan, so he resorts to he who showed mercy on him Jesus dismisses him a second time, go and do likewise. Love is neighborly mercy revealed. A Samaritan. Really? The legal expert probably wished he left earlier. He was perfectly content with the narrow definition of neighbor. And judge him all you want. Do we not do the same Don't we consciously and subconsciously draw boundaries and play favorites? You may say, I like that friendly couple with the cute dog across the street But you may also say, I don't like that young couple who voted for my rival political party. You may say, I like that sweet old lady next door who has the American flag. But you may also say, I don't like that Middle Eastern lady who wears a hijab. It's in our simple instinct to define neighbors as those like us and enemies as those unlike us. But Jesus made clear what his demands are. Matthew 5, 43 to 48. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you. That you may be sons of your Father in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet your brethren only, what do you do more than others? Do not even tax collectors do so. Therefore you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. This perfection is love that divides the wall between the that that goes the wall between the neighbor and the enemy. That destroys it. This love is revealed in neighborly mercy. As one commentator wrote, it is neighborliness, not neighborhood, that makes a neighbor. In application, I wish for us to know the mercy of the Good Samaritan in two ways. One, in the way of the Christian, and two in the way of Christ. First, as Christians, if we're truly honest with ourselves, we have not been like this American. Let's repent and ask the Lord to help us. Who knows what poor, unfortunate soul we'll encounter this week? Are we ready? Secondly, let's also look at the hero of this parable in the way of Christ. This fictional Samaritan seems close to perfect as you can get. He loved his neighbor who was also his enemy. You might think that someone like that doesn't exist. The Good Samaritan is a fiction. You tell me that's that. Well, the Good Samaritan isn't just some unreal ideal for us. The Good Samaritan is an ideal realized for us in Jesus. If we call this character the good Samaritan, we might as well call Jesus the greater Samaritan. As Virgin does. Like the Samaritan, Jesus was also an outcast, rejected by the religious establishment, but he helped the suffering. As commentator John Martin writes, quote, the ultimate neighbor was Jesus, whose compassion contrasted with the Jewish religious leaders who had no compassion. On those who were perishing. And this compassion is offered to you Jesus went beyond the narrow bounds of our sinful neighboring to rescue the lost. And what mercy is this? If you think the gap between the Jew and the Samaritan was wide, hear what the Bible says about God and us. We were alienated and enemies of God by our wicked works. We were like the victim in the parable, except we weren't just half dead. We were dead in trespasses. And sins. Our wounds were self-inflicted. We've all turned away from God and went on the lonely path of self-destruction. And we robbed ourselves of joy. Yet, our greater Samaritan, our ultimate neighbor, Jesus found us and took care of us. He suffered as our substitute so that we could live. The price of our eternal salvation is much, much more than two denarii. He laid down his life for us. He himself took our griefs and infirmities and bore our sorrows and sicknesses. Because he was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, and the chastisement for our peace was upon him, we can say, by his stripes, we are healed. At the cross, he took upon himself God's wrath, the consequence of our sins. While we were enemies, he died so that we might live. After paying for our sins in full, he rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. Meanwhile, he gave us all the grace we need as we wait for him. If you've never been touched by the love of Christ and his mercy, won't you ask Jesus to heal you He loves you though you are his enemy. He will be your neighbor to you. He makes you an heir of eternal life. Not because you've done good. Like the victim in the parable. You're helpless to restore yourself. Simply trust in Jesus and lean on him to save you. Oh the deep, deep love of Jesus, vast, unmeasured, boundless free. Let's pray. Lord, you have a plan And it was no accident that you placed us on this continent, in this country In the state, in this county, in this city, in our neighborhood. It was all according to your plan. Lord, in these in the season of social distancing and self-preservation We're thankful for this time of reflection on whether we can be good neighbors, whether we really are neighbor to those around us. We're thankful that your word provides answers. We're even thankful that as we look at your word, we've seen that we've fallen short in our relationship with our neighbors. But we're thankful for your mercy, that you have saved us, and that, and though we cannot fulfill your laws Your son fulfilled it for us by loving us. We pray that that would motivate us to love others. May we start at our homes with our closest neighbor. Our spouses, our children. Help us to love our coworkers. Help us to love our friends. Help us to love Just those around us. Even if there are many reasons to hate them. We're thankful for your word, and we're thankful that we have the example and the sacrifice of your son to motivate us. We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen