So on december fourth, nineteen fifty-nine, the United Nations received a gift from what was then USSR, Soviet Union. It was a bronze sculpture by an artist named Yevgeny Guci. You see it on the right side of this coin. Behind this image on this of his face there, the figure of a powerful man, hammer raised in one hand. Sword and the other. He's reshaping the sword into a plowshare, a tool used to till land for crops. It symbolizes man's desire to end wars And transform tools of destruction into tools of peace. Of course, we know as saints that this image comes straight out of the Bible. It's there as Prophets Isaiah and Micah anticipate the millennial kingdom with Mount Zion and City Jerusalem at its center. They look forward to a time when Christ rules the world and judges nations and Peoples. All will yield to the King of Kings. That's when they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall lift up sword against nation, neither shall The beautiful scene of harmony is no wonder it stands majestically at the United Nations headquarters in New York, who doesn't and who wouldn't want that dream of utopia to come true? You don't have to be this United States Or miscongeniality to answer the question. What is the one most important thing our society needs? That would be harsher punishment for parole violators, Stan. And world peace. Now I want to be clear, there's nothing wrong with you know wanting world peace I'm not here to bash United Nations or beauty pageants. But there's something terribly wrong in the way most of us try to achieve unity. We need to realize it's something only God can grant us. Philosophically speaking, at best our you know, feudal efforts amount to something like secular Humanism today, biblically speaking, lasting peace is unattainable because we as fallen sinners do not know the way of peace. We need the grace of our Creator and Redeemer. We begin a new chapter in Genesis. We're reminded that our best efforts to pursue the best things cannot succeed, not without God's sovereign grace. Not without his sovereign decree. The Lord brings the council of nations to nothing. He makes the plans of the peoples of no effect. Psalm Isaiah 14. It's all over the scriptures. We'll see all also in today's passage. Now before we delve into Genesis 11 It's helpful to review what happened in the last few chapters. Like Adam, Eve, and their children, Noah, his wife, his three sons, and their wives had the task of populating the globe. God's desire, His blessed command, is to be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth. It was heard loud and clear as every survivor who came out of the Settled all over. But what we find in today's passage is this such dispersal was not in the human agenda at first. They had desire to stick together. Instead of going out and spreading out to fill the con corners and recesses of the earth, they rather pull their resources, pile it up in a pile of heap. Of course their strategy would fail. God made sure of it. Let's see how this happened exactly as we turn to Today's passage, which is Genesis eleven, one to nine Now the whole earth had one language and one speech, and it came to pass as they journeyed from the east that they found a plain in the land of Shannar and they dwelt there. Then they said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and bake them thoroughly. They had brick for stone, and they had asked And they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower whose top is in the heavens. Let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth. But the Lord came down to see their city, see the city, and the tower which the sons of men had built. And the Lord said, Indeed the people are one, and they all have one language, and this is what they begin to do. Now nothing that they propose to do will be withheld from them. Come, let us go down and there confuse their language that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth, and they ceased building the city. Therefore, its name is called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of So here we have the first United Nations Council, if you want to call it that. It predates the modern one. By 4300 years. But it's the same thing millennium after millennium. Even after all the accomplishments and achievements and advancements, after putting the man on the moon and mapping out the human Genome, we have the same old problem. Same hubris plagues mankind. See how so in this sermon text The structure of today's passage reminds us of Psalm 2. There David asked why nations rage and the people plot in vain, right? Plot of vain Now leaders in the land of Shanar are not as openly hostile against God and his anointed. Their Bob Babel project is not as bad as you know a full-blown rebellion. Saying let us make bricks, build us Make a name for ourselves. Sounds tame compared to let us break away their bonds and cast away their courts. But still the same interpret Enterprise, insubordinate spirit, drives those of both passages. And beyond that parallel display of human deceit, there's The parallel in the reaction of God. The Lord of heaven responds to the uproar of earth. It's his turn to speak. It's his turn to respond. He will judge them and frustrate their feudal ploys. It should not be a big surprise that I've ordered this passage into two parts, verses one to four. Is that initial move from the men of earth boasting to each other, their plans to ascend. Verses 5 to 9 is the counter from the God of heaven, frustrating their plans after he descends. There's no need for round three, God wins. Obviously, and you can expect the same results present and future. Like the kings and judges of the past, we must be wise, be instructed For that end, here are two biblical charter principles of governance, if you want to call it that. First, be warned men in their vanity unite to oppose. Secondly, be assured, God in his sovereignty overcomes the evil plan of man. That's five to nine. First be warned, men in their vanity unite to oppose the good plan of God. Chapter begins with the positive report of Noah's word Verse 1 takes us about a hundred years since its exit out of the ark. Here's how I get that. We can calculate that by working backwards from the birth year of Shem's Great-great grandson Peleg. You might recall from chapter ten that his name signified a monumental event. It said in Genesis 1025 that in his days the earth Earth was divided. As I said last week, that's not speaking of some continental drift or plate tectonics. Rather, the division concerns the great diaspora From the Tower of Babel. Now it's just a matter of adding up the numbers for the dating. Look at the genealogy found later in this chapter, Genesis eleven. Pelek was born when Aber was thirty-four, Eber was born when Salah was thirty, Salah was born when Ark Basad was thirty-five, Arkasad was born two years after the flood, two plus thirty-four plus thirty plus century or so was a unique, unprecedented time. The world was full of potential. No, if if the earth feels big today with over eight billion people How big did it feel back then for the few, the eight that stepped out of the ark? As they grew, they stuck together. Shared unity and diversity. Together they sought adventures and encountered discoveries at every corner. Maybe maps were drawn, trails were blazed. Had there been record books They were constantly updated with first, most, and greatest. And over time, this mass of people must have relocated once or twice Verse 2 says from the east. For that to make sense, we can't assume Noah's family stayed at Mount Ararat this whole time. Maybe they moved past the Persian Gulf. But then turn back eastward towards the land of Shannar in modern-day Iraq. And land of Shannar should sound familiar. Remember last week, back in Genesis 10, that that's where Nimrod, the son of Kush, the Grandson of Ham first settled. It was a mighty one on the earth and a mighty hunter before the Lord Remember that was the first time we saw the word kingdom in the Bible, his rule stretched over Babel, Erik, Akad, Kelna, all in the land of Shannar. If his name means anything in the context, it's notable Nimrod is derived from the word rebel. That'd be fitting for the one heading up the Tower of Babel project Perhaps this was the his was the leading voice that led the chorus of verse three to four. And this was no simple DIY masonry project. They're not brick and mortar for garden walls in our front yards or fire pits in our backyard They're thinking big, bigger than houses or bridges. A city would not only feed their eagles, it would keep them together. It may start small, but would expand maybe beyond this urban center to its outskirts. It would be a great city, not a small one like Elkgridge. That's not counted, 26,000. If they had it their way, it'd be in the millions, like those in Tokyo, Japan, or South It's the perfect object lesson for this warning. Men in their vanity unite to oppose the good plan of God. But they also have their sights on a tower. translation it's easy to picture the tallest high risers of today like Birj Khalifa in Dubai. I mean closer to us I'm thinking on something like Willis Tower in Chicago when we visited Nine years ago, right? Ira and I got to stand on that famous ledge on just one point five inch of glass, right? Thirteen hundred fifty-three feet in the air. But it's unlikely that the citizens of Babel built a tall, narrow structure like that. It's probably closer to the the Mayans Step pyramids or the ancient Mesopotamian ziggurats. Whatever they drawn in their blueprint, the purpose was clear. Let us make a name Name for ourselves lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the earth, face of the whole earth. Back in Genesis four seventeen Cain had built a city and named it after his son Enoch. But Nimrod and those of his kingdom wanted a different kind of glory. They wanted more than a family business. We know Babel in Hebrew means confusion based on this passage, but say we located this homonym in another old language like Akkadia. Abilu meant something else. Abilu, their city name, originally meant gate of God. That makes sense because with their knowledge, the citizens aspire to reach the heavens above, study the stars, add to their tomes of astrology, so prominent in ancient Babylonian culture And so their ambition was to stay where they were and rise above earth. That goal replaced obedience to God. His command to multiply and fill the earth. Their motto might as well be the earth will be filled with the knowledge and the glory of Babel. the glory of the Lord. How foolish it is that men in their vanity unite to oppose the good plan of God I wonder how much sorrow the faithful remnant felt as the plans were finalized and construction got underway. I I mean remember Pick Noah's still alive here. Picture him, that aging old preacher of righteousness maybe was sidelined or marginalized. Imagine his dismay as history repeats itself before The same cause for the global flood and the end of all flesh, sin and rebellion once again plagues human society. Had he spoken of, his desperate pleas to stop the madness must have fallen on deaf fears. Andor they were drowned out by the shouts of Nimrod. Loyalist, at least he could find solace in God's promise that a catastrophic deluge would not end the world again But there's another source of comfort for Noah. At times the Lord will directly step into history and intervene in an unusual way. Yes that's the second charter principle of governance, be assured, God in his sovereignty overcomes the evil plan of man. After the sons of men made their move, it was the Lord's turn in verse five. It says he went down, which itself is a rebuke of human pride. Believe they could climb up and through the gate of God, but in reality, the true God of the universe must condescend to be with us at our level. This is again an instance of biblical anthropomorphism. God makes accommodation for us linguistically, speaking in a language that we can understand, to teach us how great and big He is. He who sits above the circle of the earth comes down to its lowest parts. It is as if he had taken the stairs from the top executive floor to our basement level down here. And the visit to Babel was likely a culvert operation. If the later visit to Sodom and Gomorrah was any indication, here's how it happened, maybe And the second person of the Trinity disguised himself in angelic form. This is what's called Theophany or Christophany. Perhaps he took And verse six is the mission report. There's indeed unity of people and unity of language. Now, if such oneness was driven by faith and humility, That's greater. I'm into that. But not all unity is good unity. Think of Rezin and Pekka or Herod and Pilate. A city and the tower of Babel is a testament to human potential for evil. That's what God means at the last part of verse six. Now nothing that they propose to do what we With help from them? No, say I leave my kids at home right alone. Gave them unlimited access to all the rooms and all the electronics that Daniel and Annette Can do whatever they want. That might sound like good news to the kids at least, but it's not, right? Imagine the chaos. Okay, maybe you've done this, I don't know. Um they release our dog into the neighborhood, I would Imagine. They watch TV forever, eat whatever they want, create a huge mess. They might climb into dangerous places, handle sharp tools and utensils. Hurt themselves and maybe they'll even burn the house down. Scary to think that nothing that they propose to do will be withheld from them In the same way, one government with one language is not all as cracked up to be when we do not submit to the one God and Father of all. So it's time for the Lord to put his foot down and as the adult in the room. As if he sends them away, sulking each to their rooms. God does something even better than that. In verse 7, we have his wise and firm disciplinary action. You see the third word of the sentence, us with the U capitalized. This is a Trinitarian conversation between God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Spirit. That reminds us of the sixth day of creation. Recall when God in three persons said in Genesis 1 26, let us make man in one image in our image According to our likeness, we hear let us again, but not on a happy occasion. The Lord speaks, and humanity is fractured. God We're not sure exactly how the uh what the Lord did here and how he did it. Here's my guess. My theory of origins of languages is that God gifted the language to mankind from the first moment of our existence. Think of our brain and speech motor skills as the hardware or video game console. If that's the case, language is software or game cartridge got downloaded or inserted into us. He gave one to Adam and Eve. The first language was Likely a proto-Semitic language. It's passed down one generation after another. Copy and paste. Copy and paste. But here when God confused the common language, it's as if He changed codes or introduced a mix of whole variety of cartridges. Uh sorry for your tech titles if I'm messing this up, but I'm trying, okay. But whatever happened, okay, men woke up and realized They're not speaking the same thing or meaning the same thing. For some it was literally all Greek to me. They need an interpreter, but since this happened so suddenly They need time to reorganize as smaller groups. And that's how the massive project of Babel never got done Now we must stop to appreciate the genius of God in all this. What if he has just come down and knocked over the structure like a tower of Jenga blocks? Or what if he pulled apart City buildings, houses, and roads one by one like Lego bricks. You can see where I get sermon illustrations. But what would have happened then Well humanity with this indomitable spirit would have tried again and again. It would have provoked the Lord again and again By targeting their language, he is efficient and effective. They've been separated in a profound and deep way. So that's how God accomplishes his purpose according to verse eight. Compare that with verse four, right? Verse four in the with Sons of men fearing they be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth. Verse 8 tells us their fears came true. The Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth. Back to verse 4. Builders said, Come, let us build ourselves a city. In verse 8, according to God's decree, they ceased building a city. More parallels to follow. In verse nine, those of Babel said, Let us make a name for ourselves and hope to perpetuate The great name and build uh Babel as the gate of God. But the final word for today is that Babel's name now means confusion. The Lord confused the language. Of all the earth. Again, that's how from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth. So God, in his sovereignty, not only overcomes the evil plan of man, The Lord gets done what he had determined from the very beginning. He cannot be stopped. Even if men in their vanity unite to oppose the good plan of God So these are the two biblical charter principles of governance. The practical implications Are not that complicated, I honestly. You know, Stephen read earlier from James 4, and in that same chapter are some simple commands relevant for today. Submitted But here's the problem, you know. It's not the problem is not understanding the commands. The problem is that we're not submissive We're not humble. The draw from my experience, we're like an unruly dog that refuses to listen, won't heel, pulls on the leash to chase after a squirrel. Again Very close to my experience. But to on a more serious note, to draw upon the Bible, we're like a stubborn calf that wanders off, endangers itself, exposing itself to predators Hosea 4 says, Isaiah 53, all of us are like sheep that have gone astray. I'm trying to say that the account of Genesis 11:1 to 9. It's really our story, spiritually speaking. We are restless. We wander and journey all over to find stability here on earth. We dwell and we build on poor and weak foundations. Foundations that do not last. Instead of asking the Lord what He wants, we assert our will. Declare, let us do this, let us do that. Today or tomorrow we will go to such a Spend a year there, buy and sell, and make a profit. Our speech and actions prove that we're captivated by this world and comporn To this world. Instead of seeking the good and acceptable and perfect will of God, we ignore it, even oppose it. We boast in our evil arrogance. We seek to make a name for ourselves instead of giving unto the Lord the glory to his name. We think that we can climb to great heights. Maybe we have our own idea of gate of God. Like the later king of Babylon in Isaiah 14, we say in our heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like Like the most high. Pride is why we're worthy of the same dreadful sentence of death and hell. Eternity apart from God. If that's the case, what are we to do down here in our rubble and shambles I recall something David Platt, a pastor and author, wrote in his book Radical, who was standing outside of a temple in Indonesia. There was a Buddhist leader and a Muslim leader, and they were talking and agreed that major world religions all teach the same essential thing. The differences, they say, the two say, Are superficial. Turn to Platt to get his Christian opinion. Like any good listener, the pastor first summarized their thoughts. Quote, it sounds as It seems as if you believe that we are all at the bottom of the mountain, and I may take One road up the mountain, you may take another, and in the end we will all end up in the same place. But then David Plath leaned in and said, Now let me ask you a question. What would you think if I told you that the god at the top of the mountain actually came down to where What would you think if I told you that God doesn't wait for people to find their way to Him, but instead He comes to us Two listeners stopped for a moment and then responded. That would be great. Fact then replied. Let me introduce you to Jesus. Be warned, there are not many ways to reach heaven. Even if somehow we can combine all of our supposed paths into one great long path. It only amounts to a wide gate and a broad road that leads to destruction. You can't buy a stairway to heaven. Good works and charity will barely get you off the ground. It has to be God the Father sending His Son, Christ Jesus, God and man in one person. According to that plan, being found in appearance as a man, Jesus humbled himself, he became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. It was there that Christ was declared to all in three languages, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. There he suffered, though he never once thought, said, or did anything wrong. The humblest man was humble to the extreme, to say prideful and boastful man. Men like you and me. They pay the penalty of sin that we should pay. The wrath of God fell on him as our substitute. were finished and bleeded his last. He died and he was buried. But on the third day Jesus rose from the grave. Death could no longer hold him. The humiliation Was now passed him, now was the time for exaltation. After giving proofs of his resurrection, Jesus ascended to heaven. And someday he'll return to judge all mankind. That's the day as the Lord of hosts has purposed it to bring to dishonor the pride of all glory, to bring into contempt all the honorable of the earth. We'll hear triumphant voices declare, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. The kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. and he shall reign forever and ever. You want to be safe and secure, ready for that day and enjoy life forever. Repent. Turn from sin. Don't live to make a name for yourself. Rather call upon the name of Jesus. There's no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Only trust in him for salvation. He is the ladder of heaven, and upon him angels ascend and descend. door of the sheep. If anyone enters by him, he will be saved and will go in and go out and find pasture. He is the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through God offers heaven salvation and eternal life as a gift. There's nothing you can do to earn it or desire it. Because God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone. In Christ alone, we can only receive with thankful hearts. Now we live for the Glory of God alone. The desire of our soul is for his name. So let's make our last song our prayer. You are worthy to be praised with my ever Lord, we thank you for these humbling reminders that whatever life, career, home, project we build Or we are like grasshoppers in your eyes. You who sit at the circle upon the circle of the earth, whose throne is in heavens, and earth is your footstool. Lord, remind us of just how weak we are, how much we need you. And it's a good thing to be humble this way. Lord, to face life's challenges and to realize The frustrations that we feel, our thorns and thistles of the ground, our incomplete projects, all the things we do. We commit ourselves to you, knowing that you You give us success. And without you, without your grace, without grace that comes from your Son Jesus Christ, without your Holy Spirit dwelling in us, we cannot do anything. Apart from You we can do nothing, Jesus. So we pray that you will remind us each and every day. And Lord, not only should we extinguish pride in our hearts, help us to proclaim The truth of the gospel to those who are going astray, to those who would build a life for themselves apart from you. That we would be faithful witnesses Just thank you for your word. Thank you for the gospel. That really does put us in our place and is the best place we can be as we submit ourselves to you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen