Are we trying to be above others? And perverse generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. Right. Or Gen Z, I don't know what's gonna come next, but we're out of the letters there. And beginning of the next. Uh John tells us it's three times in John 7, 10 and 12, in Tabernacle in the Feast of Tabernacles, Hanukkah, and Passover. sometime in twenty twenty. It's been more recent and others. The same. the crestfallen disciples before the crowd did not set about exercising the demon themselves as a proof of orthodoxy. asks about the length of the condition, receives further information about the demonic attacks, and challenges him to believe in God's power. If you're interested in that, you should be able to find it online at our website. in verse 41, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and bear with you? A friend got me this book by Paul Tripp entitled Dangerous Calling, Confronting the Unique Challenges of Pastoral Ministry. as we see in Matthew 18, 1. And the emphasis on verse 48 is not on the disciples' ability or inability to be childlike. Jesus as the Messiah who appears in weakness on earth. Let the Lord humble you. pastors, churches and denominations and ministries, that God would grow them and continue to bless them. Christ is Lord to the glory of the God the Father. As Jesus tells us in Matthew ten, sixteen. And he suddenly cries out. And said to them, Whoever receives this little child in my name receives me, and whoever receives me receives him who sent me. All will be great. Verses 37 to 43, the first part of verse 43. We know from Mark 9, verse 14, that among the multitude gathered there were scribes disputing with the disciples of Jesus. The disciples' inability to cast out the unclean spirit and Jesus' exacerbated response. witnesses in the first sentence of verse forty three, and they were all amazed at the majesty of God accused of bullying, sexual harassment, dictatorship, financial impropriety, and there were also accusations of attempted murder. He was crucified and buried. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. Jesus' suffering. to serve others, then it becomes really hard. two. Obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. We pray that our children and our grandchildren never forget the gospel and cling on to it as they face temptations and struggles. See, adult is not just an adjective or a noun, it's a verb. to be childlike but not childish. Then Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, healed the child, and gave him back to his father. God. And the exact words found in the Greek version of Deuteronomy thirty two, verse five. Moses begins a tirade against the Israelites. But Jesus rebuked the demon, healed the child, and gave him back to his father. Other prophets of the Old Testament? But they did not understand the majesty of God the Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, as Peter, James, and John just did on the mountain, 2 Peter 1, 16. Grace. No, this really seems like an odd time for Jesus to make the second pa uh prediction of his passion. Christ. God, but made himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bond servant, and coming in the likeness of men, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of Ask yourselves these questions. Of men, but they did not understand this thing, and it was hidden from them, so that they did not perceive it, and they were afraid to ask him about But it is interesting that there's a connection to Deuteronomy. And we can stop adding to the sinful noise by praising God, evangelizing, teaching God's truths. Observe the second part of verse 43. Of night, away from the crowds, Judas betrayed him by identifying him with the kiss of greeting. And the main reason we endure pain now is because Jesus suffered before he experienced glory. Now, back to Luke for this week. And I believe that's one of the plans that God's ha God has for us as Christians. Suddenly a man from the multitude cried out, saying, Teacher, I implore you, look on my son, for he is my only child. And here's how I made sense of the situation. But we might stop and think about the words of R. The crowds that were gathered, the father who was doubting, and especially the scribes who opposed Jesus. Regarding their need to have greater faith, pray, and fast. And you turn to the back cover of this book, and you will find five prominent Christian leaders who have endorsed it. Coral Ridge Presbyterian Church. It says in verse 24 in Luke Acts 2 that God raised up Jesus from the dead because it was impossible for death to have power over him. When you find others or yourself on a high horse, tell them and tell yourself that we are to suffer in this world as Christ did. But the next episode revealed they really didn't get basic humility, and that leads to the next point: be great by being little There are many more chapters in Luke, and I encourage you to read on, but chapter 9, verse 50 is a good place to pause. A father comes to Jesus because of his son, and Jesus sets another child as an example for the disciples. Even as we do adult things like building a career, buying a house, starting a family, you know, younger folks have called such responsibilities adulting. That manifestations of unbelief in every generation are complaining, grumbling, disputing. Knowing that his time is short, the demon tried to hurt the child once more to the point that it initially appeared to have killed the boy according to Mark 9. We can be a city on a hill that cannot be hidden. Because Jesus had taken Peter, John, and James up into the mountain, top with him, and the others were jealous. From 951 to 1927, we have what's called the travel narrative. Now how does that relate to most of us who have left behind our childhood? And who rejected the testimony of Jesus in the early church. How are we doing in avoiding its influence? By the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. To come back in. The three remaining are Tulian Chevigian, Joshua Harris, and James McDonald. He found ready and willing crime partners in the religious leaders who were jealous and afraid of him, leading a mob to Jesus' location in the colour. Which we know in 2020 hindsight. Once their eyes and minds are open, they will understand how suffering and glory are tied together in the person of Jesus Christ. I spoke about this last week, but it's worth repeating. And thank God that Jesus didn't demand what he did not himself go through. Tell them about the glory to come. To enter the kingdom of God, we must become humble and powerless as they are and trust in Jesus. He humbled himself and suffered to pay the eternal penalty for our sins. As Peter exhorted, I say to you, be saved from this perverse generation. Last year on Father's Day, I guess spoke here and spoke on Mark 9, 14 to 29, in a sermon entitled A Father's Plea. We must stand out in the midst of a faithless and perverse generation. No, even pastors struggled to separate from this dark generation. That you may approve what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. The suffering of Christ and glory of Christ. Will we be carefree like a child, or will we be possessive with our status and fame? And just from a cursory look at this passage, we learn a bit about what Jesus thinks about children. Verse forty-five. The Jews of Galilee in Jesus' days, the citizens of the Roman Empire in the early church, or the decadent society of the United States today I am tempted to believe that the multitudes trusted in Jesus after this miracle, but I doubt it. If we don't understand these truths, then we won't understand the Lord's suffer. Verses 49 to 50 give us the test. But I believe we can have the best of both worlds. The religious leaders were trying to win over the crowd by pointing to the botched exorcism attempt. You know, while our Lord was certainly disappointed with his disciples, I think this exhausted reply extends to everyone present. Going even further, I think that this perverse generation can in fact relate to the entire world of unbelievers who rejected Jesus. It's imperative that we believe in the midst of unbelief, which is all around us. The Spirit causes believers to be born again, and then the Spirit empowers us in the journey to heaven. It was imperative that Jesus' identity as Christ of God and his reputation as a miracle worker are juxtaposed with his destiny to die on the cross. See how in the midst of all the praises of men, Jesus spoils the party with the predictions of betrayal of men. In Acts 2. In the opposite example, when someone is downtrodden and discouraged in the midst of a faithless and perverse generation. I want to let this mind be in me, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God did not consider it robbery to be equal with Resurrected, incorruptible, and the only person who can forgive your sins so that you may live forever. Takes a little child and sets him before them. I know that's a burden of many of you. After the mountaintop experience of Peter, James, and John, they descend to find a crowd waiting at the bottom. How do we do that? Understand Jesus' suffering along with his glory Understand Jesus' suffering along with his glory. Judas for years had an up and close look at Jesus and decided in the end he is not the Messiah he had hoped for. Mark records that the argument took place on the way to Capernaum, but they did not want Jesus to know about it. Are we becoming great by being little? That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ But while everyone marveled at all the things which Jesus did, he said to his disciples, Let these words sink it sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hand of God. We do learn from the Father's words that the Son was his only child. But the truths hidden for a time will be revealed in full. But Jesus was not there when they first arrived. It looked like no one could help. Do all things without complaining and disputing, that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without fault, in the midst of a crooked Now I'm not handsome and charismatic like these men, but I am just as sinful. Jesus' answer is that John should leave him alone. And if the disciples are able to accept children who appear powerless and humble, if they are able to embrace humility in others and in themselves and in Christ, then they are able to receive Jesus. Then Jesus answered and said, Oh faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and bear with you? Then a dispute arose among them as to which of them would be greatest. The object of our faith is Jesus. And it's interesting that Luke connects both predictions closely to the times when popular opinions about Jesus were expressed. If we would turn away from our sins that lead us to hell and turn to Christ in faith, we will be saved. He did not want others to have the same power and publicity as the twelve had. Pray even for those you do not feel any natural affection for. And during these trips, Jesus will teach many things and encounter many people. Luke chapter nine, verse thirty seven to fifty Christ Himself modeled that for us by stressing the tribulations that would come in Jerusalem. So then the paradox of humility is rightly expressed at the end of verse 48. But after you are saved, be certain you have the Holy Church standing with you. Can I be happy that the church down the street is prospering? The disciples will now understand that being a lead leader isn't all about being great in the eyes of others. I think there are three principles from these verses. And that's why we return to the main point. I highly recommend it for everyone, not just for pastors, but friends and family of pastors too, or ministers or missionaries. The same holds true for us. It's been a while since we have left behind our childhood, but but there must be something special about childhood we want to keep with us as we grow older. Now John answered and said, Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because he does not follow with us. 23, we read that the betrayal, arrest, and crucifixion all took place in accordance with God's determined purpose and knowledge, foreknowledge. So before I begin, I want to announce the end of the current service sermon series Today will be the last day we talk about Jesus' ministry in the Gospel of Luke for some time. Putting all these things together. How do we follow Christ? We have the passage there for you in the bulletin. The former Maryland pastor Joshua Harris has left the faith recently and recanted his original biblical stance against the LGBTQ plus community. Are we comfortable stooping in stature? I want to love the childlike humility that is in Jesus. Do I believe in the gospel? It convulses him so that he foams at the mouth, and it departs from him with great difficulty, bruising him. And they were perhaps trying to settle the dispute in a roundabout way. I believe at times we won't even know the extent of our pride until we jump into opportunities Thirdly, be great by being little. And personally, in this struggle, resisting the allure of the world requires us to die to ourselves, to our desires, and follow Christ. You know, it's tempting for us to also pile it on Jesus' followers there, the disciples. As the title suggests, we're going to encounter children today. But all these events were not a surprise or shock to God, and the crucifixion was not the end of the story. Jesus calls us out of that generation to trust in him. I mean that sometimes and it's probably a good idea to not wait until you feel humble enough to serve. William Barclay records one records one possible reason this particular choral arose. I mean, they were certainly amazed at the majesty of God the Father through these miracles But the disciples did not understand all these gospel truths immediately. Something we can do right away. Now it happened on the next day when they had come down from the mountain that a great multitude met him. But he was later caught in two sex scandals, uh deposed by his Presbytery, and fell and it seems to have taught some strange things about The kingdom of God, Christ will commence. Now, how do we know we have properly placed ourselves as least among others? While everyone was in awe of Jesus' works, he turns to his disciples to talk about his upcoming betrayal. Next week I will begin a new topical series on the Ten Commandments. They have corrupted themselves, they are not his children, because of their blemish, a perverse and crooked generation. Paul says to the Gentile church in 1 Corinthians 1:18, for the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. Um we go back to A? Alan Colt, a commentator. I'll just give two applications here and I'm assuming I'm not gonna assume that everyone in this room knows Jesus. Jesus demands us Christians to suffer now for glory later. There's a big difference. The scribes came along with the father and his demon-possessed son, and they wanted to test Jesus and his authority. We have the benefit of the scriptures to help us fully understand Jesus' suffering along with his glory. Now we must remember that this isn't just a teaching about children. And I believe scripture passages like the one we have today also teaches us Be a dependable adult, mature adult, and have the joy of being a child. Believe in the midst of unbelief. Do I understand Jesus' suffering along with his glory? And you know that will help us to deal with the suffering and the glory of the Christian. What about us though? Now, if you continue in Mark, you will see Jesus having a conversation with the Father. The cross. Whether it's Israel in the wilderness three millenniums and a half ago. He solves the unsolvable, loves the unlovable, redeems the irredeemable. This is why I'm so big on church membership. Or are we becoming little by striving to be great? It is Jesus who is truly great because he became little for our sake. First, believe in the midst of unbelief. So the nine remaining disciples tried in vain to cast out the demon. So as I said before I read, how can we be mature and childlike at the same time If they accept the idea of this humble king, they receive the Father who sent him. Second, understand Jesus' suffering along with his glory. Therefore God also has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. Are we helping each other avoid conformity to this world? Will we be secure or insecure in our low places? Paul writes in Philippians 2, 14 to 15. And after praising in that context, after praising God's perfection, truth, and justice, I challenge you to pray for your fellow members this week. Let's pray. Or must we always have prominence? And to them, to many of them, it's a burden. We want to maintain our humble childlike faith. As many of you know, the betrayal Jesus speaks of is the one orchestrated by Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve apostles. And then he was highly exalted. And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a little child and set him by him. But the focus of Luke is not on the Father's exchange with Jesus. Their fearful hesitation to ask Jesus about his suffering will turn into an open discussion very soon. The power. Verses forty-six to fifty. Quote One wonders why these same scribes, instead of further embarrassing It's also interesting that the phrase perverse generation is found Unlike Matthew and Mark, Luke does not mention the private lesson Jesus gave his disciples afterwards. Years ago See, they can't do it. And so let's read Luke chapter 9, verse 3. I don't know. Are we beseeching each other? We don't want to lose that childlike, dove like innocence, even as we become wise as serpents. I know that that's not something you guys do as a hobby, read the Greek version of the Old Testament. But Luke does record the response of the They did not understand Jesus in that way Unbelief and perversity are everywhere in every generation. We don't have to stand alone, like a candle in the suffocating darkness. Some of us I don't want to be like John here. In the span of about ten chapters and six months, we will see Jesus journeying to Jerusalem. Tullian Chevigian is the grandson of Billy Graham and the successor to D. We do not know their names, but their roles in the passage are crucial. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all collectively record But no generation is exempt from the charge of faithlessness and perversity. Remember, the first one was back in verse twenty-one of the same chapter. And Lord willing, I hope, to preach on those chapters. This this is why I'm so big on praying for one another and being there for each other. No. As application, ask yourselves these questions. After the shocking arrest, the rest of the disciples deserted Jesus As we prepare for the Lord's Supper, Jesus is not the Messiah. Whether we are the GI generation, the silent generation, the baby boomers, Gen X, millennials. They simply thought that God was working through Jesus in the same way He did with Elijah or As God calls us to draw near to the cross, we understand Christ as the power and wisdom of God. Two are still faithful and serving: Daniel Atkin and Buck Parsons. For he who is least among you all will be great. I make it an aim to regularly pray for other evangelical And they were all amazed at the majesty of God. And that's what we read That leads to the second point. But as verse 47 says, Jesus perceived the thought of their heart. It's not a demonstration of my hum humility, it's a test, right? And the fallen generation calls out of the darkness. In application We see in verse 49 that John was insecure. It says in verse 45 that they didn't even understand the whole betrayal thing. It's about how Jesus is perfectly humble. We learn from him that childhood must be protected and cherished. Now, I also find that convicting Bring your son here. Instead, they asked a general question about who is the greatest in the kingdom. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Otherwise, they wouldn't be the special followers of Jesus anymore. Reflecting on Philippians again in chapter two. Am I willing to be great by being little? And behold, a spirit seizes him. Now he challenges us to put our faith in him in the midst of unbelief. Now you would think that with two predictions of It's about what children generally reflect, namely humility. Be certain you have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you. It's a great book. Verses forty-six to forty-eight gave us a lesson on humility. Just do it and realize how much pride is in you. Call that brother or sister you haven't seen in a while. Paul said in Romans 12, 1 to 2, I beseech you therefore, brethren That's what their argument was. God's Son dies so that we may become children of God. Do we feel threatened as others prosper and We get a taste of his power in verse 42. And this is the good news of Jesus Christ. So I implored your disciples to cast it out, but they cried. But Jesus said to him, Do not forbid him, for he who is From the second half of verse 43. First, believe in the midst of unbelief. And as he was still coming, the demon threw him down and convulsed him. 26. Paul Tripp Jesus asks Let us become experts of these twin truths. How are we doing in humility? First we follow Jesus through the working of the Holy Spirit. Jesus is God's Holy One. See if I can truly be secure in God. But the disciples countered and defended. James MacDonald has been James Kennedy at And