Knowing God, the topic is a pretty expansive one. There are passages throughout the Bible on this topic, of course. You could say that one of the purposes of the entire Bible is that we might know God and His Son, whom He has sent. The more you know the Word of God, isn't it true, folks? The more you know God and His Son, at least the more you know about Him. But we are commanded in the Scriptures to not just be hearers of the word, but doers. A person who hears only and does not do can be placed into the category, if possible, of self-deception. This is someone who, because they have accumulated lots of nice little facts that they've put in their bag, they think that they're a good Christian. The danger is that they might be woefully outside of the will of God because they have not applied it to their lives. The book of Ezekiel, we're actually this morning going to look at just two passages from Ezekiel. It is quite an undertaking to make sure I get through that and do it properly. So I'm going to let it percolate the entirety of the book in my mind one more week before we tackle it, and I am sorry for that. But I still think this morning's message will be a blessing to you. So I want to get you to turn to someone I mentioned last week, and that is the Apostle John. And his gospel. Turn to John chapter 1. And we will have a reference back to two passages in Ezekiel shortly. In the 70s, 80s, and 90s, there were a series of famines in Africa. And these famines apparently seem to never end. One group attacks another, destroys their crops and lands, and leaves them with nothing. They can't plant, and so the next season they have no food. Maybe you remember. I remember I have these images kind of burned into my brain of children in Ethiopia Back in the 80s, with no food, standing there. Pictures are taken of their bloated stomachs and their vacant looks. It wasn't just Ethiopia though. It was what used to be called the Congo and Zaire. And Somalia. And you see those images on the television screen, I'm sure that you felt the way I felt, sad, grieved, wanting to try to help in some way. It's difficult. To learn about those things. Have you ever met someone, though, that could potentially starve or that was in the very throes of it or told you that they were going to starve? the next year. When you talk personally to someone, your level of knowledge is increased because you can look at what's called the nonverbal communication on their face. What they don't say, but what their eyes express, the grief maybe of their posture when they sink down to describe what this is gonna what is going to happen. Maybe you even see the hope of their eyes if they're a Christian and they tell you that they're trusting the Lord in spite of The possibility of famine. There are different levels of knowledge. I mentioned this last week when I talked about my grandfather. I knew about him, but I didn't really know him. And now, famine, maybe you've heard of it, and I've mentioned to you on my trip to Africa what it was like to talk to someone who just said, next year, we're all going to starve. And it was such a shock to me to meet someone face to face and hear him say that out of his own mouth. Now those are kind of negative examples. Probably not the best place to start a sermon. But there are positive examples. In John chapter 1, we have in verse 10 an amazing statement. It is just shocking. It talks of Christ. He, this is a reference to the word, the true light, was in the world, and the world was made by him. And the world didn't recognize him. This is amazing because of the statements that are stacked one upon another. Let's take them separately. First, there is the fact that Christ was in the world. Now you and I would probably recognize that if someone is present, there's the possibility of knowing that individual. Of course, there are limitations to that. For example, I don't know my neighbors that well because I haven't been in their presence. I know some of them, but I don't know all of them because I haven't met them. But at least the verse is saying there is this possibility. Christ, the Word, became incarnate and he was in the world. There was a certain Amount of distance that was jumped, there was a proximity that was reduced, okay, if we could put it that way. He was in heaven, and then he came here to you and to me. Now you know from the Garden of Eden that the problem is sin. Adam and Eve chose to sin, and ever since there's been this divide between us and God. And isn't it encouraging that it was God who bridged the gap? He's the one who took the initiative. He crossed the street, as it were, to meet us Jesus was sent into the world. But, verse 10, he was in the world, and the world was made by him. And yet the world did not know him. Wow. This is sort of the dilemma that the Apostle John is beginning his gospel with. And this idea of knowing God and knowing Christ is central to the message of the Gospel of John. And it is the signs that Christ did, the sign miracles. that reveal the identity of Jesus as the Son of God. But at the beginning here, John is talking about Jesus who made the world and who was in the world not being known at all by God. By anyone. The world did not recognize him. Verse 11 makes it even worse. He came unto his own, his own things, his own people, and his own. They did not even receive him. Now, what we can establish from this passage in John is at least a few things we can sort of pull out of it. First, I already mentioned this, but I'll try to rephrase it a little bit. If God did not take the initiative, we would never know him. Because of our fallenness, because all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Because of the way things are right now, if God had not taken that initiative, we never would have known him. You read a passage like Hebrews chapter 1, just turn there quickly. Hebrews 1. 1, God, or you could just listen, God at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets. It was God taking the initiative to speak to the Jewish fathers by prophets. It's in these last days he has spoken unto us by his son. There were times in the Old Testament when God told his people, I have sent to you many prophets. Rising up early, they came and spoke to you, but you would not listen to them. But we have such a God that He is constantly trying to communicate to us Christ being the final fulfillment of that, and now the Word of God before us. And so God, God takes the initiative he did in Christ and putting him in the world, and even though the world did not know him. And then secondly, there is a responsibility. There's a responsibility that you and I have. When God takes the initiative and sends Christ, and now we have the Word of God, there is the responsibility for us to listen to what He has to say. It was prophets to the Hebrew fathers, and that's the Old Testament, and now there is this new covenant, and there's Christ, and we must listen Have you ever found yourself to be insensitive to the life around you? I sure have. There are times when I'm thinking very deeply about something as I'm driving and I miss my turn. Ask my wife. It drives I don't say it. drives you crazy, but it's one of these family things. Dad is always missing turns because when he's driving, he's just not sensitive to the turn. Have you ever had your child or your grandchild like say your name ten times and suddenly you go, oh, yes, but you weren't listening because there was something else that had your attention. Or have you ever been preoccupied at work to where you're really working on a project and you're really into it and your boss has something else for you to do, he wants it to be a priority, and you're just insensitive to that. Folks, what about God? If God is taking the initiative, if he already has, in sending the incarnate Christ to us If he is taking the initiative, and he already has by giving us his word, how sensitive are you to these things? Or are you waiting to be hit over the head with sort of a brick? Sometimes I get that way with God. Lord, I want to know your will in this area, and I really need you to do something spectacular. I want you to sort of go the extra step. You know, it's not enough. Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every living creature. I want something a little more than that. So I know that this is the group that I'm supposed to evangelize or that one. Maybe you've been there. I only bring this up, folks, because you and I are so busy. We have so many things to do. How many hours did you work this week? Where did you go? Do you remember what you had for breakfast on Tuesday? Sometimes we eat whole meals and we forget where we were and what we were doing. So the exhortation in going into this. Is to work to be sensitive. But having said that, I want to show you this morning the abundant grace of God in the lives of three people when it comes to knowing him. The first one we're going to look at is John the Baptist. We have him right here in this passage. John 1. And let's just look at what happens in the life of John the Baptist and be encouraged in this matter of knowing God, one of John's, the Apostle John's themes. Look at verse 15. John bare witness of him and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake. He that cometh after me is preferred before me, for he was before me. And of his fullness have all we received, and grace for grace. For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. No man has seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. There we go back. God is taking the initiative and sending his son. And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? And he confessed and denied not, but confessed, I'm not the Christ. And they asked him, what then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No. Then said they unto him, Who art thou, that we may give an answer to them that sent us? What sayest thou of thyself? He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah. And they and they which were sent were of the Pharisees. And they asked him and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet? John answereth them, saying, I baptize with water, but there standeth one among you whom ye know not. He it is who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe latchet I am not worthy to unloose. Okay, now I want you to think about all the facts that he just spilled out about the Christ. He look at this. He said first I am not the Christ. That's kind of a no-brainer. All right, guys. I am not the Christ. I am not the Christ. Verse 21, I'm not the prophet. No. Who are you? What's your job? Verse 23, I am a voice crying in the wilderness in the same way as Isaiah. And so they asked him, why are you baptizing then? And he said, I baptize with water. But there, now listen to what he says about Christ in verse 26. Someone is coming, and you don't know who he is. I baptize with water, but there stands one among you, and you don't know him. He it is who coming after me is preferred before me. I am not worthy to untie his shoes, as it were. I can't unloose his sandal. So there were certain things that he knew about Christ, but he didn't know enough. Now, this was a man who was living in the wilderness, wearing clothes that set him apart as a prophet, and eating food that was a little peculiar. Part of his persona as the prophet. People identified him as a man of God who was doing things that God instructed him to do, who was set apart for this whole job of something, a baptism of repentance, I baptize with water, John says in verse 26. But there's more though, something he doesn't know, because if you look at verse 29, it says the next day, John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and he says, Behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me. For he was before me, and I knew him not. But that he should be made manifest in Israel, therefore am I come, baptizing with water. And John bare records saying I saw the Spirit descending upon out of heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him, and I knew him not, but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. And I saw and bear record that this Is the Son of God. Now, what do you make of this? I mean, Jesus is related to John. John evidently knew of Jesus and his life. And yet there was some kind of verification that the father wanted to give John, sort of this extra nudge, or maybe John didn't really fully comprehend that Jesus was the Messiah. There is something happening here in verse 31. I knew him not And in verse 33, I knew him not, but he that sent me to baptize, that's the Father, gave him some instructions The one whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining, he's the one who'll baptize with the Holy Ghost. What we have in the life of John the Baptist is a man who is intentionally walking with God. Can you not say that? Jesus described him as a burning light. This man was a courageous, bold preacher. He was willing to look at the hypocrites of his day as they stood on this other side of the river and denounce them as hypocrites. He was willing to go toe-to-toe with the false religiosity of his day. He was set apart as a prophet for the coming Christ. He had everything that someone needs to have a very close walk with God. And yet there was still certain things he did not know. What he lacked, the Father supplied When the father spoke to him directly, and this is different from what we have now, because we have the word now But what he lacked, if I could put it this way, he needed more of the Father's words. He needed explanation from the Father. Now there was another time in the life of John the Baptist. Maybe you remember this. He was arrested. He was in jail. He was discouraged. Can you imagine? The Father had told him that Jesus was the Christ, the Lamb of God, that he knew who the Messiah was. And yet now, as he sat in that prison cell, he began to doubt. And so he sent messengers to Jesus. Do you remember what the messengers were to ask Jesus? Are you the coming one? Are you really the Christ? Wow. Have you ever doubted or been sort of unsettled? By the events of your life. Things are not turning out the way they should. And yet you know the Father's words. You know what he said. Look, John, the one that you see the Spirit descending on, this is the one. John had that assurance. And yet, I've never, I've been, you know, I've sat in prison, but not in a cell. And I've gone in and I've seen what it's like. It's very, very discouraging. Just from the outside looking in. But to be John the Baptist, a righteous man, and arrested in that state, knowing you were there unjustly, that affected this man's spirit. Good men can have their spirits affected by trials. You can, and I can. And so he sends a messenger to Jesus. And what did Jesus say? Just pull it from your memory. What did he say? You remember? He said The blind are have receiving their sight, and the lame walk, and the poor are having the gospel preached to them. Now I've always it's kind of fascinating that the Father didn't come to John in the cell and encourage him at that moment. It was Jesus sending encouragement back. reminding John of what the scriptures said the Messiah would be like. He's sort of comparing his ministry, Jesus. Remember, John, remember the nature of the ministry. You see, Jesus was not exactly what John was expecting, perhaps. Maybe that's what was causing the discouragement. I don't know. But the answer for John in a season of doubt was more words, this time from the mouth of the Messiah. John lacked knowledge when he was baptizing, and the father spoke and gave him words of explanation. John lacked encouragement when he was in the jail, and Jesus sent words. To encourage him. But it all goes back to words. The words are what he needed. Now, I want to draw a line for you about something. We are emotional beings, all of us. Everyone in this room has cried at least once in your lifetime, probably many times. You've laughed. You've been filled with exhilaration But when you lack knowledge, you don't go to emotion to find it. You don't go to the next high, to the greater emotional experience For explanation and encouragement, you must go to the Word of God. You know what I see in myself and in you, all of us as Christians, there's a tendency sometimes for us to seek solace in greater emotional experience. And so we let ourselves be led by our emotions. Now, am I saying emotions are wrong? Absolutely not. Who created us as emotional beings? God did. Who gave us the capacity to weep and to laugh? God did. But in that moment of crisis, You need the Father's words. You need the Messiah's words. The world did not know. The one who was in it, who created it. His own people didn't receive him. And here we have a pattern beginning in the Gospel of John, where the answer is in the words. The answer is in the word. John needed to know and God told him that. So what is it? Let's be very specific. What is it in your life right now? That is unexplained. What is it in your life right now that is discouraging? Go to the book. Find your answers there. Let's travel on and let's look at two other people and see what happens in John chapter 3 We have, of course, you know this, Nicodemus. John 3. 1, there was this guy. And here we'll go to our references in Ezekiel in a moment. There was a man, this is John 3. 1, of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. Now that tells us that he was a Bible scholar. The Pharisees memorized large portions of the Hebrew Old Testament. It's possible that he even had the entire Torah memorized. That's a possibility. This verse also reveals to us that he had some kind of authority. He was a ruler of the Jews. This means that he was not just your run-of-the-mill Pharisee. There was something about this man that was. Above average. So a person of authority, respected by his peers, a person who knew the Old Testament, a man well versed in the scriptures. And a man who knows something. Look at verse 2. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Now he knew his Old Testament well enough to know that there were people in the Old Testament who did incredible miracles, and it was only because God was with them. There was Elijah. There was Elisha. There was also, of course, Moses, who was able to do superior miracles to the Egyptian magicians who only got so far and then their power sort of ran out. So he, from his knowledge of the Old Testament, knew no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. But he didn't know enough because he didn't make the connection between the miracles of Christ and the true identity of Christ. Instead, verse 2, look at it. He said, We know that thou art a teacher. Now, the plural, we, probably a reference that he was not alone. There were other Pharisees, or perhaps it could be the people, but probably more the Pharisees, that group. There were some who considered Christ a teacher. Come from God. And so he had some knowledge, but not enough knowledge. Jesus answers and says, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now, he's talking to Nicodemus, a man well versed in the Old Testament, and so Nicodemus should have understood. That there was this coming thing, this covenant, something new that God was going to do in the house of Israel. And let me direct you to two passages. Look at Ezekiel chapter 11. Ezekiel eleven. Maybe keep your hand in John three. Verses fourteen to twenty-one. Let's go ahead and let's skip down to verse 19. We won't read the whole thing. This is Ezekiel 11, verse 19. The problem during the days of Ezekiel was he was ministering to obstinate, rebellious people who weren't obeying the word of God. They were hardened in their heart. They weren't moving. Ezekiel prophesied to them that They were all going to be deported, and they didn't believe him, and eventually we'll get more to the history of Ezekiel. But there is this, this is Ezekiel 11, 19, the day is going to come. When I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you, and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and I give them a heart of flesh. That they may walk in my statutes and keep mine ordinances and do them, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. But as for them whose heart walketh after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will recompense their way upon their own head, saith the Lord. Alright, right now, Ezekiel, these people are a mess, and they're going to be judged, and you need to give that message to them. But this is going there's going to be this day. When I'm going to change them from the inside out, their very heart, I'm going to give them a new spirit. And a one heart, there's going to be a unity to these people because of this new heart. I'm going to take out their stony heart and I'm going to give them a sensitive heart, a heart of flesh that can respond to me and my ways. Wow. Nicodemus, did he know this passage? Maybe not. Let me direct you to one more, Ezekiel 36. Ezekiel 36. Twenty five to twenty-eight This passage not only has to do with what we would use the theological word regeneration, the giving of a new heart, but also with forgiveness, purity. Verse 25, this is Ezekiel 36, 25. Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you. And ye shall be clean from all your filthiness, and from all your idols while I will I cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh. And I'll give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments and do them. Wow So we have this this purity, this sprinkling, ox clean water upon you, and you're going to be clean From all your filthiness and your idols. I'm going to cleanse you from that. And I'm going to give you my spirit and a new heart. Doesn't this remind you about what Paul wrote? Old things are passed away. All things are become new. Doesn't this remind you of Ephesians? It says, put off the old man, but put on the new. We can do this because we are already a new creation in Christ Jesus. Go back to John 3. Nicodemus, I don't know, maybe he had just forgotten that passage. Ezekiel is easy to neglect, believe me. Ezekiel is not mentioned anywhere else in the Old Testament. And it is kind of a strange book. When we get into it, you'll see it is kind of strange. So Jesus says in John 3. 3, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he's not even going to see the kingdom of heaven. And Nicodemus says, and you know the story, look, how can you be born twice? Do you get into your mother's womb again? I mean, Nicodemus, that is a strange question. At least it seems. I take it as sincere. I don't know how you take it, but I would say it's pretty sincere He came to Jesus by night. He wanted to know. It was a priority to him. And Jesus goes on to explain, verse 5. Verily, verily, of course, this is a phrase he used only to introduce, usually to set apart certain statements as even more important in the context I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again. The wind blows where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth. So is every one that is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be? Now, this is fascinating. Here's a man with a scholarly knowledge of the Old Testament. Perhaps he should have known Ezekiel, and Jesus is now using the words that are found in Ezekiel when he mentions spirit. And then there is this kingdom, and Israel is waiting for the coming kingdom. And certainly Nicodemus would at least understand verses 6 and 7, okay, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, but there is this thing that is born of the spirit. And when Jesus gets to the end of it in verse 8, Nicodemus questions the method. He wants to sort of open the hood and look at the car's engine. He wants to know, how can this even happen? It almost comes across as a doubt or what? How can these things be? And the Lord expects him to know. Verse 11, are thou a master of Israel and knowest not? These things. And the Lord takes it as a kind of rejection, because look at verse 11 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, we speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen, and ye receive not our witness. If I have told you earthly things and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you of heavenly things? No man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. Kind of put together a sort of a character sketch of Nicodemus in your mind. A scholar who comes, who wants to know the identity of Jesus. Jesus doesn't give him that answer so much as talking about the new birth, a spiritual birth. And this scholar is stimmied by not understanding it completely. He could just accept what Jesus said Okay, I take that as truth, but I really don't understand how this works, but I'll just accept that by faith. But rather than faith, he wants a thorough explanation. And really, Jesus doesn't give him all the nuts and bolts. Instead, he says, look, I came from heaven. Look at verse 13. He that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. And I'm telling you what I see and know, verse 11. We speak what we know and testify that we have seen, and you receive not our witness. So Jesus is the witness that came down from heaven. This is the same as The first chapter of John, he was at the Father's side, and he came down and exegeted as the Greek word there, the Father. And what Jesus expects is faith from Nicodemus. This is what he wants. Believe what I say even though you don't understand it completely. Now you and I are sometimes stuck where Nicodemus is stuck. We have a great wealth of knowledge of the Word of God Most of us in this room have read this through at least once. But have you ever been to this place in your walk where, okay, I understand what that says, but I have no idea how it works. So I think I might need to believe after I get the how. If you give me the method, the nuts and bolts, if I can understand the how, then I'll believe And that is not the order of biblical knowledge. The natural man doesn't receive the things of the Spirit of God. There is this, there are times when God explains. But there are also times when a Nicodemus simply has to say, okay, Lord, you're the witness from heaven, and I'm just going to believe what you say. Now look, this is not pie-in-the-sky theology this morning. Wives are commanded to submit to their husbands And ladies, have you ever said to God, would you please explain to me how this is supposed to work? I'm not sure that this is the best choice you've made here. You don't know my husband. Husbands, have you ever ever been in a leadership position with your family and you know, love my wife like Christ loved the church? Okay, I understand that, but how is all this supposed to work, Lord? Because she's not really responding to my love. I'm not sure this is working too well. Lord, if you would just explain to me how a wife submitting to a husband actually works and a husband loving his wife actually works, if I could just get all the details, then I'll then I'll do it. Put it in a book, hardcover, bestseller, New York Times bestseller list. Does that ever happen to you? Do you ever feel that way? Or or Lord, I want you to ex- that that's kind of where Nicodemus is trapped. The answer for Nicodemus is simple faith. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. We have to approach the word with faith. Now, as you grow in Christ, ladies, will you understand better how the submission thing works? Of course. Men, as you grow in Christ, will you understand better how to be a godly husband? Of course. But it all begins with faith. As you have received the Christ Christ Jesus. So walkie in him, Colossians, it's faith. And so the answer for Nicodemus Is faith. The answer for John the Baptist is more words, the Father and Christ, and here it's faith. And let's look at one more person, one more, and of course it's the woman at the well. The woman at the well in John 4. We could go through the entire Gospel of John and see this pattern of lack of knowledge and needing more throughout the whole thing. It's amazing. So in John 4, you know well, and we we'll try to get knocked this out a little more quickly if possible, there is verse 7, come a woman of Samaria, and she draws near, and Jesus says, Give me to drink. Now, she questions this, verse 9, how is it that thou, being a Jew, asketh drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? And Jesus sort of questions her back, but look at verse 10, look at the way he puts it. If thou knewest, if you knew the gift of God. And who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldst have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. Okay, now your Bible scholars, think of this. Being in the very presence of the Son of God and not knowing it. There he is the God of heaven. The one who decided that what two hydrogen atoms will combine with an oxygen oxygen to H2O water. The one who determined the mass of the rocks lying there on the ground. The one who who holds all the plate tectonics together. I mean the one who came to lay down his life is right. there and she doesn't know it. And so he wants her to know. He wants her to know. And so he says, if you knew who who I if you knew If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, give me to drink, you could ask of him. You could ask me, and I'll give you living water. And so immediately she sort of I take it as overlooking this sort of metaphor here is using in verse 11. She looks at the the literal and practical. You have nothing to draw with, the well is deep. And of course, the Lord talks to her about that. And he explains the metaphor in verses 13 and 14. And then you know well, verse 16, he wants her to go and call her husband. And then she answers in verses 17 and 18 and says, I have no husband. And Jesus confronts her about her sin. In verse 17, Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands. And then she challenges, she perceives in verse 19 that he is a prophet, and she skips to worship in verse 20. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. Ye worship, ye know not what. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. Now, here we have this expression again. So here's a woman who is in the presence of the Son of God and does not know him, and who is involved in worshiping what should not be worshipped. They don't even know how to worship properly. It's a misdirected worship, and it's a misidentity of the Son of God who is right beside her. What could be worse than that? What could be worse than that? And there are people out there right now in churches all across this country who name the name of Jesus, who have pictures of him on the wall, and they don't even know who he is really. And Jesus knows the woman has had five husbands. Raise your hand if you know someone who's had five husbands Anybody? Five? Wow, one person knows someone who's had five. The most I've ever met is an individual who's on their third. Anyone knows someone who's on their third? Okay? Alright, more of us? Alright. Three is a lot. Five. And here's the heart of the Messiah. Here is the heart of your God. There is this real Badly this loose woman. And rather than withdrawing from her He is getting, he is trying verbally to get closer to her and minister to her. He wants her to know him, even though her life is a wreck. Five husbands. The heart of God taking the initiative, going to that well, talking to that woman, explaining who he is and the nature of worship, spirit. and truth. And she responds. She responds in verse 28. She leaves and she goes her way. And so what do we have here? Okay, you've got John the Baptist, and he knows a lot, and he's called of God to minister, and yet he still needs the continuing ministry of words from the Father and Jesus. You have Nicodemus, who has a lot of head knowledge, and yet he still needs to have more faith, and he needs to accept the words of Christ in faith. And here you have someone who is totally confused about everything. And yet the father wants to explain himself through Christ to this woman. In all three of these examples, we have different kinds of people who lack knowledge of God, and God meets their need through Christ and the word of Christ. Christ. Maybe you're here today and you've got head knowledge, but not enough heart knowledge. Or you know a lot of facts, but you need more faith. If I could boil it down to this, God wants you to know him. He wants you to know him. And I'm here to tell you that God is so gracious And it doesn't matter whether you've had five husbands or a head full of Old Testament or whether you're in the middle of a busy ministry, there is that continuing of desire of the Father to be known. This is eternal life, that they might know him and Jesus Christ, whom you sent. I don't know why. We're like ants. We're like little bugs, but we're not to him. He died for us. And so if there's any encouragement I can give you today, respond. Respond to the Father. You know what you should say back to him? Father, I believe that you want me to know you, and I sure want to know you too. So help me to know you better through your word. Let's pray together. Let's pray. Take this to God. Will you pray with me? Father, thank you that you are the God who took away our stony hearts and gave us hearts of flesh. We are new creatures, new creations. And now you want us to know more and more about you and glorify your name through your word. Father, thank you that the Gospels are not filled with people who are unlike us. They are filled with people that are like us. Please help us to respond to your initiative. That we might know you. Well, folks, I'll give you a second. Just keep your heads bowed and your eyes closed and talk to God. Talk to your God. Tell Him. Whatever's on your heart, surrender to His will. The nature of eternal life. Not just fire insurance. Now you might be here this morning and you've never put your faith and trust in Christ. You're not a Christian, and you would be willing to admit it. The Bible says that Christ died on the cross He took upon us his pun the punishment that he took upon himself the punishment we deserve. And when he died there, he paid the price. And he rose from the dead. And if you want to be saved today, you don't have to go to church or do some ritual. Just put your trust in the cross of Christ. What he did for you, not what you can do for him, but what he already did for you. When you put your faith and trust in Christ, you are saved, instantaneously, born again, born from above. You can do that while you're sitting there. You don't have to join a church to do this. Just repent and put your faith in Christ.