About you, but I had a very busy day yesterday and um a little bit under the weathered and um And but I'm glad I'm here and uh able to uh see you guys. Um and I was looking at the calendar and uh you know preparing the sermon today and realized that March 21st, which was yesterday, is the na uh annual National Single Parents Day Right. So President Reagan established this day in nineteen eighty-four to salute those who are raising their child or children alone. You know, perhaps you might show your appreciation for one this weekend if you haven't already. Um day late, but better late than never. I think about my own mother who raised me on her own and just really thankful for that. I want to show my appreciation for her Of course, the we know the Lord designed the family to have two parents, right? And um, you know it's but in this fallen world, but that's not always what happens One may die tragically early, leading the other to um to be a widow. Or there might be a spouse sitting through infidelity or abandonment. A spouse might be a victim of another horrific sin, such as abuse or other crimes. As the number of single parents increased in the nation, more than doubling in the last 50 years, you might wonder if we as Christians have something to say to them. Does God's word have something for dads and moms who are on their own? As a matter of fact, it does. You know, the Lord speaks not only to picture perfect nuclear families. He speaks compassionately to broken homes and lonely single moms. But he does so firmly without brushing aside sin, without sugarcoating the message of the gospel. And you might be surprised to find that such hope for single parents goes back thousands of years. So we're talking about you know nearly 4,000 years, and we're gonna turn to Genesis, and we'll pick up from chapter 16 and read it in its entirety. Genesis 16. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children And she had an Egyptian maidservant whose name was Hagar. So Sarai said to Abram, See now, the Lord has restrained me from bearing children. Please go into my maid. Perhaps I shall obtain children by her. And Abram heeded the voice of Sarai. Then Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar her maid, the Egyptian, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife. after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, so he went into Hagar and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress became despised in her eyes. Then Sarai said to Abram, My wrong be upon you. I gave my maid into your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, I became despised in her eyes. The Lord judged between you and me. So Abram said to Sarai, Indeed, your maid is in your hand. Do to her as you please. And when Sarah dealt harshly with her, she fled from her presence. Now the angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, by the spring on the way to Shur, and he said, Hagar, Sarah's maid. Where have you come from? And where are you going? She said, I am fleeing from the presence of my mistress, Sarai. Then the angel of the Lord said to her, Return to your mistress and submit yourself under her hand. Then the angel of the Lord said to her, I will multiply your descendants exceedingly, so that they shall not be counted for multitude. And the angel of the Lord said to her, Behold, you are with child, and you shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has heard your affliction. He shall be a wild man. His hand shall be against every man, and every man's hand against him, and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren. Then she called the name of the Lord who spoke to her, you are the God who sees. Or she said, have I also here seen him who sees me? Therefore, the well was called Bir Lahai Roy. Observe it is between Kadesh and Bared. So Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram named his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael. Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram. As we start a new chapter in Genesis, it's a good place to Review Abram's story as indicated in verse 3. It's been about 10 years since he and Sarai moved to Canaan. Abram certainly had an exciting decade. He heard and obeyed the call to leave his home country. He experienced famine in the promised land, so he sojourned in Egypt. He returned to Canaan and separated from Lot his nephew, but when Lot was in danger, he took up arms, he rescued them from the clutches of Kedalaumer and other kings. He returned victorious and met Melchizedek, the priestly king of Salem. And then last chapter we heard the Lord speak to Abram with the promise of seed and land. His descendants would be numerous as the stars of the sky. His dwelling would stretch far and wide from the Euphrates to the brook of Egypt. Not only did God speak all this clearly, he passed through the the pieces of the sacrifice in the covenant ritual, he did so alone to indicate that he himself. Well keep this word. So a lot can happen in a decade. Think of my own life from 2016 to 26. I got married, finished a degree, started my pastorate here. I met various people at various places. But my life is nowhere close to exciting as Abram's. But there is something I have and many of you have that he and Sarai would love to have. They love to be parents and grandparents. They heard many of their domestic servants announcing pregnancies, right? How many times did they look longingly at the newborns? How often did they smile at toddlers running between their tents? When will it be their time? When will the Lord deliver on his promise? They're a long way off from having countless descendants. There's not even one. With all that as the background, as we arrive in Genesis sixteen, which um That's the what we just read. And sixteen, child, Genesis sixteen is a straightforward narrative. But there are obviously complicated family problems. Certainly, God's not to blame here for the conflict. The only one innocent here is baby Ishmael among humans, right? But the same cannot be said of Ishmael's father, the commissioning mother, and the surrogate mother. Well, at least the outline is simple. There are three scenes in the sermon text. First in verses 1 to 6, Abram and Sarai scheme to have a child through Hagar. Even if the intent was good, this is not how God designed or dis uh desired to accomplish his plan. You know, the ends do not justify the means. And secondly, and we see in verses 7 to 14, God fixing the mistakes that we create, and Abram and Sarah create. The setting changes from Abram's tents to the wilderness. There Hagar has fled because of her harsh mistress. But there the angel of the Lord appears to comfort her and command her to return. Finally, we're back to Abram's tenth in verses 15 to 16. We wrap up the chapter by fast-forwarding to the time of Ishmael's birth, but it's worth slowing down here because there are lessons not only for Hagar, there are lessons for Abram and Sarai too. There are of course lessons for us as well. I guess to put it negatively, we learn here how not to wait. Don't wait like the way Abram and Sarai waited. To put it on a more positive way, there are biblical principles for waiting. I suggest then that we learn to have a wait and believe attitude by learning three lessons. Not wait and see, but wait and believe. First, don't be restless, but know that God is good. That's verse one to six. Secondly, don't resist authority, but trust that God is near. The 7 to 14. Thirdly, don't be irresponsible, but accept God's calling. 15 to 16. Here's the first lesson to adopt a wait and believe attitude, don't be restless, but know that God is good. We start with the first half of verse 1. I don't have the verses up to date, so just follow along in your Bible. For several chapters now, Sarah has played a passive role. She followed Abram out of her homeland to go to the promised land. She did as her husband instructed, concealing her marital status in Egypt. She did get a lot of attention then. But in most other passages from the end of chapter 11 to the end of chapter 15, Sarai stays in the background. And more often than not, Sarai is the prototype of the holy woman of the Bible. As Peter reminds us, she trusted in God. She adorned herself with incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, very precious in God's sight. She was submissive, she obeyed her husband, but Sarai is not perfect. In a passage like today's, it's very evident. We see her weaknesses We shouldn't be too harsh with her. I believe the plan to use Hagar as surrogate was at least partially motivated by her desire to be a good wife. So then in the second half of verse 1, we're introduced to our maid servant. It's likely that Sarai met Hagar while sojourning in Egypt. So they spend years together. Hagar likely rose to become Sarai's trusted top servant. Sarai looked at her and came up with the idea in verse 2. She's not wrong to say the Lord restrained from bearing children, restrained her from bearing children, but she is wrong to believe that this restraint would last forever. She's also wrong in allowing the ways of the world to influence her. She's thinking, since the custom of our times allowed for this kind of surrogacy, why not do it ourselves? A maid would have a son for her mistress. After birth, the husband would immediately adopt a child as his own. She probably got this idea looking at the technicalities of God's promise. She might have thought recalling Genesis 15, 4. The Lord said to my husband, the one who will come from his own body shall be his heir. But God didn't say the heir has to come from my body, right? As long as Abram's genes pass along to the Son, we have the fulfillment, right? This will get God's plan moving along because God needs our help, right? Um this will This will make my husband happy at last. Well, all this might have been well intended, it's not as God intended It was up to Abram to speak up here. He must stop the fan from moving forward. Look at the final sentence of verse 2. Moses narrates, and Abram heeded the voice of Sarai. Now, if that wording sounds familiar to you, you're on to something. It should remind us of a verse in earlier in Genesis, Genesis 3, when it was time for the Lord to declare judgment on Adam. What did he do He said in Genesis 3 17 to Adam, he said, Because you have heeded the voice of your wife. Same phrasing there, and have eaten from the tree which I commanded you, saying you shall not eat of it. Now of course the Bible isn't saying your wife's always wrong, but it's true that your wife is not always right. Can I get an amen? I'll be careful now, okay? Alright, so uh it's at this point Genesis sixteen two. Abram should have stepped up and objected. Okay? So surely there's a reason God intervened in Egypt. Surely there's a reason God protected Sarai from suitors, but the Lord really wants them to violate the marriage covenant to validate Abram's covenant. The Lord also would not want a young woman like Hagar to give up her virginity in a way like this. The narrator's voice in Genesis 16:3 suggests his own disapproval. Sarai, as he reminds us, Moses reminds us, is Abram's lawfully wedded wife. Abram Sarai's lawfully wedded husband. Sarai is acting in place of God, authorizing the union of her maid with Abram. No doubt this decision was born out of impatience after waiting ten years. You know, my wife and I understand to some degree we had trouble having our firstborn, so we got some you know tests done. It was an emotionally trying time. Ira would sing with tears with songs like Whatever My God Ordains is right. But thankfully the waiting was only like a maybe a year or so. I can't imagine a decade of waiting. So Abram and Sarai move forward with the Indecent proposal. Hagar gets pregnant when Abram's child, according to verse 4. Up to this point, Hagar's master and mistress were at fault. But now we see the maidservant sinning as well. The second half of verse 4 reveals her growing contempt for Sarai. Hagar might have acted with an air of superiority. Perhaps she said, I'm the one carrying Abram's heir, so you should serve me. Well this is wrong But the proposed solution was wrong too. In verse 5, Sarai wants Abram to take care of the problem. Again, this is not a good moment for Set uh for Sarai. Instead of regretting, pointing to herself or coming up with this plan, she blames her husband. She wants the Lord to intervene between them. Verse 6 is another chance for Abram to step up. But again he fails. Instead of doing something, anything, Abram lets his wife and maidservant go at it. The gloves are off, Sarah and Hagar fight as if they're in a hockey brow. Uh just brawl and just maybe it wasn't that bad, but in the end Hagar was at a disadvantage. So she fled. So no one is innocent here in verses 1 to 6 except the baby in the womb. If I were to summarize the three kinds of sins here, I'd say this: Hagar's guilty of sinful vanity. Right, she became arrogant. Abram's guilty of simple passivity. He was complacent. Sarai's guilty of simple activity. She grew impatient In other words, Sarai and Abram were restless. All Sarai had to do was be still and know that the Lord is God. And more specifically, Sarai should know that God is good. As I was meditating on verses 1 to 6, I took notice of the two times Sarai invoked the name of Yahweh, L-O-R-D, in all caps. First, in verse 2, she says, See now the Lord has restrained me from bearing children. Next, look at the last portion of verse 5 where she says, The Lord judged between you and me. Now, Sarah is not wrong to believe that God is sovereign and God is just. Those are true. God can open and close wombs. Righteousness and justice are the foundations of his throne. But while all that's true, Sarai should could use a reminder that the Lord is kind. She needed to hear something like Psalm 8411 The Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold from those who walk uprightly Of course, full disclaimer, that does not mean that we get whatever we want from God. I'm not saying God grants us wishes like a genie. But when God makes specific promises, like the promise of seed to Abram, Abram and his wife should know that God's not only powerful and God's not only fair, but God is good. So this is the first lesson to adopt a wait and believe attitude. Don't be restless, but know that God is good. So let me be honest with you. I mean, personally, it's easier for me to believe that God is powerful and righteous than that He is merciful and kind. I might blame it on my background. My favorite music genre as a teenager was 90s Seattle Grunge, so that should tell you something. I had posters of Kurt Cobain and Eddie Vedder on the wall. I had a distant father, literally. I'm sure all of that led to my struggle to believe that God is good. But what's best for me and what's best for you is resting in his goodness. Meditate on more scriptures that remind us of this truth. You know what? I'm not gonna just read this by myself. Maybe you guys can read with me Alright, so Psalm thirty-four, eight. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who trusts in him. Psalm 86 verse 5, You, Lord, are good and ready to forgive and abundant in mercy to all those who call upon you. So Psalm 107, O that men would give thanks to the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. Sometimes spending some time alone allows for such reflections. That's exactly what Hagar does as she flees from Sarai. And we see another lesson to obtain a believe a wait and believe attitude. Don't resist authority, but trust that God is near. So we go on to verse 7. It should not surprise us, readers, that Hagar left Hebron to head towards Shur. She's going back to her home in Egypt. While on her way, she encounters the angel of the Lord. This is a momentous occasion. Here we are the first mention of the angel of the Lord in the Bible You might ask a few questions. Why is the word angel capitalized? Who is this mysterious messenger of God? What we find here in various passages is this. So I did put some notes up here. The angel of the Lord with A capitalized refers to someone separate from Yahweh, the Lord. But in those same passages, the angel of the Lord with A capitalized refers to someone equal in status with Yahweh the Lord. Lord. I'll say it again. The angel of the Lord with A capitalize refers to someone separate from Yahweh the Lord. But in those same passages, the angel of the Lord with A capitalize refers to someone equal in status to Yahweh the Lord. The conclusion is that the angel of the Lord, with capital A here and elsewhere, refers to it's a kind of a mouthful here, but the pre-incarnate son of God, right? In celestial angelic form. We're two thousand years too early at this point to see the Son of God revealed in flesh and blood. But in Old Testament times, he manifests himself in As an angel. So we know this to be the case, right? Based on how those who met the angel of the Lord react. For example, in the times of the judges, those who saw face to face the angel of the Lord feared that they're going to die. In Judges thirteen, twenty-two, after seeing and hearing him, Samson's father, Manoah, said to his wife, We shall surely die because we have seen God. After talking with the angel of the Lord. They were spared, of course. So it's evident the second person of the Trinity, the image of the invisible gods, appeared as the angel of the Lord. It could not be the first person of the Trinity, the Father, because the Father is invisible, according to 1 Timothy 1 17 And we see exactly what God said through the angel of the Lord in verse 8. He addresses Hagar by name. He asks questions with gentle persuasion. It's not that he doesn't know the answers. But this kind of questioning is what we saw in the Garden of Eden when the Lord sought out Adam after his fall. Like Adam, Hagar can't help but confess that she's a runaway servant. But notice how even as the Lord approaches Hagar with love, he's firm. In verse 9, he tells her to return to Sarai and submit to her. In other words, don't resist authority. It won't be easy, of course But you know what's true of Hagar and of us today? Even as God demands much from us, he promises much for us. So we look at verse 10. And I got some notes up here. The Lord promises to multiply Hagar's seed. Exceedingly. This is the same exact phrase used later in Genesis twenty-two seventeen as God speaks to Abram, multiplying, I will multiply your descendants. The result is that they shall not be counted for multitude. Again, this is a phrase used later in Genesis 32, 12. Jacob's reminded of the Lord's promise to make his descendants as the sand of the sea. Which cannot be numbered for multitude. God continues with more promises in verse 11. If you're counting, this is the third time we read the angel of the Lord said to her, The same exact phrase in verses 9, 10, and 11. But this time the focus is on a more immediate concern. It's revealed that Hagar carries a son in her womb. He's to be named Ishmael. His name means God will hear. The Lord has heard her affliction. Hagar also gets a preview of Ishmael's life in verse 12. The first line tells us that he'll be a wild man. It literally says Ishmael is going to be a donkey man. I know that sounds kind of a weird sta statement. But wild donkeys live as they please, untamed and free. Right? That's who they are by nature. The Bible elsewhere reinforces the wild donkey's wild behavior, right? When the Lord confronts Job, he speaks of this creature's fondness for liberty. In fulfillment of this, we'll learn later in Genesis 21. 20 concerning Ishmael, God was with the lad and he grew and dwelt in the wilderness. And he became an archer. But I guess you can say it smells like Donkey Kong. And his hunting ground is Donkey Kong Country. Sorry I had to say that. I mean I know that most of you didn't get that reference, but I'm up here, I can say what I want, right? Now on the flip side of Ishmael's extreme independence is hostility. Look at the middle two lines of verse 12. Ishrael is not the type to run for class president. He's not Mr. Popular. He's petulant. He's belligerent. He doesn't play well with others. The same would apply to his descendants. Don Kelvin comments that since they won't enjoy peace, they'll settle for the next best thing, survival, they'll fight and resist and go on. The last line of verse 12 needs some explanation. The context indicates that we should translate it differently than NKJV The English standard versions, more literal and accurate, and he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen. The next uh the new American Standard Bible is looser but correct in tone, and he will live in defiance of all his brothers. In other words, Ishmael will be hostile. His brothers refer to their neighboring nations, such as Israel. Now it's tempting to connect this to the current Middle East tensions among Arab nations. But remember the term Arab is too broad of a term to limit it just to the Ishmaelites. So gotta be careful with that. So before you skip over thousands of years to today's headlines, stay in the Bible first. I believe this prophecy is fulfilled primarily in the Old Testament. You'll see later in Genesis 25, 18. How the twelve sons of Ishmael situate themselves between the Arabian Peninsula and the border of Egypt. They hinder Israel even before they become a nation. They buy Joseph as a slave from his brothers and sell them to the Egyptians. You'll see that later. And then in Psalm 83, we see the Ishmaelites. among a team of nations trying to take down Israel. Again, don't be too quick to apply this to the conflict today. So I'm going to move now move on now to less controversial matters. So back to Hagar's time, we see that the promises spoken concerning Ishmael comfort her. In verses 13 to 14, she reacts much in the same way Abram reacts in Genesis 22-14. Just as the patriarch would later encounter the Lord and memorialize the place, giving it a special name, the matriarch Hagar does the same here. She named the well where she stopped, Birlachai Roy. It means the well of the living one who sees me. We know it's between Kadesh and Baret, but the exact location is disputed. One guess is that it's about sixty miles southwest of Hebron. That was a lot of information in verses 7 to 14. But the big idea is that to have a wait and believe attitude, we must not resist authority, but trust that God is near. Hagar understood that clearly, and I mean really understood, right? Not just read about it or heard it about it from Abram and Sarai. She realized by herself and for herself that the Lord cares for her. Some think that this is the moment of Hagar's conversion. This last uh this lesson is wrapped up in the two names, right? Um the personal name Ishmael and the place name Birla Hai Roy. As Alan Ross, one of my favorite commentators, says, in these two names is a world of theology: God who hears and God sees. Here's an application for you. A good theological exercise is to study the names of God in the Bible. Even in Genesis alone, you'll find plenty to meditate on. In these names, you'll find the Lord disclosing himself, not just for head knowledge. You'll learn in your heart that God is near us in our afflictions. And it's this lesson that Hagar will take back with her to when she goes back home. Her call is to obey and submit to Sarai. And Abram and Sarai had their callings too. Abram's job is to father his firstborn. Sarai must become Ishmael's adoptive mother. That gets to the third lesson to maintain a wait and believe attitude. Don't be irresponsible, but accept God's calling. I'll be quick here with the last two verses of Genesis 16. Verse 15 fast forwards months later to when Hagar gives birth. Now you'll notice that Abram names the boy Ishmael, just as the angel of the Lord instructed in verse 11. No doubt Hagar at home, at some point. communicated the message she received to her master and mistress. So it turns out that Hagar's lesson right, in learn in the wilderness, become Sarai's and Abram's lesson. As we close the chapter with verse sixteen Here's what the couple learns through the maidservant. Yes, it's true that more than a decade has passed since Abram left Heron. It's also true that Sarah never felt the joy of being pregnant in all her life. But they must believe, Abram and Sarah must believe, that even in all this waiting, stretching, weeks, months, years, decades, God hears them, and God sees them. He sees their affliction. He hears their sighs and groans. As is the case with us today, the real test of our faith is not only reacting to the sound of God's voice through the Word, it's about how we handle silence in our circumstances. How do we deal with the quiet between the promise and the fulfillment? And we accept God's calling in the meantime. Our duty in the meantime. Are we responsible stewards until due time? Well, as we observe in Genesis sixteen Even our great father of faith and his godly wife had their low moments. It's Remarkable considering what we saw in the previous chapter, one commentator of Genesis notes: like a roller coaster, the ups and downs of Abram's faith are staggering. After the remarkable commendation of his trust in the word of the Lord, chapter 15, verse 6, and the reiteration of the divine promises sealed by the covenant, 15, 7 to 21. The patriarch becomes a pawn in an unseemly plot hatched by Sarai to obtain an heir. We get that their faith can be weak. We get that our faith is weak. We can always improve. But as discussed last time, we're thankful it's not the resolve of our faith that keeps us in covenant with God. That we've been in trouble, right? It's God Himself. As Paul says, if we are faithless, he remains faithful. He cannot deny himself. Second Timothy two. 13. He's near us, he hears us, he sees us. When we feel like nothing's going our way, rest assured, he makes all things work together for good to those who love him. As Romans 8:28 says. And in the most beautiful way, God's goodness, nearness, and calling come together in the gospel. The good news of Jesus. God is good, right? We believe that. He created all things to reflect his goodness. He gives to all life, breath, and all things He desires a relationship with us that we might grow for him and find him, though he's not far from each of us, for in him we live and move and have our being. But Isaiah 59, verse 2 reminds us that something went horribly wrong. Your iniquities have separated you from your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you so that he will not hear. Because we broke the law, an insurmountable distance stands between the Lord and us. The rib stretches as far as heaven and hell. Standing between us and our holy God is our sins, unbelief, adultery, pride, simple passivity, simple activity. But the good Lord did not leave us like this. The Father sent his son, conceived of the Holy Spirit. This is Jesus. Another one of his names is Emmanuel, God with us. He met us where we are with mercy, yet he confronted us in our sin. For example, recall how he met the Samaritan woman. At the well. He exposed her past, but at the same time offered her living water. In doing so, he not only proved himself to be the Messiah, he's the living one who sees us. But for us to have life in Christ's name, he had to lay down his own life. Though he never once sinned, he suffered like a criminal when he was crucified. It was as if he committed all sins. He who knew no sin felt what we feel in our brokenness. He experienced alienation from the Father like an outcast. He cried the cry of dereliction on the cross. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He endured all the pain in our place, the wrath of God we deserve. We pay for it in full. He declared his work finished and breeded his last. But having completed his work on the cross, death could no longer hold him. He rose from the grave on the third day. He gave many proofs of his resurrection, then he ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now, this good news of Jesus demands a response from all. There's a call to repent and believe in Jesus. As Isaiah 55, verse 6 to 7 says. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord. He will have mercy on him and to our God for he will abundantly pardon. Turn from sin. Turn to Christ for forgiveness. You don't have to earn a place in heaven because you can't. Eternal life's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ. So don't put confidence in yourself or other fallen people. People are like broken cisterns, wells that run dry. You'll be left desolate and lifeless. As Jeremiah 17, 5-6 reminds us: cursed is the man who trusts in man and makes flesh his strength. whose heart departs from the Lord. For he shall be like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see when good comes, but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness, in a soft land which is not inhabited. But those who believe in Jesus, as the scripture has said, out of their hearts will flow rivers of living water. That's life in the Holy Spirit. I hope you experienced that today. I hope this last song becomes your testimony. I came to Jesus and I drank of that life-giving stream. My thirst was quenched, my soul revived, and now I live in him. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word and we thank you for assurance that you are the God who sees us and hears us in our brokenness. This fallen world where we are perpetrators and victims of sin. And Lord, we're thankful that you are merciful. You are not the God of the deist who just wound up the clock and went far away. But you are active in this world, working through the Spirit in the hearts of the people. So we pray that through the word that you will comfort us this week, even today, even this moment, that whatever afflictions that we have, that we bring them before you, that you will hear us and we have confidence you hear us through your Son Jesus Christ. Is in his name we pray. Amen.