Alright, let me invite you to open your Bibles to Romans chapter 5, Romans 5 Here's some things I'm taking away with me today. I think I was really challenged by what Jim said about the family not existing as a end in itself, but as a means to an end. As a homeschooler, I know that in our lives it is that's a difficult balance because we have homeschooled our kids and sometimes, forgive me for saying this, I have coined a term it's called homeschool hippies. That is a term for homeschoolers who put their family before the kingdom of God. They float from church to church. They have no roots in any individual church. And they've sort of have made their family the end instead of the kingdom of God. And so my wife and I have struggled with making sure that we we uh don't do that by God's grace. So I think that was key what Jim said there. I really appreciate what George said about just applying Matthew 5 to my marriage. That was very convicting, and I'm going to take that home with me Shane, what he said on the duckbill palatypus, I've always loved those. I don't know if I give one to my children. They have venom? Don't they have venom in there? Like, yeah, that but that is I never ha I yeah, I mean God must have a sense of humor. He must. And and Steve and all the suggestions you have, wow, I just all continually learn from from Steve and and his family and he always inspires me with all that he is doing. So I thank all these men for for coming, giving of their time, and I thank you for being here as well and hanging in there. to the very end. So my topic which I chose myself is is what do you do with impossible family situations? And how do you get the grace of God? To work your way through impossible family situations. What do I mean by impossible? Well, maybe a better term would be surprising, unexpected. unwanted, disillusioning family situations. A biblical term would be trials, tribulations. Romans 5 verse 3 talks about glorying in tribulation. There is in the context here a reason for that glory, but it doesn't take away from the sting of that word, tribulation. Maybe you yourself can are in the middle of what you would consider to be an impossible family situation. These situations can involve in-laws They can involve difficult, even abrasive relationships that can sometimes develop between families, children and grown children with children and their parents. Maybe you have experienced the difficulties of having a teenager who has rejected your family Or you are working through a situation with a brother or a sister that when your parents died, there was a great conflict over inheritance. Maybe there was an illness in your family, something that took place that just so knocked you off your your course and your schedule that it just shocked you. I know somewhat what this is like. I know we all do to varying degrees. And there is this term in the New Testament, and it's called grace. Unbelievers kind of mock us with grace. This term. I remember once when a Christian contemporary artist fell into sin and he was known for singing a a a popular song about the grace of God. And during the course of the scandal, a news reporter mocked him and said, Well, that's okay. You always have grace. And that's kind of the way the world used the term against this fellow who fell into sin. But what do we as Christians think of this term, and how how can we apply it to the situation of impossible situations? And let me just read to you some of the New Testament passages on grace and just let them sort of sink down into your heart. Just making sure I have my right notes here. I'm preaching to you another sermon. Alright, here it is. All these passages are from Romans. Grace and peace be unto you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you know? That you are justified freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That you know if you try to work Your reward is not going to be reckoned of grace, but of debt. But you know it's of faith that it might be by grace That that there's there's this this this this plan of salvation and that is the way it is. In Romans 5 verse 2, you have your Bible open there, you have this, by whom also we have access by faith into This grace wherein we stand. If you were to take many of the New Testament references to grace and kind of put them together and list out some of the characteristics of these references. You could kind of summarize it in terms of grace being connected to what is free and what is gifted to us, salvation. Grace is also brought up in term of contrast to works and to what we must what we do or attempt to do in reference to salvation. Grace is spoken of in terms of as it relates to sin. Sin abounds, and sin is evil. It's dangerous to all of us. But there is this superabundance of this thing called grace. And you and I, if you're here this morning as a born-again person, You have what is described here in Romans 5 as a standing in grace, this grace wherein we stand. We often speak of the Greek term that's translated grace in the New Testament. We define it as unmerited favor. Now, what does this have to do with impossible family situations? Have you ever thought when you were going through some sort of trial or tribulation that God does not, did not love you anymore? That God Himself had removed his favor from your life because you were suffering. Have you ever thought because you had a financial setback that God had deserted you? Or, to be more specific, that you had actually lost somehow your position before him, your access to him. In Romans 5, there is this connection between our justification, that's verse 1, therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And this access by that same faith into the standing of grace. Folks, theologically, the justification is an act wherein God declares you righteous and gives you a new standing. before him. A standing that is completely dependent on the cross of Christ, the work of Jesus, the finished act of Calvary, it is completely Independent of any meritorious act that you could do. It is our faith in what He has done that God thus chooses to justify us. We don't merit justification. By our possession of faith, but we have faith, and he justifies us because of the finished work of Christ. And this has everything to do, I personally think, with a sort of maintaining a place of stability when we go through those big or small bumps in life when family situations come our way. Let me be more practical. What is there anything you can do to add to your position before Christ? We know that we can't, right? Maybe you're here today and you've been really good this week. I mean, really good. I mean you look at your week and you go, wow, I was just such a great guy this week. I obeyed my Lord. I read my Bible every day. I prayed twice on Tuesday. Does that in any sense affect Affect your standing before God. Do you, because of that, get a better standing before God this week? Now, we don't have a lot of time to get into this, but the answer is no. We're justified freely by his grace because of the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. When you are good That's good. You're fulfilling righteousness. You're a slave to righteousness. Romans 6, you're trying to present your body as an instrument of righteousness. But that has that does nothing to change your position before Christ. And in the same way, if you were evil this week and you didn't pray twice on Tuesday, and you actually said some things that were flat out sin. When it comes to your justified status before God, did those acts of disobedience diminish or inhibit your status or position before God? Does your sin remove you from that standing of grace? And the answer to that is no. Now, these sound kind of like sterile theological statements that have no connection with our parenting or our marriages, but they have every connection with our parenting and our marriages. Here's a pattern. Have you ever struggled in your relationship with your wife or your husband? And you really get into this sort of cycle of thinking, I am just not getting a hold of this. I'm dug a hole and I Don't think I'm ever going to get out. And have you ever begun to think in the course of that situation that that you have to get a hold of that, you you've got to improve yourself so that God will hear you. So that he'll have, hear your prayers, so that he'll help you. Do you ever feel like you have to be good so that you can have access to God so that you can thus be good? That is not true. Men, sometimes you and I have struggles, and we seek power. Spiritual power to overcome sin. Obedience to the scriptures through the Spirit of God. And we begin to believe this lie that in order to receive this power and strength, I must somehow maintain my standing before God through my obedience. I'll obey so that I can have the power to obey. Now I want to be careful because there seems to be in the New Testament indication here of An abounding love and a cycle of, you know, there's this pattern of growth that kind of spins out into our lives, but at the bottom of it Men, you don't earn your standing before God by being a good husband. It just doesn't work that way. Ladies, you don't earn your standing before God because you're good wives. Down at the bottom of it, there's just grace, and it's a gift. Another way this can work out in our Christian marriages is we could begin to think, I'll love that person when they love me. This idea is captured in the book Love and Respect, and I do agree with Shane. You need to be careful with the books that you read and be discerning and not just swallow what every person says. But in this book, the author comments on How some ladies feel like they'll respect their husband when he deserves it. When he has earned my respect, I will thus respect him. And a husband who says, Well, when she respects me, then I'll love her. But if we're to act like God and to love like he loves, he gave this gift of grace and this relationship is completely Because of what he has done on our behalf, and it's never removed when we're bad. As was already mentioned, if if God shocked us every time we sinned, I mean the psalmist said Uh you know, deliver me from these blatant sins, but also, Lord, the secret sins. And in the context there, it would seem to indicate in that psalm that the secret sins are not sins that you keep secret from that guy, but they're sins which you yourself Are not even aware that you commit day in and day out. We sin knowingly, we sin unknowingly, and all the while that does not affect our justified status before God, the grace in which we stand. He continues to just lavish love on us. Will he chasten us? Yes, if necessary. Will he deal with our disobedience? Yes. But he never removes our status before him. It was bought with the blood of Christ. So how can we as Christians treat one another that way? How can a husband say to his wife, You know what? When you show me the respect I deserve, I'll show I'll give you the love I'm commanded to give you in the scriptures. You straighten your act out, and then I'll respond. And vice versa. That would be like God saying to us, I'll give you a position in Christ. And a standing before me when you get it right. When you finally overcome this habit or that, when you clean up your relationships, when you walk the straight and narrow for at least seven days. Then maybe you'll be able to claw your way back up to this justified status before me. He never, ever does that Are you convinced of this? Are you convinced that there is nothing you can do to remove yourself from your justified status before God? God. Here's how you'll know you're convinced. Look at Romans 5. Three times Paul writes that he rejoices or exalts as a result of the standing of grace that he has. and his justified status before God. In Romans 5, verse 2, he says, we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. So there is this anticipation of this experience of glory in God. Verse 3, there is this glory in the context of tribulation. So there's this anticipated glory, this anticipated experience of glory of God. There's this current rejoicing in And then in verse 11, not only so, we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the reconciliation. That's the word there. It's translated atonement in the King James Version. So there is this: I'm looking to that moment when I experience the glory of God. I'm living in this moment when, yes, I'm going I have trials and tribulations, but I have a proper understanding of that. And I am just thinking about the fact that I have peace with God and I am reconciled to him because of justification and because of grace. There is exalting, exalting, exalting in the life of Paul because of a proper understanding of justification. He is living in a particular kind of joy. And trials cannot remove it because he really banks on this fact that he, that nothing, that nothing can take away his access to God. God. You remember in Genesis when Adam and Eve sinned, what did they do? They ran away from God. And they had never sinned before, and surely this is an understood response. As Christians, we still tend to do that. Would you agree that there are many times when we sin and we were running the other direction? And while we're out there in the garden hiding behind the trees, we begin to nurture these thoughts of how will I get back to God? And all the while God's calling for us. Come back, come back. Because of the blood of Christ and Calvary and the atonement and reconciliation and all these theological words that we just throw around, but they are true. We don't have to run because our disobedience does not annul our relationship with God through Christ. We should run right back into the arms of our Savior and say. Lord, I blew it. And when we have this understanding, this is what it does when you're facing an impossible family situation. You look at your trial, and you are firmly convinced that because I'm going through this, it does not mean that my fundamental relationship with God. Has changed. I'm still on those promises. And even though I don't know what to do, and I have to learn and grow through this, There is this sense of at the bottom of it of a stability that you are walking on something solid. I mean, you might feel like your feet are buried in six inches of And it's really true that even how I respond to this won't negate my justified status and this grace wherein I stand. And even though it's going to take me maybe a year or two to figure this out, I'm still in Christ. And I know this to be true. Impossible situations sometimes pull at the very fabric of our understanding of our faith. Is God angry at me? I mean What is happening here? But regardless of our questions, we need never question the fact that we are in Christ and secure. And that is part of what's being said here when it comes to tribulation in verses three and four. Look at that those two verses. He says, we glory or we exalt, and the implication of that word exalt is not just a smile on our face, but verbally this praise, this expression that can come as this feeling of glory, if I could put it that way, because we know that our tribulation is going to work something for us, this patience, and this patience as it's acted out over the long term, there's this added experience that we gain And as we patiently endure and we go through this time, there is at the end this hope, and hope. It's not just something we stir up within ourselves. It is verse 5: hope that does not make make us ashamed because the love of God is poured out. There's the spirit within us, verse 5. And he is active, and in some sense, there is this movement of the Spirit within us, pouring out the love of God. And why is that? Because we know, folks, look at you. Your Bibles at verse 6. When we were without strength, in due time, Christ died for us. The ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. But God, He demonstrates He's This act in the past that remains a current demonstration. He demonstrates his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from future wrath through him, from wrath through him So we know, we know that tribulations have a purpose, that problems with our in-laws or the health of our children or our finances are not. They're not uh random acts of violence. Or they're not just time and chance. And it's not just the economy, and it's not your boss who fired you, and it's not this. Or that. It is God at work, and that He's going to use this trial in your life. And we know that eventually there is this hope. He loves us. Now we've heard a lot of sermons today about a lot, well not a lot of sermons. I've been through Bible conferences where there have been what ten sermons? That's a lot I agree. Ten sermons is a lot over the course of two days. But we have heard about marriage and about relationship and about children. And the chances are, and I I sometimes say this at the end of one year as we prepare for another year here at our church. Maybe chances is a bad word. We don't know what the future holds. None of us in this room. You might be facing an impossible situation. But you know, folks, you know that no matter what comes, Romans 5 will still be in your Bible, and you can still depend on your God. Our family has had to test this out the past year Have you ever tested out your Bible? You've ever wrote written a date in your Bible and had to test that to see if it was true. Our family has had to do that, and we have found. That God is faithful. You might not know what to do today, but you will learn eventually because God does lead you in wisdom over time James chapter 1. You might not know exactly what God is doing, but you sometimes have to just fling yourself on his character. Say that he is good and that he will Help you. And then at the bottom of it all, after all that our family has been through, we have learned that it it's almost uncovered the salvation that we've all lost. Believed and the gospel that we've always had. So, how do you apply this kind of thing to your life? First, are you completely convinced that no matter how good or evil you are today, it will not affect your justified self-down, you can't get it. Status before God. And I'm not encouraging you to be evil. We shouldn't sin that grace may abound. But it is true. And are you equally convinced that no matter what impossible situation You face, no matter what your circumstances may be, that God is still good and that His grace is still available to you.