Well, it is great to be with you this morning. I'm grateful to uh get reacquainted with some of you, many of you I've known for many years. And then there have been some of you I've seen some faces that I don't know, which is always a blessing. I'd like to get to know you hopefully at the lunch afterwards, that kind of a thing. And uh it is really good to be uh to be with you. That w that uh kind of summarized he uh Pastor Sung summarized there what you know 'cause I grew up grew up in the church and saved and Baptizing the church and ordained a faith bible and certainly have many, many memories here, and I'm thankful to be here this morning. I'd like to do this. Let's take our Bibles and turn to 1 Peter chapter 5, and we're going to be looking at verses 1 through 4 this morning. 1 Peter 5, 1 through 4. We'll read that text and then I'm going to introduce the message in a way that's a little unusual. I'm going to give you a little bit more background of where the Lord has brought me. Uh in in talking with Sung about what to preach and all of that, we sort of discussed a good passage and I thought this would be a good one. I know that uh you all are going through, at least in Sunday school I think, going through 1 Peter, and uh there'll be some connections that you'll be able to make, I think, hopefully, to uh to that. And um and then also to sort of help some of you all, of course you know that I've grown up here, um, but to kind of I'll introduce the sermon by kind of explaining a little bit about where the Lord what the Lord has taught me, just in summary fashion, from having left here than gone up to Pennsylvania and that kind of thing. You'll see that in just a few moments. Let's begin first by looking at 1 Peter chapter 5, and we'll read verses 1 through 4. It says, The elders who are among you I exhort, I whom a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. And also a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, serving as overseers, not by compulsion but willingly, not for dishonest gain, but eagerly. Nor as being lords over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. So as has already been said, I actually don't know that I've ever introduced a message with a bio, with biographical information, but uh just to kind of help you understand what the Lord has done in my life and leaving Faith Bible Church, I was a uh as a uh assistant pastor of education, taking my first senior pastor up in Pennsylvania. I went to Faith Bible Church was the name of the church, actually, that I that I pastored up there. So interesting experience. Prior to that, before I had come here, I spent a little bit of time in another It's called Community Church. It was an IFCA church down or over in New Jersey. So I went to that church, came here, then went up to Faith Bible Church. And I really felt like out of Baptist churches or Bible churches that the best churches I would best fit in would be a Bible church. One of the reasons Uh there's several, but one of the reasons was because Bible churches I thought had elders, and Baptist churches don't have elders, I thought. Until the two Bible churches that I that I was involved in in ministry, full-time ministry, neither one of them had elders and neither one of them wanted elders. They had one elder, a pastor, but they didn't have uh a plurality of elders. So I left faith I left Faith Bible Church up in Pennsylvania and I and I followed and I was Consistent with the statistic, there's a statistic out, uh in fact all the statistics that I'll mention today come from xpastors. com. Uh this statistic reads this way, 90% feel that all are inadequate or that they are inadequately trained to cope with the ministry demands of 90%. Demands and 90% of pastors said the ministry was completely different than they had thought it would be alike before they entered the ministry. That was my experience as well. So I left Faith Bible Church as a senior pastor. I was there a couple years, and I left there and I said, I don't think I know what I'm doing. I think I need more training. So I I I started working on my doctorate at Bob Jones, and there were two partic two influences One there and one that was not there, but came through a one of the textbooks that they wanted me to read for one of my classes. One was uh Dr. Mark Minnick, I listened to a bunch of messages from the book of Ephesians, like a lot. He preaches uh it's a lot of messages. Um and they were excellent. They really, really helped me to understand um uh to to to understand the essence of the church and And I noticed that he pre- he was the Baptist church, that he pastored, and they had elders. I had just come from a Bible church that didn't have elders, and I have b and and and now I'm listening to a pastor who had a Baptist church with elders. I said, well that's interesting. And then on top of that, I was going through a class and one of the textbooks The guy, you'll know the name probably, Mark Dever, he wrote a book called Nine Marks of Holy Church. I'm reading through this book. It was not like a thick textbook. It was a pretty Pretty easy read. Reading through it, and he had elders, and I looked him up and what church he was pastoring, and it's a Baptist church with elders. So I had had two, I was in two Bible churches without elders, and I was then looking at two church Baptist churches with elders. Had to find a church in this area and I thought about coming back to Faith Bible, but at the time you had your your pastor wasn't Pastor Sung, the previous pastor was here for only a year. I didn't really think it was a wise thing for me to to come back at that point. I didn't want to interrupt anything that was going on there. And so I went to a the only I w there wasn't very many choices in this area. So I went to a Baptist church who didn't have elders and I really realized three years into it they really needed elders. Just kind of giving you an idea of the kind of background that I have. So the Lord led me to the church I'm at now, Bethel Baptist Church. There were 15 people there. They asked the pastor had passed away suddenly, and they asked me to come preach, so I preached there. I filled the pulpit. And I uh and I think like after I got down from the pulpit, they're basically asking me to be their pastor, something like that. And I said, well, I don't know you and you don't know me. Why don't we do uh why don't we do an eight-month period? And I chose eight months because I was going to be finished my doctorate by then it was just worked out. But anyway, eight months. A period while you get to know I'll explain in a Sunday school class my entire philosophy of ministry, what the Lord's taught me. It was going to include things like elders. And they would uh uh and they would learn and we'd be actually be able to implement some of those kinds of things at in the process. And at the end of eight months, if they didn't agree with my philosophy of ministry, please just you know you'll you can vote for me to be your senior pastor. And if not, that's really okay, we can go our separate ways. Well, uh, long story short, they did vote me in. I was not 100%. We did have a couple of people leave. um after I was voted in. And the Lord is blessed since then now uh it doesn't matter what the numbers are. I'm not a numbers person honestly, but We we've grown substantially then since then and been able to move buildings uh from Glenbrony over to Ferndale and the Lord has really blessed in a lot of ways. And I do now actually have I taught and preached on elders for years, and then finally was able to, and Rick over there, he'll be with you Wednesday, I believe. He is an elder with us and we're certainly open to more as the Lord provides. That's just sort of a background to kind of get you caught up to speed of where I'm I'm at. I developed an entire membership class. that came from that eight-month period. It's not eight months, the membership class isn't, but sort of a summary of that to help people as they came into our church understand our philosophy of ministry. One of the things I say in the very beginning is I'm not a, this is not your typical Independent Baptist church. And I'll sort of explain and I'll go through biblically how how we run as a church. Now all of that to say, what does that have to do with our text? Well actually if you look at our text, the second word in our text is elders. And what 1 Peter chapter 5 is going to do is actually going to help us to understand the ministry of church leadership, the ministry of elders. You can go to other passages, for example, in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and see the qualifications of elders. You can go to other places for other things, but to really see the ministry of elders, this perhaps is one of the best texts that you can go to. Now here's the context. Peter is preaching, or rather, he's writing a letter, and he is writing to people a general epistle to churches. And he's writing about the issue of of suffering for righteousness' sake. In fact, the um But probably the verse that's going to help us understand the purpose of 1 Peter the best is in 1 Peter 5, verse 9, it says, resist him steadfast in the faith. Knowing that the same suffering are experienced by your brotherhood in the world, but may the God of all grace, who's called us to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, After you have suffered a while, perfect, establish, strengthen, and settle you. Resist him and steadfast in the faith. Stand firm in the faith is the point. of 1 Peter, amid suffering, amid impending persecution, stand fast. He's speaking primarily to the churches that are in the area that he's speaking to, but now he has turned his attention particularly to church leadership. But He spoke, he's speaking to church leadership, he's addressing them, but the entire he expects that the entire church is going to hear. In other words, there's certain, I imagine there are certain letters. that that you know Peter or the other apostles would have written to different pastors and elders in churches uh that were directly specifically to them and there was letter writing back and forth very likely that the entire church wouldn't necessarily have have heard or I wouldn't have been read to them as epistles typically were, general epistles. This is a case where Peter writes two elders But the old entire congregation is going to hear. Well why? I think there's a couple different reasons for this, but one of the reasons Probably is because the very the very encouragements that he is going to give, the exhortations that he is going to give to elders are the very things that will also encourage really anybody in the body of Christ. In other words, folks, the reason that Peter writes this is to encourage pastors and elders, to encourage elders to continue in the ministry and to serve faithfully. And the same thing, the same exhortations that will encourage elders will also encourage all of us as believers. And so what are we looking at this morning? What is our Our purpose here. Well, what we have here then is that leaders and church members alike need uplifting and exhortation amid trying times. So how are these leaders and members uplifted with exhortation? Three things. First, motivating us biblically. So we're going to see in the text, Peter's going to motivate us biblically. He is going to remind us of our responsibility, and then he's going to inspire us with the prospect of eternal rewards. So first of all, let's look at motivating us biblically. So we look at the passage and we pick up in verse 1, it says, The elders who are among you I exhort, who am also a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. And a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. We find in this text then that Peter tells us as an apostle that he is also an elder. And in fact, if you look at the book of Acts, particularly in chapter 15, but in other places as well, you have the phrase apostles and elders that are that are linked together a lot. So it's fair to say that all the apostles, very likely all the apostles would have been considered elders, but certainly, of course, elders, not all elders were apostles, only those who were selected particularly by the Lord. But you have all of these elders. In fact, the idea of a plurality of elders in the New Testament, candidly, is without question cu the most compelling way to lead a church. I don't think you're sinning by having only one elder. But it certainly is God's ideal for there to be more than one leading the body of Christ, leading in a local assembly. And I don't need to tell you that, you know that already. But I wanted you to understand that this is actually what I've been teaching our and preaching to our folks now for nine and a half years. We see the function of elders, and I'm just mentioning this before we get into the text, but we see that the function of elders, for example, in James chapter 5, verse 14, you know that text I would imagine when they call for the elders of the church. But there's a particular verse that helps us as elders function in 1 Timothy 5, verse 17. It says in that passage, let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor. especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. Now that's interesting. It says those who rule well or those who lead well. They're worthy of double honor. And then it uses the term especially those. Especially those is used two other times. That word especially is used two other times in 1 Timothy, the Greek word. In chapter 3, verse 10, and chapter 5, verse 8, to mean a subset of a larger group. For example, in 1 Timothy 3, verse 10, it says, But let these also first be tested. Then let them also serve as deacons, being found blameless. So you have uh a subset. 1 Timothy chapter 5, verse 8. But if anyone does not provide of his own, talk about his own house, and especially those of his own household, a subset of that group, He is the he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. So you have elders, and then you have some elders who are laboring in the word of doctrine, word and doctrine. They are the ones who are going to be teaching. And those are the ones that are going to be paid. So you have elders who are not paid, and you have elders that are, essentially. And all are worthy of it, but then you have some particularly that God says, look, if they're laboring in the word and doctrine, then those people should also live by the word. That is the way essentially elders should work. But Paul Peter here says that he is an elder. What and and and now he's going to give some motivation. Well, what is his motivation? First of all, he says who am also an elder. He says, I want you to understand, as I write this to you, I'm an elder. I understand what you're going through. I don't know if you're aware of this, but but pastors and elders throughout uh the last couple of years have been going through a lot And churches, frankly, in general. Churches are some churches are closing their doors. Pastors are struggling. Um I have many pastor friends that have stepped out of the ministry just because I I know one man who had been who'd pastored for Many, many years, decades, and he said that the most difficult year of his life was 2020. His most difficult year of ministry. Well, Peter is speaking to pastors and elders, pastors and elders, of course, the same office. He's speaking to elders, and he's saying, I want you to be encouraged. I'm an elder, I understand. It's interesting, one statistic says that 70% of pastors do not have someone they consider to be close friends and 40 percent report serious conflict with parishioners at least once a month. And I think that statistic is before COVID. So so there's a loneliness that can occur in the ministry. And he is wanting to encourage through an understanding of a partnership. He says, there's a partnership here. I'm an elder, I understand what you're going through. And then he says, through participation, he says this. He says, the elders who are among you I exhort, I am I who am a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. And also a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. He says, I'm a witness of the sufferings of Christ and a partaker. He says, I'm a witness of the sufferings of Christ. Now, what is he referring to when he says I'm a witness of the sufferings of Christ? Well, if you've been going through 1 Peter, you realize that the sufferings of Christ is spoken about a lot in 1 Peter. Chapter 1 is spoken about a lot. Chapter 4, it's mentioned in great detail. For example, in chapter 4, verse 12, it says this, beloved Chapter 4, 12 through 19, beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. But rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ's sufferings. He says, rejoice to the extent that you partake of Christ's sufferings. That when his glory is revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy. If you are reproached for the name of Christ, blessed are you. For the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. On their part, he is blasphemed, but on your part he is glorified. So Peter has the sufferings of Christ in mind, and he's already said in the passage That we ought to rejoice when we are going through the sufferings of Christ. And now he says, look, I'm a witness of the sufferings of Christ. I've seen the sufferings of Christ per firsthand. And I want you to understand that I have these kinds of things in mind. The reality is in this first century there were there were two problems. The beginnings of persecution in the church, that was one problem. And the other problem was there were some that were defecting from the faith. And that can be very discouraging for pastors. And he says, I understand this, but this is part of the sufferings of Christ. That's the implication. So how does he motivate leaders? He motivates them through partnership, through participation, and finally through anticipation. He says, I'm a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. We are partakers, those who suffer for the sake of Christ, Those who are steadfast, who stand fast, who are faithful, those are the partakers of the glory that will be revealed. Now, it's possible that what Peter had in mind was that he had viewed the glory of Christ in the transfiguration. That's possible. He understood to a greater extent than we would the glory that was that Christ was limited, he limited when he came to earth, but then was unveiled for Peter, James, and John at Transfiguration. But more likely what he has in mind here is the fact that we are all going part when we partake in the sufferings of Christ, we are partaking in the reality of the glory that will come in the future. And he's going to bear that out more as we as we go through this. Peter is encouraging them to understand the importance of this. We are partakers of the glory that will be revealed. In 1 Peter 1, verse 5, it says, who are kept by the power of God through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In verse 7 of that same chapter, it says that the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and the glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 1 13, a few verses later, says this, therefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. This concept of suffering and glory is really fleshed out in Romans chapter 8, verse 18. It says this. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Well, what is that talking about? Later on in Romans chapter 8, verse 18, that's where we just read, I just quoted But in a little later on you'll recognize this verse, Romans 8. 28 says this, for we know that all things work together for good to those who love God. To those who are the called according to his purpose, for whom he foreknow he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, that we may be the firstborn among many brethren. There is a glorification that will happen in the future. We, of course, you know very likely that you have been declared righteous by God. That's justification. We are in the midst of our sanctification and we are looking forward to glorification. And one of the ways that God sanctifies us for his glory in the future is that he He, as we serve him, we go. It's hard. Say it practically. Serving the Lord sometimes is difficult. It requires sacrifice. It requires faithfulness. And Peter is exhorting these folks, these elders, and really everyone, to be faithful in times of difficulty. Let me make a personal application. Sometimes pastors disassociate their spiritual life from their ministry. their spiritual growth from their ministry. And this is dangerous. Here's what I mean by that. Sometimes a pastor goes through the ministry and he sort of doesn't realize that actually it's it's as he works in the ministry and goes through the difficulties of the ministry and thus even the suffering of the ministry as he goes through those things that God is actually working in his life to help him to grow. and to help him become become more conform to the image of Christ. If a pastor will recognize that as he is serving the Lord, if an elder, and frankly, if anyone, Will recognize that as they are faithfully serving the Lord, that God is preparing them for glory. God is preparing them to be fully like Christ one day. Then he won't loathe the suffering of the ministry. He'll realize that it actually is for his good and for God's glory. The difficulties, the criticisms, the struggles, the problems, the issues, even though it may seem sometimes that the ministry is not moving forward, he will realize that it is still for his good. It's something that I've recognized personally so that it helps me to be thankful for the ministry no matter what I'm going through. There are times of struggle. and difficulty and problems and there are times where God is blessing amazingly and you look at all of that and you have to take it all and you say, okay. Lord, help me to be faithful in all of this, knowing that all of it is going to be for my good and for your glory. But I will make this further application that every believer Ought to be intricately involved in serving the local church and realize that as he serves, he will grow. And you cannot disassociate those two. And if you serve, you are hindering your own growth. If you don't serve, if you fail to serve, you are hindering your own growth as well. Well, he not only wants to motivate them, but he also wants to remind them, remind us all really of our responsibility in verses 2 through 3. He says to elders, Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, serving as overseers, not by compulsion, but willingly not for dishonest gain, but eagerly, nor as being lords over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock. He's now going to get right into the responsibility of the elder. And he says at the very beginning, that you are a shepherd, you are to shepherd the flock. It's the same, it has the same the same root word, the same cognate as the word pastor over in Ephesians, uh over in the book of Ephesians. Shepherd the flock. The elder is to shepherd. That is his primary responsibility. Sometimes it's translated, I think in the King James it's translated, feed the flock. And that's perfectly fine as well. What's the main way that you shepherd? Well, you feed. None of us know much about shepherd. I mean, none of us are actually sheep herders these days, I don't, you know, in this group, but if you just think about it, what do you need to do with sheep? You protect them from going off cliffs and that kind of stuff, and you feed them. And the primary role of a shepherd is to feed his flock. That is so important. That's why Christ said in John 21 to Peter, feed my lambs, feed my sheep. You love me, feed them. Peter, this is Peter, now saying to the other elders as he's passed on from Christ, who told him, feed my lands, he now says, Shepherd, shepherd them. So we're supposed to shepherd the flock. And then it says, serving as overseers The word overseer is, of course, mentioned in 1 Timothy 3 and many other places in Scripture. It's the idea of managing of the household. In Acts 20, verse 28, Paul there says to the elders, therefore take heed to yourselves and to all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. To shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. He said, You're to manage the church of God, you're to shepherd the church of God as overseers. You're to look out for the flock. Make sure you're tending to the flock. He said to this group of elders in Acts 20, 28, he says, serving as overseers. Another passage that's really, I think, for me personally, I'll just be real clear, real candid, for me personally is probably one of the most daunting passages, most sobering passages as an elder in the entire Bible. And one that motivates me to want more elders that are truly qualified and desire to be there and all that. is Hebrews chapter twelve. It says this, verse fourteen Pursue peace with all people and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Look carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up cause may trouble you. And then later on, I'm sorry, chapter 13. I got the wrong Verse there. Chapter 13, verse 17 says this. Obey those who rule over you. And be submissive. For they watch for your souls as those who must give account. Let them do so with joy and not with grief. Now it's interesting that ver the passage I mentioned in Hebrews 12, it says, look carefully lest anyone follow the grace of God. There's this general accountability in the local church that's mentioned there that we should be watching for each other and that kind of thing. But then you have this very specific accountability and it says that we as God's people are to uh to to obey those who are leading you. But then it says those, and who who's leading? Well, clearly from the 1st Timothy passage we read, those who rule or lead are elders. That's who they are. And then in this passage, it tells us this that we watch for their souls. That we as elders are responsible to watch for the souls of church members. And you know what I did before I had another elder in the church that I pastored, I'm pastoring now? I told them over and over again, I don't want to do that alone. The idea of watching for the souls of the members of the body that God has placed in my care is sobering. And it's not something I want to do alone. And I prayed for elders. And the Lord answered my prayer in time. I was slow and careful and methodical and didn't do it too quickly and all that. But But that is a daunting responsibility that an elder has to watch for the souls of pe of of the church, to make sure that they are growing and they are not drifting off and not and and and and identifying when they need protection spiritually, those kind of things. Very clearly and we're going to see in a minute, and it's not lording over church God's people. Peter's clear about that. But there is a shepherding, an overseeing, a watching for the souls, a praying for that is a very daunting responsibility for the elder. And God says you're now He's going to say how you should and shouldn't do, and primarily how you should not do this And he starts off by saying, not by compulsion, but willingly. There are prohibitions here now. This is how you're not supposed to do this. You're supposed to shepherd the flock, and you're supposed to serve as overseers, but you're not to do it by compulsion, but willingly. This word compulsion is an interesting word. It's not used anywhere in the New Testament. It's only used here. Compulsion. It means out of obligation or a sense of being forced. A pastor or an elder really should avoid feeling like he has no other choice. It's interesting a statistic that you may be familiar with. 70% of pastors constantly fight depression. 50% of pastors feel so discouraged that they would leave the ministry if they could, but have no other way of making a living. And that's exactly what Peter is saying. Don't be that way. Don't do it by compulsion, but do it willingly. The word willingly is mentioned a couple other times in Scripture, intentionally, deliberately. Hebrews 10, verse 26. Actually, it's used negatively there. It says, For if we sin willfully, that means purposely, it's on purpose, it's not by accident. Or in 1 Timothy 3, verse 1, it says, or verse 2 rather, it says, not for dishonest gain, but eagerly. You're wanting to serve. There's an eagerly about it. God says that we ought to want to serve. But folks, isn't it also true that it's not just elders that should be doing it willingly, not by compulsion? Isn't it, folks, true that all of us should be serving that way? That all of us in the body of Christ should not just be doing it by compulsion, groaning, okay, I guess I better do this. No, all of us should be serving With a sense of joy and delight and gratitude and gratefulness. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, in his book Spiritual Depression, which I would highly recommend, says this. If you and I come to regard any aspect of this Christian life merely merely and as a duty, And if we have to goad ourselves and to set our teeth in order to get through with it, I say we are insulting God and we have forgotten the very essence of Christianity. The Christian life is not a task. The Christian life alone is worthy of the name Life. This alone is righteous and holy and pure and good. It is the kind of life that the Son of God Himself lived. That is why I should live it. He says secondly, first not by compulsion but willingly, but he says secondly, Not as the lords over those who has been entrusted to you. Not to be lords over God's church. It's his church. He's going to say later that it is the chief shepherd. And it's his flock. We are to shepherd the flock of who? Of God. It's God's flock. It's not the elder's flock. It's not the pastor's flock. Shepherd the flock among you. And then he says here, don't lord over God's heritage. A pastor or an elder should not be pulling rank. You know what I mean by pulling rank? Well I'm an elder and that's what or I'm a pastor. You should do this because I say to do it. Because the pastor, because I'm the pastor, that's why. Now if you're a mom, you might say, because I'm a mom, that's why. That's alright. You can pull rank there. If you're the dad, sometimes I just say to my kids, yeah, I'm pulling rank on you. I don't pull rank on my wife, interestingly enough. Maybe once or twice, but not very often at all. And usually it's like almost in in just a little bit. Okay So in the ministry, though, folks, it's not an elder doesn't pull rank all the time, or pastor doesn't pull rank all the time. He's not to lord over God's heritage. He's supposed to lead by his life. Be supposed to lead by example, being example to the flock. And then it says this. Not for dishonest gain, but eagerly. Again, eagerly, wanting to do it, desiring it, not for dishonest gain. 2 Corinthians 2, verse 17 says, For we are not, Paul says this, we are not as so many peddling the word of God, but as subsincerity. But as from God, we speak in the sight of God in Christ. For the service, Bernie gave me an honorarium check. I didn't even look at it. He says, you're going to make sure you stay and preach for us. He was you know in jest he's saying that. And uh and I said, uh whether you gave this to me or not, I would definitely be here to preach for you. It's interesting, uh when I was pastoring up in Pennsylvania, the my the previous pastor before me actually they didn't pay him and he just didn't preach after that. Like they I don't know if he forgot or whatever, but basically it was some sort of thing. And one time they they got their clerical error, so I didn't get my paycheck on time and I I had preached and I I went two weeks or something like that and I finally told the treasurer I don't think I got my paycheck and And uh he said, uh, oh man, we better get that so you preach for us. I actually got up on the pulpit. I said, look, look, whether or not you give me a paycheck, I'm gonna get up and preach. I said, now don't stop paying me because I do need that. But either way, I'm going to preach the word. I don't do it for filthy, I don't do it for money. I do it to serve the Lord, and then God pays me through his people. That's the right approach. Don't This apparently is a problem that is addressed in 2 Peter 2 verses 14 through 15. We won't take the time to look that at that Now, folks, what I want to really address here, what you really see just by summarizing this, is this: that you and I, as believers, need to be very careful that we have the right motives when we're serving. That we're not doing it grudgingly, we're not doing it in a greedy manner, we're doing it out of love for the Lord. And and that's Peter's concern, and he wants whether you're an elder or not, all of us ought to be serving the Lord faithfully. And not doing this out of some sort of grudge. Lloyd Jones in his work says this. I do not just uh he says I do not just to make a great effort to carry on somehow. He's talking about serving. Not at all. I remind myself that it is a great and good life, it is doing well. How did you get into the Christ the Christian light? He asked the question. The only begotten Son of God left himself of all the insignia of his eternal glory and humbled himself to be the born as a babe and to be placed in a manger. He endured uh he endured the life of his of the this world For thirty-three years he was spat upon and reviled. He uh he had thorns thrust into his head and was uh nailed to a cross to bear the punishment of my sin. That is how I have come to this. And if ever I have, for a fraction of a second, questioned the greatness and the glory and the wonder and the nobility of this walk in which I am engaged, well, I am spitting upon him. My friend, if you think your Christian life in any shape or form with this sense of grudge or as a wearisome task or duty I tell you to go back to the beginning of your life, retrace your steps to the wicked gate through which you passed. Look at the world and its evil and sin. Look at the hell you uh to which it was leading you, and then look forward to the to realize that you are set in the midst of a glorious campaign to which men could ever enter. And that you are on the noblest road that the world has ever known. Go back and look at your life and put it into the context of eternity. Our greatest joys are but the fruits and the foretaste of the eternal joy that is coming. Lloyd Jones exhorts us: look back at the cross and look forward to the glory. That is how you are faithful and stay faithful in serving the Lord. He exhorts this to elders, and of course it applies to all of us. And that really brings us to verse 4. The final verse of this passage, which how how are we to be encouraged? How did Peter encourage These elders by inspiring them to the prospect of future rewards. Verse 4 says, And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. He directs them to the realities of things that are not temporal, but things that are eternal. The chief shepherd appears is, of course, a reference to the coming of Christ. Word appearing is found in several other places in the New Testament. And you have this idea of a crown of glory. This is mentioned several times in Scripture. In 2 Corinthians 5, verse 10, for example, it says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That each one receives the things done in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad. And there are many other passages that I could go to as well to show you that there is going to be one day where there will be an accounting. But this is not something where we should we should look ahead with dread. And unfortunately, many times Christians do have that sort of mentality. And there are times where I've heard preach messages preached and and I'm I just don't want the Lord to come back because I don't have to give account for everything and it's almost used as a sense of It's a guilt people in the serving. No, there's a time where we're going to present ourselves before Christ. Here's what I've done in service to you. Looking forward to the day. Looking forward to the glory. That's what God wants for us. And it says particularly that it's a crown of glory that doesn't fade away. That should be our motivation. That there we're living, folks, not for this life. We're living for the next life. This is a vapor. This is a point in time. And if we're to be encouraged to serve the Lord, it's not by the immediate results that we receive now, it's by the future rewards that we know we will receive because the Bible promises that we will 1 Corinthians 9, verse 25, Paul says this and everyone who competes for the prize is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain perishable crown, but we for an imperishable crown. Those in the Olympic Games, they go for the gold, but it's perishable. How much more should we be faithful in serving the Lord faithfully for that which is eternal? 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 8. Finally, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will give me at that day, and not to me only, but also to all them who love his appearing. All that love the appearing of Christ, there will be there a crown for them. Revelation chapter 2 verse 10 says, do not fear for those things which are about to suffer Indeed, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison that you may be tested, and you will have tribulation ten days. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you a crown of life. Be faithful. And I'll give you a crown of life. The fact is, folks, the greatest motivation that we could receive outside of looking back at the cross which would should propel us into gratefulness to serve the Lord is to look ahead at the fact that we will see him once again. And experience eternal rewards. First Corinthians 2, verse 9 says this: I have not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love him. Colossians chapter 3 exhorts us this way. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above not on the things of this earth. For you died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Lloyd Jones says again, what's the problem? He's now identifying the problem, giving us the solution. He says this: the world is too much with us, that is our trouble. We are too immersed in our problems. We need to look ahead to anticipate, to look forward to the eternal glories gleaming afar. The Christian life is a tasting of the first fruits of the great harvest which is to come. Realize something in mind and heart of the glory of the place to which you are going. That is the antidote. That is the cure. These are the things that we that are so important for us to hold on to in times of difficulty of serving the Lord in ministry. So in wrapping all this up and thinking through all these things, I do this with our congregation just about every s every time I preach, I've got three things for you. Not it's not always three, maybe it's two, maybe it's four, maybe it's five. Today it's three, number one. The ministry and growth in Christ's likeness are interdependent. Ministry and growth in Christ's likeness are interdependent. If you lose one, the other will suffer. Ministry and Christian growth. Growth and Christ-likeness are interdependent. You cannot have one without the other properly. If you are trying to serve the Lord and you don't think that it has any effect on your spiritual growth, then you are missing the point. And if you are trying to grow spiritually without serving the Lord, you are also missing the point, and I am too. Number two. We must avoid improper and fleshly motivations of greed, power, and even mere duty. We must avoid improper motivations of greed and power and even mere duty. Are we just doing it out of a sense of duty? Folks, there's more to that in the Christian life. is out of love and gratitude and glorious anticipation. Number three Grudging duty turns to delightful service when we look back to the cross and look forward to the crown. Grudging duty turns to delightful service when we look back to the cross and look forward to the crown. Let's pray together. Father, we come to you and praise you for who you are. We thank you for your word and your truth. We thank you for the encouragement that we receive from Peter as he exhorts elders and frankly exhorts all of us. To stand fast and to serve faithfully. Father, may we, in our lives as believers, May we have an eternal perspective on life. Let us not be preoccupied with the news of the day. Let us not be so focused on the problems of life that we forget the eternal perspective that you want us to have. And may we serve you until you come for us and look with great anticipation to the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.