Good morning. Now if we were still in Kentucky, I'd say, what? Because they do their good morning a whole lot louder, by the way, just so that you know. I uh I just want to tell you just a few things before I start speaking about the message here. By the way, it's from Philippians chapter. I'm going to start with chapter one, verse twenty-seven. So if you want to turn there in your Bibles, a couple of things just to remember about me, for those of you who don't do remember me, this is going to be very difficult for me because I am ADHD. Which means I tend to move all over the stage. And so I'm going to have to do this to stay back behind this microphone. But it's okay. We'll make do. The uh state of Kentucky is wonderful. I had never been there until I went there as the Awana missionary. I mean, I went there completely blind as to what I was going into. And God revealed to me that it's home. And Cheryl and I truly feel at home in the state of Kentucky. We love it there. And now that we're in the eastern part of the state of Kentucky, We're loving it even more. I have to tell you, when we my third year as an Awana missionary, I was preaching at Faith Bible in Myra, Kentucky. And it's in the southeast corner of the of the mountains in in eastern Kentucky and just beautiful. And the pastor after I after I presented the uh the Sunday school hour, I presented Iwana during the Sunday school hour. And during that period, there was There's a guy who lives right across the street from the church, on the mountain right across the street from the church, and he had 50 roosters that he was raising. And he promised he was not raising them to fight. Yeah, right. But he was raising them for breeding stock. I'm like, yeah, okay, whatever. But uh all of a sudden, during the message, one of those roosters started to crow. Now, I don't know how many of you are country enough to realize, but when one rooster crows, They're all gonna crow. And the pastor was amazed because as soon as that one rooster started to crow, I just stepped back and just waited. And about a minute or so later, all the crowing had stopped, and I stepped back up to the microphone and continued my presentation. Well Sunday school's over, and he had me preach the Sunday morning message. And right in the middle of my sermon Right behind this this church is this railroad track. And this train goes down railroad track. Woo-hoo! And I mean it's making no and I just step back from the microphone and wait until the train was by, step back forward and continue with the preaching. He was amazed that I actually knew enough to do that because he said most of the preachers we get here, I I forget to tell them about it, but then they try to talk over it and you can't. It's not gonna happen. But he said something to me after that evening service that night, because he had me speak the evening service as well, and he said, I don't know how you did what you did, but my people took to you. He said, here in the mountains in eastern Kentucky, they don't do that. It takes you sometimes years for them to accept you. But these people just latched onto you God blessed you. And I'm like, amen. Yes, he did. And that day on the way home, I told Cheryl, I hope you're not going to be upset with me, but I truly feel at home over here. And I I'm praying already. that when it comes time for us to retire from Iwana, that he moves us over here to the southeast corner of Kentucky. And that's where we are. We're right there in the mountains in Southeast Kentucky. Harlan, for those of you who don't know where Harlan is, look on a Kentucky map. Follow the straight line across Tennessee all the way to the corner where it becomes Virginia. And just look up, just a quarter of an inch. You'll see Harlan. It's right there, and it's it is a financially devastated area of the state. If you were to look on a on a go Google a list of the most financially educationally deprived areas of the United States, counties in the United States, you'll see seven of those counties listed are Right there in the mountains in eastern Kentucky. And that's where the Lord has placed Cheryl and I. And we're loving it over there. I I am having to learn how to talk different. For example, I was at a church preaching one time up in northern Kentucky, and I was talking about the flowers on the pulpit or on the table in front of the pulpit. And I said, now, when I was out in Paducah, they called these flowers pinies. And when I was in Louisville, they called them peonies. And when I was over in Corbin area, they called them peonies. I said, well, just for curiosity, what do you call them here? And a guy sitting in the front row says, we just call them flowers. So I really am having to learn a whole new language, and it depends on where you are in the state as to what language you speak. But I was preaching one day in in Henderson, Kentucky, and I'm preaching along and First off, I was told we started preaching, we started the morning service at 20 minutes to 11, and I was told we had to be done by 10 minutes to 12. And I said, why 10 minutes to 12? He said, well, that way we can get to the restaurants before the Methodists do. And I'm like, okay. Good reason I guess. But uh anyway, it's it's been uh it's been quite a unique experience in moving over there. Let's start with a word of prayer and then let me get into this message. Father God, thank you. Thank you for being the awesome, wonderful, powerful, loving God that you are. And Father, I just pray that you'd speak through me now. May my words be from you. I pray this in Jesus' wonderful and precious name. Amen. Philippians chapter 1, verse 27, starts like this. By the way, I am using King James. For those of you offended, well, get over it. I say that in jest. I actually uh I I told the church one time there's a very good reason why I use King James. And the reason is because I'm old. It's what I started with. Please don't make me memorize from any other version. I've got enough verses memorized here. And yet I've had the privilege of uh memorizing over 1,500 verses of scripture. And so um God allows me to memorize well and I can memorize a chapter at a time, and it's just a wonderful blessing. But I don't want to have to rememorize in another version. So I preach from the King James because of that. If you see my wife writing real quick, it's because she's telling me what the reference is, because that's my hardest part, is trying to remember the reference. Anyway, Philippians 1. 27 it says, only let your conversation Now conversation, that's not just speech. That's your whole manner of life. That's the way you live. Only let the way you live be As it becometh the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit. Now, how is he going to hear about this? Well, because he's sending Timothy. He's sending Timothy to them. He's going to send Timothy. Why? Because Timothy is his beloved son in the Lord. Not physically his son. but spiritually his son, the one who he trusts the most to make sure that he's leading those people. He loved this church. This is a love letter to the church at Philippi. And it goes on and says, I may hear of your affairs that ye stand fast in one spirit with one mind. Striving together for the faith of the gospel. Now that idea of one mind comes up more than once in this section of Scripture. So pay attention to that one mind. The next verse it says, and in nothing terrified by your adversaries which it is to them an evident token of perdition or a clear sign of them of their destruction. but to you of salvation and that of God. Now, here's a hard part for a lot of people to understand coming up, okay? Verse 29. For unto you is given. Unto you is granted. Unto you is given as a favor. in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. We have the privilege of suffering for the sake of Christ. We have the honor of suffering on his behalf. It's given to us. It's granted to us as a favor. We're never promised that while on this earth we'll live a life without tribulation. Actually, in Romans 5, 1 through 5, it says this. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom also we have access by faith. into his grace wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only so but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that tribulation worketh patience and patience experience and experience hope and hope maketh not ashamed because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us. So that middle section there, and not only so, but we glory in tribulation also. I told someone once that I actually pray for patience, and they said, are you crazy? You pray for patience? With patience comes testing, yes, and with testing comes growth. We can grow closer to God through the testing. And how do we get the testing? By praying for patience. I believe we need to all be praying for patience. Moving on into verse 30, it says this, having the same conflict which ye saw in me and now hear to be in me. How do they hear it to be in him? Because they sent people to him with gifts. They sent people to him so that he could continue in prison. Which is where Paul spent a lot of time. The prisons weren't glorious prisons like we have nowadays where you've got color TV and and uh cable and can watch the football games and the gladiators fight. These prisons, people brought you food or you didn't eat. You might get some bread and water, but you're not going to get a good meal. It's not a health spa It's not go out on the out in the yard and pump weights and get stronger. It's sit chained in your cell and get weaker. And yet the people at Philippi met his needs. They sent to him people to encourage him and gifts to help him with his health. So he heard of that, he heard from those people. So first you saw it in my life And now you're granted the favor of living it out in your lives also. You saw the tribulation, the trials, the pain, the suffering that I went through. And now. You're granted the privilege of going through that same tribulation yourself right now in your own lives. And then we get into Philippians chapter 2, and it says, if there be therefore And this is why I went back. Jay Vernon, uh not Jay Vernon and McGee, uh Warren Wearsby used to say, where you see a therefore, go back and find out what the therefore is there for. By the way, he was one of the pastors in northern Kentucky. Just thought I'd let you know that. Something good about Northern Kentucky. Anyway, if there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies Fulfill ye my joy, my joy. This is a church he started. What would be his greatest joy to see them grow? Not necessarily in numbers, but growth spiritually. That's where the growth needs to come. In the individuals spiritually. It needs to grow by us knowing the gospel of Jesus Christ and not being ashamed to go out and share the gospel of Jesus Christ. Romans 1 16 says, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Now, I'm not saying that any of you are ashamed of the gospel of Christ, but what I will say is this. Many of us are ashamed of our inability to be able to go out and share it clearly But we're to be ready always to give an answer for the faith that is in us. That means we're to be ready always. to proclaim the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ. I love the way Paul writes, by the way. In 1 Corinthians 15, he starts it out with. Here's the gospel, by the way, this is the Timothy James version. Here's the gospel, which I already preached to you, which you already received, and oh, by the way, it's where you stand. Oh, and just so you know, it's how I got saved and how you got saved too. So here it is Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again on the third day, according to the scriptures. People, that's what we need to proclaim. We need to proclaim the good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ. So many people are worried about how they're going to say it. My feeling is use God's word. He's got perfect speech. He's got perfect hearing. The problem isn't him. The problem is us. We don't spend enough time speaking to God. We don't spend enough time listening to God through his word. My question for you right now would be, do you spend more time on Facebook or in the Word of God? And if I stepped on your toes, I'm not sorry. Do you spend more time watching TV or in the Word of God? Do you spend more time talking to others or talking to God? Anyway, fulfill ye my joy. A pastor's joy would be to see the individuals of his flock living for Christ. Doing what God would want them to do. Remember the old bracelets people used to wear? What would Jesus do? It got so commercialized that it stopped selling. Well, it's still a valid question. And it's a question you should ask yourselves every day. What would Jesus do? When you say, what should I do now? Don't say what should I do now. Say what would what would Jesus do? That's the answer to your question. What should you do? Whatever Jesus would do. I was in a mall and I saw a bracelet. It was red, red letters, on a black background. The girl wearing it. was wearing black and red and white and piercings and I'm not saying there's anything necessarily wrong with any of that, but She had a cross on that was upside down and some other issues that I looked at and I was like, Well, I want to talk to her. I don't want to judge ahead of time. So I asked her, I said, Are you a are you a believer in Christ? She said, Oh no. I'm a Wiccan. I said, oh. Okay. She said, you find something wrong with that? I said, well, it goes against what I believe, but what I believe goes against what you believe. So we're both standing on equal ground now. And she was like, oh, okay. I don't think she knew quite how to take me, which isn't rare, by the way. But uh I said, uh the reason I wanted to talk to you, I saw this bracelet that you have, the WWJD. Now when I see that, I think of what would Jesus do? Well, you've already said that you don't profess Jesus Christ, so what does your bracelet stand for? And she said, we want Jesus dead. And I was like, oh, so then you do admit that he's still alive, and I think that's a wonderful thing that you're able to profess that. And I turned and walked away. There wasn't much more I could say. She already knew how I stood, but we want Jesus dead. Anyway Fulfill ye my joy, that ye may be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord of one mind. Remember I told you one mind is going to come up again. Okay? It'll be in here again one more time, I think. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. This is totally contrary to the me first, I deserve it idea and mentality that covers America today. I ask kids when I share a message similar to this with them. Let's say you're having a birthday party, and your mom's got a bowl of candy out there And your favorite candy bar, and I'll ask the one of the kids, what's your favorite candy bar? And he might say uh Milky Way. I say, okay, now imagine there's this bowl of candy. There's only one Milky Way. Who's getting it? He said, me. They almost always say that. I'm getting it. I'll take it, yeah. But my question is, what would Jesus do? And that's what I try to help them to understand. Let nothing be done Through strife or vainglory but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of other. I like the way it reads in the ESV, it says, let each of you look not only on your own to your own interest. but also to the interests of others. We need to be looking at what we can do to help, to lift up others, to benefit them. Now we get to the meat of the one mind. We find that it's not just a matter of The congregation being in agreement, it is a much more important idea than that. It says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. That's the mind Paul has been talking about. The mind of Christ Jesus What would Jesus do? What would Jesus be thinking right now? How do I handle this situation? By saying to myself, What would Jesus do? Who being in the form of God actually, the Son of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. Now, I want you to ponder this thought for a minute. Because that song we sang up front here, the song about the my robes, his robes for mine. This is part of that. Think about what he did. Ponder the idea. If you've never thought of it before, I want you to think about it now. In the beginning, God created. That's Genesis 1. 1. And then you go into 1 John, and it says, In the beginning was the Word, and then it goes on further, and it says, And without him was not anything made that was made. So in other words, Jesus Christ the Son was there at creation. He helped make man. Okay? This to me is mind-boggling. So it says, without him was not anything made that was made. And then God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And then the same son of God who formed man was born of a virgin? This is a God thing. We can't understand. This is a God thing. How can Jesus be born Then 2,000 years ago now, when he created over 6,000 years ago. That blows my mind. It says And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great, and shall be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there will be no end. So the one by whom all men are created was born. By those he created. I just find that fascinating. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross And now this same creator God, who was born of a virgin, the one who is the Alpha and the Omega. The first and the last, the beginning and the end, the eternal God allows himself to be put to death by the beings he created. He allowed it to happen. Why? So that we might live That's love. And all that's required of us is that we have faith and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. It goes on in verse 9 and it says, Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. to the glory of God the Father. Wow. Now the good news, actually the great news. The gospel states that Christ did die. And he died for our sins. He was buried for us. And he was raised from the dead by his own father on the third day. Romans chapter 10 verse 9 says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, when I'm dealing with a child, I ask him, is Jesus Christ Lord? Had one little girl say, well, he's the Son of God, of course he's Lord. She got it But my question is, is he your Lord? Is he your Lord and Savior? Is Jesus Christ Lord? If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shall believe in thine heart, that's a hard concept for a child to believe. It's a hard concept for a child to understand. Believe in your heart. You believe in your head. What does it mean to believe in your heart? Let me tell you what it is. This is how I explain it to children. I want you to think about a person that you know loves you. I don't mean God in any one of his three forms. Think about someone who you know either loves or loved you. I can think about my wife. I can also think about my mother. I know my mother loved me. I know my wife loves me. I know it. You know what else? I know it. I know it in my gut that my wife loves me. There's not a doubt that she loves me. That's what it means to believe in your heart. So you know God raised Jesus from the dead. My question for you today is Do you have faith enough to know it? In your heart? Because that's what it takes to be saved. Not just knowing it in your head, but having it in your heart. The creator of life is the only one able. to give to you eternal life. Let's pray. Father God, thank you Thank you for being the creator of life. Thank you for being the one who will give us eternal life simply by our believing in you and what you have already done. Father, we recognize ourselves as sinners. There's nothing we can do on our own to receive that wonderful gift of salvation. But Father, if there's even one here today who you'd have come to know you as Savior, to have to come to know Jesus Christ as the Lord and Savior. Father, I just pray you'd have your Holy Spirit challenge their hearts. Help them understand their need. And Father, for those of us who are saved, I pray that you'd help us To ask the question more regularly. What would Jesus do? Father, I pray this in his wonderful And precious name, a name above all names. The name of Jesus Christ. Amen.