Open your Bibles to Ephesians. Back to Ephesians. We're going to be looking today at Ephesians chapter 5, a walk in the spirit Where it says in verse 18, do not be drunk with wine, wherein it's excess, but be filled with or by the Spirit. But before we do, and as you're turning, a couple of things to keep in mind. Uh first, if you're a visitor, I would love to give you a free gift. It's called the Jesus Answer Book. It's a series of questions that people have about Jesus and answers. And I'm going to be putting these two books back there on the table. And if you're interested, please, any visitor here today, please feel free to pick one of those up. It's our gift to you. I'll put that on the welcome table after the service. And we're glad you're here. And if you'd like us to pray for you or you just want to leave a record of your visit, there's a white card uh in the pew in front of you And uh we won't nag you, but if you'd like a visit, we'd be glad to uh visit with you. Also, this Saturday, the Flea Market Outreach, what we're going to do is meet here at the church at 7 a. m. Alright, it's kind of early, but it ends at lunch. So we're going to meet here at 7 a. m. It's a first-come, first-served basis for the flea market tables down there on the Route 1 Flea Market So we have to get there early enough to get a table, and then we have all kinds of Spanish uh written literature that we're going to pass out, and we're going to have some knick-knacks that people can buy. A couple of goals for this. One is to have an opportunity for those of you who have learned Spanish to use it for the kingdom of God. to give out the gospel in Spanish. Two, we're trying to build a team of people who are interested in doing evangelism in creative ways, unexpected ways. Three, we uh we we want to try to have gospel conversations with people. Have you ever had a gospel conversation with someone when you're just talking about the gospel? And so these things are some of our goals. So if you're interested, here's what's happening now at the church. If you have not liked the church Facebook page, make sure you do that. Because you'll be getting announcements. I don't know how it all works, but if you like it, the updates on the timeline of the Facebook page will come up with different activities for the church Two, if you want to know what's happening at the church, check the calendar on the church website. And everything's listed right on there Three, we have a blog that we email out with announcements. Four, check the bulletin out there, not the bulletin, but the calendar on the wall Five, you have the announcements here in the bulletin. And six, I am boring you to death with more announcements verbally. So what do you think? Is that good enough communication for everyone? Can everybody stay in the loop that way with everything that's happening? If uh I don't really know how else to communicate to you. So we have a lot of exciting things going on. We want you to be excited about what God is doing here because He is at work. We had uh so much going on already that God has really been working in and I'm so thankful. All right. That's the last announcement. Let's pray and get into our text this morning. Time's give getting away from us. Father, this morning, thank you. Thank you that we have the powerful gospel, the life-changing gospel, a message that is unlike Any message of Hinduism or Islam or even other religions who would try to work their way into nirvana or heaven or Or bliss or paradise or a better place. Father, we are the ones who put our trust in Jesus and the cross, that it paid the price. He died to redeem us from the penalty of the law, which is death. So, Father, justify, confirm the message May it go forward from this pulpit and these people strongly in the days, the months, the years ahead. I pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, Ephesians 5. Let's just read together. I mean, I'll read, you can listen. Verses 18, 19, and 20. Ephesians 5, 18, 19, and 20. And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Right now we're in the middle of a context which has to do with not being unwise But being wise and understanding what the will of the Lord is. There are those moments when we are perplexed as Christians. We don't know what the will of the Lord is in any given circumstance. Sometimes that's the way we feel. Should I marry her or not? Should I take this job or not? Should I move to Milwaukee or stay here? I mean, what is the will of God for my life? Well, the best thing to do, the place to start for the Christian, is the Word of God. And here we have one of three texts in your New Testament that talks about the will of God explicitly. And here we have a list of things that are the will of God. You see, folks, you're not going to understand whether you should move to Milwaukee or not. Marry her or not, do this or not do that, if you are not in the Word and obeying the written word of God. It is inconsistent, on the one hand, to say, I seek the perfect will of God in my employment when you are not reading the revealed word of God day by day and trying to understand and obey what is clear. In the will of God and the struggle we sometimes have over it, I often think of Naaman. In the Old Testament, he was someone who had a terrible illness. And he went to talk to the man of God. And the man of God, many of us in here know the story. He said the Naaman, go dip in the Jordan River, and you'll be healed of your leprosy. And Naaman is upset. The Jordan River is filthy in his eyes. It's dirty, overflowed, probably muddy. He goes back to his retinue of servants and friends and says, Why am I going to do that? There are all these better places I could go in my own country and maybe do something there. But he asked me to do this. And the servants came to him and said, Sir, if he had asked you to do something hard, wouldn't you have done it in order to be free of your leprosy? And he thought and said, Yes, I would. And they said, well, why won't you do the simple thing to be free from your leprosy? And you know the story. He went and he dipped and he was healed. But he was unwilling at first to do the simple thing. And here it is with the will of God. The simple thing is: here's a book. God has written it. We should read it and we should obey it. That's the River Jordan to us. And yet, so often we feel like we have to read ten other self-help books or some sort of literature on the will of God. Okay, it might be helpful, but let's start here. And so we have, if you look at your Bible, we have these statements that are the will of God, and they all have to do with verse 18, that is in our sermon today. Verse 18 gives a negative, a prohibition first. It says, do not be drunk with wine wherein is excess. Now, the scriptures have a lot to say about strong drink, and believers are divided right down the middle on whether they should drink or shouldn't drink, whether they should partake or not partake. I want to be careful with what I say, but there is no command in the Bible that says you cannot under any circumstances drink an alcoholic bag. There's no command that prohibits that per se. However, there are clear warnings in the Old Testament In the proverbs of the danger of strong drink. It's like a snake. It'll bite you when you least expect it. It's like the person who is on the ground and he's waking up and he's been in a fight and he doesn't remember who hit him because he's been drunk and he didn't know what happened. So we do have warnings about the dangers of strong drink. And in the New Testament, we have this prohibition against getting drunk. You cannot get drunk. The answer here in verse 18 as to why is in the idea of excess as contrasted to being filled with the Spirit. That word that's translated excess has to do with licentiousness or a loss of control. And someone who is inebriated, who's taken in the wine and they're drunk, they've given in to this. they've given control over to the wine and now they have no control over their lives. You and I have probably to varying degrees have either had friends, whether it be in high school or college, Or neighbors or seen on T V someone who is drunk. And you know there are times when I've seen a television show and I've known that that drunk person is there to be a laughing. stock. I should be laughing at that guy. And everyone's laughing at that guy. But is there really anything funny about an individual who has no control over their faculty? They've given control of their faculties over. And they now are not even in possession of their own bodies. Do you know in the New Testament, we are told over and over again. That this is not the way of Christ. A Christian is not to do this. We are not to be known as people who are out of control, who who go to the certain parties so that we can Get drunk or lose control. We want to be people who are controlled in what we're doing. The contrast here in verse 18 is the spirit And being filled by the Spirit. Let me get you to turn to Galatians 5 and show you what it looks like to be filled by the Spirit. Turn back a few pages and look at this very well-known fruit of the Spirit passage. in Galatians 5. Who is the Spirit? It's a capital S, and it should be This is the spirit of God. The spirit of God is not like the force from Star Wars, that is sort of a spirit who floats around and we can manipulate it into doing what we want it to do. In New Testament theology, in biblical theology, the Spirit of God is a person. He has a personality. He can be grieved. He can be quenched. He has a mind, the mind of the Spirit. He thinks. He was involved in creation. Genesis 1, the Spirit of God moved over the face of the waters. He has a will, and we are to be related rightly to him as Christians. Someone who is rightly related to the Spirit of God. who is also, and we all know this, God the Spirit, will exemplify these characteristics. This is Galatians 5, verse 22. Love, joy, peace. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, or faithfulness, meekness or gentleness Temperance, which is self-control, another way of translating that word. It's translated temperance in the King James Version. Self-control, the ability to reign in your passions and desires by an act of your will. Meekness, gentleness, the word that's translated gentleness, sometimes is defined as strength under control. Picture in your mind the strongest bodybuilder you can with muscles just sprouting out of them and he reaches down and he picks up a tiny bird that has fallen out of its nest and with incredible gentleness Places that bird back in its nest. Strength under control. The love, joy, and peace, although having to do with emotions, also has to do with truth that creates and f and and settles those emotions. That's the context for those emotions. Long suffering, the idea of enduring for great periods of time in a place that you don't want to be, but you do it because that is what God wants. Faith and goodness, these all have to do with a person who is under control of their faculties and able to make decisions, do the right thing at the right time. This is the fruit of the Spirit. What could be any more opposed to that than someone who cannot even walk a straight line? Who cannot drive their car because they'll kill someone potentially. The contrast is striking. Go back to Ephesians 5. The prohibition is clear. A Christian should never, under any circumstances, be drunk. Someone might say, Well, what happens if you're fighting in the Civil War and you're getting your leg amputated, and uh the doctor says, Here, take some of this, it'll dull the pain. Well, look. The Civil War's over. I doubt that'll happen again. If it was me, I think I would pray about it quickly and try to decide what to do. But I I think that's kind of a question that we don't really need to worry about too much. But if that happens to you, call me and we'll pray together and decide what to do. But the generally speaking, we know. We're not supposed to be drunk, all right? Excess, the licentious lifestyle is what this drunkenness is coming from. But we're supposed to be filled with the Spirit, verse 18. Now, what does this mean? Well, first. It's a decision that we must make. This filling by the Spirit in verse 18 is not automatic. That's what the Greek is telling us behind this English. translation. It is a command that you and I must decide to obey. As a matter of fact, if the idea here is you're deciding to do it here, you're deciding to do it here, you're deciding to do it here. Now that is striking to me. I have to get up in the morning and I have to decide to be filled by the Spirit. When was the last time? Think of this honestly. When was the last time you actually Prayed and said, Lord, today I want to be filled by the Spirit. I want to make, I want to decide how to do this. Please help me as I go through my day to make this decision over and over again. To be filled by the Spirit. Think in your mind, when was the last time you volitionally, you consciously made that decision? You know what? I think that I I, as your pastor, your preacher, I think, and I go, wow, I don't know if I can think of the last time I did that Now, we all know that most of us have very normal, very easy lives, and we never have any trials and temptations. So, is that true? No, that's not true. You're here today, probably there's someone here who just discovered they have an illness they didn't know they had, their finances are not as good as they wish they were, they have a relational problem. We go through life and we're in a boat sailing across the ocean in the middle of a hurricane. Is that not sometimes what life is? Sometimes the hurricane passes us by, the tornado, whatever you call it, out there in the ocean, and the seas are a little calm. And sometimes we sail right into a storm. And have you not found out, Christian, that we don't get to decide? When the next storm is going to come, do we? We can't say, Lord, today is the day I can take it. Bring it I would be terrified to say that, really. But that kind of confidence in Christ, not yourself, wouldn't that be great? Sometimes we go into the storm, sometimes we come out. So would it not be wise to obey the will of God? Do not be unwise, but understand what the will of God is. And here's the will of God. casting off this unrestrained drunkenness and by an act of your will getting into the habit of choosing, choosing, choosing. And wouldn't the word proactive go well here? Proactively choosing before you enter the storm, whether you're in the middle of the storm, wherever, I will be filled by the Spirit. This is what I want. I had a terrible day yesterday. I won't tell you what happened, but it stunk. I wasn't prepared for it. I went through the day in my general attitude. Don't ask my wife and kids, stunk. I just was not ready for what happened yesterday. Had that ever happened to you? And yet, here is this command: to be filled by the Spirit. Say, Dan, what does it mean? Well, I just for the sake of what I'm talking about this morning, I want you to look at the verses that follow and let and just follow what I'm saying. Here's what will be the result of the filling. Speaking to yourselves. In one another, in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing, speaking certain things Singing certain things. Verse 20, giving thanks. Verse 21, submitting. These words are all tied back to the filling with the Spirit. Now, they are not to be seen as The content or the cause of the filling. It's like I want to be filled with the Spirit, so I will sing a psalm. They are, by virtue of the grammar here, A result of the filling. So you know that you are filled by the Spirit He that he is active in your life if you then choose this singing and submission and giving thanks. However, saying that It's almost simultaneous. Folks, do you know that you are not alone? Let me let me try. This is this is hard to understand and sometimes frankly I don't know that The scriptures are that clear. Sorry, Mark. Um right now, as you're sitting there, we're not alone, you're a Christian. There's someone with who your spirit with you, a second presence I was scared because I was almost like, what does that mean? Right? What if he, if you're here today as Christians, is the Holy Spirit of God? Everywhere you go, he goes. Lord there. God is omnipresent. But he is within you. The New Testament indicates that there are there's a job that he is active in doing on your behalf as he is within you. You could not resist temptation but for the Spirit of God within you. You could not say no to the flesh if the Spirit of God was not within you. And there are two passages in the New Testament that explicitly say two things the Spirit of God does within you. Romans 5, which says that the Spirit of God Shed the love of God abroad in your heart. He pours the love of God into your heart. So this is what that means. You have a sense That when your day stinks and your life's falling apart, you are still loved by God. Romans 5, the context there in the first paragraph, is that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, but we were enemies, weak, sinful, weak, sinful enemies, God loves us. And as we dwell in those facts, the Spirit of God pours that repression love into our hearts, our souls are That's one thing the Spirit does for us. Have you had those moments? No one can do this for you. When you're spinning in the dark, and God is telling you, you are not here is light. Sister Robert God loves you. And the spirit is telling you that. I'm not saying an audible voice, but there is that realization in your heart. Secondly, we have in Romans again in Romans 8 that the Spirit speaks with our Spirit that we are the sons of God. What that means is not the race of men or anything like that. What it's talking about is our place of position in the family of God as opposed to the family of the world or the devil. We're in a new family, and secondly, the place of privilege. Because in the Old Testament, it was the firstborn son who has the privileges of inheritance and had to figure out what to do with the family. Spirit of God is telling us that we are in a family of God. You are a child of God. Now I don't know about you, but there are moments when I still sin as your pastor. Do you know that? I still sin. Sometimes I eat too much taste. It's not the only sin I ever commit. Too much hate. Do you ever commit things like that? And do you ever feel like when you sin that you are a failure and that you do not belong in the family of God? Or that they Maybe you're just issuing a manning. It's at those moments as we well know the scriptures that the Spirit of God reminds us or brings scripture to our hearts that we are part of the family of God. Folks, when you sense that you are part of the family of God and a place of privilege, not because you're special, but because Christ died for you. And when you sense that you are loved by God, that's the Spirit of God at work in your heart. He is With you doing these things. Romans 5, we're going to say. He is the one who, at the time we're saved, were in dwelt with the Spirit of God. He is with us. He cannot be taken from us. Being filled with the Spirit has something to do with that activity of the Spirit within us. It has something to do also with our submission. See, here's the thing. When we're saved, we get all the Spirit. But evidently, the Spirit does not get all of us. Because there have to be those moments when we surrender to the control of the Spirit. When we say, I will do what God wants rather than what my flesh wants. And those are moments of choice as we know we are loved. It's like this. God tells us, you are mine, i. e. Romans 8, part of the family of God, and you are loved eternally. And as we exist in this knowledge of the Spirit and Him within us, we surrender to the Spirit and we're put under the Spirit's control. Now, in our church, we don't teach that this means you'll speak in ecstatic utterances. Speaking in tongues. I could do that right now for you. I could speak in tongues for you. And I could not be in the Spirit of God. I could make it up. I'm actually fairly good at making things up. To ask my kids, I tell them lots of stories. But that's not that's not the filling of the spirit. We teach at our church that the filling of the spirit has to do with The fruit of the Spirit. So let's look quickly now at verse 19. Here's the first thing he brings out that's part of the result, and certainly something we should strive to do by being under the Spirit's control: speaking and singing. Now you'll notice that there are two recipients of these songs. Really three, because you hear yourself sing and you hear yourself speak. But it is to yourselves plural, which would indicate that it's to everyone, and really the reference here is probably to congregational singing. And we're speaking, and there the reference is to the content of the lyrics. Psalms, which would be a reference to the Old Testament collection of Psalms, that's clear. Hymns and spiritual songs gets a little bit more fuzzy. Some have defined the Greek word there for hymns. That would be the songs that we sing that are a little more highbrow, if we could put it that way. They have more to do with God and his transcendence. Who he is and the spiritual songs as is sometimes defined as gospel songs. But really here, I think it's clearer to look at the spiritual songs as songs of the Spirit or that are in keeping with the Holy Spirit, that is probably a more accurate to what the Greek is doing there. The word hymns somewhere in between. The Psalms and the Spiritual Songs. The singing and the making melody in your heart indicates that it's something going on within you. That you are you are, as Paul wrote to Timothy, kindling afresh the gift of God that is within you. You, you, folks, do you know you can do that? Did you know you can get excited because you choose to get excited? I I'm not really very good at this cheerleading kind of thing I can't imagine being a cheerleader and having to get all excited when my team's losing. But you and I are on the winning side. Our team wins. You can get excited. You can start to make a melody in your heart and sing. It doesn't mean you're dancing up and down and you have to have that much energy, but it does mean something is happening within us. Now, there's a lot that could be said about verse 19. I only want to say this: the psalms and the hymns and the spiritual songs. Are essentially composed of two things: the lyrics and the music. Because the speaking and the singing is a result of the filling, verse 18. The speaking and the singing should be consistent with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit produces love, joy, and peace. And so the music that we make here at church, we want it to be consistent with the And that is why at our church we try to be careful not to jam it up here every Sunday because we want to try to keep our music in keeping with The Holy Spirit's fruit. Now, having said that, I think we can loosen up a little bit, but we still need to be in keeping with what this verse is teaching. Speaking, singing, look at verse 20, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. How do you know you're walking in the Spirit? You've replaced grumbling, complaining, a negative attitude, and you find yourself giving Thanks. Lord, thank you for this bowl of cereal. Thank you for my clunker car. Thank you for my less-than-perfect job. Thank you for the weeds in my yard and for the ache in my back, Lord. I just want to thank you. you because you died for me. That's this for all things unto God and the Father. Now someone says, well do you do you thank God if you have cancer? I'd have a hard time thanking God for cancer, but I can still thank God for the fact that if I died today, I would be in heaven with Christ. So there's always something that you can give thanks for. And then I have to move quickly, the submitting, because I want to park here for a second. Chapter 5, verse 21, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Folks, this is something that many churches kind of drop the ball at. What does this mean? It's a mutual submission, submitting yourselves to one another. It's one of the one-anothers of the New Testament, just like verse 19 was: speaking to yourselves in Psalms and Hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. There is this mutual thing that's going on there. And it's a submission that everyone has to everyone. What does that mean? If you come up and tell me that you think uh that I need to wear a tie today, should I submit to that right away? If I come up to you and say I think you need to take your tie off, should you submit to that right away? What is this mutual submission? Well What you see when you back away from your Bible and look at all the one-anothers in the Bible is you begin to see How badly Cain was lying when he said, I am not my brother's keeper. Am I my brother's keeper? The New Testament teaches that when you come into a local assembly, we are supposed to care for one another, exhort one another, encourage one another, love one another to such an extent That it is quite a challenge. And the submission part comes in when a brother or sister comes to you and they say, How's your walk with Christ going? And instead of making something up, you're honest with that, and you say, it's not going that good I need some prayer support. I need some help in this area of my life. And you know what? Could you disciple me in this area of my life so I could improve this or this? And it's sort of this mutual submission where we all have the same goals biblically, and we're trying to walk through life together, and when someone steps out of line, in the not in a sense of a cult. But if someone here were to commit adultery on their wife, or they were to embezzle money from their company, or they were to rob someone or commit some sin, the rest of us would move in and try to lovingly but firmly ask them to rep. Repent and to get right with God. That's part of the Matthew 18 submission, the church discipline process. all the one another's in the New Testament. It's what makes a local church a local church and not a club. Not something like Boy Scouts or Cub Scouts, but they do have some accountability there. You better do your activities so you can get your badge. But that's what makes the church special because faithful are the wounds of a friend. A friend tells a friend when they have a need. A friend rebukes a friend if a friend needs it. And then the act of submission, you know what? You're right. Folks, here's the scary part. It's an evidence of the spirit's work in a local assembly. An assembly that is not practicing this mutual submission could be an assembly that is not controlled by the Holy Spirit of God. And to the extent that an assembly is walking by the Spirit, singing, speaking, giving, and submitting, to that extent, there's an actual measurement, a metric, if I could call it that. Of how well that that local assembly is walking by the Spirit. Now he goes on here to talk about wives, husbands. fathers, servants, and masters, and the different kind of relationships that are there and how they work together. But the submission here in verse 21 is a very general expression that has to do with the whole church. So let me wrap it up this way then. Are you endeavoring to walk by the Spirit? Are you someone who is saying, you know what, I want to do it more if I'm not? Or even if I'm doing a little bit, I want to do this. I want to increase in what I'm doing. And if you're that person There's no substitute for you getting alone with God and talking to God about that, folks. I can't teach you how to walk in the Spirit without you going to God and asking Him to help you personally There's only so much a pastor, a preacher, a teacher can do. You must decide if you personally will walk by the Spirit.