I was listening to a sermon this week and I heard an extraordinary story of survival. It's about Lincoln Hall, an Australian climber who about 20 years ago made the climb to the top of Mount Everest. No small feat as the peak stands over twenty-nine thousand feet in elevation. Challenge here is like I'm in my mid-40s right now and sometimes complain about like slowing down and I'm not in being in shape. But what jolted me was that Hall was fifty years old when he reached the summit. And this wasn't his first attempt either. He had blazed a new trail in 1984, and 22 years later, in the morning of May 25th, 2006. He made it to the top of the world. Now movie maker might end the film at that glorious moment, roll the credits But here's the thing about climbing mountains. You need to come back down. And that would be a huge problem for Lincoln Hall. Not long after beginning his descent, Hall started showing symptoms of altitude sickness. After confused, went into shock, lay down in the snow, and would not move. Those with him tried for hours to rouse him back up. Radio calls urged them to get moving. It was getting late in the day, and the oxygen supplies were diminished. Snow blindness set in. The guys with Hall had no choice but to leave him. All was left for dead and assumed dead. His wife and children were soon informed of what happened. But just after this, there was another team of climbers venturing up Mount Everest. Knowing what happened to Hall, their leader, Daniel Mazur, was on the lookout for him He was told where he'd expect to find them, and find them he did. And to everyone's surprise, Paul was still alive. It somehow survived the night in its condition with low oxygen at 20 degrees below zero and at more than 28,000 feet altitude. The team aborted their mission and at great risks to themselves brought the barely alive man back down. Missouri said concerning this decision, the summit is still there, and we can go back. Lincoln only has one life. Now on the surface this story is about uh one man's will to survive and another man's will to save. We as believers know that's not all of it. We know God worked behind the scenes, whether people realize it or not. Even those who do not who do recognize the Lord's work rarely understand all that's going on. But what's certain is that God wanted Lincoln Hall alive to live to tell his story. There's some parallels here, I think between Between this this story of Paul and the story of Noah, right? Both men faced extremely precarious conditions at high altitudes. Maybe they felt the worst was behind them, but there were more challenges ahead. If it wasn't for someone else remembering them, they would have been stuck, left for dead. As for the contrast, we know that greater than a man's care for another man. It's God's care for all creatures, great and small. That's what we'll see as we continue in Genesis today. Today we wrap up the journey of Noah and the Ark through the blood waters. Now, from our perspective, it only takes a flip of a page or reading a few paragraphs to peruse the entire account. But keep in mind that the deluge lasted more than a year. If we reckon 30 days in a month, we're talking 370 days of the flood And remember from chapter seven that it was seven days before the flood began that God commanded the ark passengers to board and get ready. So that's actually three hundred seventy seven days total cooped up inside. the vessel. I don't know what I get stir crazy and get cabin fever. I love my nature walks for exercise and mental breaks. I feel free just driving around without any specific destination. This reminds me of the COVID lockdown. It was difficult, but at least we could go places while keeping social distance. Noah and his company were not going anywhere, except wherever the winds and the waves took them. But I'm willing to bet no other just spent most of his time twiddling his thumbs out of boredom or pacing back and forth out of extreme anxiety. As I said before, he had eyes of faith to look beyond the circumstances. He discerned truths about God even in the midst of judgment. For example, if today we see clearly in nature our Creator's invisible attributes, even his eternal power, how much more did Noah see in this terrible flood? Had he known Psalm 93, 3 to 4, maybe Noah would have led his crew to sing it as their shanty. The floods have lifted up, O Lord, the floods have lifted up their voice, the floods lift up their waves. The Lord on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, than the mighty waves of the sea. So these are some dramatic live object lessons. Now as the waters begin to abate and research There are even more lessons in store for Noah and ultimately for us. So let's read the passage, Genesis 8, 1 to 19. Genesis 8. One to nineteen. Then God remembered Noah and every living thing. and all the animals that were with him in the ark, and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subsided. The fountains of the deep and the windows of heaven were also stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained. And the waters receded continually from the earth. At the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters decreased, and the ark rested in the seventh month, the seventeenth day of the month on the mountains of Ararat. And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen. So it came to pass at the end of forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made. Then he sent out a raven which kept going to and and fro until the waters had dried up from the earth. He also sent out from himself a dove to see if the waters had receded from the face of the ground. But the dove found no resting place for the sole of her foot. And she returned into the ark to him. For the waters were on the face of the whole earth. So he put out his hand and took her, and drew her into the ark to himself. And he waited yet another seven days, and again he sent a dove out of out from the ark. Then the dove came to him in the evening, and behold, a freshly plucked olive leaf was in her mouth, and no one knew that the waters had receded from the earth. So he waited yet another seven days and sent out the dove, which did not return again to him any more. And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year in the first month. the first day of the month, that the waters were dried up from the earth. And Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and indeed the surface of the ground was dry And in the second month, on the twenty seventh day of the month, the earth was dry. Then God spoke to Noah, saying, Go out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons, and your sons' wives, with you. Bring out in with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you, birds and cattle and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, so that they may abound on the earth. And be fruitful and multiply on the earth. So Noah went out, and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him. Every animal, every creeping thing, every bird, and whatever creeps on the earth, according to their families, went out of the ark. If I were to summarize this text in three words, they'd be providence, experience, and obedience. But first, as usual, here's how I derive my outline. Note first of all how the text begins and ends with focus on God. The chapter starts with God remembering Noah and others in the Ark. From the second sentence of verse 1 to verse 5, the Lord acts in his providence to move forces visible and invisible. It's not by mere chance that the Ark landed where it did. We credit the Lord's faithfulness to his promise and his loving care of his creatures. The verses 1 to 5 show God working in both general and special providence. The chapter also ends with God acting. Skipping ahead to verses 15 to 19, we hear the Lord speak directly to Noah. This is a special revelation through his word. So the flood account ends as it began. The same God who commanded in chapter 7: come into the ark, take with you, commands in chapter 8, go out of the ark, bring out with you. And just as he did at the start, Noah obeys here at the finish. Now in between providence in verses 1 to 5 and obedience in fifteen to nineteen, we observe in six to fourteen the importance of experience. Now please do not misunderstand me here. I'm not saying our experience takes priority over God's word or his works. Of course, what he does and says are far more important than what we do and say. I'm just telling you, just as we're not as long as we're not sinning, the Lord does not forbid us from carefully experimenting. to discern the timing of our next steps. It's okay to actively seek assurance while waiting for God's will. That's what Noah was doing. I don't think he was acting out of unbelief like Thomas, who refused to believe Jesus resurrected until he touched the nail and spear wound I don't think he was acting out of inferior faith like Gideon when he put out the fleece. Noah's just using his normal experience and intellect to prepare for life after the flood. I once asked my wife why she has a GPS on while driving to you know usual stops like the grocery store. She told me it's comforting to know and see that she's on the right path, even if she knows the path. I don't know if you guys ever do that, but I can see the logic in that. All of us benefit from continual assurance that we're on the right track in our journey of faith So with all that in mind, let me lay out for you three principles. You might call them three spiritual navigational aids for our pilgrimage here on earth. First, God remembers his promise and works for us in his providence. Verses 1 to 5. Second, God permits the testing of his will for the experience of assurance. 6 to 14. Third, God cares for his creation and speaks to us for our obedience. 15 to 19. So hope that these truths will help you in your spiritual journey First God remembers his promise and works for us in his providence. As we Look at the first sentence of verse 1 again. It helps to look at the verse before it. Not up there, but it's the last verse of chapter 7. It read, And the waters prevailed on the earth 150 days. Don't just read that coldly, matter-of-factly. That's a long time. Put yourself in Noah's shoes. When you don't see much happening in your life, when there's silence as if no one's on the other side of the phone, how do you feel? Well the answer you feel as if God forgot you. You don't feel like God's got you. Yes, of course He knows all things and there's nothing Hidden from him. But from our vantage point, it's as if he forgot us. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? At times it may feel like all things are working against you. It feels like the entire universe has conspired against you. But if you're God's child, do not be deceived. Not dismay. Do remember that God remembers us. Rest on this promise in Romans eight twenty-eight, and we know that all things work together for good to do those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Noah can bank on that promise. And as for the creatures in the ark, if a righteous man regards the life of his animal, how much more the righteous father for all his And if sparrows in abundance do not perish without our father's notice, surely he cares for the many birds in the ark. And when we read that God remembers or is mindful of us, it goes beyond mere acknowledgement. Things happen, even if you don't see them happening. Look at the rest of verse 1. The second sentence reminds us of what happened on the first day of creation back in Genesis 1. 2. Interestingly, the Hebrew word for spirit ruach. Is the same as the word for wind. So earlier the personal Ruach, the spirit, hovered over the waters to create the world. Now the impersonal ruaq, the wind, blew over it to recreate the world. But the waters began to subside. Also, we're told in verse 2 that the Lord stopped the deep fountains and the heavenly windows. Picture God shutting off the water valves in the basement, and there go the springs. And then it's like he shuts off the shower valve in the bathtub and there goes the rain. Speaking of rain, I tend to think that the heaviest rainfalls came on the first forty days And then lesser precipitation continued after that. At any rate, we see in verse 3, the first sentence, that the waters receded continually from the earth. Earth. The second sentence of A3 is an encouraging report. It stands in contrast to 724. The waters that inundated the world for five months began their decline. What goes up must come down. Not just in the law of physical science, but the law of divine providence for Noah. Again, this is a throwback to Creation Week. specifically the third day. It's as if he's once again saying, Let the dry land appear, and it was so. It's as if Psalm one o four six to nine is played out The waters stood above the mountains. At your rebuke they fled. At the voice of your thunder they hastened away. They went up over the mountains. They went down into the valleys to the place which you found us for them. You have set a boundary that they may not cross Passover, that they may not return to cover the earth And all this, what Noah beholds with his physical eyes, would help his spiritual eyes. He can navigate through life, leaning on this truth. God remembers his promise and works for us in his providence. But do keep in mind that very often God's timing doesn't match ours. We want instant gratification. But drying up a drenched earth is going to take a while. Took 150 days to immerse the world in water. It'll take at least another hundred fifty days for the world to safely emerge out of it. I suppose the Lord could have removed the waters much faster, but even the slow pace here, I think, is according to the divine providence. For example, as the waters recede, we wouldn't want it to drain so fast that the arc crashes on the mountain rocks in its descent. It's like when I'm on a plane preparing to land, right? I usually hold my breath and hope that the wheels make contact with the runway as smoothly as possible. Besides turbulence, that's like the most unnerving part of flying. For the smooth landing to happen though, the pilot must take time in the descent. Similarly, landing a ship on dry ground safely will take time, and I'm glad got the chance. Just that. And we see the result in verse 4. There's no huge stump or crash that damaged the arc structure. All that is the work of providence. Imagine if the ark ended up like the ship in Acts 27, stuck on a sandbar with the waves pounding on the stern and breaking it up. But the Lord did not let that happen. He protected Noah and all on board with him. But now the ark's no longer afloat on water. We know where he landed. Now some people say it's the specifically Mount Ararat, but it says in the text mountains of Ararat, so there is a diff big difference there Uh some people have tried to recover the remains of the ark in modern day Turkey. Probably not a fruitful exercise. I mean it's likely the lumber of the arc was repurposed. There are factors like decay over time, glacial movements, probably reducing it to nothing. What's more important and most important is that the arc is on solid footing again. But it's still not time for his passengers to come out. As you know, just because a pl uh plane has landed doesn't mean we deplane right away. In Noah's case, it was far from deplane Or getting off. As we see in verse 5, the waters must continue to decrease for months. So there's more waiting, but after 74 days, at least Noah could look outside to see the mountaintops He can be encouraged as things are moving along, even if he isn't. He can reflect on how God remembers his promise and works for us in his providence. Now it seems like there isn't much Noah can do at this point. But from verses 6 to 14, we find providence of God does not preclude or exclude the experiments of man. In fact, Noah uses his experience as another spiritual navigational aid. We see how God permits the testing of his will for the experience of assurance. Moving from verse five to six, we fast forwarded another 40 days. If you're keeping track, that's two 64, day two sixty-four of the flood. I wonder if even Noah's starting to get restless here. So it's time for experiments. For three weeks, Noah is going to employ his feathered friends for some help. Richard Phillips calls these experiments an early use of the scientific method. And why not? God gave us logic and reason to gain knowledge of this world. Within bounds, man is free to observe and question, hypothesize and experiment. Analyze and conclude. So no one gets to work. If you kept the log. This is trial number one on 1111. He begins his tests to discern God's will for his life. So he opens the window, likely the same window mentioned back in 616. though the words are different in the original. Anyways, there's an opening big enough for birds to fly out and explore. It's a good thing God told Noah to have extra birds on board, not only for repopulation and worship later. But for experiment now. First we see in verse 7, one of the unclean birds, a raven, is sent out, unclean as in their scavengers. um and not eaten um by God's people there but this purpose uh point we're not sure if it was a male or female. Um if male I'm just gonna give it a name. I'm gonna call it Lewis. Maybe first name Ray. Um if female, I'm calling it Lenore, right? But more importantly, why a raven? Well ravens are tough, smart, adaptable, resilient. They're scavengers, like I said, so they eat whatever carry-on they see out in the post flooded uh post flood world. If any bird can survive harsh conditions, the ravine. Raven camp. Well as Noah watched, Louis Sir Lenore did not fly immediately to find this new home It moved in a frantic and uneasy manner. And it did eventually fly out of sight to be seen nevermore. So at this point the world's at least habit habitable to some extent. To some extent. To learn and more uh to learn more and gather more data on the same day, Noah also sent out a dove. That's in verse eight. Unlike the meat-eating unclean raven, the dove is a clean herbivore. No one can see now if there's enough plant life growing on Earth. If it returns, then the world's not ready to sustain life fully. Anyways, the dove returns in verse 9 and completes his mission. Noah brings it back inside. Trial of 1111 is complete. Please, that's trial number one. No wait another week before another experiment. I wonder what he did during that week. My guess is he was reflecting, he was praying, worshiping. And then of course preparing for trial number two on eleven eighteenth. Verse 10 says that the dove went out again, probably the same one from earlier. He came back as before, but this time he brought something back. And it jumps out of our page in the middle of verse 11. Behold, a freshly plucked olive leaf in his mouth. No reason right then that the earth was much more habitable than it was seven days ago. There's one more experiment another week later in verse twelve. We fast forward to I'll call it 1124. He waits another week for trial number three. This time the dove did not return. It flies away to prepare its home. Looking forward to reuniting with his mate later. So that amounts to three trials in three weeks. I don't I'm not saying three is some magic number, but Noah is satisfied with the results. The conclusions he has drawn from his study is that God is working. No one knows it by faith and by sight. We learn from his example that even while trusting the Lord in his providence, we can also actively seek direction. from him. So keep this in mind as you navigate through life. God permits the testing of his will for the experience of assurance. Now you may think that with the flood waters receding, mountaintops showing, the dove flying away, Noah's ready to disembark. But that's not what we see here. Another month passes. Then, according to verse 13, I think we're safe to assume that Noah's birthday passes I wonder if his family threw him a party. I doubt they had a fancy cake. But if they did and they asked Dad to make a wish, I'm sure it's to get out of this place, right Maybe they urged him to take some action. But he's waiting for something. He did remove the covering of the ark, which appears to be a section Of the roof made of skin or planks. But we see in verse 14, he spent another 57 days waiting. So what's he waiting for? The answer is this: in addition to trusting in divine providence and testing with human experience, Noah demonstrates waiting for God's word. You won't take that final major step until the Lord says so. I'd argue that of the three, this is the most important spiritual navigational aid. It's the clearest in content, more so than God's mysterious workings in history and nature. It's the highest in priority, more so than the loftiest thoughts and ways of man. So take it from Noah, learn this truth, lean on this truth. God cares for his creation and speaks to us for our obedience. I'll be quick on this point. As I said earlier, verses 15 to 19 form a fitting book into the entire book uh the flood account. Again the same God who commanded in chapter seven, come into the ark, take with you. Commands in chapter eight, go out of the ark, bring out with you. That's what we see in verses fifteen to seventeen. The Creator repeats the command he gave the sky and land creatures in days five and six of the creation. Creation week. The earth must be filled again. The assignments up to those who get up and out of the ark. Noah does as he's told. I wish I was there for the scene described in verses 18 to 19. The first one to emerge are the humans. Then come every kind of creature out onto earth for the first time in over a year. Perhaps some were like cows loosed from the stall after winter, skipping away over grassy pastures in spring. I wonder if any of them had the zoomies like my dog, you know, running, circling, releasing pent-up energy. Picture birds flooding their wings to feel the wind, lizards scurrying away over rocks. Noah would know right then that God cares for his creation. And speaks to us for our obedience. Now for some final applications before we end First to Christians, as I've narrowed down the passage to three key words: providence, experience, and obedience, how apt and able are you in handling these spiritual navigational aids? Maybe you need a grander and more biblical view of God's sovereignty and his working in the universe. Or learn how to test all things, hold fast what is good, and grow in discernment. And when all else fails, do you obey God without doubting and without hesitation, as Noah did? Also, is your trust in the Lord solid at all times and all seasons? What happens when your waiting extends over days to months to over a year? Can you patiently wait his day? Can you be active in faith without being antsy? Can you be restful in the Lord without being restless? Christians, ask yourselves these questions this week. And to those who are not Christians We may be listening this in a recording later. I remind you as I did last week that here in this FUT account we have an anticipation of the Just as Noah and others in the Ark were saved through water, saints are justified by the blood of Jesus and saved from wrath through him. Believers identify with Christ as they're buried with Him and raised with Him through faith in the working of God. So just as Noah listened to the Lord, entered the ark, and came out of it safe and sound, all of us must in obedience. Obedience to the faith, enter into a saving relationship with Jesus to arrive safely in heaven. That requires, first of all, realizing that we're all sinners The Bible is clear that none can claim to please the holy God. We've all sinned in thought, word, and deed. We've broken the laws of God, lusting and lying. Those who steal and those who are sexually immoral will not inherit the kingdom of God. Instead, they'll have their part in the lake of fire. The Lord did not leave us like this, dead in our sins. He remembered his holy covenant. He fulfilled the promise of a Savior through Abraham's line, Christ the Anointed One. He sent His Son Jesus, God and man in one person, the only begotten Son of God, of one essence with the Father. Christ lived the perfect life. He never sinned, never did wrong, but he was always doing the things that pleased the Father. Yet he was rejected by the world. But even that was all part of God's perfect plan. His enemies had gathered to arrest Jesus and have him crucified. But they could only do whatever the Father's hand and purpose determined before to be done. And it was predetermined that for us to be holy before the Father, his holy servant had to suffer. Suffer. Christ died in our place to pay the penalty of our sins, facing the wrath of God as our substitute. He declared his work of redemption finished at the cross He was buried, but on the third day Jesus rose from the grave. He presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen by the apostles for 40 days. He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand, and someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Now here's a decision. For you to make. Will you enter into life through Jesus, who is the way to the Father, the door to salvation? Don't go in the opposite direction. Don't indulge in sin or lean on your self righteousness. Repent, which means turn to Jesus, turn from sin and turn to Jesus. Place your hope of heaven in him. Only him. Heaven is a gift. You cannot earn Earn everlasting life or hope to deserve it. God saves you by grace alone through faith alone in Christ alone. In Jesus you begin a new life. If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. All things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. For the born-again believer, the things will never be the same. Even here on earth, it will be as if you step out into the world, as if you're stepping out into a new world for the first time. You walk in the newness of life in Jesus. This freedom in the Spirit is like coming out of darkness after long imprisonment. A new day dawns as Jesus, the Son of righteousness, rises with healing in his wings. With him shining, we'll go out and feed on pastures like calves released from the stalls, as Malachi pictures us for us. And when our time and toil on earth is done, there's even better things ahead. Our final song reminds us, we will cross that great horizon, clouds behind, and life secure. And the calm will be the better for the storms that we endure. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it c shows us clearly that ordinary men like Noah We're able to do great things, not because they're so great in themselves, but because they trusted in you that you are great, you move things, you are sovereign, you work in your providence. You keep your promises. Big things, small things do not escape your notice. We're thankful that you give us Given us intellect and just um logic and all these things to live for you, but we're most thankful that you give us your word, clear directives, the clarity found in your scriptures. And we're thankful that your word still speaks to us today. So help us to live according to it. Help us to see what privilege we have, the life that we have in Jesus Christ. So we are guaranteed a place in heaven. And Lord, help us to live gratitude each and every day for the life that's been given to us. us. Yes, that that would motivate us to go out and share the truth with others. We're thankful that our our security is in Europe. Unshakable promises. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Un