Thank you, Pastor Cho. It's uh it's a pleasure to be here this morning with you and to To see some of the rest of the body of Christ. You know, a lot of times we're so involved in our home churches that we don't get out too much to other places. uh completely different than when Chrissy and I were on the road back in the in nineteen eighty one. We uh traveled for almost a year. I was directing a Christian singing group called Outreach for Christ International out of Sioux Falls, South Dakota. And so we were We were in about 20 different states in about five foreign countries and I got to see a nice uh slice of uh Christianity all throughout the United States and over in Europe. So um It was a tremendous experience, and it's good to be with you all this morning. I want to thank Pastor Cho for having me. Why don't we open in a word of prayer as we get started? Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to gather together in your name, and we pray that you would speak to our hearts, Father, as we hear this message. Use myself Father, to be your vehicle, to bring your word to the people of Faith Bible, and it might be an encouragement to them and their walk with you. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. So about a month or so ago, uh Pastor Cho called my church at Living Hope Baptist in Rystertown and talked to my pastor, Chris Miller, about the need for someone to lead an evangelism course. uh here at the church. And so by God's design I happened to be working in the office that day. And um And so our pastor answered the phone and and uh and when he got off of the phone he came over to my office which is right next door to his and he said, Rich, um, I think I should have let you handle that call And um so then he proceeded to tell me all about the the need here and the desire of of Pastor Cho to have me uh come down. And uh and so I called Pastor Choop and um I promptly got his name wrong. Um I think I said chow or something like that. You would think all my background in in German and French and and languages would have paid off, but apparently it it didn't that day. And uh so so I think uh I got his attention and we became uh friends and we had opportunity to go out to um to Towson Mall together and he might have told you about that, but um that was a tremendous experience. Uh just and and I like to go out to the malls every every Saturday I've made it a practice to do that. And um so uh just a little bit of my background, he already d mentioned it uh that I grew up in College Park and and degrees and so forth and uh that we have one grandchild on the way and so uh she's due in July which will Not be too great for her in the the middle of the summer, but um Katie is is her name. And um So I I was raised in a uh fairly liberal uh Presbyterian church, and I didn't really know the fact that it was that liberal until I came to know the Lord at about sixteen years old or so. And I was looking to go into some type of music and ministry, so I was looking at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. And uh when I went to the pastor about that, and I was only uh oh about twenty or so at the time, and I said, uh pastor, I'm looking to go to this uh seminary down in Texas and uh He he he looked me right in the eye and he said, I'll never forget. He said, uh Rich, if they start telling you those things about the Bible being the literal word of God, you you better get out of that church and go, I mean get out of that seminary and go somewhere somewhere else. And I thought to myself, You know, I suspected that, you know, of his theology, and so I thought, no, I I I think I'm going to probably be looking around for another church. instead. And so I I I I I I did. And uh and I had no problem at all doing that. And and I I can't believe in some ways People that um that stay in churches that if you know the Lord and you know the scriptures and you know what they say, uh why would you want to sit under that teaching? You know, and and even at that young age I knew that that that wasn't for me. So uh anyway, um so we my wife and I were introduced to evangelism explosion, which I know that that you have had here before, and many of you have been trained in that. Tremendous uh it was a life changer for us. After coming to know the Lord, that was a wonderful uh thing that I have used for the past 30 years or so. Um And uh I'm skipping some of this because I've I've already gone over it, but um I think it has always seemed a little bit strange to me that other believers don't seem to be as concerned. with Jesus' last command in Mark 16, 15, to go into all the world and preach the gospel to everyone. And so I'd like to look first at the frightening story that Jesus told in Luke 16. If you would like to turn there with me. Luke 16, uh 19 through 31. And uh So Luke sixteen, nineteen through thirty-one. The rich man and Lazarus. Now there was a certain rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen. and fared sumptuously every day. But there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, full of sores, who was laid at the gate. Desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table, moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. So it was that the beggar died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And being in torment in Hades, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And then he cried out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he might dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, son, remember that in your lifetime you received good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things. But now he is comforted and you are tormented. And besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed So that those who want to pass from here to you cannot, nor can those from there pass to us. And then he said, I beg you, therefore, father, that you would send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, that he might testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment. Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. He said, No, Father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one rises from the dead. This true account I think should motivate us to cry out in prayer for the lost and then desperately do all that we can with God's help to reach them. I think the sad irony is that in hell the rich man who let a beggar starve at his gate suddenly developed this concern for the fate of his unsaved family His stony heart finally found compassion, and it was the reality of the fires of hell that changed him. Unfortunately, it was too late for him to put that compassion into action, but it's not too late for us. In the light of the reality of hell, we can have compassion for those that we care about. For almost 30 years, I've used Evangelism Explosion on a regular basis every week to share the gospel with non-believers. My only regret is that as Ray Comfort, the one that created the way of the master, he discovered that he also had possibly been winning false converts who now populate a growing number of our evangelical churches. A false convert may be one who has walked down an aisle at a church or a crusade, said the quote, sinner's prayer, asked Jesus into their heart. Church growth. Records from around the country show that 80 to 90 percent of those making a decision for Christ are falling away from the faith. That is that modern evangelism methods are creating 80 to 90 of what we commonly call backsliders for every hundred decisions for Christ. False converts lack genuine contrition for sin. They make a profession of faith, but they're deficient in biblical repentance. Titus 1. 6 says, they profess to know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and disqualified for every good work. Have you ever thought there must be a key to reaching the lost? Well, there is, and it's been rusty through lack of use. Much of the church today doesn't even know that it exists. The problem is that it was lost around the turn of the 20th century. And don't keys have a way of getting lost? Jesus used it. So did Paul and James. Perhaps you're wondering what the key is. Well, let's look at God's word and see what it says on the subject with two different stories of our Savior's method. For sharing the gospel with two different people. So let's turn to John 4, 7 through 26. John 4, 7 through 26. A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. But his disciples, for his disciples, had gone away into the city to buy food. And then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you being a Jew ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that says to you, Give me a drink You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where do you get the living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank from it himself, as well as his sons and livestock? Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again, but whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw. Jesus said to her, Go and call your husband and come here. The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have You have well said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands And the one whom you now have is not your husband. And that you spoke truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Is that the understatement of the year right there? Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you shall neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father You worship what you do not know. We worship, we know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshippers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father is seeking such To worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him much worship in spirit and in truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming. which is called Christ, and when he comes he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He So the Bible in this passage gives us the master's example of how to share the gospel. Notice that Jesus spoke to the woman at the well when she was alone. When witnessing, we will often find that people are more open and honest when they're alone. Whenever I go out to share the gospel with someone, I always look for someone that that looks like they have sort of time on their hands. Okay, if I I go to the malls, I go to the parks, um, you know, I I look for someone that uh You know, and and and even if they're on the phone nowadays everyone's on the phone. I mean i i everywhere. And and so that it really doesn't stop me because I went up to a guy the other day and he was on his phone and I and I said, excuse me, did you get one of these? And I handed him a track that I carry with me everywhere I go. And um he said, no, I I didn't. I said, uh, am I bothering you? He said, no, I'm just playing a little game here on my phone. I'm just, you know, messing around. And and that's what most people are doing. So I wouldn't let a phone deter you from unless they're actually talking on the phone. But yeah, if they're just doing this, you know, that's that's that's an open invitation to to go for it. So um So yeah, that that's the best person is someone that's by themselves. So from these verses, I think we we can see four clear principles. to follow. Relate, create, convict, and reveal. And some of these things will be very familiar to you if you've been through Evangelism Explosion. Relate is the first one. Jesus began to relate to her in the natural realm. Let's see, verse 7, he says, A woman of Samaria came to draw. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. The woman was unregenerate, and the Bible tells us that the natural man or woman does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. He therefore spoke of something that she could relate to, which was the water. Most of us can strike up a conversation with a stranger. uh in the natural realm because we do it all the time. How are you doing? Good morning. Hey, how about those ravens? Or maybe not. Um Um you know, beautiful weather outside today. Or wow, I wish it would get warmer. You know, it could be anything. And then number two, create. Jesus created an opportunity to talk about the spiritual realm. In verse 10, he says. Jesus answered her and said, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. So he simply mentions the things of God. Um th this will take courage, and this this is where a lot of people fail, because we like to keep things on the natural because we know the natural is comfortable. That that that's just the way that we are. But you you have to make the bridge uh to something else. You know, i it could be as simple as, do you have a religious background? Uh do you have any interest in spiritual things? Um another way that I use often is to to hand them a gospel tract and say, did you get one of these? You know, and we say that sometimes because it's like, Oh, maybe I missed out on something, you know. Um, you know, it's a gospel tract. Do you come from a Christian background? Um, do you have a church maybe that you attend? Or uh, you know, what are your thoughts on the afterlife? There's a there's an open-ended question. Um and then The next word would be convict. So Jesus brought conviction, and this is where the way of the master seriously Speaks to my heart so much because uh after use of the evangelism explosion, which I love and I I I've listened to D. James Kennedy for years and I I love I love the man and everything that he stood for. And it's a tremendous course. But I think it lacks in this area. Jesus brought conviction using the law of God, which I noticed that we had read this morning, which is fantastic. Verse 16 to 18. Jesus said to her, Go call your husband and come here. And the woman said, I have no husband. And Jesus said to her, You have well said, I have no husband, for you have five husbands. And the one husband, I mean the one whom you have is not your husband. And that she spoke truly. So he spoke to her conscience by alluding to the fact that she had transgressed the seventh commandment on not committing adultery He used the law to bring the knowledge of sin. This is Romans 3, 19 and 20. We can do the same thing by asking, do you think you have kept the Ten Commandments? Most people think they have. And then once I go through a few with them, they realize very quickly they have not. If they can be honest. And I always say, can you be honest with me This is because the work of the law is written on their hearts, and their conscience will bear witness. So apologetics, we can and I love studying apologetics, reasons for the faith, and what do other um you know, what do the Mormons believe, uh what does Catholicism believe? All all different religions. uh that I've studied and those things are good but that usually gets you into an argument and the Lord says the Lord's servant should not be quarrelsome and sho should not argue. Um so what we want to do is to go to the law because that addresses the conscience of the person. Go straight to the conscience and there's such a big difference in addressing the conscience. And addressing that place of argument. And then the next word is reveal. Jesus revealed himself to her in verse 26 when he said, I who speak to you am He. So once the laws humble the person, then they're ready for grace and not before. Because Well, the principle to follow, and this is straight from Ray Comfort, is law to the proud and grace to the humble. Would you say that with me? Law to the proud, grace to the humble. The Bible says that God resists the proud. He literally stiff arms the proud. But he gives grace to the person that's humble. The gospel is for the humble, my friends. Only the sick need a physician, and only those who will admit that they have that disease of sin will truly embrace the cure of the gospel. This point is so critical and it will be explained in much greater detail in the way of the master. So I'm not going to go into it completely, but it's a It's a huge point. So let's look um at uh example number two here. They count in Luke 18. 18 through 23 of the rich young ruler in Jesus gives us a similar example of our Lord using the Ten Commandments to convict him of his sin. So Luke 18, 18 to 23, where we read, now a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one, and that is God. You know the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal. Do not bear false witness, honor your father and your mother. And he said, All these things I have kept from my youth. So when Jesus heard these things, he said to him, You lack one thing. Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. But when he heard this, he became very sorrowful, for he was very rich. Right away in this passage, Jesus gives us the true definition of the word good. literally forcing this man to see the vast chasm that exists between God who is truly perfect or holy And the man who simply considers himself good because he attends church or synagogue or he's more religious than those people around him. As Jesus reminds him of five of the Ten Commandments, he responds that he's obeyed all these commandments since he was young. Really? I think not. God said there is no one righteous, not even one. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And as we'll learn in the the way of the master, that phrase, the glory of God, I always wondered exactly though what that meant. We know it's obvious we've all sinned, but what does that mean? fall short of the glory of God. Well, the glory of God is His holiness. It's really the Ten Commandments that we're falling short of. So a lot of times I will substitute that uh to at least try to explain to them that that is what we're falling short of. This man was proud. Okay, he was self-righteous. There's no way that he had kept the Ten Commandments. Okay. So he was self-deceived, he was self-righteous, thinking he had kept it when he hadn't. So what does Jesus do? Okay? Does he jump into evangelism explosion outline? Does he give them the four spiritual laws? Does he does he tell him God loves him and has a wonderful plan for his life? Does he lead him in the sinner's prayer? Does he ask tell him to ask Jesus into his heart? No. In our eyes, Jesus would have failed evangelism 101. Absolutely. I will a lot of times say, you know, if you have even broken one command, you're as guilty as if you've broken them all. He doesn't even bother. Jesus doesn't bother to argue with him that he had broken the ninth commandment and lied about keeping all the Ten Commandments. Uh does does he draw on the net? Does he try to lead him in a in a prayer to get him to uh confess those things? No, he he gives him one more command that totally drives the man away. So, you know, you're you're left thinking, d does Jesus want even want him to be saved? Why would you say such a thing? I mean i You know, those of us that have you know shared the gospel with people, we we probably wouldn't do things this way. This is completely against uh everything that we've you know learned in uh in EE and so forth. So Jesus knew his heart. He knew he was proud and self-righteous, and he could not give up his love of money, which for him was the root of all evil. If any man or woman will not deny themselves, take up the cross, and follow him, they're not worthy of him. So without true repentance and forsaking of sin, and trusting Christ alone for your salvation, no one will inherit eternal life. So the hidden key that I spoke of in the beginning uh in evangelism is the Ten Commandments. Which was a huge game changer for me. If you learn to use them the way that Jesus did, from these two accounts that we have, you will be walking in the way of the Master. According to Bill Bright, the founder of Campus Crusade for Christ, only 2% of Christians actually share their faith. That means for some reason, 98% do not. But more than that, even many of those 2% that share their faith fail to use the Ten Commandments within their sphere of influence. This was the way that Jesus presented the gospel, but most did not follow his example. They instead follow the traditions of modern evangelism, and therefore they strip the gospel of its power. If we discard the bow, we shouldn't wonder why the arrow has no thrust. So, Pastor Cho, I commend you and your church for taking the first step. And raising up laborers for the harvest by by showing this way of the master video series and training your people to share the gospel the way that Jesus did. The way that he did. Remember that you have someone that will never forsake you. So we should all rejoice when we get bruised. It's for the most noble of causes that we suffer. Those who are hated by humanity are often heroes in heaven. So strive to be a normal biblical Christian and whatever you do, stay out of your comfort zone. Save that place of ease for eternity. I've learned that you you really need to build this into your life. Make it as intentional as brushing your teeth in the morning, eating your three meals a day. Getting your eight hours of sleep. It has to be built into your life. If you just think that it's going to happen, it will not. No one comes up to you and says, Rich, uh, how what can I do to be saved? Um Jesus said go. He didn't say let them come to church. No, go outside of the church and bring them in. Okay, that's what Jesus always did. So many know that, but very few do that. So it's in the doing, okay, that we're rewarded. I have uh uh well let me just tell you a story uh of a neighbor uh that I have that You know, because uh you know, i i it it's tough. I I mean but we have joy in doing it. But anyway, my neighbor I I uh I go out jogging around my neighborhood and this other person happened to be out jogging at the same time. And so I carry tracks with me wherever I go. And um I uh and we've known her my our our daughter babysat, her kids when they were younger and so forth. And so I handed her a track and I said, Hey, did you get one of these? And and she took it And um and later that day I I went over and you know I thought, you know, it seemed like she might be open to discussion. So I went over there and I started talking with her and um She she said, uh Rich, why would you why would you hand me something like that? You know, why why would you think that that I didn't know the Lord and uh You know, she said, uh Jesus is everything to me. You know, I just, you know, and uh we we go to this Episcopal church and um Uh, you know, and and so and then her husband came home, okay, and I said, and Mike, you know, can I share this with you? And he's He was very vehement. No, I don't want you here. I said, I want you to leave my property. I don't ever want to talk to you again. And so I I sensed I I did what I thought I should do, you know, according to the scripture, I later sent him a little note, and I put a hundred dollar Visa gift card in with that note And I said, Mike, if I've done anything to offend you, uh please let me know. I was never my intent to do that Well, he sent it right back to me and uh wrote me a little note, said, I don't want anything to do with you or your family. Okay? So that that's an extreme example, but that's the type of thing that can happen. But Jesus said what? Deny yourself. Take up your cross and follow me. If you are not willing to give up family, friends, neighbors for my sake, then you're not willing, then you're not worthy of me. You're not willing to f to follow me. And that's what it comes to a lot of times. Okay? So um it's a very it's a bold step. Um One of my favorite quotes from Ray is it's easier to talk to God about men than it is to talk to men about God. We will pray for people. A lot of times I'll go knocking on doors and I'll say, you know, I'm glad you're out doing that. Or they don't want to do it, but I'm glad I'm out doing their, you know, doing that. that. So um prayer is um prayer for the lost is fantastic and we and we can't do it without God, obviously. Only He can save the lost. But we're told at least to scatter the seed. So I'd like to close uh with a story here, and it might be familiar to you, but um It's uh my one of my favorite guys, uh D. James Kennedy, used to tell this. And um maybe this will Maybe this will help you to see the type of courage that it takes. I admire people who have great courage. And one man in history, known for his courage, was Alexander the Great. And one day Alexander held court in Nebuchadnezzar's great palace in Babylon. He sat upon the great golden throne pronouncing sentences for the crimes charged to his soldiers. The sergeant-at-arms brought in one soldier after another and read their crimes. No one could deliver them from Alexander's severe judgments. Finally, the sergeant-in-arms brought in a young Macedonian soldier and read aloud his crime. Fleeing in the face of the enemy. This cowardice Alexander could not tolerate. But as he looked at this young soldier, Alexander's countenance softened From stern to soft. Smiling, he said to the lad, Son, what is your name? The boy said softly, Alexander The smile left the king's face. He said, What did you say? The young man snapped to attention and said, Alexander, sir! The king turned crimson and shouted, What is your name? The boy stammered and said, Alexander, sir. The king burst out of his chair, grabbed a man by the tunic, stared him in the face, and then threw him to the ground. And he said, Soldier, either change your conduct Or change your name. Christian, what is your name? Christ, my Lord, do you dare to take the name of the one who set his face like flint towards Calvary? Who is hated by the very people that he created, who was scorned, mocked, ridiculed, laughed at, beaten, flawed, spit upon. Finally nailed to a cross when you won't so much as open your mouth and share the glorious gospel that has the power to save men and women from eternity in hell? Christian, either change your conduct or change your name. Shall we pray? Dear Heavenly Father, we realize that we suffer from the sin of cowardice. That's why Paul prayed over and over and over again for boldness. Because we need boldness He needed it back then, and we need it now. The disciples needed it. Jesus many times went off to be by himself, to pray to the Heavenly Father, and how we need you, Father. To give us that heavenly boldness, to give us compassion for the lost, knowing that unless they hear the gospel, they'll spend an eternity in hell. We need boldness, we need compassion, we need wisdom in order to be your example and your ambassador. And thankful you have given that to us, Lord. And we thank you. And we pray that, Lord, as we embark on this course, That you will continue to speak to our hearts and grant us that heavenly boldness and compassion for others, that we might be your representative in this dark world. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.