Good morning. Good to see everyone this morning. My report is that my Lyme's disease is doing better. I feel better. I'm back up now to uh 85%, maybe 90%. I've played racquetball and haven't lost the game, so I'm almost back on We had a good week. We uh at our church in Shenandoah Junction, West Virginia, they had a day camp for seven to twelve year olds. And so we invited our grandkids to come And we had five, four grandkids and one great grandkid that we took every morning that were living with us this week and their parents also and their brothers and sisters also. And for one of them their father, so we had sixteen people living at our house this week. And as you imagine, it was chaos. It was chaos. And my wife cooked for everybody and straightened out everything and kept everything running and God was good. So it's good to be back. As you can tell from the bulletin and from the songs we've sung what the subject is today. John the Baptist, you know, came preaching repentance When Jesus came, he came preaching repentance. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 4. When the disciples were sent out in Matthew 10, they were sent out to preach, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The Old Testament prophets had been preaching for years. Repent. When Isaiah said in 118, Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your skin's sins be like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. He was calling for repentance. When Jonah went to Nineveh and said, 40 days in this city will be dust, he was calling for repentance. Over and over and over again, God has called for repentance. But what does it mean to repent? People today think of it as changing your mind and going in a different direction. And that's partly true. But when John the Baptist came, he expected people to confess their sins, and I think it was probably public confession, and then get baptized. Which for a Jewish person said, I'm out, and I want to come back into the family of Israel. Baptism for a Jewish person was like Becoming a proselyte like a Gentile. So it's kind of strange to today's thinking because we see repentance as something private. That you might indicate maybe by raising your finger or signing a card or wiping a tear from your eye Maybe that's partly why our repentance doesn't change us. Maybe it's not repentance What does it mean to repent? Does the New Testament explain it? Does God look for more than a raised hand to emotional call at the end of a message? I think that there are several passages in the New Testament, especially, that explain what's involved in repentance. And three of them that struck me off the top of my head were the following. First of all, Matthew 5, 6, and 7. The Sermon on the Mount. The Sermon on the Mount is a call to repentance. It's Jesus calling the nation of Israel back to himself That sermon ends in chapter 7 with the analogy of a wise man building his house on the rock and the foolish man building his house on the sand. And Jesus' last words were, and great was the fall of that house. The second one that I remember is 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 7 to 11, where Paul describes the repentance of the Corinthians. And he said, you have repented to a salvation that doesn't need to be repented of. Your repentance was genuine and he describes seven, seven characteristics of that repentance. The third one is our passage today, where repentance contains ten commands that are all part of the repentance package. Ten commands. This section today has to be connected with the six verses we talked about last time I was here, which seems to be at least five months ago. But I think it was only three weeks ago. The first six verses of James chapter 4 describes what these people had gotten into They wanted to become friends of the world. And James says, you understand what that means? You understand that you're making yourself an enemy of God You understand that all your fighting and scrapping and complaining and everything else, the frustration and emptiness your experience comes because you've turned away. from the river of life. And you've turned to worldliness, thinking that the world has something better to offer. So the motivation to obey verses 7 to 10, these 10 commands on repentance comes out of the first six verses. It's as we realize what we have done to ourselves in our relationship with God that we say, I want out. I want to go back, like the prodigal son in the pig pen saying, hey, this isn't life And what have we done? Verses 1 to 6 say we painted ourselves into a corner, a deadly corner. And we've trashed everything good about the Christian life, and we wonder why we're living on empty frustration. And James says, you want something but don't get it. You don't have because you don't ask God. And when you ask, you don't receive because you ask with wrong motives. You want to spend it on your pleasures James says we are adulterers and adulteresses. We've forgotten that friendship with the world makes us God's enemies. Because friendship with the world says that God is insufficient. It says that the world has something better to offer And the horror of it all is that once you get in, it's almost impossible to get out without superhuman help. You get locked in because sin is habit forming. And after a while you have to have it, no matter how deadly it is. I'll never forget the picture in my mind, which is now 45 years old, 50 years old the picture is The pictures of a 60-year-old man in the hospital dying of emphysema. His eyes are bulging out. He's gasping for air. He's often not getting it. His one request to me was for another cigarette. That's what got him into that condition. But he couldn't let it go. He was a Christian man, and he had painted himself into a corner, and he couldn't get out. How do you get out? What is repentance? James gives us nine commands that summarize a tenth command. And I have them listed there in your notes. So I'm reading verses 7 to 10. Therefore, submit, command number one, to God. Resist, command number two, the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near, command number three, to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, command number four, you sinners, and purify your hearts, command number five, you double-minded. Lament. Command six. Mourn, command seven. Weep, command eight. Let your laughter be turned, command nine, to mourning, and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves, command 10, in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. So I have condensed these Ten commands into five statements. I think the first nine commands are all summarized in the tenth command. The first nine are explaining what it is like, what it means to humble yourself. So verse 10 is the summary of those nine commands. How do you humble yourself? Nine commands explained how. So I've condensed those into into five sections. Here's the first one. Number one, choose sides. Choose sides. This is verse 7. Therefore, submit to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. This is what the wife would say to her adulterous husband. Or the husband would say to his adulterous wife, choose him or choose me The husband or wife is jealous. The marriage relationship is exclusive. The same with God. He said this to the nation of Israel when she turned to adultery. He said, you can't sit on the fence You can't stay in the embrace of two. You can't serve God and mammon. You only think you can. And that's your problem. God is a jealous God and repeatedly calls wandering children to get off the fence. Joshua 24, verse 15. Joshua says, and if it seems evil to you to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the river, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Here's Elijah in 1 Kings 18:21. Elijah came to all the people and said, How long will you falter between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him. But if fail, follow him. So the command is submit to God. The word actually means to line yourself under so that you can hear and obey and support to line up under him line up under the authority of someone the sergeant the boss the president the leader Verse 6 says, God resists the proud. Since God sets himself against the proud, you don't want to live there. Verse 7 says you want to set yourself under God's direction. You want to listen. You want to obey. You want to support His will. The issue here is your will. Your will or his will? Who's in charge? Who calls the shots? Who's making decisions? We say the Lord's Prayer. And we pray, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven. How is God's will done in heaven? Well, Psalm 103, verse 20 says of the angels, Bless the Lord, you his angels, who excel in strength And do his word, heeding the voice of his word I think in heaven there aren't any questions about obedience. The angels instantly run to accomplish what God desires. That's the picture. We obey like angels obey. Why would you not want to do it that way? I mean, if God's plan is perfect, if God knows what's best, if every good and perfect gift comes from above, Why would we not want to obey exactly? Who's got a better idea than what is perfect It makes no sense. And when you add to that the fact that God takes the same posture toward us as we take toward him, So that when we resist him, he resists us. Why would anyone choose a different way than obedience Do you submit? Have you submitted to the Lord? Have you gotten off the fence and said, I want to do what you want me to do exactly as you fully. I want to listen. I want to understand I want to do your will. I want to give up on this stupidity of my creative wrong ideas. If you're still on the fence, you're painting yourself into a corner. And my advice is Elijah's statement, if the Lord is God, follow him. The second command here is resist the devil. This is part of that first section. Resist the devil. Resist and submit are opposites. You have to do the one to do the other. You can't submit to God, set yourself under Him to obey Him without resisting Satan's designs and commands. And directions. Doing one involves doing the other. Listening to and obeying God in all things means listening to and obeying Satan in none of them. The proper response to Satan is no. Whether he allures you or flatters you or tempts you or threatens you, the proper response is no. As the father of lies, Satan talks much stronger than he really is. He covers his true weakness, his true inability, his true bankruptcy with big words and promises. This command has an awesome assumption in it. The command that says resist the devil assumes that we are capable of resisting the devil You ever thought about that? We are capable of resisting the devil. The truth is we are standing against a liar. He poses as powerful and wise and insightful, but really has very little authority and power. He doesn't have any more authority than we give him. Even though it doesn't feel like it, even though our desires sometimes make us feel like it's impossible to say no, we are not helpless. We're not just bystanders watching Satan do his thing in our lives. God has already enabled us to stand. He has already supplied his armor. We can put it on. He has already supplied his word. He's already given us a demonstration in Jesus Christ as to the power of the word. When Christ was tempted in the wilderness, what did he do? He used the word, and it completely neutralized and ended Satan's temptation. We have that ability through the Word of God. So this is really an encouraging command. It says, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. This is James saying, step up to the plate against Satan's pitches and hit a home run by saying no. Do you ever said I'm on God's side exclusively? I want nothing to do with Satan's ideas. I do not want to entertain those suggestions. I do not want to think about that kind of stuff. I want God's word. I want God's will. I want God's grace. You have to do it with all your heart. You have to go public You set a stake, and you say, by God's grace, I am going to go God's way fully The fact that you attended church this morning, the fact that you were here listening to me, says, yes, you probably have made that decision. But perhaps you haven't. Perhaps Monday morning is a better indication of that. When you're at your job or at school or with certain people or when you're offered work certain worldly opportunities. Don't be silent at that time That's the time to say no. That's the time to say, I am God's servant. So that's number one. Number one says two sides. Number two, this is verse eight. First part of verse eight. Chase after him. Chase after him. Verse 8 says, draw nigh to God, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. This is the third command in the list of ten. Draw near. How do you get back into fellowship with God? This verse says, you have to take the initiative. You take the responsibility. God promises that he can be found when his people seek him with all their hearts. You remember that good verse in Jeremiah 29, 11? For I know the plans that I have for you. You remember how that verse winds out? Here's Jeremiah 29, 11 to 14. For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, says the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you a future and a hope. This is just an amazing context because these people have just gone into Babylonian captivity. They're slaves in Babylon. And Jeremiah is writing to them, and he's saying. The Lord says, my thoughts are of peace, not evil, to give you a future and a hope. Verse 12 says, Then you will call on me and go and pray to me, and I will listen to you. And you will seek me and find me when you search for me with all your heart. I will be found by you, says the Lord. Think of those promises. I will listen to you, verse 12. You will seek and find me, verse 13. I will be found by you, verse 14. That's exactly where James is going. James is saying, draw near, go after him, seek him James says, you draw near and he will draw near. You remember English class in the seventh grade? For some of you, that's more than 10 years ago. English class in the seventh grade, where and is a conjunction that com that connects two clauses that are of relatively equal weight. Okay? But connects two clauses that are unequal. But and equal weight. So the equal weight is what? You draw near, God says. I'll draw near. Does that sound strange? There are some people who think that it should be stated in a different way. It should be stated like John 15, 16, where Jesus said, You did not choose me, but I chose you. And you draw near because I have drawn near to you. That's not what it says. Is it true that God would say to his children, the ball is in your court? It's your move next. We are distant. We are not in fellowship. The ball's in your court. I think that's exactly what he's saying. God draws near to us after we make the first move. after we make the first move. And that in reality we have not, because we asked not. And if he's not in our lives, it's because we haven't drawn near. You say, how does that fit the concept of a sovereign God running his universe? Is he waiting with bated breath to see what his creatures do before he decides his next step? No, that's not true. The key is to remember that God delegates authority to his creations. He created Adam and Eve for the purpose of running the earth. Genesis 1. 26 says this Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness. Let them have dominion. Over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, over the cattle, over all the earth, over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. That means let man make the decisions. Let him take the initiative. Let him run the earth. So Adam and Eve were to rule the earth. You see this in Genesis 2. 19, which I think is a very interesting verse. It says, out of the ground the Lord formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. to see what he would call them. And whatever Adam called each living creature, that was its name. Adam named the animals. It wasn't God looking over his shoulder and saying, wait a minute, hippopotamus is a lousy name. Let's try hippymals. Or some other stupid thing, you know? Adam named the animals. So if you don't like the names, it's Adam's fault. It's not God. Adam named them, and that was the name. What's so important about that? What's so important about that is it shows that God is delegating the responsibility to Adam and He's giving him the proper authority. God did not choose the names of the animals. He gave that responsibility to Adam. We have been given the responsibility of ruling these bodies, ruling our body. Protecting them from all the stuff in the world that's trying to attack and harm and take them down. And we have the responsibility of drawing near to God. It's not impossible. It takes initiative. You say, how do I draw near? I read my Bible, I pray, nothing happens. How do I draw near? Well, how did you draw near to the world? What did you do? Well, you thought about it. You listened to it. You dreamed about Satan's suggested results You do the same thing when you draw near to God. You listen to him. You talk to him. You focus on his promises. Here's another analogy. What did you do when you first fell in love? How did you draw near? I would imagine that if we had time for testimony, some of you were quite clever, designing creative ways of drawing near. getting the other person's attention, finding excuses to meet. You probably put a considerable considerable amount of time and effort into it Right. Amen. Word of testimony here, my dating days were not known for my cleverness or ability to sweep women off their feet. One of the girls I was interested in gave up on me in anger because, among other things, I showed up for a date an hour late. I had another girlfriend in New York City and I took her to the World's Fair in 1964 or 65. That was a big effort. I had to take a train to New York City. She lived in the Bronx. I took her to the World's Fair. She finally got frustrated with me, and in 1967 she sent me an invitation to her wedding. On our first date, Martha asked me what the dress code was. And I told her it was dressy but not formal. So she took a dress she had worn at a wedding and cut it off so it wouldn't be floor-length. Then found at the banquet that everyone was wearing floor-length outfits. And she sat at a table where she knew no one. And I was gone because I was running the banquet. So why are we married? I think part of it was that she knew this klutzy guy was trying to draw near. And she felt sorry for him as she laughed. I think God is like Martha He knows our hearts. And even when we don't do it very well, he knows when we really want him. When we really want fellowship. Remember Jeremiah 29, you will find me when you seek me with your whole heart. So I would encourage you to go to him as best you can. Talk to him. Say, God, I have moved. And I'm a long way from you. And you've invited me to come to you. I don't really know how to do it, but whatever it means, I want to do it. Would you forgive my sin and my distance from you? Would you enable me to draw near to you in honesty of heart? Would you enable me to submit and obey? And I would stay on my knees in prayer, pursuing God and asking for His help until something happened. You know, if God is not in my life, if God is not in my heart, what's the value of doing anything else I'm going to do it with a bad attitude. I'm going to do it in the flesh. Maybe I should just stay on my knees until something happens. I find that when I do that, God draws near And when he draws near, his qualities affect me with peace and joy and love and gentleness. There's a lightness that comes into my life A wholeness that quiets all the things that cause me such fretting. Because God is near. And I find that to consistently draw near to God, I need to schedule it. Schedule a time to read. My Bible, schedule a time to pray. Schedule a time to hang out with God. The psalmist says in Psalm 119, 164, Seven times a day I praise you because of your righteous judgments. Think of that schedule. Seven times a day. How would you fit seven times a day into your schedule? I think the psalmist was not saying, I do it whenever I feel like it. I think he was saying, I've got it on my on my phone. And the alarm rings. Seven times a day and calls me to prayer and to praising God So have you drawn near? Do you feel distant from God? Your responsibility is to take the initiative and go after him. And I would stay there. I would go after him until something happens in my heart. So the third section is in verse 8 again. And I've entitled it Clean Up Your Life. Clean Up Your Life. This says, cleanse your hands, you sinners, purify your hearts, you double-minded. This is commands number four and five out of the ten. James talks about hands and hearts. The hands represent the outside, what you do, what you say to others, the lying, the fighting, the hurting, the ignoring, the degrading. James calls them sinners. The hearts represent the inside, the mind, the motives. They were double-minded. These both go together. As James has already shown in the first two verses of this chapter. Do you remember the first two verses? James says, Where do wars and fights come from among you? That's the hands. Do they not come from your desires for pleasure that warn your members? That's the hearts. You lust and do not have. The hands. Well, that's the hearts too. You murder and covet and cannot obtain. You fight in war. Do you see the combination? Outside, inside. These two words, sinners and double-minded, are very strong words James is calling his readers low-down sinners and two-faced hypocrites. The hypocrite is an actor or an actress, posing as someone they are not, acting as if they're interested when they're not. Acting like church is an important part of their lives when in reality it's a bother. Jewish people back in that time detested hypocrisy. And viewed hypocrites as some of the lowest of people down there at the bottom of the ladder with the tax collectors. These are people that pose as if they're interested in God's things when their hearts aren't there. They say the right things, go through the right motions, but their minds are somewhere else. When you're double-minded and secretly in love with the world, you can pray all you want. You can sing all you want. You can give all you want. And your relationship with God will remain barren. Because he knows your heart. He knows what's on your hands. And he's waiting for your confession. He's waiting for you to clean it up. To confess it, to admit it, to go to the people you've misled, you've hurt, you've talked about, and get it all straightened out. Wash your hands There's incredible power in a secret. Satan uses secrets to control us. That's why God requires us to confess, admit it. Confession is for our benefit. You don't think it informs God of anything, do you? The only release from the power of the secret is to confess it. That's the point of these two commands. You admit it. You wash it out of your system. I caught the story on the radio one time of a couple that was in trouble. He was a traveling salesman who had become unfaithful to his wife. He had an adulterous lifestyle with women in several different cities to which he traveled. He was miserable. He was caught. He was, as far as I could tell, he was not a Christian, but he admitted his sin, and he and his wife began working on restoration. They wrote a book. They wrote a book entitled Beyond Affairs. And they described in the book hours of talking and years of dealing with correlating issues that came up. All not for the purpose of getting forgiveness, she'd already granted that, but for the purpose of restoring the relationship to the place where they could trust each other again. and live and work together as one. If I remember right, he said that they talked it out for more than two years. But his conclusion was that his relationship with his wife after two years was ten times better than anything he ever had when he was running around with all the other women. That's the idea. That's the point. Confess it. Admit it Tell everything you can remember. And the gory details. Don't hold it back James 5. 16 says, confess your trespasses to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. He's not interested in us standing up and announcing our sins in church. What he's interested in is that we confess to someone we trust so that they will pray. Confess your trespasses and pray. Get somebody to pray For you. And 1 John 1. 9 says, if we confess our sins, He is faithful to forgive and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The fourth section is verse 9. Weep over your loss. Weep over your loss. There are four commands here. Lament and mourn and weep. Three commands there. Let your laughter be turned to mourning. Command number four, and your joy to gloom. I find it very interesting that these words come right after the word, double-minded, in verse 8. Right after double-minded. The double-minded person is someone who's completely capable of doing this and faking it. The double-minded person is the hypocrite. But the command is to genuinely lament and mourn and weep. Why? These are emotions that result when you understand what you've done. These qualities come from realizing God's incredible love. Love and sacrifice from realizing that your double-mindedness has turned you away from the only real love you've ever experienced. It's realizing that your one real relationship with the King of Kings has been trashed. And you've done it Think of a teenage boy who gets drunk, drives his car down the sidewalk, runs over and kills a six-year-old boy. He repents. He asks everyone involved to forgive him. He goes to prison. So far, so good. What he needs to do is understand his actions from the perspective of the parents of the six-year-old They're weeping. The teen needs to weep with the parents and come to understand the horror of his actions. God says, yes, you have confessed your adultery to me, but have you ever understood it from my perspective? Have you ever realized how much I mourn? Jesus said, blessed are those who mourn. Why? Well, they mourn over. Their sin, the time, the life they've wasted, both gifts from God. Mourn. This doesn't mean that you inflict pain upon yourself. This is not penance, where you punish yourself for your sin Hoping that if you punish yourself more, God will forgive you more. He forgives to begin with when you confess. Back in the fourth century, there was a man named Simon the Stylite. who had this notion that the more he tortured himself, the more God would forgive him, the more holy he would become. This man, I think, was was one of the leaders. It must have been in penance He lived for ten years in utter seclusion, never moving from his narrow self. He was so strict on himself that he was finally excommunicated from the monastery at the age of 30. So what he did was he built a pillar that was six feet high, three feet at the top, three feet in diameter, and he sat on the pillar and did not come down. Sat on the pillar. Loaded with loaded chains around his neck. That wasn't high enough after a while, so he built a taller one He ultimately had a pillar that was 60 feet high. That's twice the height of this of this roof. 60 feet high, and he lived up there, never coming down for 30 years. Rain, snow, cold, sun, hot. It was up there. Can you imagine That's penance. That's the idea that I pay for my sin. No, that's not God's idea. God forgives. God cleanses. We confess. So weep over your loss. Then it says, let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. There are some things in life that cause us deep grief and sorrow. Just like the death in a family, the shock of having someone close to you taken away. What we have done by turning to the world is in that category We've trashed our gifts, we've thrown away our privileges, and we need to spend some time contemplating our loss. The Egyptians actually expected you would mourn for 30 days. After someone close to you died. The same is true in our relationship with God. This command is based on understanding how amazing and rare that relationship is. What's it like to lose a good friend? What's it like to lose your mother? Your father? How about a son? A daughter. That's the loss of something so precious you can't cry enough. You can't get the pain of the missing relationship out of your system. Let your laughter be turned suggest what happens when you walk into a funeral home. All of a sudden there's a different atmosphere. People talk in different ways. There are Kleenex boxes on every table. It's a place of death, weeping, mourning. It was Saturday, the 16th of June, a month and a half ago. We had 11-year-old twins staying with us, grandchildren. We had to leave at 7 a. m. for a funeral. So we promised them donuts for the trip if they would help us get out of the house by 7. It worked. We were successful. We arrived at a church in Annapolis at 10. 30. It was a somber place filled with about 250 people. The program included five testimonies of what the deceased had meant to the speaker. including an amazing testimony of a former girlfriend. And the story from his father. And then an amazing testimony from his boss, who was the district attorney of Danville, Virginia. The deceased was 27, was the assistant district attorney of Danville, Virginia. We drove in a long line of cars to the cemetery and burned the b buried the body on the side of a hill. Right near where we had buried the body of our 22-year-old son on a cold day in January, 13 years earlier. It was a day of mourning and weeping and unbelievable loss. What made this story so painful was that this was the loss of the second son of these parents. In less than 13 months. Two sons gone in thirteen months. It's a loss so great that you can't stop crying. And it you can't get over the hole that it leaves in your life. And you don't know what to do, and it jumbles up the rest of your life, and it leaves you in a daze. That's the picture of sin's toll in our lives. That's the picture of a lost relationship with God. Mourning is a part of coming to understand the horror of what you've done. Ever mourned over your sin? Ever mourned publicly over your sin? That's really kind of strange in today's circles. It was strange in the time of Jesus also. And he said, Blessed are those who mourn. Take time to cry. Take time to submit. Take time to draw near. Take time to wash your hands. So those are the nine commands. Nine commands. And verse ten is the summary command. You will notice that verse 6 and verse 10 both have the word humble. Verse 6 says God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So verse 10 says, humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. So verse 6 is the statement. God gives grace to the humble. Verse 10 is the command. So do it. Humble yourself And the nine commands in between are the explanation of the package. How do you humble yourself? How do you repent? So the fifth category is humble yourself, verse 10. Here's the summary. Everything is connected with humility because God only lifts up the humble. Matthew 23, 12 says, whoever exalts himself will be humbled by God, maybe by others. Whoever humbles himself will be exalted. God can only exalt the humble and supply their need of grace. He has committed himself to this mode of action. He cannot exalt the proud, no matter how smart they are, how rich they are, how educated they may be, no matter how many years of Bible study they may have had. So what does repentance look like? It's described by these four directives. It's choosing sides. Getting off the fence, rejecting the devil and his offers. It's chasing after God, number two, drawing near to him in the best way you know It's cleansing your hands and heart by confessing and straightening out everything you've done. It's crying and mourning over your loss. It's seeing your sin from God's perspective and realizing that your adultery is what put Jesus Christ on the cross. Let me make two observations in closing. Number one, these commands describe our responsibilities. Our responsibilities. They are all voluntary James does not say, pray for God to humble you. God wants to lift us up when we obey these commands No one can make you do these commands. Repentance is 100% our responsibility. We do it ourselves. We initiate it ourselves. Jesus said, if you know these things, happy are you. If you do them. He doesn't say if you know these things, happier you. If you know these things, happier you if you do them. And these commands describe what repentance involves. Number two, God's goal here. God's goal is to lift us up. To me, that's amazing. The commands result in God supplying grace to us. God lifting us up. That's what God wants to do when we humble ourselves. Lift us up in the sense of bringing us back into that intimate communion with Him that makes life worthwhile. God is saying to people who, like the prodigal son, have made shambles of their relationship with him. Who've sold themselves to the highest pleasure in the quietness and in the darkness of their emptiness, God says, Return to me. I want to forgive you. I want to lift you up back into fellowship with me. What a promise. What a God Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would lift us up. I ask that we would take the initiative to repent. To get off the fence. To chase after you. To wash our hands To mourn over our sin, to humble ourselves, and find your grace Thank you in Jesus' name, Amen