So I want to quickly introduce Pastor Dan Peters. He is the former senior pastor of Faith Bible Church. He served here uh as that role in nineteen seventy six to eighty eight. So in as a minister here and he's a father of six, grandfather of eighteen, pastor for fifty-three years, motorcycle rider, night collector, and holy land tour host. So he He's been speaking to us since yesterday, so I want to welcome him back to the pulpit as he preaches on what is a man Good morning. Good to see each one of you here. So many memories, so many special times with so many of you. Steve Conrad, so good to hear you playing that piano. I remember my boys and you and others going down to the Baltimore Rescue Mission. Remember those days? Yeah, man. So many, a flood of memories with so many of you, and so nice to see some new faces here as well And appreciate you all being here today on this Father's Day. What a special day this is, to celebrate the Fathers. I've had the joy and privilege of meeting with Pastor Sung Cho over the last couple of years. We have a Thursday morning Appointment. And uh I say he's always exactly on time, or he tells me that he'll be with me in a minute. He's he's completely predictable and and consistent and we've enjoyed our uh time together. I know I have, uh getting to know him and uh getting to discuss the Lord's work here at Faith Bible Church. As I told the earlier group, Faith Bible Church and its people and ministries have uh been on my heart since the Lord called uh Diane and I and our children to uh Limerick, Pennsylvania back in nineteen eighty-eight. I uh I prayed for you during all those tumultuous days following my departure. And I was so happy when the Lord gave me an opportunity to have a very small part in this ministry by meeting and Praying and sharing with Pastor Sungcho. And what a blessing to meet him in person and to meet his wife Irei. uh his delightful son Nathaniel and little Annette uh growing up and uh to see uh how God has given you uh a shepherd who will care for your souls. I've been in interim ministry since leaving, we were 30 years there at Limerick Chapel, and uh I kind of retired. I actually got out of the way for my associate pastor uh who was ready to become the senior pastor. I got out of his way because I felt like he needed to uh to seek seed me there. And then we've been involved in interim pastoral ministry in North Carolina and Florida and Virginia. The present church I'm serving, I came as interim pastor in the process of looking for a younger man to become their regular pastor, but Uh it's just really hard to find young men who are willing to pastor rural churches that are pretty much off the grid. We have very little self service, uh very little Wi Fi, you know. We're kinda off the grid in a farming area. And it's been really a challenge to find a young man who will come and shepherd that flock. So I'm still there three years later, and we're still looking for a younger man there If you think of me, uh pray with me that we'll have one. There's a young man preaching in my place today who uh went to West Point and became uh Army officer. And uh the Lord called him to ministry. He left the army and has uh finished his first semester at Liberty Seminary there in Lynchburg. He's there at the church. I've been pastoring with his wife and and five sons down there today for their Father's Day message. And this is his first sermon he's ever preached. So I've been kind of praying for him today. But that's been my ministry since leaving Limerick Chapel is really helping churches in transition between pastors and helping them find God's man. And you know, the Lord said that Timothy, rather Paul said that Timothy, there was no other man that was like-minded that would care uh for their faith. And you are blessed with a godly man, Pastor Sung Cho, who is a very knowledgeable and yet caring pastor. who cares for you and you are you are blessed to have him and it is a real privilege for me and a blessing uh for me to be here with you again today. So happy Father's Day, everybody, and let's pray together. Father, as we come to your word, we thank you that you are our Heavenly Father. And that through faith in Jesus Christ we can call you Father. And know that you care for us. Lord, I pray that each person in the hearing of my voice would truly know you, Lord. Through faith in Jesus Christ, who died for us and rose again. And I pray, Lord, that you would, by your Holy Spirit, our teacher, open your word to us today. on the role of fathers in the in the home and and what is truly a man. Guide us and help us to know the the role that you have laid out for us as men. That we might fulfill that in the individual calling in our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, there's a lot of confusion about what used to be a simple subject. What is a woman? What is a man? Even the psalmist asked the question, what is man? What are we anyway? In a general sense, what are human beings, but then uh breaking it down into the two categories. uh as a result of creation, uh we have uh men and women. And as I spoke on women in the uh Sunday school hour, I want to zero in on men today. Actually, men are the same as women in a lot of ways. We are both made in God's image Isn't that one of the most incredible things that you can ever think about yourself? We have so many similarities to the animals And it seems as though many people are emphasizing our similarities to the animals today. But the thing that is very special about us as humans is that we are made in the image of God. We were made like him and made for him, and we were made for a personal relationship With God. We were designed for that. So both men and women are made in God's image. And both men and women were given dominion over the earth. But the distinctive role of men is what the Bible calls headship. And what does that headship mean? That's what we kind of want to answer today. We see that in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. And verse 3. If you have your Bible, you can turn there with me. 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse number 3. I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of the woman is man. And the head of Christ is God. So whether you are an eglintarian or a complementarian, Is pretty important today. Egalitarians say men and women are the same. Complimentarians say they're the same in a lot of ways, but in their roles in the family and in the church, they are different. And it's interesting that here in 1 Corinthians 11 3, the Apostle Paul, in referring to the headship, refers to the Trinity. Historic Christianity settled the issue early on that there is one God. Three persons, equally God. The Father is God. The Son is God. The Holy Spirit is God. And they are equally God, but they function as persons with distinctive roles In that relationship to one another as God. And so before anything was created, God existed In relationship in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And here he says The head of Christ is God. And so we understand that just as there is that distinction of roles in the Trinity, so there is the distinction of roles and of male and female within the family and within the church And in regard to the family, there is a headship role that is for the man. So what does it mean to be the head? of the home. Well, have you thought about your head lately? Aren't you glad you have a head? I mean, of all the parts you could you could do without a lot of things, but you won't do without your head. You know, I mean just think about it. All of the air we breathe comes through our head. All of the food we eat comes through our mouth, comes through the head. The things that we hear come through our head. The things that we see come through our head. Headship is pretty important, isn't it? And when the Lord says that the man is the head of the home, it doesn't mean that he's beating the rest of his body into submission. It is not abusive headship. It is caring, coordinating, supplying headship. And as I look at the Genesis account, I see three distinct roles of headship For the man in the family. Headship in the man, and if you're taking notes, I'm going to give you three P's. Okay? My wife always likes it when I have an outline because then she has some idea of when I'm going to finish, you know, when I get to the third point. Three P's. I believe God intended the headship of a man and the family to be the provider The protector and the priest. And I see that in the creation account here in Genesis. In chapter 2, verse 15 of Genesis, Adam was told to tend the garden. Now, I don't know how many of you are gardeners. Any gardeners here? Yeah. My wife is a gardener in the family. Pastor Cho asked me, said, When you're out on the motorcycle, what does Diane do? I said, She gardens. She gardens. She's taken the little woods in the back of our house and made it a beautiful woodland garden that our grandchildren enjoy. joy. And she's taken built little gardens all over the yard and tends them. And then she because the deer were eating their vegetables, uh we built a deer proof garden out along the side and And she's got her gardens. And you say, what does she do? Well, she gardens. And I always tell her before I leave, I tell her, be careful. Don't hurt yourself. And if you hurt yourself, I'll still let you garden. I'm setting the stage for if I hurt myself on the motorcycle, see. Uh that maybe she won't stop me from riding. Well, anyways, she has had more injuries than I have, and you can talk to her about that. Gardening is dangerous, it really is. But here, in a perfect world, there still is work to be done. Now that that's hard to conceive of, isn't it? Because, you know, The curse has not yet happened, and yet even in an uncursed garden, there's stuff to do Okay? And that will get your imagination going, I don't know. But he was to tend the garden. He was to name the animals. He had work to do. Now we know from a Proverbs 31 and from other passages throughout the Scripture that Women have roles of work, and women often will work outside the home and also help to provide for the family. And in some cases, women have to be the sole provider in the family. But the responsibility of a man who is able is to be the provider for the home. Paul says it this way: if a man does not provide for his own, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. So the role of being the provider for the home, it settles upon the man. Provider. Secondly, he was to be the protector. He was not only to tend the garden, but to keep the garden. And that word keep as the idea of To guard or to protect. And God gave him one negative rule. You can eat of all the trees, but not that one. The tree of the knowledge of good and evil, God said to Adam, Don't eat of that tree. God gave him that command. And so he was the protector. Of the family, to protect them from the danger of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. He was to guard the family, the protector. And then we see that he was the priest of the family, because apparently God intended him When Eve was created from his side to inform her of the rule that God had given them, But when we find her in conversation with the serpent, we find that somewhere in the process of the communication of God to Adam and Adam to Eve. Something got fumbled up. We're not supposed to eat it, we're not supposed to touch it. The message was not adequately uh picked up by Eve. Somewhere there was a breakdown in the process of communication. And so his function as priest. seems to have had some kind of breakdown or failure. We read from Ephesians chapter 5 that one of the roles of a husband is to wash his wife as uh with the water of the word And again, the spiritual leadership of the family. So we see the priesthood. He was to teach her God's commands. And the role of the husband in the marriage is to be one who cleanses the family with the word of God. So it is the husband's role. And there are many situations in which fathers and husbands do not do what they are supposed to do. And where women must Take those roles, whether be a provider, protector, or priest. There are many situations where there is a failure on the part of the husband or the father to do what God wants us to do. to do and where women have to step in and make sure that it is done. But that does not take us away from the responsibility of men to be the provider. to be the protector and to be the priest, the spiritual leader of the family. Well what happened in the case of Adam and Eve? We see Adam provided for Eve by tending the garden. He failed to teach Eve the clear, only only clear negative command of God, and he failed to protect her from the serpent. Diane and I were out in uh Colorado visiting our oldest son Tim and his family, and uh the reason Tim lives in Colorado is because he star started skiing while he was in high school in Pennsylvania. We had a ski slope near our house. And uh then he went out to Colorado several times to ski and eventually decided that he wanted to live there. So Uh he went out there and uh when he got there he was living in an apartment across the street uh from uh Tri-City uh uh Bible church there. They were just building their new building And he as a builder went over and helped him. I started going to church there. Uh and ended up marrying the deacon's daughter. So they live in Denver, out there. And And what he likes to do is to go up into the mountains and ski with his sons, and they're becoming skiers now. And so uh what you have to do is drive up these highways into the mountains from Denver, and and uh it's a fairly uh scary experience to be uh sitting in the uh the co-pilot seat, you know, and uh and up into the mountains. And but we had some great talks this last time we were out there. And my my son was uh out of the blue, he said to me, he said, Adam should have chopped that serpent's head off. And I thought, that's an interesting viewpoint. Hadn't ever quite thought of it that way. Yeah. Where was Adam with that whole conversation between the serpent and Eve? Don't know where he was. But I tell you what, he did not function in his uh protective role, uh, did he? And as a result of Eve eating the forbidden fruit, giving to her husband, and him eating, the tempter won out, didn't he? Adam appears to be passive in the whole situation there. I said it yesterday, and I'll say it again today. I think one of the greatest sins of men is to be passive. One of the greatest sins of men is to be nice. To just let things go. Let things slide. I believe that God has called men to be the head of the home. To see what's going on, to hear what's going on, to listen to their wives, to listen to their children. To work and provide for the genuine, not only material needs, but for the emotional and spiritual needs of their wives and families And children, and to be the true uh head of the home, to step into their role of authority that God has given to them And in order to step into that role of headship, it is going to require men to be godly, to be filled with the Spirit It's going to require wives who submit to their husbands as unto Christ. It's going to require children who come to know the Lord. And who have a desire to please the Lord by obeying their parents. If there is anything that our world needs today, it is godly men and women. entering into their roles as husband and wife in the marriage, and then fulfilling their God-given roles in the family with their children, with their grandchildren. Uh right now I'm preaching to a good number of grandparents in the church I am pastoring at the moment, some great grandparents even. You know, you can have a role if you are a grandparent or a great-grandparent. You can build bridges of love and care and friendship with your grandchildren and great-grandchildren And through that relationship that you are working hard to build, you can be the example. You can provide a prayer, blessing, and covering. For your children and grandchildren that will be God's means of bringing salvation into their lives. Well, what happened to Adam and Eve? They ate, the curses followed. Now the man had cursed ground to tend. He would need to protect his crops from all kinds of enemies. But there is kind of a happy ending. I was reading somewhere about uh what a comedy is, and apparently in in in Greek uh drama, a comedy is something that has a happy ending. I never thought of the Bible as a comedy before Kind of struck me. But the Bible has a happy ending. It has a happy ending for every person. Who is born again, who is saved. And for them, there is a happy ending. I referred to this in Sunday school. I want to go back to it now. Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15. Because out of the sadness of the disobedience, the sin, and the curse on Adam and Eve comes the prophetic blessing. Here in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15, where God says to the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. And so we see that the prophecy of the serpent crusher is given to Adam and Eve once the curse falls, that someday God is going to Send the seed of the woman to crush the head of the serpent. And that serpent crusher is Jesus Christ. He is the God man. He is the second Adam. He is the one that starts the whole human thing over again in himself. And what a wonderful blessing he is. And then we read how when they tried to cover their Shame of their nakedness with the leaves of fig trees. God provided coats of skins. which necessitated the shedding of blood, foreshadowing the truth that without the shedding of blood there would be no remission of sins. And all the way through Israel's history, blood of animals was shed for an atonement, for a covering of sin, all ultimately pointing to the cross of Jesus Christ. where he, the Lamb of God, would die for the sins of the world. The Lord Jesus. And he is the happy ending of the Adam and Eve story. And he will be the happy ending of your life, no matter how far you have strayed, and all of us have come short. All of us have failed. We have failed as men, failed as women, we have failed as husbands, we have failed as wives. We have failed as children. We have failed as people. All of us have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We all stand under God's righteous and just condemnation. But God sent the serpent crusher. He sent the lamb slain before the foundation of the world. And when we look to him in faith, When we admit that we are guilty sinners and look to Jesus, who died for us and rose again, then we have salvation, we have eternal life. Through Jesus Christ alone. He is the one who has come to set things right again. Let's bow in prayer. And Father, we come to you in the name of Jesus Christ and in the Holy Spirit, thanking you. For creating us in your image, for sending your Son Jesus to die for our sins on the cross and to rise again. And Lord, I pray for every person here in the hearing of my voice. I pray for each one. That each one might truly know you and walk with you. I pray that any here who have never repented of their sins and believed in Jesus Christ would do so today. and have your new life within them, eternal life, your Holy Spirit indwelling and changing their lives I thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. I thank you for each one here who is saved and has your Holy Spirit within them. I pray that you would lead us and guide us by your Spirit. I pray, Lord, for Pastor Cho and the elders and all who serve you here in various ministries at Faith Bible Church I pray that you would fill them with your spirit, use them for your glory, and that you would continue to build this church and that they would continue to make disciples of all the nations until you come back for us, perhaps today. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.