I don't know if you've ever talked to someone about your beliefs about the end of the world, but maybe you've noticed on a TV program. or a movie that occasionally Hollywood mocks people who believe in the end of the world. They do this by putting someone on a street corner With two pieces of wood tied to his body, one in the front and one in the back. And you might see it say, the end is near, the end of the world. And so we are often, I would say it is somewhat frequently in our culture mocked for even believing in the end of the world. On the other hand, and I haven't watched all these films, okay, but it seems like we have a Hollywood now that is infatuated with the apocalypse and the end of the world. Because we have oh so many movies about zombies and oh so many movies about plagues that come to the planet and destroy everyone except one small group who somehow fights their way through. It seems to be This dystopian theme is everywhere in our culture today. They would mock someone who would say, yes, there will be a true end to the world, but they would also profit. From that idea, I think. Of course, this is just my introduction, and these are opinions, comments, if you would. But there is some truth to them thinking that we're pessimists. And because of passages like 2 Timothy 3, the first few verses, what would you Think the response would be from your co-workers if you said, come here, I want to give you some good news today from God's Word. And here it is, 2 Timothy 3, verse 1. But know this, that in the last days perilous times will come, for men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boasters, proud, blasphemers. Disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving, slanderous, without self-control, brutal. despisers of good, traitors, headstrong, haughty, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. And then you read this footnote. I'm going to read to you the footnote in my study Bible. This is the MacArthur Study Bible, and a footnote in a Ryrie study Bible in a. Schofield Study Bible 1, 2, or 3, I don't know if there's a fourth one of that edition, would have a similar note as this. This is the note, The Last Days. This phrase refers to this age, the time since the first coming of the Lord Jesus. Perilous times. Perilous is used to describe the savage, savage. nature of two demon-possessed men in Matthew 8. 28. The word for times had to do with epochs rather than clock or calendar times. Such savage, dangerous eras, or epochs, however you want to pronounce it, will increase in frequency and severity as the return of Christ approaches. The church age is fraught with these dangerous movements accumulating strength as the end nears. Now, I am a dispensationalist, and I happen to agree with that interpretation of that passage. And because many of you here are dispensationalists, you would also agree with that. Pretty pessimistic, isn't it? Not a whole lot for you and I to look forward to on this planet. And here's what happens. To me, does it happen to you? We look at a passage like that, and then we look out at the current events in our world, in our day, and we do see confirmation We do look out and we see man killing and oppressing other men, men and women, people killing and oppressing people. And this is through politics and policies, wars and regimes. I mean one selfish dictator falls and another one rises to take his place. I mean, we we have a world that seems to be in turmoil, a world of men and women, people in turmoil, nations in conflict. And then we look out at nature. And we see tsunamis, earthquakes, tornadoes, cyclones, hurricanes, forest fires, droughts, blight, insects, and famine. We see this all over the world. Did you know, for example, that even the desert, the acreage of deserts in the country of Australia is gradually increasing? And of course, you realize there is a drought in California at this very moment. And also the rainforest, it really is true, and I'm not being a tree hugger by saying this, they are shrinking. And mankind is not handling the nature thing very well. In Genesis, Adam and Eve were given the authority over nature to dress and keep the garden to multiply and fill the earth The dominion of the planet was given to mankind, and in our sin, we are destroying the planet. That is true, isn't it, folks? We take our bombs and blow up entire islands to make sure they work correctly. We don't care a whole lot about the runoff there. And someone says, well, we needed those bombs to defeat people in a war. I'm not getting into that argument. That's not what I'm saying. All I am saying is that mankind abuses mankind and nature And so we look at scripture passages like that predict the worsening of world events. We look out at what's happening in our current world events. And we say, wow, it's bad and it's going to get worse. And we sort of have an expectation. We're expecting that the future will look worse than today. Now all of that, I am not mocking that. I am not saying that that's an extreme view. Because Romans 1 tells us, and other passages in the scripture, where it says that evil teachers and seducers will grow worse and worse as time goes by, that this is. The scriptural summation of the end of the world. It will not continue to go on as it is today. Eventually, Christ will return. And it must end. And it's it's however, having said that, you and I get caught up in this, and it's difficult for us to find our bearings of what to hope for. In life. I mean what what okay wow that's really bad and I can see that from scripture And if there's the possibility that you and I just sort of sag in our spirits and think, what's the use? I mean, if it's going to get worse, what possible hope is there for you and for me? And this is where why I think this morning, and among other reasons, we need to look again and fresh and anew before the election. Before whatever happens this next year. At why of all people on this planet, think of this. It doesn't matter what country we live in, whether we're in a mud hut in Kenya, whether we're living in Antarctica. I think scientists live there. Or whether we're right over there. If we're a Christian, we are a people of hope. You are a person of hope. And your hope has nothing to do with how bad or how good world events are. So what is. Hope. Well, let's start with the world's version of it, will you? Let's let's just look. What I'm going to do is we're going to kind of walk through a couple of statements in Scripture. and gather some facts and then put it all together and come up with sort of a a comparison between the world's version of hope and our version of hope, which are completely drastically different. First, turn to 1 Corinthians 9. 1 Corinthians 9, verse 10. The Greek word that's translated hope is everywhere in the New Testament. First Corinthians 9, verse 10 is the same Greek word that's used in other passages, but it's used sometimes in the New Testament as sort of just Well, let me read it with you, and you can probably pick out what's happening here. 1 Corinthians 9, verse 10. Or does he say it altogether for our sakes? No doubt for our sakes, no doubt, this is written that he who ploughs should plough in hope, and he who threshes in hope should be partaker of Of his hope. What's happening here? Well, we have Paul talking about self-denial and talking about receiving back For labor. And we have an illustration that he brings up. When someone is out there plowing their field, they're doing it anticipating and hopeful that they'll have a harvest. And so their current stability, as their hands are on that plow and their oxen, their yoked oxen or whatever animals they have in this time are out there plowing in that field, they have a certain A certain kind of emotional stability and expectation, boy, I sure hope I have a good harvest. And that's why I'm here working, because I want that harvest. That is the world's version of hope. I have a current kind of thought that is completely, it's completely linked. to my thinking about the future which may or may not happen. You know, in World War Two, if what I read is true now, I'm quoting a popular magazine. I'll admit it, it's Reader's Digest. Okay, not the most scientific magazine. It had a little section on a recent issue on the famous Lives of Songs, Secrets About Songs, Past Songs. And it claimed that during World War II, the Allies outlawed, I'll be home for Christmas. They didn't want any soldiers listening to that at Christmas time Because they just did not want to get their hopes up that they would be home for Christmas. And so they did that. That is the world's version of hope. Boy, I hope I'll be home for Christmas, but I'm not quite sure this is going to happen. Boy, I hope I have a good harvest. The plowman labors in hope. When you take the world's version of hope and you set that side by side with the Christian version, God flatly says that is no hope. The world has nothing. Zero. And where you go to find that statement is in passages like Ephesians 2. 12. Turn there a little few more pages and look at this. Ephesians two verse twelve That at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. having no hope and without God in the world. In this section of Ephesians Paul is talking about what they were before they were a Christian and how they were far away from God and his people and his promises. But now they've been brought near through Christ. And Jew and Gentile have become part of one body, the church. But he says here, look at it again, they were aliens, that is, they were completely apart from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise. Having no hope and without God in the world. No promises, no God equals no hope How does this work its way out? I mean, what if you were to take one promise like the promise of the resurrection and just to take your your eraser and erase that because you don't believe in the promises, you don't believe in God, so you don't believe in the resurrection. How does that look? Well, 1 Thessalonians 4. 3. Look at this. And you'll see. 1 Thessalonians 4 verse 3. Maybe it's three four. Oh, I think I gave you the wrong passage here. Let's see. 413, I'm sorry, First Thessalonians 413. But I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others Who have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so God will bring with him those who sleep in Jesus For this we say to you, by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout. With the voice of an archangel and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Now he's writing to people who believe in the promises, who believe in Christ. And they are confused about the resurrection, he teaches them when it will occur. Because he doesn't want them to be like people who have no hope in life after death. Have you ever been to a funeral where people have no hope in life after death and just grieved as you watch the whole thing take place before your eyes The person may be lying there in the casket. It might be opened or closed. You're sitting in the back. They might play an instrument. They'll talk about the person, the good things about them, and they might tell some funny stories about things that took place when the person was alive. And then that casket is shut and no one says, no one says, I'll see him again. With real conviction. Now, I've heard people say he's in a better place. How many of you have ever heard somebody say that? All right. Do they really believe that? Maybe if they're a Christian, they do. But if they're not, no promises, no God. Put it the other way, no God, no promises, no hope. And when I was living in South Carolina, when I was living in Virginia Especially South Carolina, it was the Bible Belt. Everyone was a Christian. Everyone's pets were Christians. Everyone's plants were Christians. And everyone said, Is he in a better place? You know he's in a better place. I just feel like he's in a better place. Do you believe the promises of God? And forgive me, I'm not mocking Southern accents. I actually like them and I am pretty good at it that I won't do any more, I promise. But they don't have any hope. That's the thing. And so the plowman, there is a sort of a form of hope that he has. And He says, Oh, I hope I have a good harvest, and he's laboring in that hope. But the reality is when someone does not have God in the promises. Two times here in the New Testament at least we have this statement, no hope. They have no hope. And really, this is a common thing A sort of a worldly version of hope, and then a biblical version. And we already looked at that in Psalm 4. Remember when we read that at the beginning of the service? Psalm 4, verse 7, there was the psalmist, and he's in trouble. And he's crying out to God for help, and he says, you put gladness in my heart more than they have gladness when they have a great harvest. So there's kind of this This shallow gladness that's completely dependent on a good harvest, and this deep and abiding gladness that is dependent on faith. In the promise of God, that He is present in times of adversity. And if I could illustrate it a little further and get you to turn back to John 14, verse 27, it also applies to things like peace. The world does have a peace to offer. But Jesus, when he is about to go to the Father, now he hasn't yet risen from the dead, but he's talking about leaving, and he's comforting his He says in John 14 verse 27, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. He's kind of drawing, he is drawing a line of division between a worldly peace and the peace that Jesus leaves. Imagine this for a moment. The apostles, the disciples are looking at the sky in Acts chapter 1 as Jesus disappears behind a cloud. And I can I can this isn't we're imagining here, I would imagine that their eyes are locked on him. And is so much so that the angels speak up. Hey, what are you all looking at? This same Jesus is going to come back. It was a word of comfort. Think of this. Their Lord and Master, he's gone. And the angels are saying, whoa, it's okay. This same Jesus is coming back. And yet that same Jesus said, I'm going to give you a peace. It's not like the world. And folks, when you look at the book of Acts, it's a peace that endured in spite of the absence of their Lord. It was an enduring, powerful piece so that when they were lying in jail, shackled and bruised and beaten, they sang hymns. And when they were out facing the opposition of the devil and his minions and all the false teachers, they still knew their sins were forgiven. The peace that Jesus gave, so different from the peace that the world gives. What kind of peace does the world want? They want peace but no God. They want to be the mastery of their own lives. When the world is defined in 1 John as the lust of the eyes and the lust of the flesh and the pride of life. When you look back in the Old Testament at the Tower of Babel And how they wanted to raise a name for themselves. And God looked at this incredible structure and saw it as something worthy of destruction. Because it was a godless endeavor. We live in a world of people who want absence of suffering, economic prosperity, pleasure, whatever kind they deem is appropriate. Know God, that's peace to them. But Jesus and the peace that He leaves is so, so different. Folks, I'm only trying to point out here That the hope of a Christian, and we're going to look at it a little bit further to define it, is so different from the hope of the world, just as joy and peace are. This brings us that. to how we can define it. Turn to Romans 8 and we'll look at the definition for hope. Romans 8. When I was working in a wood shop making uh wood products, I would sit at the break table on a Friday, which was payday, and I would talk to my co-workers and they we would discuss what they were gonna do for the weekend or whatever. And often there was someone there who would get out a lottery ticket and and they would it wouldn't be scratched or whatever and they would They would kind of do this and and I think I was there at least once when they won something. Not much. And I doubt it made up for the hundreds and thousands of dollars they already spent on that ticket, but they won something. That is not hope. Romans 8, 24 to 25 gives us some. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to look at this statement and kind of stack up facts about hope and build a little bit of a definition. Romans 8 24 and 25. Here's what it says. For we were saved in this hope. Now the hope is the redemption of our bodies. We're groaning and we're waiting for the resurrection. We're waiting for this new body. For we were saved in this hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance If you want to go to one place in your New Testament and try to build a definition, a biblical definition for the hope of a Christian, here's the text. What is hope? Well, notice first, it is something that exists without sight Look at it again. For if we were saved in this hope, but hope that is seen is not hope. Now, this does not mean that blind people are more hopeful than people who can see. It simply means that whatever is expected has not yet been received. And it is not something we see yet. It has not yet been experienced. Hope exists without sight. What else do we see here? We see that hope also exists. Look at it again. As we wait. Look at verse 25. But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it. So there is something coming that we have not yet seen, and we believe, right? We walk by faith, not by sight. It's three three times in the New Testament the just live by faith. So really this lack of sight is speaking of faith. It's a present faith as we wait for what is to come. And that is why often, if you look in a theological dictionary, the Greek word that's translated hope here is defined as a confident expectation. A faith-filled expectation while we wait. A present faith or confidence in a future reality. The confidence part, if you look at your Bible again, is found in the words, eagerly wait with perseverance. It's not, boy, I hope I have a good harvest. Boy, I hope I win this lottery. Boy, I hope I don't get into a wreck on the way home. Boy, I hope that person loves me. No, there is this eagerness that is confident and it perseveres even though it does not see In the context here, it's what we do as we wait for our new body someday. We know by faith that this is not where we're going to end up. That these bodies are not the thing that we're going to be left with because Christ rose being the first fruits of resurrection, we will rise. It's a confident expectation about what's happening now. Now, Here's the problem I think that you and I struggle with. We live in the United States of America and we have been nurtured on the American dream. In our country. Now what I'm about to say is only observation, and you can disagree with observation. These are some of my opinions as I observe and you see what your observations are. Let me just stir up our observations. When you are 18, 19, 20, when you graduate from college in this country, what is your hope? Well, I hope if you're a Christian, okay, and you and you what you have Judeo-Christian values. I hope I can get that good job. And so we pray, and God provides that often, the job that we want. And as we're working in that job and advancing in a career, we kind of hope for the next step, the next thing. Well, I hope that I get that promotion or that raise And then eventually we sort of hope for a mate, a spouse. Boy, I hope I can get married. And we have in our culture, I think. A very active hope that we're always using. Sometimes, let me ask you this: is it possible That there are points in our lives when we replace the biblical hope in the promises of God with a temporal hope In the pleasures of this life. Does that ever happen? Bait and switch. Maybe it happens gradually. Demas. Love this present evil world. What about the the magician who saw the Spirit of God through Peter and wow these miracles. And so he was baptized and became a Christian. And and then and he said, all right, all right, show me how this is done. He was making the Spirit of God into sort of a way to profit, and Peter rebuked him. No way, you've used this term. In the gall of bitterness. Get out of here. You don't have, you know, you're cursed for believing that you can profit from being a Christian. I don't know if you've ever heard the story that P. T. Barnum, way, way back in the day, heard about Charles Haddon Spurgeon and the tens of thousands who came to hear him preach. How many have ever heard the story? A few of you, I'll tell you anyway. And asked him to come over to the circus and to be a part of the act. Because he thought if the Spurgeon came over here, that he could get a lot of people into the circus. And he was willing to pay Spurgeon a lot of money. So Spurgeon wrote on a letter back and he quoted exactly what Peter said to that magician. About the gall of bitterness and thinking to profit from the Spirit of God. Say, why are you bringing this up? We need to watch ourselves. When you find yourself thinking about your life and your dreams about the future, are you thinking about Sort of a plan that doesn't involve God very much. His will, his ways I mean, what are you really putting your hope in? Is it, boy, I hope I have a good harvest, and so I'm at this college and I'm doing this because I want that money. Now I'm not saying it's a sin. The workman is worthy of his hire. You should go to college if that's God's will for your life, as best you can tell. There's nothing sinful about getting married and having plans. The book of Proverbs is in the Bible. But there is the possibility that we can counterfeit our hope. And this is, and folks, this is what happens. You put your hope in having a temporal blessing. What happens when it never occurs? Hope deferred makes the heart sick. I've been there. You might have been there. Now, that can even deal in spiritual areas that we can't get into today. What does it look like for someone to put their hope in God? And we've got to wrap this up so we can have our meeting. Quickly turn to Romans 4. Here is an illustration of someone. Romans 4, verse 18, Abraham. And we'll wrap this up in two or three minutes. Hang in there. And next week we're going to talk a little bit more about this. But try to work this out a little further. What would it look like to have a present faith or confidence in a future reality for a long time and not give up? Romans 4, 18. It says here about Abraham, who contrary to hope, in hope believed. So that he became the father of many nations according to what was spoken, so shall your descendants be, and not being weak in faith He did not consider his own body, already dead, since he was about a hundred years old, and the deadness of Sarah's womb. He did not waver at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God. That's Abraham, a man of faith and a man of hope. He he looked at the he didn't consider the impossibility of the situation He had not yet received the promise of his son. He hadn't seen it fulfilled yet. And yet he labored in his current context, in his day. confidently expecting that promise eventually to be fulfilled. And God blessed him, folks I don't think Abraham had a full knowledge of how blessed he was and is and evermore shall be. Next week, I want to look at things that we can place our hope in. Direct promises to try to reorient us away from just hoping in the American dream and putting our hope in. promises that are relevant and practical to us because they are biblical and they glorify God. And so come back next Sunday and we'll look more directly at promises and how we can Place our confidence in these and be blessed and have joy as a result, okay?