1 Timothy chapter 1. We are going to do just a short mini-series. I just don't have peace. I know that sounds subjective. I'm sorry. about getting back to Ephesians yet. In Ephesians, we are at a section that begins with the darkened mind of the Gentiles, and it's a pretty dark passage. And I'm sort of going to hold off getting into that until we look with a little more detail at 1 Timothy. I am so burdened in my own life. Of some imbalances that I have retained in my thinking, perhaps for decades. I have found in my own life in the past few weeks, although I would say the Lord's been working in my heart for the past. eight or nine months in this area, that there are frequently times in my own heart when I substitute something else for Christ. And I think that if I do this, then I will gain my standing before God or maintain my standing before God. Now don't worry, I'm not becoming a heretic. I don't mean that. But what I mean is on a daily practical basis, My stability, too often in my Christian experience, has been based on my successes and my failures, and not on the righteousness of Christ. You and I, we live in a life that is filled with voices. I begin this way by just talking about journalism, and I'm going to try what we're going to do this morning is get into 1 Timothy 1. We're going to look at verses 3. And some of it we'll look into with more detail, others not so much. But the goal this morning is to ask ourselves: what is the goal of Christian instruction? What's the point? Why are we doing this? Back to the voices. You and I know that if you've, well, maybe you don't, but. Print journalism and print in any fashion, be it newspapers or magazines, has been in amount a monumental decline in the past decade. As all these companies move their content online and try to come up with more business models to make money. And of course the advertising industry has grown up on the internet and there are all different things going on. I have noticed as I've tried to find accurate news that newspaper reporters still use the old tricks that I was taught when I took journalism in high school. For example, maybe you're not aware of this, but some there used to be years ago on the op-ed uh page in your newspaper There would be advertisements that related to the articles and opinions written in the newspaper, and lo and behold, those advertisements would often relate in a sort of consumer buy this way to what the people were writing in the newspaper. In other words, folks, maybe you didn't realize this, but when you opened the newspaper ten years ago, 15 years ago, You could read an article about the danger of high fructose corn syrup, and then you could see right next to it an advertisement for a diet plan that, wow, didn't include high fructose corn syrup. That's the way it worked. They do that commonly, you know, obviously I don't want to get into this, but it's everywhere today. And so what I'm finding, maybe you're finding this, it's hard to find real information. It's hard to find the truth sometimes. When I was taking a debate class in college, we were told what the best sources for information were on the web, where to go, when you want to find out what's really happening in politics. And none of it was mainstream media. It was going right to the source to find out what was going on. So you and I live in an age where we're bombarded with all these voices. How do we respond to this? Well, I respond with debate and argumentation. Because I don't know whether what I'm reading is true or not, sometimes, not all the time, but sometimes. I immediately find myself questioning what this person wrote. And then secondly, I'll talk to you about it. Because some of you folks are real wise in different areas, so I might go to this person and say, do you think this is true? And you might say, nah, I don't think that's true. Or you might say, yeah, I think that's true. And there's all this sort of debating and just discussion, and we're trying to sort of find the truth. That's not the way it is with Christianity. Christianity is a presentation of truth, of propositional truth, and then you and I are not left with deciding whether it's true. We're left with deciding whether we're going to believe it or not. In other words, we have to decide if we're going to have faith in it or not. Now, having said that, there's a place for Christian apologetics. And here's where all of this comes into 1 Timothy. Let's just look at verse 3. And let's pick this up and I'll try to tie this together. I'm sorry if this is confusing. Verse 3: As I besought thee to abide still in Ephesus. when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine, neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions. Rather than godly edifying which is in faith, so do. Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart and of a good conscience and of faith unfeigned From which some, having swerved, have turned aside unto vain jangling or fruitless discussion, empty talking, desiring to be teachers of the law. Understand understanding neither what they say nor whereof they affirm. But we know that the law is good if a man use it lawfully. And then he goes on in verses nine and ten to Explain to Timothy what Timothy already knew, and that is that there is a proper way to use the law. You'll notice again that there is in verse 5 the end of the commandment or the purpose or the goal of what we're doing, the end. And you notice also in verse 4 that these people are giving heed to certain things, but really the goal shouldn't be ministering questions, verse 4. But this godly edifying which is in faith, there is something that is according to faith that should be the product or the goal of instruction. If we could pull out of that text in a nugget sort of the goal, what's the point of all the Christian instruction? It's faith and love. Godly edifying, which is in faith, and charity, verse 5. Next Sunday, we're going to look at the context of charity with in more detail. This morning, I simply want to point out to you. the goal of instruction in sort of general terms, faith and love. How many of you have ever heard of the sermon Payday Someday? Anybody ever hear that sermon? All right, that is arguably someone has written, and I think it's probably true, one of the most famous sermons of the 20th century. So what I want you to do that this afternoon or sometime this week is Google Pay Day Someday was preached by a Southern Baptist pastor R. G. Lee in 1926. But this sermon was so popular that he went on to preach it once a month at his church, and it is said that he might have preached it 1,275 times before he died. He died in 1978. Payday Someday is the example of the kind of preaching that comes out of someone who is a preaching pastor, a preacher's preacher. How many of you are familiar with Jonathan Edwards? All right, that's better. How many of you have ever heard of the sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God? Alright, we've all heard that. The difference between these two men, of course, Jonathan Edwards lived long ago, and his sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, was preached on July 8, 1741. There was a great difference in style between these two men. The style of their preaching came out in the choice of their words and in the way they delivered their sermons. I want to just read to you quickly an excerpt from Payday Someday. See if you can imagine, and you can actually hear this sermon, I believe, online and maybe even see him. The sermon is about Ahab. And it talks here in this excerpt of Ahab walking into Naboth's garden after his wife had had Naboth murdered. The preacher says, perhaps Ahab, as he walks through the garden, sees Naboth's footprints in the soil. Or he sees Naboth's pruning hook among the vines. Perhaps in a corner of the vineyard is a seat where Naboth and his sons rested after the day's toil, or a well where sparkling water for the vines in time of drought And even then, out yonder somewhere, God is talking to Elijah, his prophet whom we introduced to you a bit ago. And this is his record. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Arise, go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel, which is in Samaria. Behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he has gone down to possess it. And thou shalt speak unto him, saying Thus saith the Lord. Hast thou killed and also taken possession, and thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus saith the Lord. And while Ahab strolls among the vines that Naboth tended, what is it that appears? Snarling wild beasts? No. Black clouds full of threatening storm? No, not that. Flaming lightning which dazzled him? No. War chariots of his ancient enemies rumbling along the road? No. An oncoming flood sweeping things before it? No, not a flood. A tornado goring the earth? No. A huge serpent threatening to encircle him and crush his bones and its deadly coils? No. Not a serpent. What then? What alarmed Ahab so? Let us follow him and see. As Ahab went walking through the rows of vines, He begins to plan how he will have that vineyard arranged by his royal gardener, how flowers will be here and vegetables yonder and herbs there, and he converses with himself, and suddenly a shadow falls across his path. Quick as a flash, Ahab whirls on his heels, and there before him stands Elijah, prophet of the living God. Elijah's cheeks are swarthy, his eye is keen and piercing, like coals of fire, his eyes burn with righteous indignation in their sockets, his bosom heaves, his head is held high, his only weapon is a staff. His only robe is sheepskin and a leather girdle about his loins. To Ahab there is an eternity of agony in the few moments that they stand thus, face to face, eye to eye, soul to soul. And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? His voice is hoarse like the cry of a hunted animal. Now can you see just from reading that the style that this man has? the simplicity. And you can imagine a Southern Baptist preacher just powerfully using these words. This is so different from what we can read from history from the way that Jonathan Edwards read his sermon He was of the Puritan persuasion, and he tended to, I'm sure he did not just drone on in his sermon, and we don't have time to read this, I'm sorry. I I my eyeballs are glazing over and I'm the one preaching this, so I'm going to move on to my sermon, okay? But you get the f point there's Jonathan Edwards and you all remember Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God and how long and sort of pendantic it is and how you really had to pay attention to it and if and if you want to see an excerpt you can come up here afterwards and read. Some of that. And so you, in your own experience, you know preachers large and small, who dressed well and not so well, who yelled their sermon or read it. quietly. And the point I want to try to make this morning is that Paul is writing to Timothy here is that they all have a goal. whatever their style and flavor, wherever they preach, there should be this goal of faith. There should be this goal of edification. But before we get into that in particular, I want you to notice what is happening here. Look at your Bible with the other guys. So Timothy has to go to Ephesus, and he has to sort of put things in order because there are those who, verse 3, are teaching other doctrine. And when Paul writes in verse 3 that he should charge some, that they teach no other doctrine, that is Paul telling him to command these with authority. That they should not veer from the doctrine that Paul had already taught the elders there in Ephesus, telling faithful men who will be able to teach other faithful men as well. What we see in verse 4 is the content of what they were preaching and teaching. First, there's fables, myths. These are stories that have their root in what could or could not be, what may or may not be true. And this was the content along with endless genealogies. Now, one writer in commenting on this passage said that there existed at the time a retelling of the Old Testament that was fictitious. And there were in this retelling tons of genealogies where they tried to connect all the dots and add in all the names, and it was not inspired by God, but there it was. And so these teachers got themselves really involved with this. They wanted to try to figure out what was going on, and it was endless That is, there is a lot of repetition and pointlessness to it. The fables, the fact that they're untrue, also is a problem. Let me bring this down to earth a little bit, okay? We have different people in this room. Some of you like television, some of you like movies, some of you like baseball. I had a preacher who I sat under who once said the most honest page in the newspaper was the sporting statistics. Because you always knew the truth when you read those. Because you know who won, you know who lost. Well let me ask you this. How much fiction have you read or viewed in your life? How many stories that aren't true? I mean, you don't don't answer. I think of my own life and all the television viewing I did when I was a kid in the 80s. When I I'm not even going to mention the shows, all these sort of lame, dumb 80s television shows that I watched. Some of you guys could raise your hand. Wasn't there an attraction in your spirit to those kind of fictional things? Why do you think that is? Why do we like fiction so much? Well, the script the scriptures describe it as having like an itching ear. Is there something in us that just responds to this fiction and we're drawn out to it? Well, there we could guess that there might be a few reasons, is that we kind of get bored with truth. We hear it over and over again, maybe. It takes us to some place that is not our life. It's escapism. So can you imagine coming to church and this is what you're hearing? Mythology, some sort of Hebrew mythology, someone has written it could have been sort of the beginnings of Gnosticism. But you're hearing everything that isn't true, and there's this kind of repetition. What would that do to your spirit? What would it do with your spirit if you came to church and you was like going to a fictional movie and then you went home? How would that help your faith? Some of you in this room are going through some really intense problems. Have you ever felt like your emotions are a yo-yo, up one minute and down the next, because of a trial you're going through? Or have you ever felt like you were not anchored to anything solid in your life, like you were drifting and trying to find a place of stability? These false teachers, rather than giving to God's people an anchor to their souls and truth to rest in, it was like they were just providing air. And that really is what we're talking about if you look down at verse 6. They had swerved aside, and rather than their speech building believers up, their speech Speech was vain-jangling. I like that King James translation just because it sounds interesting. Vain-jangling, like something is jangling on a bell or something like that. That's what it had become. They swerved aside. Their whole motivation seems to be verse 7. They wanted to be teachers of the law. The emphasis there is not so much that they wanted to be teachers, but the fact that they wanted to teach the law. They had moved away from Pauline doctrine and moved back to their use of the law. In contrast to that, you and I have the ability to look at statements like verse 15. And decide whether we're going to believe it. At this point, let's just move out of what the false teachers are doing and look at our faith. The word faith is used frequently in 1 Timothy. Look at verse 15. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief. Paul's personal testimony. On the one hand, there are these teachers who offer slippery sand, vein jangling, endless genealogies. On the other hand, there is this. Here's a faithful saying, Timothy. Listen. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Folks, this morning, do you believe that? That the Messiah, the Savior of the world, came to this place. And he came to save sinners. There's a lot of people in this room. Some of you are saved, already Christians, and some of you might not be. The difference between the two Is simple repentance and faith in the plan of God. Are you someone this morning that has come in your heart to believe that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners? And you're willing to say with Paul that you are one of whom I am chief? Have you come to the place where you realize that you're one of those people that needs to be saved? This is a faithful saying, Paul says. This idea of faith is so important in 1 Timothy that he goes on and he just in in verse 19. Look at it there, he says. He's committing a charge to Timothy to make sure that he walks according to the prophecies that went before about him, to wage a good warfare. And he says in verse 19, hold faith. And somehow, in the midst of the battles of this missionary pastor, it was necessary for him as a warrior to not let go of faith. What happens, Paul, if you let go of faith? Verse 19 says, Which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck. And what happens to those guys, verse 20, of whom Iphimanaeus and Alexander Whom I have delivered unto Satan that they might learn not to blaspheme. Now, I don't think this is an example of apostasy. I think this is an example of, although I don't think you can lose your salvation. But here are they these who had to be church disciplined at the least, and they are named. The point I'm making from the passage is that faith is so necessary in spiritual warfare. In Timothy's life and in your life and my life, that when you leave it behind, you are ship-wrecked, ruined, and you might find yourself blaspheming the God that you love. Folks, faith is what Paul did when he taught the Gentiles. Look at chapter 2, verse 7. Whereunto I am ordained a preacher and an apostle, I speak the truth in Christ and lie not, a teacher of the Gentiles, in faith and verity or truth. This is so much a part of what he did that he just goes on and but just think about this. It is what we believe at the point of salvation, it is what we cling to in the midst of spiritual warfare, and it is what the apostle establishes all his churches on when he goes and teaches the Gentiles truth and faith. Faith requires an object, something to believe. Folks Can you think in your mind of something scriptural and specific that you are believing this very moment? Or to put it another way, can you think in your mind of something scriptural that you have found and discovered in your personal Bible reading, and you have come to believe with greater strength? Greater purpose. Are you willing to write in your Bible, this I believe, and herein I stand? The problem that we have so often is that we give so much of our time and attention to all the voices, whether it be unreliable websites or fictional content, and again, I'm not preaching against the web or even against fiction. But keeping those, when we allow those to become the content of our minds, what is there to believe in? We must, folks, the whole purpose of Whitfield and the whole purpose of the Wesley brothers and this man here, R. G. Lee, and all these others is to give you something to believe with their teaching and preaching. And the question this morning is, what is it that you believe? Well, that leaves us then, if you go back to chapter 1 again, with the second purpose here, and that is what's found in verse 5. He describes it as the end of the commandment. And remember that he goes on in verse 9 and 10, verses 9 and 10 to correct the misuse of the law. So, but he's talking here more about the purpose of his instruction. What are we after, Timothy? So there's this edification in faith, and then there's love. Charity out of three things, and we'll look at those in more detail next week. It is not enough to have a pure heart, a good conscience, and faith unfeigned. There must be love. What does this mean? Well, what does it mean in a married? Let's talk about marriage for just a sec. For husbands, it means that we're supposed to love our wives with self-sacrifice and with sensitivity. That's Ephesians. We're to love our wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her. And then it talks about how a husband, no man doesn't love his own body. He nourishes and cherishes his own body. So ought men to love their wives. So we care for our own physical flesh as men, and so we ought to have sensitivity when it comes to the needs of our wives and the spiritual growth of our wives. So we sacrifice ourselves as husbands, and we are sensitive to our wives' needs. Now, I don't know about you men, but there are times when I have to ask my wife to forgive me. Did you know your pastor sins? Blamelessness does not mean perfection. There are times when I have to say, men, think of this. Okay, there are things we don't do as husbands. We all know that. But what about all the things we're supposed to do? The positive things, the going out-of-orway things, the getting up off the sofa things. The turning the television off things. The things where we really seek to be sensitive. You know what the problem is? Okay, I want to be careful what I say. But I've noticed that churches through the years have spent so much time preaching lists of what we should and shouldn't do, sins of commission, that they've left out the sins of omission. The proactive husbanding that we should do. You say, Dan, that is hard. Brother, I'm telling you, I know that's hard. I have the flesh in me. And so there have been times that I've had to ask my wife to forgive me, not because I'm having a bad day or because I had a car wreck on the way home, and that gives me an excuse to yell or something. But good old-fashioned, I sinned. Please forgive me. Wives? You've got to follow your husband's lead. That's what submission is about. It doesn't mean you're a doormat and you always agree with everything he says. But it does mean that when there's a disagreement and your husband says one thing, we're assuming it's not sin, okay? It's within the realm of Scripture. You submit. You can tell them what you think, but there are those times when you submit. And wives are supposed to love their husband. And I respect him. Folks, that's how practical this is. That's the whole point. Why are we preaching this morning? Love! Love in our marriages. Love to our children. It's easy as a conservative sort of evangelical to tell my kids that they can't watch rated R movies. That's pretty easy. but to bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord to do that consistently day after day when I'm tired, when I'm not tired, to truly, as a father, love my kids. That's the point. We believe the Word of God and we love. But it only gets harder, is it not so? Loving my spouse is hard. Loving my kids is hard. But loving the guy that lives next door, I don't even know who he is. How am I supposed to love him? Or loving my leadership so that, 1 Timothy 2, verse 1, I'm praying for those who are in authority over me. And because This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. I mean, that's love to do that. Have you prayed for the President of the United States once in the last year? It's kind of convicting, isn't it? Whatever president, whatever political affiliation, it's irrelevant. We should pray for their salvation You see, here's the danger, and I really, I want to be careful, but I really am con I'm really concerned about conservative evangelical churches and fundamental churches stopping at being doctrinally correct It's good to be doctrinally correct. We ought to be that. We ought to love with knowledge. But we've got to push past that. We've got to get, we've got to keep pushing on. We've got to let our love abound more and more. We can't be satisfied as a conservative church. Just because we seem to have all the answers. We're expositional, we're dispensational, we're this or that. We think we have a good doctrinal statement. It's not enough. I've seen husbands who are mean as snakes, but they believe all the doctrines I know, and they might even know them better than I do as a pastor. But their wife hates their guts. What's wrong with that picture? I've seen parents who spend all their time at church, and again, I'm not saying here, okay? I'm not pointing at one of you, but just think of this. They spend so much time at church serving God that they're not raising their kids in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. They're neglecting their kids and in their mind On the other hand, I've seen parents who spend so much time homeschooling and doing things with their kids that they're not at church. So the goal is what am I doing? Again, I'm not trying to indict all of you. I'm posing these questions. What can I do to really love those around me, to believe what I read? to love. When we bring it down to that kind of a level, you can see why endless genealogies and fables could be attractive Because you know what? As a husband, I don't want my toes stepped on so much. As a wife, maybe you don't want your toes stepped on so much. And it really is easy to find out if this genealogical record relates to my family. And it really is better if I can find the gospel and these Kind of books irritate me. The Gospel in the Hobbit. Have you seen those books? The Gospel in the Lord of the Rings. No, those are real books. I don't think it says the gospel. I think it says something else. Okay. Are they evil? I'm not going to say they're evil. But that or husbands, love your wife. I think it'd be easier to read that. And so this morning, where does this leave us? I am dedicated in 2015. To do my best. And I will fail. I will not be as good as I should be. But you know what? I will keep improving and keep moving this direction. to bring my sermons and my teachings to this point of do you believe and will you love? Love. And my prayer is that as we in 2015 get back to Ephesians, and we're going to look at some interesting things there. and progress to the end of Ephesians and as we look at some other series that you won't come to church just to be educated. But that you'll come to church to be challenged and transformed by the Word of God. And if we all meet together to see Jesus And to ask him to change us. Is it possible that by the time we get to 2015, we will grow spiritually? I think so. Fact of the matter is, folks, I am in the same place as you are. I need a savior every day. And we have a great savior.