I want to invite you this morning to turn to First Timothy chapter three. First Timothy chapter three Paul wrote in the letter of 1 Timothy to Timothy, which I think you all probably realized. He wrote it to Timothy in order to help him and give him instruction in how to behave himself in the church, how to organize it, how to handle different situations. And we know that because that is why that is what Paul actually wrote here in our passage this morning. If you look down here at verse, well in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 15, but if I am delayed, I write, so that you may know how you have to conduct yourself. in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar of ground of the truth. And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness God is manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up in glory. You notice it probably it says it right there. He's writing you so he wrote there how you ought to conduct yourself in the house of God. Now that idea of house of God could also be translated household of God. So there is this household. Just like you have a household, you have a budget, you have a schedule, you have a routine, you have different things you need to take care of in the context of So what is your stewardship in your household? So God has a household. And we are that household, the church Well the word church here is not referring primarily to a local church, but to the church itself as it existed during the time of Timothy and as it exists during our time. The Church Universal is the church composed of only regenerate born-ablone people. throughout history and all only until the end when Jesus returns. It could you could say, I'm not saying that this is the Catholic Church in the current usage of the term But it is the church universal. And it's the church, it says here, which belongs to the living God. He possesses it. So there is this household of God, and the household is this church that belongs to the living God. And Paul wrote it to Timothy in order to explain to him how he should conduct himself in the context of this amazing thing called the Church of the Living God. That conduct, for example, has to do with a wide range of things that are mentioned here in 1 Timothy. If you flip back a few pages, you'll note in the first chapter, in verse 3, he talks to Timothy about what kind of teaching he should allow in the church. He says that he should charge some that they teach no other doctrine. So he is telling Timothy what to tell the people there that is good teaching and what is bad teaching. And that the language is strong. It's a charge. Get rid of the endless genealogies and these fables and put put the word of God central and get rid of the misuse of the law and put the correct use of the law in its place. You probably already know that there is in 1 Timothy chapter 2, the first paragraph there, instructions on prayer. Therefore, I exhort first of all that supplication, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men Now, if we're just reading that first part, and there is more there, but if we're just reading 1 Timothy chapter 1 all the way through to the first paragraph of chapter 2, We see that Paul is telling Timothy there are some real priorities that he has for him. And those priorities involve a good teaching ministry and a good prayer life. So much so, I observe first of all, prayer is primary in the life of God's household, the church of the living God. This prayer he continues to give instructions about in chapter 2, and then in chapter 3, he gives the qualifications for overseers. And deacons, yes he will, this is a faithful saying, if a man desires the position of a bishop. Verse 8, likewise deacons must be, he gives instructions on deacons You continue to to progress through and kind of skip over the passage that we're looking at in particular, and you notice that it uh he talks about what it means to be a good servant for Christ in chapter four and we're gonna look get the first paragraph, a little bit of chapter four in a moment. He talks about some instruction on the ministry that Timothy should have in chapter four. And then in chapter five, he gives explicit instructions on widows. Look at chapter 5, verse 3, Honor Widows Who Are Will Widows, and then he talks about how to treat one. And in the first Verses of chapter five, he talks about how to handle relationships with older men and younger uh men and older women and younger women. At the end of chapter 5, he talks about what to do with elders, and then he goes on and he gives further instructions. So you can see here by the things he's talking about, the conduct in the house of God Among other things, it's organizational, it's making sure that the right teaching and the right prolife and the right leaders and so on and so on are in place. But when it comes right down to it Paul wants to make sure that there is a strong connection. He does this throughout this epistle, but a strong connection between this idea of Conduct if you're back in chapter three, looking at at uh verse 15, how to conduct yourself And then at the sort of the, before the song begins, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness He wants to make a strong connection between the way Timothy is to behave and organize the church and the way all Christians are to behave as they practice holiness. That's the word godliness. With Jesus. With Jesus. The mystery is something that was previously not fully explained and revealed, but now is. Great is this mystery. Now you would expect, perhaps, that when he talks about the mystery of godliness, and godliness has Primarily the idea of how a godly lifestyle, of how you're living your Christianity, that you would sort of jump to expectations, do this, don't do that. But instead, in this beautiful hymn or psalm, and many commentators believe it is, actually an ancient, one of the oldest hymns we have in the Christian church, he talks about Jesus person. And Jesus work. Matter of fact, if you look at what it has right here, we could just label it. God was manifested in the flesh. What's that? Jesus incarnation. He was justified in the Spirit. Now this one's a little more difficult because in the New King James it's translated with the capital US. And it could also, that's interpreted. It could be translated just with a lowercase s. So I would go with the interpretation that the justified with the Spirit is talking about his personal righteousness. In his spirit, and the fact that he was perfectly righteous. He had no sin in him at all. The perfect incarnation. If you leave it with a capital F, then you could go to Romans 1. 4, and you would be speaking about how, if you want to just turn there real quickly, let's look at it very briefly. It says, and he was declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. So there is this authentic stamp of the Spirit when the Spirit caused Christ to be to rise from the dead. Of course the Father did and the Son did as well, but you could use this verse. to and sort of interpret this the spirit justifying Christ. But I think that's a stretch. I think here that the correct interpretation is is The perfect righteousness of Christ, Spirit. No sin whatsoever in the incarnation. Looking back at 1 Timothy chapter 3, then you see that he was seen by angels, and you could later just put that under the label of angelic observation. Just bringing up this whole point of angels. And then that's phrase preached among the Gentiles, what could you call that? We could probably say proclamation, the message shared. Something along those lines. It's not just who he was, but what message that was declared about him among the Gentiles. Not just the Jews, but the Gentiles Believe God in the world, what would you call that? Maybe acceptance? The fact that people listened to the message, the Gentiles in particular, and the Jews before, and accepted him. And I'm talking about the Jews that were in the upper room in the day of Pentecost. Of course, his nation rejected him and he was crucified, but there were still some who believed. And then finally received up in glory, that is his exaltation in Acts chapter one. Do you recall when he was he just was carried up into the clouds? And now he is at the right hand of God waiting for every tongue to confess that he is the Lord. Now this this is this is easy, easy to overlook. But Paul is drawing okay, let's look look back at a few verses here. Two things. First, you have the fact that there is the connection between how you conduct yourself and godliness. with this hymn which is sort of the second in the pillar and ground of the truth The church provides a ground that is the foundation of stability, a pillar which provides support for the structure above. The church provides the stability and the support. By presenting the personal and work of Jesus Christ. And this person and work that's mentioned here is what stabilizes the truth in Christianity. And then in the proclamation of truth out into the world. Now, before I say anything else, let me just ask you, and don't answer out loud, but how do you feel about the incarnation, for example? How does that make you feel? Well, let me illustrate what I'm getting at this way. Do you remember the first time you flew in an airplane? And how old you were? I mean, I I I remember the first time I flew an airplane. I was older. I was about twenty. I was flying across to Belgium and I was excited. I'd never flown an airplane before. It was I was looking out the window. I was I was looking at the wing, what and oh, yeah, have you ever been on the phone and seen the wings wiggle? And you go and the first time you saw that you were whoa. I mean the the twelfth or the thirtieth time you saw it we're like uh but the first time whoa I mean we you're looking at you're looking at that plane taking off. I I mean it's kinda funny, you know, I don't think um my son Hudson wouldn't mind me sharing this with you. When he flew to Pensacola, Florida, I gave him a my phone to take pictures and I thought he would take pictures of the school where he was going to college. But he took pictures of the plane's wheel, the plane's wing. The plane when he was getting on. And then it was he was excited about that thing. This is the first time he saw that plane. But I know some of you in there have flown dozens and dozens and dozens and dozens of times. The I mean, do you remember the 30th time we flown an airplane? Probably not. What about this? Have you ever seen an infant eat vanilla ice cream for the first time? The very thirst time. You take the ice cream, you put it in their mouth, and it's like the whole face lights up. I mean it's it almost literally it's just pfft wow. I mean it might have been too cold and they shiver, but there's that you know I want more of that. Wonderful counselor, Prince of Peace, Mighty God, everlasting Father, come into this place and we hear about that At the beginning of our Christian life, we think to ourselves, wow, how can that be? And yet it's one of those doctrines that we hear over and over again every Christmas time. Christ came as a child. And we can sort of get used to flying in the plane to the point where we just it's just not that important to us. It's not that central. Uh and we just don't think about it very much. And the reminder here to Snowden is that when it comes to the church stabilizing and supporting truth The incarnation is one of the primary truths of Christianity. Without the incarnation, you do not have Christianity, you have something else. And that is why the deity of Jesus Christ is so important, and that is why we reject cults who call themselves Christians but they reject the incarnation. I don't care what they I don't care if they call themselves this The Church of Jesus Christ, Christ's followers, the Church of God, whatever they call themselves is irrelevant If they reject the incarnation. If you take that out, we're taking out the pillar and ground of the truth that the church can provide. And not only that, we're taking out a major reason that we can be godly in this world. So don't forget that, and I would encourage you, I would really encourage you to pray for the Spirit of God. to continue to put into your heart a sense of wonder and worship when it comes to God and what he has done for you. While we were yet sinners, while we were weak, while we were helpless, Almighty God came down out of wherever he is. And Hebrews tells us he put on human flesh, not because he endured it, but so that he could have a body that would die. He needed mortality. And so he took on that flesh so that he could hang on that cross. And so that moment could come when he said, It is finished. And he gives up his spirit. And that the spirit of The spirit's put it aside, the blood and water comes out, and everybody agrees he's dead. And Almighty God did that for you and for me. That is a great mystery. That is expansive, unexpected, uh, that is epic, if we could use that word. And he did that for you and for me. The second part here of the song is that he was justified in the spirit. That is that Christ was righteous in his spirit 100%. And the Bible says that he knew no sin. Your Lord and Savior was so different than you and me. As a child, when he grew up, he never lied. He never disobeyed his parents. He probably annoyed his brothers and sisters by that. Have you ever had a Billy Two Shoes brother or sister who seemed to always not get in trouble and you're the one getting in trouble? Well, it might have caused problems, I don't know. But he was perfect in his responses to his parents and his responses to his friends. As he grew up and had disciples who followed him, he worked in such a way that that they just knew there was something different about them. You pinch Jesus Christ and we don't hear what we hear out of other people Someone is said that we're like teabags, all of us, and that life is like a hot pitcher of water. And when you put the T-Bag in, you see what's in it by the heat of life and what comes out of it. You and I, because we're sinners, we're put under pressure and sometimes what we see coming out of ourselves is not what we want to see. I think we would all admit that, because we're sinners and we need a savior. But you put all that pressure on Jesus, all that heat on Jesus Christ, you stress him out, you give him so tired asleep on a boat on a pillow in the middle of a storm that everyone thinks they're gonna die or I mean you you have it On a cross. And he opens not his mouth. He is perfect in every way. Amazing. The third uh thing that's called after in the psalm is that he was seen by angels. And now this might be a little puzzling, but it really shouldn't be. When you think of the gospel accounts, Think of Luke. First we have the angel spoke to Mary, and then we also have an angel that spoke to Zechariah. Or Zacharias. That's okay. He was talking about John the Baptist. Oh, that's like a little iffy. But then let all the angels speak to the shepherds. But then also through the life of Jesus, do you remember after he went through the temptation? Then the devil tempted him, then he was uh helped. And then at the blood, uh great drops of blood in the garden, the gospel say the angels ministered unto him You say, well, those are angels, but it doesn't seem um that important. But what about the other angels? The fallen angels, the demons Do you remember in the synagogue the demon cries out, I know who you are? Do you remember the demoniac by the twos? I know who you are, and cries out Do you remember all the demons that Jesus cast out? Those are fallen angels, angels that resisted the ministry of Jesus, that Jesus cast out and dealt with. So when it says full of angels He was his life, his ministry, in that sense, the fallen angels and the elect angels saw at different periods what was happening in his life. And they designed it And you and I, when we think about Jesus, we don't just listen to the words of people who saw him. This is amazing. Dear people, we listen to the words of angels. And what they said about the incarnation. And what did they say? Well, you have these really bad angels, and they're saying, I know who you are, and he's saying, I don't want your testimony. Shut up. Well, that's that rude, but it's not rude because it's Jesus talking to the devil. People. And then we have the other angels, and they'll say, Mary, you are blessed. And they're saying, glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. And they're just rejoicing in Jesus Christ, in this baby and manger and in this The suffering one in the garden, they're they're helping him as he suffers after he believes. There's just this testimony from both But he was the Son of God, but he was more than a man, but he was in fact someone who existed previous to his incarnation. The testimony of men who Jesus said to them, which of you convicts me of sin? And they could not. And the testimony of angels who also recognized him and knew who he was. Angelic observation and response. So there is this person of Christ. He is God incarnate, the perfect Son of God. And then there is sort of this response seen by angels and preached. Among the Gentiles, in the Gospels that began with the Samaritans, who were somewhere in between the Jew and the Gentile. And in the book of Acts, of course, it went far out, and that Paul knows well, all out into church planning across the ancient world. And he was, if you look at your Bible, verse sixteen, believed on in the world. And that is a big part of the testimony of who he was and is. There's a lot of controversy right now about immigration in our country. Yes? Maybe just a little. Just a little. Now I'm being facetious a lot And really as I'm a Jewish citizen. Did you know a lot of Jewish citizenship? I am a citizen of Helen, and I am a citizen of the United States of America As a citizen of heaven, my goal is to get the gospel to all people. It's not a political goal. It's a goal of the Word of God that says make disciples of The nations. Go preach to the whole world. And here we see the same thing. That Jesus was believed on in the world. Please don't misunderstand what I just said as some sort of void political statement. It was not. I'm trying though to be biblical here. We do want everyone to hear the message, and it was the intent back then, but it was believed on in the world and finally received up in glory. The miraculous ascension back to the place where he came from. Turn to Acts chapter 1, just to look at this with your own eyes. And then we we'll make some applications. So, Acts chapter 1, verse 9. When he had spoken these things, while they watched, he was taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, what would you have done? You probably would be doing this too. Whoa. Behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, ah, angels. He also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus who is taken up from you into heaven will still come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. Now, does it surprise you? Turn back to 1 Timothy chapter 3. Does it surprise you that Paul is using this song to sort of summarize the most basic truths of Christianity? It's kind of surprising to me. Because he could have said the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. He could have been a little more specific, but it is probably a song So it's a little more, I don't want to say artistic, but it's different from just a doctoral statement per se. But it is what stabilizes the church. And I think I can show you a little more clearly how this works by giving you a couple of applications. First The person and work of Christ, I've already kind of said this, but listen anyway. The person and work of Christ Is such an important role or part of the church that that it is the stabilizing force So much so that if you take it away, you get some really strange things happening. For example, chapter 4. So you take away the personal work of Christ, and now you've got what the Spirit says. Look at this for a second. If you're not satisfied with what that song said, then look at this. The Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith. That's the body of doctrine that the church preaches. giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons, speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their own conscience seemed to highlight. So that's kind of what happened to them. Now this is what they're saying. Look at verse 3. Forbidden to marry and commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving. by those who believe and know the truth. You say, Whoa, this is really think about how strange this is. You have Jesus Christ, his death, burial and resurrection, his perfection, the incarnation, his perfection, the the witness of ages and none, the proclamation. You get that and Okay, in order to be saved, we now require you to be celibate. That will get you into heaven. In order to be, or, in order to grow as a Christian, remember, this is a reference to Christianity. In order to be more sanctified, it is necessary that some foods be eaten and some foods be abstained from. Now I want to be careful here. Fasting is a New Testament doctrine, isn't it? And Paul in 1 Corinthians 7 does give instructions for single people and married people And sometimes he does encourage single people to stay single. It's not ungodly to be single. However, if you take those ideas, fasting and being single or celibate, hopefully, and you make them a prerequisite for salvation, You replace Jesus with man-made rules and religion. And isn't it odd to replace it with rules about marriage and rules about your diet? And yet that is exactly what's happening. Godliness and conduct has to do with your lifestyle, what you do. And so you take away the mystery of godliness and you replace it with other things that you can do to please God and to make him like you so that you can get into heaven. So folks, let me encourage you this way. Here's the application. You must be satisfied with Jesus. Don't add anything to his person and his work. Don't make anything up. Don't reject or minimize the incarnation and the perfection of Christ. and his testimony in the gospels cling to Jesus. Because the danger is you could replace his finished work with some very strange things. Turn to Colossians chapter 2. Let's play this guy a little bit more so you can see it a little bit more. Colossians 2, 13 It starts here. Wow, the letter of Colossians is written to people who were struggling with understanding they were complete in Christ. That they didn't need to do something else in order to be in order to have what was necessary to grow in Christ or to be satisfied. It says here in Colossians 2. 13, and you being dealt in the trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh. He has made alive together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. Now back in 1 Timothy, forgiveness is through Christ. His incarnation, his death, his resurrection. It's the same in Colossians. He's just talking about the fact that you were dead, you remain alive, because your trespasses are forgiven. How did he do this? Verse 14, having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us. which was contrary to us. And has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross, having disarpense about his empowers. He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over their it We just have to read verse 15 to kind of sit there and just focus on verse 14, the hand level of requirements. What is that? Well, it's the righteousness of God as it's revealed in the Ten Commandments. We've all broken them. We're all unfailed because of that. And they're described here in verse 14 as being against us. They were contrary to us. The wages of sin is death. And we know that we are all sinners and fall short of the glory of God. What did God do? Look at your Bible, verse 14 again. He has taken it out of the way. How is that possible to take The fact that we have broken his commandments out of the way. How can you do that? Because we broke it. We can't go back in time and unbreak what we broke He put it on the cross. I keep gestures there and look at that cross. He put it up there, he lay it there, and Christ suffered in our place. He disarmed the principalities of Paris. He was a public spectacle, but he triumphed over them Now that that means that every sin that you and I are committed was put on that class in the sense that and forgiven because of Christ. So what happens? Well, verse 16, there are people who will judge you in food or in drink or will go to a festival or a noon or sabbath. Which are shadow of things to come, but not the substance of Christ. Strange. Now all of a sudden there's this possibility that they would replace The law of those commandments onto the cross and the drink taken away through Christ with food and drink And festivals and rumors and Sabbaths, that is, religious holidays? How is that possible for them to be willing to do that? And yet That is what happens. Folks said, I think, and this is ascribed to Martin Luther, that he said our our hearts are idle faculties. That we're always trying to replace Christ, that in our flesh, that is the sinful part of us, we're always trying to report to get Christ in the cross. There's this part of us that just Have a hard time accepting that. So we were tempted to keep moving into strange areas that have nothing to do with Jesus Christ and his work. We want godliness, we want right conduct, but we start to sort of fade away from the truth of Jesus. And in this case, in Colossians, if you recall from your knowledge of Colossians, and I hope you have some knowledge, it's asceticism, it's mysticism, and realism. Those are the things that are replacing Christ with. Let me try to be more specific, all right. When you go through your week Think about this for a second. You are gonna have to think about this. Sorry. You can have to think. When you go through your week And you think about God, do you feel shame? Do you think in terms of guilt? And that's all you think. Do you sometimes during the week think, I wish as a Christian I could just be a better person? I wish I could grow spiritually. But I can't get to the place where I can somehow earn the right to grow. Or maybe you're someone here today and you think this way, I wish I could know God, I wish I could get to Him, but I just don't I don't know what I can do that would be enough to get to know God or to have my sins forgiven. Folks, I'm talking about two things, the doctrine of justification and sanctification. Sometimes Christians replace it with something else, and that's justification is the letter that Galatians and sanctification, Colossians, among other things. Let me try to give more clarity. When you Christians, when we became a Christian, did you in some way merit Work out a scheme with God so that He would make you righteous. Did you say, God, I earned this and He gave you the righteousness of Christ? Did He do that for you? No. It's a free gift. Christians, when you were born again, did you say, Lord, look at my good works? Now I can have this misstanding with you. I can be close to you now. I can be reconciled to you now because I have done these really good things. Did you say? That Christians? No, you did not. Christians, when when you got saved, did you give God something that was important enough to him that it would propitiate his wrath? That he would say, okay, the payment has been made, I'll accept that as a reduction, I'll no longer be angry at you. Did you do that for him? The answer? No, you did not. How about those Christians, when you got saved, did you say, Lord, I've done these ten things? And the Lord said, I think that's enough for me to give you the Holy Spirit. I will send you to ignore me, who'll be the ground parent of your eternal salvation. You've done enough. Here's my spirit. Did that happen? The answer is no. Folks, what I'm getting at is The righteousness of Christ was a free gift. Your standing in Christ is a free gift. God's wrath was propitiated by the work of Christ. The Holy Spirit was sent. Because Christ finished his work and said he would send it. All those ideas are linked back to what Paul is writing as the pillar and the ground of the truth and what is kind of summarizing in that Psalm. And when we get rid of the pillar and ground of the truth, all we have is self-effort. Do you want to be a more holy person? Listen, our work in sanctification is to rely completely and fully on what God has given us for free. We need to believe and work hard, but we make use of what God has already given us. In the context of Christianity, a real Christian growth, you're not saying, well, when I'm good enough, can I really walk in the Spirit? If I finally merit that, if I finally earn it, can I have access to your spirit? No, it is already. He's already yours. He's already a part of your life. Make use of what you already possess in Christ. You can't say, Lord, I know you're angry at me and I I I'm angry at you and I I need to do something to deal with that that that anger that I feel towards you or you toward me. No, it's already been taken care of. Now that doesn't mean that you can't displease God by running into sin, running away like Jonah did, but there is no unreal condemnation that will put you in hell. You are reconciled with God. Folks, I'm just trying to draw out here this idea, if you go back to 1 Timothy, of the importance of the person and work of Jesus Christ. If you throw out this song, if you throw out this doctrine, you have nothing. And so these. So secondly As far as application. The first application is to be satisfied with the truth of the personal work of Christ. The second is to really, really appreciate it. Folks, that's where the word great comes in. That's what the word great is all about. Do you believe that this is such an amazing thing that you would label it as great, as amazing, as important for you as a Christian? Do you think, if you're back in 1 Timothy chapter 4, do you think that we were now living in the latter times? Times of apostasy? Do you think that we're living in times when people give heed, it says here in 1 Timothy chapter 4, verse 1, to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons? You bet we are. I was reading yesterday at sermon. com and and I I don't know how legitimate this is, but the fact that it's being passed around makes it ridiculous. Where all the witches in our country have united, and every Friday for a span of certain months, that they perform an occultic ceremony to curse our president until he leaves office or dies. And that was that's what the the article was about, all these witches pledging. And it said that it even said the witches, you know, they need a little bit of it given the ingredients in this strange spell that they have to to concoct to do this. Uh are we really in the last days? I mean there's some really strange stuff that's out there. How are you going to be stable in the midst of an environment like that? How are you going to be stable when you go to this Walmart with your kids? And the guy sitting behind the cash register is a man dressed as a woman. You know, last week my friend Steve well, I won't say his last name or anything. One of my friends, who's a pastor, had two men come into his church service dressed as ladies. And it was very evident to everyone that they came in. Now they didn't want them out, they were kind to them, to preach the gospel to them. But are these not confusing days that we live in? And the answer is not to come up with some new plan. The answer is to go right back to the incarnation and it's Jesus. The answer is Jesus. Where do you have them? Go back to him and you say to people, look, nature is not what we worship We worship Jesus. We don't mean spells. We don't need pieces of string and eggs and all these things we mix together and try to curse people. We have prayer. We talk to a little God. He redeemed us. God came down here and died for us. We don't need to be confused about our gender. Well, there are other issues involved there. It's difficult for a person who's that confused, but at least we know the truth that God made male and female, and he loves both, and he wants to help. He told Christ to die. We know. We know what the pillow and ground of the truth are. We know the facts. And folks, here is the thing that I lead you with. You You are part of our pillar and ground of the truth. You are the foundation. You are the pillar. When you go out of society and you preach Jesus, you are being, you are proclaiming the truth. And that's how vital you are to what God is doing right now. And that should make you feel good. It doesn't matter what you do for a living, you are important when it comes to the kingdom of God.