Good evening. Turn to your Bible and Colossians will be Closing out our series tonight, looking at Colossians 4, and we'll be going through verses 2 to the end of the chapter. Before we get into it, let's go ahead and go to a word in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for who you are. We thank you that you are a God who is at work in this world. Though it is difficult to see at times, your plan. and your hand. We know that beneath the struggles that we face and the trials beneath the chaos that sin creates in this world You are at work. You are working everything to its proper conclusion. And we trust in in your hand. We trust in your providence. I pray that as we seek to live in this world, to serve you, pray that today you would help us to To gain more understanding of our role in your kingdom and how we are to fulfill our ministry in you. I pray that you be with me as I speak and you'll give me the words to say. And I pray that all of us would be grown and matured in you through your work here. In your holy and precious name we pray. Amen. What is your ministry? As Paul concludes the book of Colossians, he focuses on the work of the ministry. If you turn to One of the last verses in Colossians 4 in verse 17. And say to Archipus, take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord that you may fulfill it. Paul moves from his discussion of the roles of the people of God in the kingdom in light of their changed identity to individuals using their specific gifts in ministry. We talked about this last week. We talked about the different roles, the family, how to serve in the kingdom, but the family, the workplace, and the local assembly And as Paul concludes, he then gives us individual examples of what it means to fulfill the ministry, what it means to serve God in the kingdom. And again, he highlights this reality of the fact that we are kingdom workers. In verse 11, and Jesus, who is called justice, These are my only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are of the circumcision. They proved to be a comfort to me. So again, Paul brings in this idea of the kingdom. Because in Paul's understanding of the church, it revolves around the kingdom of God. And we saw this in Colossians 1, where Paul is talking about the gospel. Refers to it in this way. He says, He has delivered us from the power of darkness, conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love. And so the beginning and end of Colossians is book-ended by a discussion that's referenced to the kingdom of God. This is not surprising, because we see at the end of Acts. Paul says that he is proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching by the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness. That was Paul's main message, was the proclamation of the kingdom of God. The question that every Christian m must grapple with is how do I function in the kingdom of God? More importantly, Barter We find that we are called to be a kingdom of priests. This is used throughout the New Testament, specifically in Peter. As we decide who we are, what is our ministry? Well, very fundamentally, our ministry is to be a kingdom of priests. Well, how do we do that? How do we function as a priest in our relationships with others? Well, Paul gives some examples here toward the end as he gives his his final Farewells and also greetings from other Christians to other Christians. He gave us some insight into what it means to be a priest. For Archipist, it means to fulfill his ministry. We're not sure exactly what his ministry was. But we know that he had a specific ministry that he was called to fulfill. There are the interesting names in this list. Anisimus, for one, in verse nine, a faithful and beloved brother who is one of you. Reading the book of Philemon, we get an insight into who this man I mishimus was and he didn't hail from um strong Christian roots, you might say. He was a slave of Philemon, who somehow had connection with Paul when likely when Paul was in prison. This is a man that at first reading you wouldn't think a lot of. But he's a man who went from being not a good slave at all to being someone that was important to Paul. You see, Anisanus had that ministry, and it was in some way a comfort to Paul. We see our Aristarchus, who apparently was a fellow prisoner. Mark, the cousin Barnabas, again, we know a little bit of Mark's history from Paul's differences with Barnabas. In fact, Mark, I mean Paul had wanted very little to do with Mark after he departed from them during the missionary journey. Barnabas was m had a little more patience than Paul did. And Barnabas apparently continued to work with Paul, with um Mark. And so eventually down the line as Mark matured, uh probably Barnbis had had a lot to do with his maturing. We see that Mark becomes a person that Paul can depend on. Someone that he gives instructions to and he asks them to welcome. Epaphras is another name that we know a little bit about through other scriptures, specifically in relation to the Philippian church. We see he is a bondservant of Christ. He's someone who's laboring fervently by prayer for the Colossians. And it gives some of the ways in which he's praying for them. We see a reference to Luke, the beloved physician. We know a lot about Luke through the book of Acts, through the Gospel of Luke. We see see his character coming out in his writing. Luke was a doctor and someone who was very interested in defending the faith, as he wrote Luke and Acts, as a defense of the things that have happened in Jesus' life and a defense of the legitimacy of the Christian church. So we see that in these different areas these people had different backgrounds. Luca, a physician, somebody who would have had a certain skill in an education, anesthes, not so much. Someone who probably had a lot less skill. And yet, and we have John Mark, someone who is known for being inconsistent, known for not being steadfast when hardships came. We have people like Epaphras, who was known for his love and comfort, especially to the Philippian church. We see another reference to the Laodiceans. We will come across them again in in Revelation and that's not such a good description of them. So we see lots of different people in different circumstances. So as Paul has his interactions with these people, his primary concern is for the work of the kingdom. And all of them had a ministry in that. Today we're going to look at that ministry that we have in the Lord. Because of our identity in Christ, we should fulfill our ministry through And there are some ways in which we can all enter into the basic elements of ministry. I know there are particular things that God calls particular People to do throughout time. But right now we're just going to focus on the general things that we all can do as priests in the kingdom of God. First, we're going to see that we fulfill our ministry through prayer, and second, you fulfill our ministry through So first we fulfill our ministry through prayer. This is quite easy to see in verse 2 of Colossians 4. Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving. Meanwhile, praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the word to speak the ministry of praise, which I am also in chains, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. So first we pray earnestly or steadfastly. Pray in a continuing manner. Another way Paul said it elsewhere in Scripture is pray without ceasing. This idea that prayer is a pattern in our life. And he gives us some attitudes of prayer, some ways of praying here. He tells us to be vigilant in it, to be watchful in our pray. This is similar to what Jesus said in Matthew twenty six, forty one, watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is willing. week. What Jesus is highlighting here, and I think what Paul is getting at in this idea of being vigilant is that we are in war. We are in spiritual warfare And prayer is a vital aspect in which we watch ourselves in our struggle against sin. It's a vital aspect of how we fight with others. Against sin and against the enemy of our souls. The reason we need to be vigilant, we need to be steadfast. Is because Satan and the forces of darkness are trying their best to distract us from this very thing to pray. As Jesus points out, the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Throughout Scripture, there's an emphasis on prayer. We don't get a lot of how-to's except for obviously the Lord's Prayer. That's a pretty distinct how-to. But we see examples of many different ways in which you can pray throughout Scripture. In the book the book of Nehemiah, there's a prayer there recorded as Nehemiah prays before he goes to the king to with his plans of rebuilding the temple. We see then we see Nehemai give like a really short prayer right before the king starts as the king notices he's sad and he just throws up a real quick prayer. in a time of necessity. We see Daniel, he prays in the book of Daniel for Israel and their sad state. We see Psalms. There's so many prayers in Psalms. I see Paul he gave a prayer right here in the beginning of Colossians that we we went through. There's a prayer in Philippians. You go through scriptures and there's there's way nice ways you can pray. It's not a cookie-cutter method where there's only one specific way that we must do. The reason is because Satan is multifaceted in his attacks on the church and in our in our lives. There are many ways in which Jesus comes out. I mean Jesus merch. The devil and the world comes out against us. And so what Jesus wants us to do is to be vigilant in prayer, to be watchful. in it. And Paul takes on that urgency that Jesus gives to the disciples. Paul takes that same urgency and applies it to the church. To pray with watchfulness, to look for ways in our souls that the devil or the world or the flesh is creeping in, and to seek to put to death the flesh. Through prayer. He also says to pray with thanksgiving. There's this remembrance of what Christ has done, this defeat of the enemy. We talked about this a little bit In Colossians 2. 15, where it is said that Christ has disarmed principalities and powers. He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. As we are engaged in this war against the world, the flesh, and the devil, we understand that we are on the winning side. There's a thanksgiving element of it because we're not the losers. We're the winners. We've won through Christ. And no matter how difficult the opposition is, no matter how much the flesh is is pulling at us to sin Or the trials of life are pulling at us to become discouraged or to despair. We always can have a spirit of thanksgiving because no matter the onslaught of the enemy, Christ is going to be. victorious. Whether we lose a battle here or there, the war is won. And so we can enter this life, we can enter prayer, we can enter the enter the fray. With thanksgiving, knowing that Christ will bring us through. So we pray steadfastly. We also pray in dependence on God. We see that as Paul goes to to bring the gospel, he's very dependent on prayer. Verse three, meanwhile praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in charge. James, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Paul would seem to be a fairly eloquent man, as far as human standards go. He was. His education was top-notch. He didn't lack in academic credentials. Likely, he could speak with some degree of fluency. And yet Paul still has a great dependence on the Spirit as he seeks to preach and proclaim the gospel. He depends on God to open doors, to create opportunities, to give him the words and the power to speak. He depends on God to give him clarity. He says that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Clarity is very important to Paul. In writing to the Corinthians, he said this. And I, brethren, when I came to you, in 1 Corinthians 2, 1 to 5, and I, brethren, when I came to you, did not come with excellence of speech or of wisdom, declaring to you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. I was with you in weakness and fear and much trembling, and my speech and my preaching were not with persuasive words of human wisdom. But in the demonstration of the spirit and of power, that your faith should not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. In 2 Corinthians 2. 17. For we are not as so many peddling the word of God, but as of sincerity, but as from God. We speak in the sight of God in Christ. Paul makes it very clear that his message is one message. It's the message of Christ. He seeks to be very clear in his main purpose. Of what he is about. There are many side issues that Paul could have been concerned about. There are many political issues of his day in the Roman Empire. I'm sure there were many things he could have talked about in relation to the status, the social statuses of his day. For instance, slavery was huge. It was n over ninety percent of the Roman Empire were slaves. Paul did talk about slavery. He didn't ignore the issue, he definitely talked about it. But he took he took the issue and connected it to Christ and who we are. are in Christ. We see this in Colossians 3, where he specifically gives instructions to slaves and how they are to work and how they are to serve. He speaks to masters who who own slaves. And he reminds everyone that how you treat each other is very important. Because the real master is not the human. The real master is Christ. He reminds everyone in their situations that they live. They are to live in relation to Christ. No matter the political or the social situation. The ultimate ruler of this world is not the constructs of men. Man doesn't rule society. He only thinks he does. God is the one who works In whatever situation, in whatever time, we see that Paul focuses on who Christ is and how Christ liberates us no matter the situation we find us in. That's the important thing to Paul. It's not the current political or social climate of his day. It's the reality of Christ and the freedom that we have in Christ. That no matter what is happening around us, the main message is Christ. He's not a peddler. He's not trying to to confuse people. He's not trying he's not a salesperson. He's not trying to put his best foot forward to trick people into accepting something that is not true Or only partially true. Paul is about clearly and plainly speaking Christ and him crucified. Yes, he did use sometimes, we could say he used persuasive words, but the means was not to show his greatness of intellect or eloquence. We see in Mars Hill, Paul gives a fairly sophisticated response to the idol worship of that day So Paul could speak. Paul isn't saying here in Corinthians that he was literally trembling and crying or or or is doing something ridiculous, just some fauf show of humility. What Paul is trying to clearly communicate is that it wasn't about his prowess and his academia and his ability to What it was about was Christ, and the power was not his, but it was the Spirit of God. Because Paul's concern was that people understood. Christ. And that they came to faith in Christ, not in his prowess or ability to communicate. We also depend on God to do the ministry. Paul was very clear on who was the one really working, who was the one accomplishing. the ministry. In 2 Thessalonians 1, 11 to 12. Therefore we also pray always for you that God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness. and the work of faith with power. That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, in you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Who makes us worthy of our calling? Who fulfills all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith, His power? Well, that would be the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit fulfills that in us. Paul made reference to this in Colossians earlier, when he said, To this end I also labor, striving according to his working, which works in me mightily, in Colossians 1. 25 Paul was forever focusing on the real power is the Holy Spirit. That's why prayer is so important. In Zechariah 4, 6, not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord of hosts. The power to fulfill the ministry of Jesus Christ in our lives. Power comes from God. It comes not from who we are, but it comes through the working of the Holy Spirit. And thus we pray. We pray continually. We pray with watchfulness. We pray with thanksgiving. We pray independence. Because it's not us, it's God working in us, both to will and to do. of his good pleasure. So let's make prayer a wartime weapon to be used with the urgency of hand-to-hand combat. The subtle and the subtle thing about this battle that we're in is we can't see it. You know, when we can watch movies and we we watch the war movies and we see the good and we see the bad and and we see the two armies are lined up and there's clear demarcation who's good who's bad usually But in in in the phys in the spiritual realm we can't see it. We're involved in in a battle that we can't see the opposing side. It doesn't show up to us in the form of some ghost Though there are movies that try to say that I guess. But the reality is we're in a war that we can't see the enemy. He's not invisible to us. And so we can give it a lure into thinking that it's really just not that urgent. It's you know, it's just we can act as if we're at peace because we look around us and Depending on where you are, you see a measure of peace. In the US, we all see a measure of peace. If you travel outside the U. S. , you begin to see the grave differences. between different countries. The peace of America is different than the peace of China. Go to Africa, that that's different. That their peace is different. No place is as bad as it could be, but some places are more peaceful than others. But the reality is, in the spiritual realm, it's all just as bad no matter where you are. We can't see that. But no matter what we're f we're we're all in the same conflict. And the battle is just as The struggle is just as real here in our homes, in the safest place in America, as it is in the darkest place in the world Satan likes to dress up evil as good. Tries to make evil look oh it's not that bad. You know, it's just like in the movies. You just pop off the head and it's gone. No big deal. May come back later. But the it's not it's not really gonna harm you long term. There's always a solution. There's always a way Evil is not it's something you can play with, and it's not gonna it's not gonna hurt you in the long run. That's what Satan wants us to believe He wants us to believe that we as Americans we're safe. We don't need to fight. We're okay. But we're not okay and we're not safe. Because Satan, the world, and the devil is circling us, just waiting for us to trust in ourselves, waiting for us to think that we're at peace. Peace when in reality we're at war. So let's not make that mistake. Let's be ready for the fight. Every day, through prayer, watching, seeking, to know how we may combat evil in our Life. And then depending on the power of the Holy Spirit, let's depend on Christ in us, not our own wisdom, gifts, or techniques. So first we fulfill our ministry through prayer, and second, we fulfill our ministry through wisdom. Paul fixed this up in verse 5. Walk in wisdom for those who are outside, redeeming the time. Let your speech always be with grace, season with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one. Paul commands us to walk in wisdom. We walk in wisdom by prioritizing our time. Paul specifically brings out time in relation to wisdom. He says that we are to redeem the time. So how do we prioritize our time usage? How do we redeem the time that we are given? Well, the first thing we can do is trim the fat of wasted time, because time is unredeemable. Once time leaves us behind We can't go back and get it. We can't reach back and take back a time in our life that we have passed. We have one moment, this moment to live. And beyond this moment, we're not guaranteed another moment, and we can't go back and change it. Thus we must use it as wisely as we can. Another aspect of this is Paul focuses on those who are outside, to walk in wisdom to those who are outside. We must focus our time to advance the kingdom mission. The focus is on believers. The focus is rescuing people from the domain of darkness. That they might be transferred from the from the vein of darkness to the kingdom of his son. The kingdom mission is our mission. This is the point of Paul in Second Corinthians five where he says, Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creation. All things have passed away, behold all things have become new. Now all things are of God, who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ, and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us, we implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin to be sinned for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. This idea of being ambassador, we're an ambassador of the kingdom of God. We have a ministry. It's a ministry of reconciliation. It's a ministry of a priest. A priest's main function was to reconcile the people of God to God. So Christ being a high priest, he's reconciled us to the Father, and he calls us into this ministry of reconciliation through our proclamation of the gospel. And again in Colossians 3, we talked about yesterday, how do we proclaim the gospel? How do we live in the kingdom according to this mission? Well, in the family, we preach the gospel. I came across an article in the New York Times, and I am in no way endorsing the New York Times. I rarely ever agree with them actually. But they said something I agreed with, which was remarkable. And so I decided I'd read it, just to be fair to to all people. They said this. It can be tempting in a world where women are increasingly likely to be single mothers, breadwinner moms, or super moms, seemingly able to do it all, to think of men as superfluous to the family. From Hollywood to academia, this view has tremendous currency. In raising boys without men, for instance, the Cornell psychologist Peggy Drexler put it this way Women possess the innate manpower that in itself is more than sufficient to raise fine sons. But the view that men are superfluous in today's families is dead wrong. Well it is certainly true that some children raised without fathers are not just fine. On average, girls and boys are much like more likely to thrive when they have the benefit of a father's time, attention, discipline, and especially Affection. Boys are more likely to stick clear of trouble with the law when they grow up with their father in the home One Princeton study found that boys raised apart from their fathers were two to three times more likely to end up in jail before they turned 30. Dads matter for the daughters as well. Another study found that girls whose fathers disappeared before the girls turned six were about five times more likely to end up pregnant as teenagers than were their peers raised with their fathers in the house. home. And we know that kids, especially boys, are more likely to excel in school and to steer clear of the principal's office when they are raised in a home with a father who takes their homework and school conduct seriously Now the New York Times is in no way a trying to posit a biblical worldview. We know this. That's not their function. But even they recognize people who have no training in the scripture, no desire for the scripture, don't really care about God. They can see just from practical outworking. A Princeton study, again, a secular institution, not from a biblical seminary. These are just people in the world that recognize this reality that. The family matters. Having a mom, a dad who are active in the family has a tremendous impact on the outcome of children. Paul, and that would be a good reason why Paul spent so much time in Colossians 3 talking about the role of wives and husbands and children and fathers. He spends several verses highlighting this reality of the importance of the family. And so our first mission is a mission to the family. Our first aspect in which we are a kingdom of priests is that we are priests in our families. So whatever our role be, whether we are the husband or the father. We are to do that according to how the Bible dictates. We saw in verse 19 of Colossians 3: Husbands, love your wives, and do not be bitter toward them, or do not make them bitter. That is how husbands are to function. Wives, the many current husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. Fathers not provoking your children. Children obeying your parents. When we function in this way, we are doing the most we can in this mission. In this kingdom mission. We see this throughout. Not just the family, but we see that if we do the family right, that also impacts the workplace and society. Structuring our family according to the biblical pattern has widespread influence in the church. We see this kind of working from the negative aspect of the flight of young people from the church. There's many books and articles that are written about why young people are leaving the church. church. And a lot of people have reasons for it, and it there's endless reasons that people posit. And I was looking at um some statistics about it. And apparently from this one source, 40 this is a taking from Pew Research and several other research is that were combined. About 42% of young people identify as Protestant, and by Protestant I'm meaning the widest and broadest meaning possible. These are not evangelicals, but the whole entire spectrum, basically non-Catholic is what that would be. Fifteen percent of young people identify as Catholic. About 39% of young people identify as non-religious, and the non-religious category is growing from previous years. So as you look in this 39% of young people who identify as non-religious, we find out that about 90% have left before the age 29. Not too surprising. But this one I found a little bit more surprising. About 62% left before 18. It's common to think that college is the problem. But what if this is accurate, the problem is much deeper than just children going to college and being duped by college professors Because a large majority of young people who are leaving the church are doing so before they get to 18. They haven't gone to college yet. So what does this point to? The bigger problem is not college. The bigger problem is what's happening in the family. The bigger problem is the family instruction. And this is uh throughout scripture we see this importance in Deuteronomy 6. God talks to the to the people of Israel and he lays on them the necessity of bringing up their children in the way of the Lord. We see they're supposed to talk about God when they're sitting down, when they're lying down, when they're eating, and in every aspect of life, he goes to this great detail that the word of God is supposed to be the front focus of the family. The parents are supposed to be vitally involved in the spiritual welfare of the children We see this throughout Proverbs, as Proverbs giving wisdom to parents, there to bring up the children in the way of the Lord, and they will not depart from it. So how we work in the family is a vital aspect of our mission, not merely a mission to the families, but our mission to the world. Because if we're faithful in our families to preach the gospel and to bring up those entrusted to us in the way of the Lord, that will have an impact on society at large. That will have an impact in our churches. Young people who've been trained and taught and the Spirit of God has worked in will be more mature and more able to lead in the church. In the workplace, they will be more able to make disciples because they have seen that patterned in their home. The reality is that what happens in the home, that is the core focus of missions. That will make the biggest biggest impact of the gospel is our home life. We see that working out. You can read the statistics. You can read the reports, even the one from New York Times, and you can find that the world recognizes that the family is important. But the world's a little late in getting to that conclusion. The Bible's been preaching that for thousands of years. And it's just now people are beginning to see in the world, oh, maybe it does matter if you have a father and a mother. The reality is we need to focus on who we are as a family, making sure that the Word of God is front and and and center of our identity as families. That means father's leading in it. Making church our priority. Making some sort of daily routine. Of the Word of God, whether it be reading the Word of God at dinner time or maybe in the morning, but making sure that the Word of God is part of daily routines. That we might impact the world by impacting our family. So what things can you cut away that distract you, desensitive you, or consume your time. We all have them. We all have things that that pull us from what we should be concentrating on, and that is Christ and the gospel. What are things that desensitize you? Whether it be through movies or through love of sports or you you pick whatever it is that causes you to become less excited about spiritual things. What are things that just consume your time? They're not necessarily bad. They're not necessarily gonna desensitize you or distract you, but they just take a lot of time. We're in war. We're fighting a battle. And one of the ways in which you fight a battle is you find what is the most important and you center everything around that most important mission. What things can you replace that advance the kingdom mission in your family life, local assembly, or workplace? So as you cut away these things that distract you, desensitize you or consume your time, what can you replace them with? What are things that would advance the mission of Jesus Christ in your family, in your local assembly, or in your workplace? Because walking in wisdom requires that we redeem the time. Because how we do mission affects not merely us. It affects the world. We're the light. We're the salt. And if we have lost our savior savior, in that case kind of works hand in hand actually. If you lose the savior, you also lose the savor. In reality, you'll lose your impact. We walk in wisdom by using gracious speech. And Paul refers to this in verse 6. Let your speech always be with grace, seasoning with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one. We welcome as them by using being gracious. Choose your words with care. That's part of having grace. is being careful with what you say. Careless words will be judged. In Matthew 12, 36. But I say to you that for every idle word men may speak, they will give it account of it in the day. judgment. It matters how we use our words. It can be easy just to to say and to speak. We must always remember that everything that comes out Matters because we will be judged on what we say. But on the flip side, words of care bring healing. Proverbs 1218 There is one who speaks like the piercings of a sword, but the tongue of the wise promotes health. The tongue can be used for destruction, or it can be used. For health. It can bring judgment or it can bring reward. So we must choose our words with care. And we must choose our words with knowledge. The Proverbs talks a lot about wisdom and spirit. speech. And in Proverbs 15, 7, the lips of the wise disperse knowledge. But in Proverbs 1223, a prudent man conceals knowledge. Sounds a little bit contradicting. In one sense, the wise person is dispersing knowledge, spreading knowledge, but in another sense, the prudent man is concealing it, is keeping knowledge in We must know when to impart knowledge and when to conceal knowledge. We must know when knowledge will be helpful, when it will be damaging. We must know who we're talking to. And reconstruct our words and our knowledge that it might benefit our hearers. If you are harsh to somebody who is more sensitive, you're gonna end up destroying them. If you're sensitive to someone who is more bold, they're just gonna dismiss what you say. Because the reality is everyone responds differently To how we we speak to them. And the wise person knows when he can be strict, when he can be stern, when he can say that word that might hurt a little bit, but will be for his benefit in the long run. And when it's time to let something go, let maybe something not so smart be said, and let the comment just die. without needing to correct or reprove. We must know when words will hurt somebody else When allowing something to be said and not corrected will hurt somebody and when it will Be easy to ignore and not cause any long-term problems. Choose your words with care, choose your words of knowledge, and choose your words with grace. Because of our identity in Christ, we should fulfill our ministry through Christ. First, we fulfill our ministry through prayer. We pray steadfastly. We depend on God to work in us. Second, we fulfill our ministry through wisdom. We walk in wisdom by prioritizing our time and by using gracious speech. So let's make prayer a wartime weapon. Let's be urgent in our prayer and watchful in it. Let's depend on the power of the Holy Spirit. Not our own wisdom, not our own gifts, not our own techniques. But let's depend on God. Let's trim the fat of our wasted time. What things can you cut away that distract you, desensitize you, or consume your time? What can you put in that would advance the kingdom mission by preaching the gospel in your family life, in your local assembly, in your workplace? Let's make sure that the kingdom of God and the gospel is foremost in our families, in our personal life, our family life. Let's make sure the gospel is the center and the foundation of what we do in our local assemblies. Here when we meet together and worship. And let's make sure that we are being priests in the workplace. That when we go to work, we are on mission. Christ. It can be really easy to see missions and the advancing of the kingdom of God as the missionary's responsibility. The person who We've sent to do certain tasks. But missions and being a missionary is a responsibility of every single Christian because we're all in the battle together We all need to be seeking how we can advance the kingdom. And me almost all of us live in families. We have families. There is a structure there in which we can advance the mission. We don't have to go very far. All we do is get up out of our beds. And walk, and we're there. The mission is there. The kingdom, the responsibility of the kingdom is upon us. In our routines of life Looking for ways in which we can advance the kingdom. We all have routines. We all have things we go, places we we frequent. We don't have to make missions to be some special activity. Now it's good to have activities where you do missions, like the Baltimore Rescue Mission is a great way in which we do missions. Awana is a great way to do missions. Bible clubs, these are great ways to do missions. But we can't forget that doing these things is good and appropriate and we should do them. But we can also do missions wherever we are. We don't need to have an activity. We don't need to have a planned event. All we need to have is dependence on the Holy Spirit and eyes to see opportunities and the power of the Spirit to make use of the opportunities that God gives us in our daily lives. We are a kingdom of priests. Let's look for those opportunities. Let us choose to respond to others with words of grace. By doing so, we will fulfill our ministry as priests in the kingdom of God. Let's pray.