Good morning. I appreciated so much your singing this morning. Appreciated so much the choice of hymns. There was a time in the history of the church when men like William Cowper or Cooper, depending on which source you look at, Uh I think the English called him Cowper and the Welsh called him Cooper, but anyway, uh during the period of time in which he wrote his hymns. This was a man who, in our modern terms, would have been said to suffer from mental illness, to battle mental illness. And yet out of that struggle came a great body of hymns like, oh, for a closer walk with God. Out of those struggles came that great hymn that we sang today. And the other thing that I'm that I'm glad that I that I I noticed this morning is the singing of uh some newer hymns. There are once again, I think for the first time in a long time. In about the last 20 years, there have been some really excellent hymns in the model of those hymns of the 16th, 17th, and early 18th centuries that are being written. And we sang some of those this morning, and I praise God that that's happening once again. Praise God that you're singing those things here. The message this morning is going to be a little bit different from what I usually do. I usually begin pretty early in a message exegetically. setting forth interpreting scripture. I'm going to be doing something a little bit different this morning because of a particular occasion, a particular time in the history of the church in which we find ourselves. But I'd like first of all to beg your indulgence to go back and read those words in Romans chapter 11, once again, the first. or the last four verses of Romans 11. And along with them, because there is no break in the original, the chapter headings are a later uh a later thing. Connected to those are the first two verses of Romans chapter 12. So once again, Romans chapter 11, beginning at verse 33. O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been his counselor? Or who hath first given to him? And it shall be recompensed unto him again. For of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever. Amen. I beseech you therefore Because those things are true. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Our Father, we thank you for the privilege that we have had this morning to sing. In praise and adoration to our God, our King, our Savior, the Triune God, we thank you for the redemption that is ours in Christ Jesus. We thank you that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ. We thank you that you have given us the power, the ability to walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Father, we pray that as we consider the matters before us this morning, and as we consider The claims of your word upon us, that you would impart and instruct us in your truth. That your Spirit would apply it to each of our hearts according to our need as your Spirit alone knows our need. We thank you and praise you. That you promise to do this. In Jesus' name. Amen. Don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. We hear a lot today in society and advertising. We hear a lot about transformations, about makeovers. Used to be that uh, you know, I remember when I was a kid, my parents had Some extra rooms put on the house. And in those days it was called remodeling. Today, you go on a lot of home improvement websites and they'll talk about doing an extreme makeover on your house. That's the terminology that's used today. Women go to a spa to get a makeover. Men are doing it too. People go to get a new look, a new hairstyle. They go out and get a new wardrobe, new makeup, a makeover, a transformation. Now, a number of passages in the Bible, such as Romans chapter 12, verse 2, speak of transformations, but these aren't the kinds of transformations that the marketing gurus Are trying to sell us on. There are positive as well as negative transformations. We read in Romans chapter 1, the Apostle Paul writes about the unbeliever who changes or transforms the glory of the Lord. of the incorruptible God into images and worships them. Man tries to do a makeover with God. Man tries to make God over in his own image. And today, sad to say, much of the evangelical church is getting an extreme makeover. There are major movements among evangelicals today that say that we need to redefine the church. They say that we need to stop focusing on building up the people who are already in the pews. We need to stop focusing on the saints that we have. They say that we should go to unbelievers and ask them what the church should look like, ask them what the church should preach, ask them how the church should worship. We need to find out what pleases and impresses unbelievers and we need to give it to them. We need to go to the most unqualified people on earth. And ask them what the church should look like. That's the philosophy in many churches today. I pass a couple of them when I come here. One church in particular, which is in Westminster, where near I near where I live, I I pass it when I come here and They have three services on a Sunday morning. The parking lot's full. There are cars parked on the grass because there's not enough room on the lot. But the gospel's not being preached. What they're getting, three services, so-called a day on Sunday morning, is Great entertainment and great psychological uplift, but the gospel is not preached there The modern makeover movements among evangelicals go by a lot of different names. There's the purpose-driven church movement, there's the emergent movement, there's what's called the New Paradigm Church. They're all makeover movements. And the essence of them all is forget about what the Bible says. Do the thing that will bring the greatest numbers, whatever it takes. In the last few years, over half a million evangelical pastors and church leaders have gone to seminars and workshops that tell them how to do that kind of an unbiblical makeover on their churches. It's a big business today. And in the process, the church's message has gotten an extreme makeover. A lot of the people who are who are promoting this are saying, oh, we're not changing the meth the message, we're only changing the method. But they're changing both. If you change God's method, inevitably you will change God's message. Much of the evangelical church no longer preaches that the Bible is totally accurate in everything that it says. Lifeway, the research arm of the Southern Baptist Convention, has done some excellent research work on this. And they published a survey last year in which they Revealed the alarming fact from survey work that they had done across the United States that it is now true that a majority Of the members and pastors of evangelical churches in the United States do not believe that the Bible is totally accurate in all that it says. That's an amazing statistic. Much of the evangelical church today doesn't preach the gospel in its fullness, the gospel that saves souls, and much of the evangelical church today does not train and instruct people in Discernment, as 1 John tells us to test or try the spirits to see whether they're of God, because many false teachers have gone out into the world. Test everything against the authority of Scripture. We don't hear that. What happens when you neglect these things? Well, what happens is that the church becomes, to use a modern-day term, the church becomes the church unplugged The church disconnects itself from its source of power and authority, the Word of God. And the church unplugged, the church that has disconnected itself from its true source of power and authority, soon becomes the church uncertain, uncertain of what it believes. If you're not grounded in the word, it's easy to become uncertain of what you believe. And the church that is unplugged and uncertain becomes ineffectual. In preaching the gospel to the world and in building up the saints in sound doctrine. The church unplugged from the world, from the word of God, is ill-equipped to do battle in this world. It's not the kind of a church that we sang about in the hymn this morning. It's a church that finds itself retreating from battle against the enemies of the truth. It's a church that unplugs itself. from the wisdom of God that's only found in his word, and instead plugs itself into the wisdom of man, the word of man, which leads to death. And the church that reinvents itself to meet the specifications of unbelievers may attract hundreds or even thousands or tens of thousands of people. But it doesn't truly lead them to Christ because it has no gospel message to offer anymore. While it seeks to please the unchurched, it neglects the saints. The saints aren't fed, the saints aren't built up in sound doctrine. And the church that places itself in this kind of a new paradigm finds itself in a deadly downward spiral. How does that work? Well, we see it happening all over. In churches in America today. Part of our ministry at teaching the word is to do this kind of research. And what you find is that as the church caters more and more to the way unbelievers want the church to look and to feel and to preach, The percentage of unsaved people in the congregation continues to go up. And at the same time Mathematics being mathematics, the percentage of genuine Christians in the church continually moves towards zero. And within a surprisingly short time, sometimes just a few years or a decade, the thinking and practices of an unsaved supermajority dominate the church. Now notice so far this morning I haven't talked, I've talked about the evangelical church. The title of the message this morning was What Does It Mean to Be a Protestant? I haven't used the term Protestant yet. I'll use it now I've done that deliberately because much of the evangelical church has forgotten what it means to be Protestant. Churches today in ever-increasing numbers are going back to a position that looks like the church looked Before the Reformation. 500 years ago, next month, October 31, 1517, was when the Protestant Reformation Began effectively. Martin Luther nailed his 95 theses to a church door in Wittenberg, Germany. Started, kindled the flame of a fire that spread all over Europe in Reformation. Now Luther was a work in process. Luther at that time, he was just 30, not quite 33 years old, 34 years old, I should say. He was still A monk, a priest of Rome, he had a lot to learn yet about the Word of God, but he had been digging into the Word of God for years. He still at that point held on to a great deal of human tradition that he later understood needed to go into the ash heap of history, but Even at this early stage after his conversion, after Luther came to see in the book of Romans that justification is by faith alone, apart from works. He dared to challenge the darkness of Roman Catholicism. He dared to risk his life for the truth of salvation by faith in Christ. He only survived where others were killed because two men in particular. Nobles of the realm protected him, provided physical protection for him. But even at this early stage after his conversion, Luther was daring to do this. Now many churches are commemorating the 500th anniversary of the Reformation next month. The Lord's given me the privilege of speaking it Three conferences next month between the 26th of October and the 1st of November. Three conferences in three different states uh where this event in church history is going to be focused upon, remembered. And as we think about the great historical fact of the Protestant Reformation this morning and all that it means, let me submit to you that it's important for us first of all to go back and understand what things were like before the Reformation. What were things like in the church before the Reformation? Because and and why do we need to look at that? Here's the reason. Because much of the evangelical church today is rapidly going back. To that pre-Reformation position. What characterized that? What was the church like 550, 600 years ago? The 1400s. Well, let me briefly name four things. First of all The pre-Reformation position was built on biblical illiteracy. Biblical illiteracy. Before the Protestant Reformation, the Bible was untranslated. The Bible was only available either in Greek or Hebrew, the original languages, or in the Latin of the Church And the Bible was physically, literally, chained to pulpits. People couldn't read the actual Word of God in their own language. Now, the modern movements among evangelicals today are also built on biblical illiteracy. It's of a different kind But it's just as deadly. And it happens in two ways. The first way that it's been happening, especially over the last 40 years, has been through the deception of the Bible paraphrase The modern church makeover movements encourage biblical illiteracy by using and promoting so-called Bible versions that are not really translations of the Word of God at all. They're man-centered paraphrases. And one that's become quite popular through the modern church makeover movements is called The Message. I'm sure you've heard of it. The Message and the subtitle is The Bible in Contemporary Language. And tens of millions of copies of the message have been sold. But it's actually not a Bible at all. Why do I say that? I say that because it's a paraphrase It mistranslates and doesn't bother to translate a great deal of what's in the original. And the author of this Bible paraphrases one man. His name is Eugene Peterson. Eugene Peterson for 30 years was a pastor in the Liberal Presbyterian Church USA, the church that today permits homosexuals to stand and preach in its pulpits. Eugene Peterson doesn't believe in the deity of Christ. He doesn't believe in the virgin birth. He doesn't believe in salvation by justification by faith alone. He founded and pastored a church not far from here, Bel Air, Maryland. That was his pastorate for 30 years. That's the first way that the modern church makeover movements are encouraging biblical illiteracy, a return to the pre-Reformation position. They're giving people something to read that says Bible on the cover, but it's not the Bible inside. The second way that the modern makeover movements encourage biblical illiteracy is through their attitude towards scripture. Eugene Peterson, the man who wrote the message, says this, I'm quoting him now. He said This was in an interview, a TV interview. He said Christians should be studying the Bible less, not more. You just need enough to pay attention to God. Well, one wonders how in the world you can pay attention to God unless you read his authentic word But the paw the the the postmodern evangelical makeover movements say that you you just need to pay attention to God by going to a service which Is not a truly a worship service, but it's a staged entertainment where you're going to hear some psychological uplift And where a man might get up and he might hang that psychological uplift on a little bit of scripture, but the word of God is not truly being preached. The gospel is not being proclaimed. Biblical illiteracy. And people aren't being encouraged to read their Bibles on their own today. It brings us to a second way in which the church is returning to the pre-Reformation position. The pre-Reformation position not only emphasized biblical illiteracy, but also emphasized going to church as an experience. In the 15th century it had to do with the pomp and the ceremony and the robes and the ornate altars and the statues. If you've ever been to to to Europe or even some places in the United States, you've ever been in a cathedral, you'll see all of that. You don't hear the word of God preached, you don't really worship God, but you have an experience. Well, today the church is going back to the pre-Reformation position of emphasizing the church as an experience. Today, many evangelical churches produce a carefully choreographed show every Sunday morning. And I truly mean that Go on YouTube, you'll see 'em. Look on cable TV, you'll see 'em. The emphasis is on performed music, often in the style of American Idol or MTV or any of those, rather than congregational singing. The emphasis is on stage setting, on lights, the sound system, the special effects. At our office we get a couple of publications, free subscriptions to publications. One is a magazine called Church Production. And the other is a magazine called Worship Facilities. We get those magazines at the office because they give us an opportunity to see what the enemy's doing, quite frankly. And what are they doing? Well, these two magazines sponsor a a convention every year. It's actually a a trade show. It's going on uh actually this month. It's called Worship Facilities Expo. I went to one as an observer a few years ago. It was held in Atlanta that year. And it was actually a trade show. There were thousands of evangelical. pastors there who were going to spend a week finding out how they can turn turn their maybe churn was a good word turn their church services into a multimedia entertainment production. The big draw at that convention when I went to it, would you believe, was fog machines. Get a fog machine for your church with colored lights so that you can set an atmosphere and you can change the atmosphere. This is going on. This is going on. And I might also add that more and more churches are adding the trappings of Rome back into their services. A lot of churches are going back to the robes, the altar, the incense, the banners, the processions. That's happening too. So you have two different kinds of emphasis on experience. Now the 21st century experience emphasis is different from the 15th century emphasis, but they both have this in common. They distract completely from the preached word of God. And this is the second way in which the church is returning to the pre-Reformation position. Dear friends, the biblical worship that you practice here today is rare. Today. It's rare. It's precious. And praise God that you have it. And I encourage you never to let go of it, no matter what Let me move on to a third point, and that is that the pre-Reformation position was also not only one of biblical illiteracy and the church has experience, but thirdly it was pluralistic. Pluralistic. What do we mean by that? Well It has well been said that the Church of Rome at that time as well as today is the great chameleon. Over the centuries, even today, Rome is quite willing to adjust its message and its methods. It's even willing to bring pagan practices into the church as it did in early centuries In order to get people under the authority of the Catholic Church. Just one example. In Indonesia today and in other predominantly Muslim countries, if you go into a Roman Catholic Church in those countries, you will find Not Christ, not Jesus, not even God being named in the Mass, but Allah. They're using the term Allah in the mass in predominantly Muslim countries, and they're doing it quite comfortably because the goal is to gain numbers, whatever it takes. If you want to worship Allah, you can come to our Mass and worship Allah. Today the evangelical church is moving back to a pre-Reformation position of inclusivism. The church is bringing all sorts of worldly practices in just to get people to come. And this evangelical makeover movement is pluralistic about beliefs. According to reliable surveys, again, the the Lifeway people have been uh very, very helpful in this. Discovered through their surveys that nearly two-thirds of self-described evangelicals in America today, both pastors and church members, do not believe that Jesus Christ is the only way to eternal life. Two-thirds of American evangelicals Dr. Timothy Keller, who that may be a name familiar to some, he's admired by many evangelicals today, he said in a television interview that yes, there may well be some, as he put it, back doorway to heaven that has nothing to do with Christ. And two years ago, John Piper, another well-known author and former pastor in Minneapolis, wrote that people are, as he put it. Made right with God by faith, but they gain entry to heaven by good works. Dear friends, both of those statements are heresy. I didn't say that. The Apostle Paul said it. Galatians chapter 1. If we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you, let him be accursed. Another gospel is being preached today, even in many evangelical churches. This brings us to a fourth and connected point, and this is that the pre-Reformation position emphasized deeds instead of doctrine. Deeds instead of doctrine. The 15th century position was that good works and penance will get you to heaven. And that also was the basis on which the Pope sold indulgences, which was The main thing that Luther was protesting against when he nailed his 95 theses to the church door at Wittenberg. How can the Pope forgive sins that Christ has already shed his blood for? How can he take further payment when Christ has paid it all? But the church said, don't worry about doctrine. Just do what we tell you to do. Follow your leaders. And once again, the evangelical church is returning to the pre-Reformation position. Let me quote Rick Warren, the man who was acknowledged as the worldwide leader of the purpose-driven church movement. He's written many books. He said this, I'm quoting now. This is in an interview. He said, you know, 500 years ago, the first reformation with Luther and then Calvin was about creeds. The new reformation that we're bringing about through the purpose-driven church will be about deeds. The first one was about what the church believes. This one will be about what the church does. The first reformation actually split Christianity into dozens and then hundreds of different segments. This new reformation is actually going to bring them together. Now, you're never going to get Christians of all their stripes and varieties to agree on all of the different doctrinal disputes and things like that, but what I am seeing them agree on are the purposes of the church. And he continued, I find great uniformity in the fact that I see this happening all the time. Last week I spoke to over 4,000 pastors at my church who came from over a hundred denominations and over fifty countries to learn how to do this. Now that's widespread. We had Catholic priests. We had Pentecostal ministers. We had Lutheran bishops. We had Anglican bishops. We had Baptist preachers. They're all together. And you know what? I'd never get them to agree on communion or baptism or a bunch of stuff like that, but I could get them to agree on what the church should be doing in the world. End of quote. This is a return to the pre-Reformation position. One church under one head, and that head is not Christ. Two years ago, on a, I think it was the last Sunday in September 2015. The Pope was in Philadelphia, as you may recall. It happened, I had been scheduled for this long before it happened that I was preaching in Philadelphia that same Sunday. Now to say the least my congregation was a little bit smaller than the Pope's. By many, many magnitudes. The Pope's congregation was, I guess, about ten thousand times as big as the one that I preached to, but at least the congregation that I preached to was made of a regenerated, blood-bought, Bible-believing saints of God. It was interesting. One of the men who was in that service came to me afterward and he said, you know, I work in Philadelphia. I work downtown and they had things blocked off and they were setting all this stuff up this week. And he said I came out of the building where I was working, and across the street were these priests, and they had this display of all their literature set up, and they had a banner set up that said. Saturday will be the Lord's Day. Sunday will be the Pope's Day. And he said, as a former Catholic, that got me really mad And I went over and I let those priests know exactly what I thought. Sunday is the Lord's day. You do not take it away and give it to a Pope. Well, who was the keynote speaker at the Pope service in Philadelphia? I know I'm naming a lot of names this morning, and I don't usually do that. Who was the keynote speaker invited by the Pope to address the last service of that day? Rick Warren. The man behind the purpose-driven church movement, Pastor Saddleback, Southern Baptist Church in Southern California Hundreds of Roman Catholic cardinals, bishops, and priests, and the Pope himself filed into the auditorium in a great ornate regal procession as that service began, and they all took the front seats. And then Rick Warren got up to speak, and he called these men my brothers in Christ. And he said, and I'm quoting now, we evangelicals and Catholics need to minimize our differences. We need to mobilize our members. We need to evangelize the lost. Dear friends, it doesn't seem to matter to Rick Warren and others of similar belief that the Roman Catholic Church preaches a false gospel that leads souls to hell. Now according to a recent survey by Lifeway again, this is a survey that just came out, I believe, within the last month or so. Two-thirds of evangelical pastors in America in this survey said that they believe that the Pope is a genuine Christian and their brother in Christ. Don't tell me we're not going back to a pre-reformation position. We are. Today's focus is on giving the church an extreme makeover on man's power to transform things. But this morning we have before us a passage of scripture that talks about God's power to transform A power of an entirely different kind. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. I'd like to take a moment to explain some things here. We need to look at some words here, three words in particular You can't fully understand these familiar verses unless you understand these words. They're the Greek words, first of all, the Greek words that are translated conformed and transformed in Romans 12, 2. The first word that's translated conformed in the Greek is the word schema. It's the word from which we get our English word scheme or scheming. And the word in the Greek means an outward appearance that does not represent the inward nature. Jesus talked about the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Jewish leaders being whited sepulchres, but inside are dead men's bones. That's the thought. In other words, what you see on the outside does not reflect on what's on the inside. Looks can be deceiving. We talk about a scheming person, same root word. A person we would say who has a hidden agenda, who's conniving, who's tricky, crafty. What that person says and does outwardly often does not reflect his true intentions, the inward reality. So that's Schema, first of all, be not conformed or schemed to this world. The second word we need to keep in mind is the word that's translated transformed here, which is the Greek word morphée. It's the opposite of schema Morphine means an outward appearance that truly represents the inward nature. What you see on the outside accurately corresponds to what's on the inside. It's a true picture of things. Being conform to this world for the Christian is a false picture of things as they should be. Do not be conformed to this world. Do not be schemed to this world. Do not appear to be something on the outside that you're not on the inside because of Christ. You're not your own, Paul says. You've been bought with a price, the precious blood of Christ. You're the temple of God, the Holy Spirit. That's the inward reality. Let the outward man show that inward reality. And Paul's saying to the church, make sure that that's true. Now, how does that apply to the church today? It means the church today is disobeying the word of God by conforming itself to the world, by be by being driven by the world's agendas. What is Paul saying here to the church today? He's saying don't go back to the pre-Reformation position. Maintain your true identity. It's also interesting that the form of the word schema that's used here, that's translated conformed, has to do with a relationship with something that is changeable or unstable. In other words, the church is not to take on, and Christians are not to take on an outward appearance that is conformed to a world that's constantly changing its mind and ultimately passing away. The church must never take on a worldly outward appearance that does not agree with the inward spiritual nature that is ours by the regenerating work of the Holy Spirit. And I would submit to you that Many churches that take on that outward worldly appearance, it is because there was no inward reality to start with. Dear friends, this world is passing away. Our focus should not be on this world, but on things that last. The true Protestant church shouldn't think and talk and act like the unsaved world. We need to remember that the unsaved world Not only includes the unbelievers, the unchurched out there, the unsaved world also includes the vast majority of people who are sitting in a church on a Sunday morning. In liberal churches, in Catholic churches, you name it, churches where the Bible is not preached, the gospel is not proclaimed. Making common spiritual cause with people who are the religious enemies of Christ is a deception. Our thinking, our talking, and our actions should reflect our new life in Christ. As Paul writes in Philippians 3, our citizenship is in heaven. Instead of being conformed to this world, schema to this world, we are to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. And the word transformed here, the root word is morphe. The actual word in the Greek is be metamorphosized. Metamorphosis. That's the word here. Be on the outside what you are on the inside. Metamorphosis. We've we've had a little. And I have to say, a cute little worm, about so big, that's been hanging around by our kitchen door the last few days. The thing looks like a little cartoon character. And I know that this kind of worm, as time goes on, it puts itself in a concoon at a cocoon and it becomes a beautiful butterfly. It goes through a metamorphosis. Same word. The worm and the butterfly are the same creature, the same being, but When the butterfly appears out of the cocoon, out of the cocoon, that is an outward appearance that represents truly inward reality We're not to take on an outward appearance that's conformed to the world that's constantly changing its mind and ultimately passing away. The question comes to what are we to be transformed? Paul tells us that we're to be transformed. In Romans 8 29, we are to be conformed. To the image of his son. Now here's the interesting thing. In Romans 8. 29, the English translation again is conformed as in Romans 12. 2, but it's the opposite Greek word. It's the word morphée. Be conformed to the image of his son. So that the outward appearance, your outward walk, your outward life represents the inward reality that is yours in Christ. How are we to be transformed? Well, we should note two things. First of all, we're to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. And this is the third word that it's helpful to understand more of, and that is the fact that this word renewing literally means the renovating of our minds. The renovating of our minds. We need an extreme makeover. Indeed we do, but it's not the kind that's being promoted today. We need a Romans chapter 12, verse 2 kind of renovation of our minds. And we need to take note of the fact that the word that's translated, be transformed, here in Romans chapter 12, verse 2, is in the passive voice. It's something that God does in us. We're told in Philippians 2 verse 12, Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. And indeed, God works and we work. Not to be saved because that's all of grace. But God And joins us to work to be more and more conform to the image of Christ. And to think more like Christ, to have our thinking in every area of life and ministry driven by Scripture and not by worldly wisdom. And how does that happen? For it is God who works in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. And there's one more thing that we need to mention this morning. The Apostle Paul begins in Romans chapter 12 by saying, I beseech you therefore. And I know I've mentioned before in preaching here that the Apostle Paul was a very logical writer. Lots of logical connectives, and this is another case. He builds one thing upon another. He uses the word therefore a hundred and five times in his epistles. And the way Paul writes is to build one thing on another and another and another and Under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he comes to a point where he turns so frequently from doctrine to living. Because this is true doctrinally, this is how you are to behave, this is how you're to think. I beseech you therefore What's the basis of this exhortation to be truly on the outside what we are on the inside? Well, to put it in the context of today, what's the basis for this exhortation to be truly Protestants? Well We find it in the preceding verses. Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and the mercy of God, the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable his judgments, his ways past finding out. Who's known the mind of the Lord? Who can be his counselor? Who's give ever given anything to him? For of him and through him and in him to him are all things. To whom be glory forever. That's why. We need to be transformed to be more and more like Christ. The glory of God. Through the first eleven chapters of the book of Romans, the Apostle Paul is actually building a case for what we call, or what I should say was called In its time, the five solas of the Reformation. The five solas or the five alones, if you will. These were the great rallying cries of the Reformation. These were Latin terms that were used. Sola scriptura. Our doctrine is from Scripture alone. Sola Christus. We are saved by Christ's work alone. Sola gracia, salvation is by grace alone, apart from works. Sola fide, justification is by faith alone, apart from works. And Soli Deo Gloria. The glory belongs to God alone. Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God Now today's church makeover movements, just like the pre-Reformation position of over 500 years ago, are denying those five things. They're exchanging Scripture alone for, at very best, Scripture plus the Word of Man, but in most cases the Word of Man instead of Scripture. The modern church makeover movements are exchanging Christ alone for Christ plus works. They're exchanging faith alone for justification by man's faithfulness. You get your entry into heaven not by faith, but by your works. And thus the modern church makeover movements deny that all the glory belongs to God alone. They're taking the glory of Christ for themselves. They're removing Scripture from its place of sole authority. And human works and human wisdom are in the ascendant in many places today. Dear friends, True Christians, true Protestants, we must oppose these things with all our being. We must stand for the Word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ as the Apostle John did in Revelation at all costs. We must learn once again what it means to be truly and vigorously Protestant. I came across this, which was written by a Baptist minister in Arizona a few years ago. He said this, and I'm quoting, it is my firm conviction. that the word Protestant means absolutely positively nothing unless the one who wears the term believes, breathes, lives, and loves the uncompromising Offensive to the natural man, message of justification by God's free grace, by faith in Jesus Christ alone. In the vast majority of instances today, a Protestant has no idea what the word itself denotes, what the historical background behind it was, nor why he should really care. And a label that has been divorced from its significance no longer functions in a meaningful fashion. We need a reformation in our day. That will again draw the line clearly between those who embrace the gospel of God's grace in Christ and those who do not. And how one answers the question: how is a man made right with God? How one answers that question determines whether one embraces the gospel or not. Dear friends, the Holy Spirit calls us to be Protestants Scripture commands us in the most unequivocal terms to be true to the untainted gospel and the unique authority of Holy Scripture and the authority of Jesus Christ. And I praise God that this church takes that kind of a stand and has throughout its history Dear friends, value what you have here. But never be afraid to critically analyze. What you have, what you're holding on to at any point in time, against the infallible standard of the book. Never be afraid to do that. Scripture will never fail you. And why do we need to do that? Because the history that we find in the Old and New Testaments, as well as the history that we find in the church subsequently, shows that Because we still have the old man that we're dealing with, there is the tendency toward drift. It's a natural tendency. Every one of the Apostle Paul's epistles deals with drift that was happening even at that early stage. And praise God, we have those letters today as our weapon to combat drift in our own hearts, in our own lives, in our own churches. We need to never be afraid to admit it when we find the church deviating from Scripture in even the smallest point. We need to preserve and protect that which agrees with the Word of God. We need to fearlessly jettison that which does not agree with the Word of God. And we need to propagate the biblical position. And dear friends, I'm praying, I'm continuing to pray that And I I know that at this point you may feel that there's been a setback, but I appreciate the attitude that was expressed in the update that what's happened thus far in your process is not a setback. But God's at work. God had to winnow down Midian's or Gideon's army for the fight against Midian. From thousands to three hundred. God sent just Jonathan and his Jonathan, Saul's son and his armor-bearer over to fight the Philistines. And Jonathan said, who knows what the Lord may do, whether it's by many or by few, but he does it. That's where our hearts need to be. May we truly be Protestants, not conformed to this world, but transformed by the renewing of our minds, that we may truly prove, that we may truly regard as valuable that which is good. And acceptable and perfect in the eyes of God, what is his will. Let's look to the Lord in prayer. Father, we are grateful that we have your precious word. That your word never fails, and that your word instructs us for all of the challenges of life, everything that we face, individually as families. As a church body, wherever. Your word is relevant, your word is sure, your word is alive and powerful. O Father, may we adhere to it. May we never stray from it. May we obey it completely By your grace, by your power. And indeed, Father, indeed. May we together look forward to that day. When we shall be delivered from this present evil world, and we shall be like our Savior, for we shall see him as he is. We thank you for that promise. In Jesus' name, amen