Well, it's great to be here with you again. Uh Steve uh Conrad said, You're here again? Okay. He didn't say it quite like that, but uh it was kind of fun actually. But he's known me a for a while, so he can tease me uh as much as he wants. It is wonderful to be with you. It was great to be with you on Easter Sunday. Hard to believe, at least in my world, that that was only for weeks ago. Feels like two or three months ago, but uh uh hopefully you know you folks are more aware of the calendar than sometimes I am and of course uh husbands uh and uh uh and uh children uh uh remember next Sunday is Mother's Day. A word to the wise is sufficient there. Uh I still remember the um my initial mistake in that regard uh when uh Of course my my wife had uh we very quickly had our our first child and then our second and I'm thinking, well, Mother's Day, I mean And then of course I I realize, okay, you do not say um you know, she's not your mother, she's the mother of your children, and so Just a word to the wise and those maybe who haven't gotten married yet, don't fall into that blunder, which is exactly what it was, and some of you are really laughing at me. And now you're not even going to listen to me because if I'm that insensitive, I mean, why in the world would you listen to me? And that's a very good question. Anyway, before that in January, I'm changing the subject rapidly here, now that I've gotten myself into trouble. It's not in my notes here. I don't know what happened. But you know, that's what usually happens when I go off of my notes. That's why I try to keep them right there and stick to it, because otherwise I get in deep trouble fast. Well January eleventh, uh which really feels like a long time ago. Uh I continued on in our series in Daniel, uh preaching on Daniel chapter nine. And I think Daniel nine twenty 24 to 27 is uh probably one of the most amazing prophecies in the Bible. So if you weren't uh there for that message, um of course you can listen to it uh I'm sure on your uh website but also feel free to email me with a capsule summary of Daniel's prophecy of the 77s. I think that's one of the first times that I remember in a message having a single space tiny font handout to try to get everything onto one sheet uh because all of uh of that was uh very important but I tried to give equal weight in that message to Daniel's amazing prayer in Daniel 9, 1-19 that preceded Gabriel's visit And his unfolding of the 77s. So often we'll just jump in to Daniel 9. 24, and we won't look at the first part. But Daniel's prayer, I think, rooted in intensive study of the scriptures, was the key to Gabriel's revelation. And that's something that you and I should emulate today. Now with Daniel 10 to 12, we have actually reached the fourth and final vision in the book of Daniel. And for a brief moment, I actually considered, and no laughing, especially by our pastor here, covering all three chapters in one message. Oh, there's laughing. There was laughing. I heard the laughing. I don't blame you because you know me. Uh fairly soon in the process I came to my senses. And I realize that chapter 10 deserves special treatment all by itself. And we'll reserve the content of that final vision in chapters 11 and 12 a later time. I find it interesting that some critical commentaries commentators believe that the entire book of Daniel is basically fiction. Especially I find this hard to believe because unlike many prophetic books, Daniel is careful to provide the date of most of the events he records. And we see that especially in the visions of chapters 7 to 12, as Daniel dates each one quite precisely. So we've got a date before each one. And while the visions in chapters 7 and 8 occurred during the time of Belshazzar, 553 and 550 B. C. The vision of the 77s in chapter 9 is much later in 539-538 BC. And this final vision in chapters 10 through 12 is several years later still, around 536 BC. Now I want you to see that as we begin this chapter, these dates are quite significant. For it was in 539 BC. three years earlier, that Cyrus permitted the Jews to go back to Jerusalem. No doubt Daniel was hoping that all of this would spark a great revival. And uh uh that was sadly not the case. Yes, we're told that around forty-two thousand did go back. Ezra chapter three records the great rejoicing uh when the altar was set up and the temple foundation was laid a year later. But that was it. Reminds me of some of the construction projects around here, you think, uh how many years is this going on? I'm okay, I'm sorry, uh that was not in my script. I should just stick to the script, right? But sometimes you wonder and you think I thought they were working on that last month or last year. Well, that was about it for that. Ezra Four records great opposition. to the work, and it was so great that the work wasn't resumed for another 16 years under the encouragement of Haggai and Zechariah in 520. BC. So now we return back to Daniel several years after his prayer in chapter 9. And yes, some of the people had returned But very little was accomplished. And that, I think, provides us the background for Daniel chapter 10. Well, in the first three verses of Daniel 10, we have the setting. Verse 1 appears to be an overview of the whole vision. Which Daniel received. We're uh told uh there that it was a message involving great conflict. Actually the New King King James Version here has the appointed time was long, but the Hebrew word sabba is used Usually translated army or war, by the way, it's the same word, Savah. We know it well if we know a mighty fortress is our God, Lord Sabaya, his name. That's Lord of hosts. Right? And so it usually um depicts either army or war, and I think in this case the phrase means a great conflict. That's what I how I would translate it. And so it was a message involving great conflict. Verse 2 then explains that Daniel had actually been mourning and fasting. For three entire weeks. And though the text isn't crystal clear, I take it that this period of mourning preceded the vision that Daniel received. Why was Daniel mourning? Again, he doesn't tell us precisely, but I'm guessing that it's in response to what's going on in Jerusalem Where those who went back were now sinied in their plans to rebuild the temple. In other words, things weren't going as Daniel had hoped Now something else to consider here is that back in the first chapter of Daniel, Daniel 1. 21. The text says that Daniel continued from the time of Nebuchadnezzar until the first year of Cyrus the king. Well, Daniel 10 occurs two years years after that, meaning that Daniel was no longer in official service to the king. One uh uh uh preacher slash commentator that I usually agree with. John MacArthur says that Daniel, he says, retired. the word he used, but I if I had my guess, it probably wasn't voluntary, even though he was probably in his mid eighties at that time. There's nothing in the text, I'm sorry. I I love John MacArthur generally, but I I don't think he retired voluntarily. Uh anyway. entitled to his opinion and now he knows because he's with the Lord and so he knows one way or the other and maybe he's just laughing at me right now. in heaven. Well, what I see here though is that Daniel is still firmly uh in the battle. I mean He he is no longer in service of the king in an official capacity, right? He could just say, hey, it's my retirement year. I've earned this. Right? I've earned this after all. I've been serving God for all these years. I just you know, need to just kick up my feet, right? And uh um and you know, enjoy my retirement. I am just amazing When I hear people talk that way. I don't understand it. And I I know I'm a little single-minded. Uh, but I o I want to continue to be single-minded I I I don't understand. What in the world am I thinking? I'm gonna be with the Lord soon. The last thing that I want him to see me doing is saying, you know, I'm gonna take about five months off and just do nothing Not even, you know, be nice to anybody. Oh well, okay. Never mind. But you know what I'm saying? No! I don't see that in in scripture and and look that's fine. If you want to retire so that you can then serve the Lord in a different way, praise the Lord. That's great. But um anyway, um Daniel I I yeah No. He's he's in the battle. He's he's uh just as concerned for God's people as he has been his whole life. Uh so now he's been fasting and mourning for three Three full weeks. By the way, since the same expression had been used in Daniel 9 to indicate what we believe were sevens of years. Here in verse 2, this text specifically says that this was Three sevens of days, that is 21 days. And verse 4 tells us that this was the first month, that is Nisan, corresponding to our March April. Which would have been, uh uh uh uh uh uh uh frankly, that is the the uh uh the month that encompassed the entire feast of Passover and unleavened bread. We would just have celebrated that as we celebrated Easter. Daniel was fasting and mourning for the entire time, which indicates that Daniel wasn't about to eat the usual Passover meal or eat the unleavened bread, because in his thinking things were far from routine, so he wasn't going to do that. He didn't even anoint himself with oil, the text says, as was normally done. That Daniel was praying during this entire time is confirmed by What the angel later tells Daniel in verse 12. All of this prepares the way for the second scene in this amazing chapter: Daniel's vision of the heavenly being. That's described in verses four through nine. We learn from verse four that this vision happened ten days after the Passover and three days after the end of the feast of Unleavened bread on the 24th of Nicen. For whatever reason, Daniel is not in Babylon along the Euphrates, but he's somewhere along the Tigris Daniel has a vision that only he sees. Verse 7 says: the men around Daniel didn't see the vision, but they were still terrified, and they fled in hiding. And for sure the vision is of some kind of a celestial being. Verses 5 and 6 says that he was a certain man dressed in fine linen, his waist girded with the gold of Ufas, his body like the Tarshish stone, a beautiful gold-colored gem his face like lightning, eyes like flaming torches, arms and feet like the appearance of burnished bronze, giving off a fiery appearance and And his sound was like the sound of a multitude. Now, commentators are divided here as to whether the vision was an uh some kind of an angel such as Gabriel or Michael, or whether it was a Christophany that is a pre incarnate manifestation of Christ. Now the problem uh that people bring up with the Christophany view is that it appears in verses 10 to 13 that the angel Michael had to actually assist uh uh whoever This person is and had to assist him battle the enemies, and I would highly doubt that the Lord Jesus needed any help such as that. But that assumes that the being who awakens Daniel in I I know this is a little technical, but just follow me. It'll be I I hope it'll be worth it. Um the being who awakens Daniel in verse ten is the same one who is in the vision. And I don't think that's the case. There's nothing in verse ten to indicate that the figure in the vision of verses five through nine is the one who lifts up Daniel and speaks to him during the rest of the chapter. So I take them to be two different beings, with the one we just described in verses 5 to 9 as none other than the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And that would explain the overwhelming reaction of Daniel to the vision, as well as the similarity to two other passages. in Scripture, the Theophany presented in Ezekiel 1, verses 26 to 28, and the even closer Parallel to the portrait of Christ in Revelation 1, verses 12 to 16. Let me just read a little bit of that in Revelation 1, beginning in verse 12. John says, then I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. Having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands. In the midst of the seven lampstands, one like the son of man, clothed with a garment down to his feet, girded about the chest with a golden band, his head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow, his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of many waters. And uh I could go on, uh well uh uh Just the the reaction of all this. John says, and when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, That's clearly a picture of Christ, and it looks exactly to me the same as the picture of Christ. We have here in Daniel 10. And notice, by the way, that Daniel's reaction to the vision and John's reaction in Revelation are nearly identical. They are overwhelmed with the holiness of God. And they have no strength left. The same in Isaiah 6, which Isaiah when Isaiah sees the vision of the glory of the Lord Each of these godly men is overwhelmed by the vision, and each is aware of his own unholiness in comparison to the Lord. And so if this uh is indeed A Christophany, as I believe it is, then this passage is also the culmination of the messianic revelation in the book of Daniel. As Paul Tanner well explains, he says in two thirty-four Christ was represented symbolically as a stone cut out of the mountain. In seven, thirteen, and fourteen he's referred to as one like the Son of Man, destined to receive. receive glory and a kingdom. In nine twenty-five and twenty-six he is the Messiah who will be ruler, yet also cut off, put to death. Now in ten four to nine he is seen. As a priestly figure, so dazzling that he can only be described with figurative expressions. Obviously, human words are inadequate to depict his beauty and attraction. And let's uh stop for a moment and engage in a bit of speculation. Something I try to avoid generally. But why would the Lord give this amazing revelation to Daniel right then at this time in his life? Now, obviously, again, we can't be sure. But I think it was because Daniel was faithful to the Lord his whole life. He was concerned for the welfare of his people and the Lord had already told him and would tell him again in the final vision. That things weren't going to be easy at all in the coming days. There was much more conflict to come. Daniel had been taken captive at a young age, and he yearned for the restoration of Jerusalem and his people. But that full restoration wouldn't happen anytime soon. Yet before explaining this final vision The Lord gives Daniel a glimpse of the one who would prevail over all the battles that would ensue, over all the hostility that Satan and his emissaries could unleash. I think it was a way of reminding Daniel that in the end the Lord would prevail and he could count on that. And yes, I think the application for us is just as clear. We may be upset, rightly so, of many of the things happening in our world today. But what we must not forget is we must not lose sight of the one who will ultimately be victorious. You know, last uh fall I got roped into teaching the book of Revelation in our Tuesday Miles Bible class. They were teaching They had me start, I well I taught John, that was my idea. Then they said, well, you might as well continue with the writings of John. first, second, and third John. I said, yeah, that's fine. That's great. And then of course when we finished that they said, Well, now that you've done those, you might as well just go all the way to Revelation. And uh I hadn't taught Revelation in 32 years. Unlike most people, I don't really I'm and there's too many details that I'm not a hundred percent sure of, etcetera. I don't think it's the easy Book to teach. Um, but at any rate, uh they got me. I've been teaching it since the fall. I've gotten through chapter 14 uh last week. And as I've been teaching it, what struck me is just when the judgments get really severe. was one reason I don't like Revelation. There's so much judgment. I like I like Isaiah. It's a little more balanced. Yeah, there's a lot of judgment in Isaiah. Isaiah, but then there's these great prophecies of redemption. Well, the same thing is true, I must confess, in Revelation. So gee It's in chapter 13, which is one of the most horrible uh chapters, with the two beasts running havoc over the whole earth. and creating all kinds of chaos. And we we get through that. And then we get to chapter 14 and it looks ahead. and gives a picture in the middle of all this of the conquering lamb on Mount Sinai with all the multitudes praising God because the victory is accomplished. That's fantastic. In other words, we need that glimpse sometimes when we're right in the battle and things don't look so good. And uh uh all I'm saying is I think that you and I must not lose sight of that final victory that's ours if If we put our trust in Christ as our Savior, regardless of the things that life is throwing at us now. Well, Daniel is left with no strength whatsoever, according to verse 8, and it seems that with the sound of the Lord's words, he fell into some kind of a Trance or deep sleep induced by the Lord himself, similar uh to what the Lord did to Adam in Genesis two twenty-one or to Abraham in Genesis fifteen twelve, where the same Hebrew root. And that leads us to the third section of the chapter, verses 10 through 14, where another angel comes and says And strengthens Daniel and explains why he was delayed in coming. Verse 10 starts with the Hebrew word henne, which means means behold, indicating a change in scenery. And in my thinking, that helps to make the case that a different being is involved here in strengthening Daniel The good old NIV simply leaves out this important word for stylistic considerations. I'm not too happy. with the NIV sometimes and this is one of those times. Um because uh you know it's it's at least behold um uh it the new New King James actually says suddenly, uh, but anyway, it's Hanay, look, uh, etc. Uh you can't leave it out. in my thinking. One commentator says the angel is Gabriel, which is certainly plausible since he was the one who committed communicated God's message to Daniel in chapters eight and nine. So that's certainly a good possibility, but we're not told that the angel Angel isn't mentioned by name, so I'm simply going to call him the interpreting angel. Maybe I should call him the strengthening angel. Because before he does anything, he's gotta get Daniel in better shape. I still remember back in the days when I played ping pong pretty regularly and I would tell that my opponent um who was sort of a gruff kind of guy. He was a believer, um, but he was kind of an interesting character. And I'd say, I'm not in shape. And he'd say, You never were in shape. And I mean I really couldn't just Disagree with him. Um so anyway, he's gotta get Daniel in better shape. And I think Daniel was probably in pretty good shape to begin with. for his age. Well, this angel embarks on a multi-step process to strengthen Daniel, who's completely powerless after the incredible vision that he has just seen. First in verse 10, the angel's hand touches Daniel and sets him up on his hands and knees. So he's off the ground. I mean, some of you who have issues Similar to me, some of us that are maybe a little advanced in years. I mean when I get to the ground, if I'm getting on the ground for something, I'm gonna do a lot of, you know, making sure I pick anything up that's around there because I don't wanna what Get get up. I mean, it's hard to get up after you're down, etcetera. So and maybe I understand this all too well. And so the first step step is to get him on his hands and knees. He's off the ground. Then in verse 11, the angel tells Daniel to stay stand upright so that he can receive the message. And Daniel's able to do so, but he's still trembling The angel have to do more strengthening later on in verses 16 and 18. Well, the angel reveals four interesting facts to Daniel in verses 11 to 14. First, just as Gabriel did in verse 23 of Daniel 9, the angel calls Daniel greatly beloved in verse 11. As I mentioned when I preached on Daniel 9 in January, the word literally means a precious treasure. Daniel was precious to God. This one who could hardly stand was precious in God's sight. It wasn't simply Daniel's fasting and praying here. It was his total devotion to God, which had been tested over his entire lifetime. As James 5. 16 says, the effective, fervent prayer of a righteous man avails much. Daniel was indeed a righteous man. This was really the key, I think, to his fasting and his prayer life and everything else that he did. I said this back in January, but it bears repeating. What will my legacy be in the Lord's eyes? What will your legacy be? Daniel was precious to the Lord. He may be weak here physically, but he was precious nonetheless. There can be no greater legacy than that. Well, second, because Daniel was precious in God's sight. The angel tells Daniel in verse 12 that he'd actually come in response to Daniel's fast and his accompanying prayers on the very first day. Notice that the angel interprets Daniel's fast as an act of humbling himself before the Lord. Perhaps Daniel had thought that the Lord wasn't hearing his prayers, but God heard and he sent his angel. right away. Now here's where things get a bit crazy from verse 13 on to the end of the chapter. The angel states thirdly in verse 13 that he was detained by the Prince of the Kingdom of Persia for 21 days. Huh? That's my My reaction. I don't know what yours is. That's not a very good spiritual point, however, huh? Uh here we have uh I didn't write it in your outline sheet But here we have a glimpse of the kind of heavenly warfare that you and I know very little about. So often we tend to act as if we're totally in control control of the world's affairs and we forget that there is indeed a great spiritual battle going on and that we can have a part in that warfare through In this case, the angel was detained by an evil angel assigned to Persia, and a fierce spiritual battle ens ensued. Was the good angel able to prevail and thus reach Daniel? That's amazing. Jesus' admonition in Luke eighteen one that we should always pray and not give up is particularly Important to remember as we reflect upon the spiritual battles involved in the answer to our own prayers. As one commentator observes, from this narrative we see we have to be able to do that. We see that unseen evil forces oppose the work of God. For this reason, it shouldn't be surprising when there's opposition to your efforts to serve the Lord. It's worth remembering, however, that greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. 1 John 4, 4. By the way, the angel Michael is mentioned only five times in Scripture, three times in Daniel, here in verse 13, where he's called one of the chief princes, then again in verse 21, where he's simply called your prince. And finally in Daniel 12, 1, where he's called the Great Prince who stands watch over the sons of your people. In the New Testament, Michael gets a brief but obscure mention in Jude 9. Where Jude says that Michael the archangel was contending with the devil over the body of Moses, and then a much longer section in Revelation 12, 7-9. where Michael and his angels wage war against Satan and his angels and defeat them, presumably during the end-time tribulation period. For good reason, the Jewish Talmud actually calls Michael Israel's guardian angel, since he seems to have special responsibilities in protecting Israel. Finally, in verse 14, the angel gives the reason for his visit to Daniel. He's come to help Daniel understand the future of his people Israel since the vision concerned The latter days. This expression latter days is used twelve times in the Old Testament, and nearly always it's used in an eschatological sense. Uh and I've provided a few uh instances in Old Testament. in in the handout uh that was uh given out. Uh as we'll see when we study chapters eleven and twelve, the phrase here refers especially to the time of tribu uh tribulation prior to the glorious Return of Christ. Well, that brings us to the final section of this chapter in verses 15 to 21. Really stretching in a sense to verse one of chapter eleven, Daniel's further strengthening and the interpreting angels' discussion of future and previous heavenly conflicts. In verse 15, Daniel is still overwhelmed, both by the vision and by the words which the angel had uttered about a cosmic battle that would come So we have then two more strengthening sections by an angel uh who is described a bit differently in verses six sixteen and eighteen is one in the likeness of the sons of men. So it could be a different angel, but most commentators think, and I would agree with them, that it's probably the same angel as in verses 10 to 14, whom perhaps he didn't see clearly until verse 16. First, in verses 15 to 17, we see Daniel once again speechless. with his face toward the ground. But the angel touches his lips, giving him strength to speak. Daniel does speak in verse sixteen and seventeen basically explained that because of the vision, he has no strength left to converse with the angel. The word used in verse 16 to describe his anguish usually refers to birth pangs, so we're not we're we're talking about pretty serious pain. The New King James translation uh uses the word sorrows, but I think that's a little weak given the word and its reference. uh to birth pangs. Next in verses 18 and 19, the angel touches Daniel again and strengthens him In verse 19, the angel once again calls Daniel greatly beloved or precious, as in verse 11. And he tells Daniel, fear not, peace be with you. Daniel shouldn't be afraid. Rather, he should experience peace. And the word used here is shalom, the Hebrew word shalom, meaning total well-being, security, or peace And he should be strong. At the end of verse 19, Daniel replies affirmatively that he's able to receive what the angel has to say. So in verses 20 through chapter 11, verse 1, the angel provides more details about the heavenly warfare Explains to Daniel that he must go back and fight the Prince of Persia once again and then take on the Prince of Greece, apparently another evil angel. He explains that only Michael assists him in these battles, and he further mentions in verse 1 of chapter 11 that it was in the first year of Darius that he allied with Michael. in the warfare against these evil angels. So these struggles have been going on for several years by the time of Daniel's vision Now there's so much that isn't spelled out in detail here, so we need to be careful in our analysis. But it doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize that in the first year spoken about here is the same year when Cyrus the Persian king issued his decree permitting the Jews to return to Jerusalem. Apparently that decree might not have been given had not Michael and his forces prevailed And only 65 years later, in 474 B. C. , during the reign of the Persian king Ahasueras, or Xerxes, Haman's plot nearly caused the obliteration of the Jews, but it was thwarted by Queen Esther and Mordecai. Again, who knows what kind of heavenly warfare was going on between Michael and his angels against the demonic princes of Persia? It's no accident that the vision of Daniel 11 begins with four more kings of Persia. Before I get into any more speculation and into greater uh trouble, uh I'm gonna turn my attention away from this absolutely fascinating behind the scenes look at a heavenly conflict And I'm going to focus instead on five key applications for us today. Perhaps when you first read this chapter you thought, uh maybe Maybe kind of like what I might have thought. Well, there's not all that much there. You know, I could cover three chapters in one message. Aren't you glad I didn't do that. You can imagine you'd be come getting home by about three o'clock this afternoon. But I think there are all kinds of things that we can apply to our own lives. First, like Daniel, you and I should primarily be concerned about others, not ourselves. We should be concerned about others, not ourselves, but there's a cost. Maybe that's not the first thing to popped into your head as we looked into this chapter, but it's kind of hard to ignore. As I mentioned, Daniel's probably around 85 years old. I'm feeling pretty ancient. You can watch me getting up and down here and you're saying, man. He's deteriorating if you know in my eyes. I can see it, right? I mean, I'm thinking the same thing, so maybe some of you are too. The the brain's still working Okay, but the rest of me, not so much. He's eleven years older than me, something like that, and he's not thinking of himself at all. He's served the Babylonians and the Persians through the various ups and downs of their kingdoms, but primarily he's been serving the Lord this whole time. And he's not going to let old age or the lack of a p political position stop him now. He's concerned for the welfare of his people. So he mourns and fasts for three entire weeks. What's the result? Well, it's not exactly a bed of ease, is it? Instead, he gets a vision that other people run away from, literally, and it takes an entire chapter for Daniel. even to be able to talk sensibly. I love what Dale Ralph Davis says about this chapter. He writes, Why does this arduous process of strengthening Daniel have to be described in such unhurried detail? Why waste, he puts quote marks around waste, why waste a whole chapter on this? One might wonder if this helpless sleeping shaking, speechless, breathless man will ever be in shape to receive the angel's revelation. Verses eighteen and nineteen finally assure us that Daniel had been sufficiently strength to face more of the revelation ordeal. The chapter's description in such painful detail emphasizes that receiving the truth takes a frightful toll on a man. And I think he's exactly right. We don't usually think of it this way. But this chapter forces us to do exactly that. Davis goes on to say We sit comfortably at our desks or tables with a companionable mug of coffee, read the prophets, and scarcely think of how Daniel was physically and emotionally wiped out. Or Ezekiel plunged into a mental morass of anguish and anger in Ezekiel 3. In short, of how much the word of God cost them. If we did, we would more highly prize and tenderly reverence what we have received at their hands. Daniel's care and his concern for his people Came at quite a cost to him. And it's true for you and me as well today. God wants us to care for those around us, especially those who are going through hard times in one way or another. And I bring up one example and it happens to be one case where I cared. There's probably a thousand cases where I didn't observe or care the way I should have, but dear Mark Hazlet, who had a stroke three and a half years ago, your pastor and I have visited him uh regularly, uh it etc. Um he can't uh fend for himself and so um we've rallied other people to uh help support so that he can uh stay in a in a wonderful facility Uh, etc. Well, you know, it's easy to sort of forget those people, but I don't think God wants us to forget those people, uh, just as our Savior cares for each Sheep, especially those who are lost. So you and I, I think, have an obligation to care for those around us. And yes, there is the cost But it's worth it. Second, and going right along with this first point, is that God can take the weakest people and cause them to accomplish great things for Him. In fact, it seems to me that God delights in doing precisely that. We don't see Daniel here bravely willing to face a den of lions. I've never seen this chapter in a children's storybook. Have you a Bible story book? I haven't seen it. I don't know why, but I haven't seen I'm kidding. I know why. But uh, you know, he's not here bravely willing to face a deep den of lions. We see a weak tongue-tied prophet. And yet it's to this man, greatly beloved by God, that these amazing amazing visions are given. The Apostle Paul reminds us in 1 Corinthians Corinthians 1, 27 to 29, that God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world. to put to shame the things that are mighty and the base things and the things which are despised God has chosen and the things which are not to bring to nothing the things that are that no flesh should glory in his presence. And I loved our scripture reading today. It's almost as if whoever chose it is reading my mind, or maybe just reading Daniel 10, right, and looking at Paul and his thorn in the flesh, right? My grace is sufficient for you, right? My strength is made complete in Weakness. God often uses the weakest and most unlikely people to accomplish his purposes, and that includes you and Me. Third, I see from this chapter that God's holiness is amazing and it necessitates our awe and our humility. Once Daniel saw a vision of the Lord himself, he was awestruck, as he should have been. It's exactly the same response at Isaiah. uh uh felt when he saw the glory of the Lord in Isaiah chapter six or the Apostle John when the Lord appeared to him in revelation in Revelation one and he fell at his feet like a dead man. But here's the wonderful second part of that truth. God's holiness is amazing, but one day, because of all that Christ has done for us, if we've trusted in Christ as our Savior. You and I are going to see him face to face, and we will rejoice. John tells us in 1 John 3:2 that when Christ appears, we will be like him. For we will see him just as he is. What an amazing truth and something for each of us to treasure, especially in the darkest Moments. Fourth, one of the most important applications of the entire chapter, and indeed the entire book of Daniel, is that there is an invisible war all around us that we must not ignore. And the sub-point here is that prayer is an essential part of winning that battle. Frankly, in our day-to-day lives, how often do we reflect on this truth? If we're honest, probably not all that much. I was interested in uh I I hope you pay attention to your hymns. You know I sometimes give you a quiz. Right, on the hymns. Well, I'm sure you remember reading and uh or singing, Abide With Me, right? Swift to its uh Its clothes ebbs out life's little day. Earth's joys go grow dim. Its glories pass away. You sung that. Right? And uh I sung that and I hope that we understand that. But how important it is to realize. That there's a spiritual battle going on that we don't understand when we're here in our day-to-day lives and we're concerned with various things that happen. Uh and uh frankly, what this also tells us is that things aren't always as they appear. There's a whole lot more going on behind the scenes. That chapters such as this one only give us a little peak. But Paul tells us quite plainly in Ephesians 6. 10 to 18, that there's a spiritual battle going on, and you and I didn't need to take up that whole armor of God to combat it. And prayer is a key part of all of that. The very last verse of Ephesians 6. 18 says, praying always with all prayer and supplication, in the Spirit being watchful to this end with all perseverance and supplication. For the saints. Paul is very clear that it's a spiritual work there, and you need every single aspect of the armor put on and utilized in order to to combat Satan. So when an older or infirm person, and I've heard this many times when I was younger, and Continuing now that I'm one of those older people, and that when they lament that they can't do more physically at church or whatever, yet they're being a vigilant prayer warrior. as many are, they're making a tremendous difference in the spiritual battle. I had to talk with some hospice people this uh past week that are dealing uh trying to help Mark uh Hazlet and they're pretty much, you know, trying to indicate that I mean, you know, there's not really all that much good that he's doing, so we don't really want to prolong his life. I'm not kidding on this, I wish I were. And so I had to point out, as I have to multiples of these people before, that Mark is doing a tremendous thing. You don't seem to understand I don't put it that way. I don't accuse, but I simply say no, he's praying for people. He's actively sharing in prayer requests. I was with him yesterday and uh we shared prayer prayer requests and we prayed together. Is that nothing? Just because he can't get out of bed? I don't think so. There's a life to me that's vital and important. But the world doesn't think so. The world thinks, oh no, you know. No, that's it. No, that's absolutely wrong. I remember around forty years ago a book called This Present Darkness, most of you You perhaps uh uh heard of it written by Frank Peretti. Um maybe it went a little bit overboard, but what it tried to show was the tangible of tangible effect in the spiritual realm that believers' prayers had upon every situation that they faced. And it's so easy for you and I to forget that. But this chapter warns us That we do so at our peril. Finally, my last application, and with this I will close, is that Daniel's priorities should be ours We should prioritize concern for others. That should be way up high in our list of concerns. The spread of God's truth, especially Especially the gospel, but all of God's truth, prayer for all aspects of the spiritual warfare, and a focus on the things of eternity, not the physical things right in front of us. It's so easy to go get caught up with the news of the day, our own day-to-day struggles of one kind or another, health concerns, financial issues and and so forth. I'm um not immune to that and I'm sure you're not either. But you and I need to take more time to study God's word to see his priorities afresh so that we we can make them our own and pray and act accordingly. May the Lord enable us to make him and his word a priority in his in in our lives each day. For his glory. Let's close in prayer. Father, I thank you so much for your word, and I thank you for the truth of the scriptures. And I thank you, Lord, for the life of a man such as Daniel that we've been. Been uh studying over these uh past months and just amazed, Lord, at his consistent testimony from a young age even now to an old age I thank you, Father, that he wasn't simply deciding, you know, I'm gonna leave live the easy life right now. No, he's concerned that every day he has is a day that he can use To glorify you, to praise you, to pray to you, Lord, because he recognized there was a spiritual battle going on. And if there was a spiritual battle going on, Lord, in the days of Daniel, there's certainly a spiritual battle going on in our day where God is often forgotten. Sunday is just any other day for most people around and they do not understand uh spiritual things. I pray, Father, that you would help us to be be people that proclaim the truth with our words, but also in our lives and in our actions that we represent the truth in a way that is pleasing in your sight. And Lord help us to show a concern for other people. That's one of the hallmarks, Lord, of being a believer believer that we care for one another. And Father, help us not to neglect in doing that either. I pray, Father, you continue to strengthen and encourage each other Each of us, Lord, I know there are many uh things that people are going through. Uh all of us are going through various things, but help us to fix our eyes on you. Thank you, Lord, that we know the end of the story. We know that Christ is on the winning side, and we will be there too if we've trusted in him. We pray all this in Christ's precious name with thanksgiving. Amen.