That's nice, but you're good. Okay. I'm not sure if this mic is hot or not, but uh Okay, please uh make your way to the to find the seat here. Let's get going here Thank you for joining us, joining us here at Faith Bible Church. And special weekend. Happy Father's Day to you. Thankful for all the fathers and father figures in our lives. So uh yeah, we're gonna have Pastor Dan come up here in a minute. And um So please take a seat. Alright, so uh let's get started here. It's the first uh two talks this morning from Pastor Dan. So uh yeah, let's um get started and I'll just pray and we can And go right ahead. Lord, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for uh this day to not only think about just fatherhood, but also to worship you and just see you as our great father and Lord um of course Some of us as fathers and uh even the fathers we've known or they should fall short of your glory, but we're thankful for this this this privilege of representing you and thankful for what uh the the creation mandate to be fruitful and multiply and to have families. These are all gifts from you. And help us to be res take responsibility. Help us to listen to your word and just to follow and think of ways we can glorify you through your word and through application of your word. And we just thank you for Pastor Dan for his willingness to come up here this weekend. And thank you for the good time we had yesterday as he addressed men and boys of all ages. Now as The entire congregation listens, I pray that we'll be encouraged and edified. As they just be with Pastor Dan, that you would just help him to speak your word. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Alright, so we'll have Pastor Dan come up. Um I think most of you already know him, but I'll reintroduce him later. But right now he can just uh introduce himself. Good morning. It is good to see some familiar faces and some new faces. from times that I have had the privilege of being here in the past. It is a trip down memory lane for me. And Just so many stories come to mind of uh m my and my family's experiences here. It is a privilege to be with uh Pastor Sung Cho. And uh E-Ray and Nathaniel and Annette. Uh I've had the privilege of getting to know you, Pastor, over, I guess it's been a couple of years now. We've been Meeting on Thursday mornings. Uh he had never seen he didn't he'd never seen me, you know, he just saw me from here up on the telephone and and uh now uh we're We're actually meeting in person for the first time. And it's been a great experience getting to know your Pastor Cho. his his ministry here and and to be I feel like I've kind of been part of it. My own testimony is that uh This church has been on my heart since the Lord led our family to move up to Pennsylvania and minister there in Limerick Chapel for 30 years. Church has been on my heart and in my prayers. And so it is a real privilege to meet with your present pastor and to hopefully be an encouragement. uh to him and uh he has certainly been an encouragement to me. So you are blessed uh to have a shepherd, uh one who has been sent by God uh to shepherd the flock of God that exists. here at Faith Bible Church. And so Pastor Cho, thank you for letting me be part of your ministry and of this church's ministry. in these last couple of years. And this is our first time that we have met in the flesh to really see each other uh you know together in the same place. So it's been very special. And yesterday I really enjoyed meeting with the men and boys outdoors and uh uh seeing uh pastor quinton come out from West Virginia on his Harley and uh uh met with us and and to see a lot of you folks that have uh come together that we've known over the years. So what we're going to do in this hour is I'm going to lead in a Bible study And then we will open it up for discussion. So if you would make note of questions or comments, thoughts that you may have on this subject. We'll hopefully have some time for you at the end. And we finish up here usually by 10. 40. Okay. And we've even got a digital clock up here. I like that. Okay. Good. Well, let's pray. Father, open the word to us now, and may we see Jesus, and may we be changed into his likeness. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to be very uh simple and basic uh today. I think there was a football coach that said uh when he became the coach of a a very important team. He said, we're going to start with simple things. This is a football. You know. Yeah. And sometimes we need to go back to basics in a very confusing world. It seems as though there is Unusual confusion in our world today on just the subject of men and women And so in this hour, I would like to go into the scriptures on the subject of what is a woman, and since it's Father's Day. In the main service, we'll go into the subject of what is a man. I'm starting in the beginning here in Genesis chapter 2. And verse 18, if you're following along in your Bible, Genesis chapter 2 and verse 18. And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper, comparable to him. Out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field, every bird of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. And whatever Adam called, each living creature, that was its name. So Adam gave names to all cattle, to the birds of the air, and to every beast of the field. But for Adam, there was not found a helper comparable to him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh in its place. Then the rib which the Lord God had taken from man, he made into a woman, and he brought her to the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. This is a twenty dollar bill. I'm pretty sure that it is a genuine twenty dollar bill. It feels right, looks right, got President Andrew Jackson right on the front. It's got the little gold thing here. It's got the signatures. Nice picture of the White House on the back. And even if you hold it up to the light, there's some little words in there printed and pictures and stuff. It looks to me like a genuine $20. Bill. And I understand that people in the banking work down through the years in order to detect counterfeits. uh they thoroughly familiarize themselves with the genuine article. Because when you understand what a genuine twenty dollar bill is You'll easily detect a counterfeit. Now, I believe that God only created two genders. And when you know what a woman is, you'll be better able to identify counterfeit women. There are only two genders today, but there are many counterfeits. There's still only two genders. Many counterfeits. We're not going to pursue the issue of counterfeit women, but we will seek to identify The genuine article by listening to the creator of women, God Himself. God himself. Back to basics. So we're going to look at the origin of women in two important events. The first one is the creation, and the second is the fall. Why are these two events critical to understanding? What a woman is. Well, for this, we go to the Apostle Paul. In 1 Timothy chapter 2. And verse eight. First Timothy chapter two and verse eight First Timothy chapter 2 and verse 8 I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. In like manner also that the women adorn themselves in modest apparel with propriety and moderation not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing, but which is proper for women professing godliness with good works. Let a woman learn in silence with all submission. And I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over man, but to be in silence And then in verse 13, we see the word for, which tells us now we're going to have a reason for why the Apostle Paul did this. I want to stop here before I move on. Many people say that whatever differences there are and have been between male and female is a cultural. construct, a cultural thing. And so we say, well, that was Paul's culture, and that's why he said that. Because of the Roman culture, the Greek culture, or perhaps even the Jewish culture. But what he says as a reason why There are different roles in the church for men and women. He does not go back to Roman culture, Greek culture, or even Jewish culture. He goes back pre-culturally. To two pre-cultural events, the creation and the fall. That's what he says. For Adam was formed first, then Eve. That's the reason why. The limitations are placed on women's teaching ministry in the church. And the second, verse 14, Adam was not deceived But the woman, being deceived, fell into transgression. So he mentions the creation and the fall. As the reasons why the Apostle Paul, in his directions to the local church contained in this pastoral epistle, he says, that's why. Two pre-cultural events. The creation, order, and then the nature of the fall. And then verse 15 has had a lot of commentary given on it. Verse 15, nevertheless, she will be saved. in childbearing if they continue in faith, love, and holiness with self-control. So verse 15 What is she saved from? Well the word saved is used in a lot of different ways throughout the Bible, but here in context it appears to me that he's talking about. So the woman has limitations as to her ministry in the local assembly. So she's gifted. She's Mature spiritually, so how does she minister within the context of the local church, which is a context of 1 Timothy? How will she be saved from uselessness? How will she be saved from not using her gifts? Well, he says, in the bearing of children. If they, the children, obviously, continue. And then he gives a a list. Of the curriculum subjects of the mother's ministry to children. And as we see in the book of Titus, the older women are to teach the younger women to love their husbands and their children and so forth. And so the women, as part of the New Testament church, have a ministry to younger women. and to children, which should make up a good amount of the church to whom their teaching gifts and their leadership gifts may be used. And the curriculum that they're to teach is so much needed in the young wives and the children of our churches. What is the curriculum? He says faith. They need to learn faith. Mothers were intended to teach their children faith. And even when we see the Apostle Paul telling Timothy, how the widows are to be taught. We see that there's faith to be carried on, even as Timothy's grandmother and mother taught him genuine faith by the genuine faith of their lives. And so the ministry to younger women and the ministry to children is why God gifted women in the assembly with teaching and leading gifts. They're to teach faith. There to teach love, to love your husbands, to love your children, holiness and self-control. That is the curriculum that God intended women to teach and how sad it is to see so many Children, young people growing up in our nation today and not knowing these things And to see young wives, not knowing what the focus of their life and ministry would be. Well you say, well, I don't, I'm not married, I'm a single woman, or I'm not able to have children. God still intended as the widows that they would bring up children, that they would minister to children, and that children will need that instruction. So We see that the Apostle Paul refers to creation and the fall. Let's take a look at creation. Let's go back now to Genesis chapter 1 and verse 27. Genesis chapter 17. And verse 27. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. Then God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So we see that both man and woman are created in the image of God. We could spend a lot of time on just what that is. But it is the essential thing that differentiates us from some very smart animals. Okay? And uh you you may know some really smart animals, you know? Uh dogs can be pretty smart and cats can be pretty smart and And they're teaching animals to do a whole lot of different things. But the fact is that human beings are unique in that we have been made in the image of God. of God. And both men and women share in the likeness of having been created in the image of God. And the reason he created us in his image was that we would To have fellowship with him. The account in Genesis tells us that Adam and Eve walked with God in the cool of the evening. Uh when they got their work done, they spent time with the Lord together. Husband and wife together I think one of the most intimate things that husband and wife can ever do is to get on their knees and pray together. To share in prayer. Spare that that spiritual communion together. To walk with the Lord in the cool of the evening or whatever it is that you do that. God created us. to have a relationship with him. And Adam and Eve had that relationship with God in their creation time before the fall. The second thing we notice here is that woman was designed for marriage to a man because uh God said something about men, and it is really true uh today. He said it was not good. for a man to be alone. Yeah. Men get into all kinds of trouble, but especially when they don't have a woman to keep track of them, you know To help them. He said, I'm going to create a helper. Why a helper? Because men need help. And it's not good for them to be alone, okay? That's what God says. I'm not telling you something, that's what the Bible says. She was designed for marriage a person. Now, as the Apostle Paul says, not everybody has the gift of marriage, some have the gift of singleness, as apparently he did. There's certainly lots of ways to look at this, but essentially human beings were made in the image of God, and we were designed for marriage, one man and one woman. For their lives. Then we see that woman was designed by God for the bearing and raising of children. And God said he blessed them. This whole blessing thing is interesting. I notice that some churches bless the animals. You ever notice that? I've been involved in a motorcycle ministry recently where we bless motorcycles. We do So I went back into the Bible and I thought, does God bless animals? And you know what? He did. He blessed the animals in Genesis, and he told them to, by that blessing, he told the animals to do what? Be fruitful and multiply. Now, when we bless motorcycles, we're really blessing the motorcyclist. Okay? We lay hands on him and his motorcycle and we pray. that he will know the Lord and that he'll be safe as he travels. And then when we're done praying for him, we say, so, do you know the Lord? Are you a Christian? And we get to talk to people about the Lord. Because people need a blessing. You know? People need a blessing. God blessed Adam and Eve, and he told them, to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. And you and I are here today because somebody did that. Amen? Yeah, right. Here we are. Here we are. It is only men and women that can reproduce and produce a multiplication and a filling of the earth and the substance. doing of it. No wonder Satan wants to steal and kill and destroy. No wonder people in the world today want to prevent marriage and children and even destroy unborn children that is devilish So we have the order of creation and the nature of creation laid out in the Bible. And if you believe the Bible, then you have the answer to a lot of questions. And if you question the Bible, you have a lot of questions. But the Bible is true. God records what took place in creation. But then something horrible happened. Called the fall. And in Genesis chapter 3, we see as a result of the sin of Adam and Eve of eating from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. That a curse came on them. In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 16, we read this. To the woman he said, that is, God said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow. And your conception, in pain you shall bring forth children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. So we see that the curse on the woman was the multiplication of her sorrow. And the multiplication of her conception, and the pain in childbirth You say, yeah, but all that about creation, the fall, and everything, I mean that was thousands of years ago. Is it still true today? Well, let's look at the words of Jesus. Matthew 19, verse 4. Matthew 19, verse 4. Matthew 19, 4. In the discussion, the question that was given to Jesus about divorce, he answers this in verse 4, he answered and said to them, Have you not read that he who made them at the beginning made them male and female? You know, Jesus believed that there were two genders, male and female. Female. He endorsed what Genesis said and he believed it. And so we see that creation and the fall have established The role of the woman in the church and also in the family. So What is a woman according to the Bible? Well, she's created by God. She's made in the image of God. She's valuable, of eternal worth, and designed for fellowship with God. The application I take from this is that because you, as a woman, if you are a woman, you were created. for fellowship with God. You were creating the image of God uh for fellowship with God And if you are married, you know that your husband needs you, but essentially, there is no human man who can meet the deepest needs of your heart and soul. You, as a result of the fall into sinfulness that our first parents got us into, Adam and Eve, as a result of that. You have a need for a relationship with the only perfect man that ever lived, and that is Jesus Christ He is the only one that can satisfy the needs of your complete person. He's the only one that can save you. from sin. He is the only one that can give you joy and peace and love. And if you focus on finding the right man who will meet the deepest needs of your soul, you will be disappointed. And every man you ever meet, every man you ever marry, every man you ever have a relationship with, because only Jesus can truly satisfy your soul. Can I hear an amen? It's okay. Yeah, it's all right to say amen. Jesus. You were made for fellowship with him. And if you as a woman have been saved by Jesus, who died for you and rose again. And you have a relationship with him by the Spirit of God and the Word of God on a daily basis, you will then have your deepest needs met. He will be with you in the sorrows that you have as a woman, because he is the man of sorrows, and he is acquainted with grief. And we have not an high priest who cannot be touched with the feeling of our weaknesses. And so the Lord Jesus understands what you're going through, and he is there for you. and he will meet the deepest needs of your soul so that you can minister to Your husband if you have one. You can use your gifts in ministry to younger women and to children in the local church and whatever other ministries. God gives to you. So, Jesus can satisfy your soul And the intense sorrows that women have are understood by the Lord Jesus, even if your husband does not understand your deep sorrows. One of the interesting things in this passage is the multiplication of conception. And I'm not going to go into all that. I remember one time we had an IFCA meeting here. I remember Rick Leinweber was part of that at that time. We were meeting with pastors throughout the Delmarva region here at Faith Bible Church. And my dad was up from Florida visiting. He was an interim pastor at that time. And uh uh our subject on that day was contraception. That was our subject for discussion, the biblical view of contraception. And so I remember My dad told me later, he says, I've been down in Florida. All people talk about is death and dying and going to the doctor and eating in restaurants He said, it's so nice to be back in the land of the living where people are at least talking about, you know, younger things. Well, we discussed that, and we looked into this passage because the multiplication of conception Should Christians use contraceptives? That is today another discussion and issue. What is a biblical position on this? Well, uh, I believe that my eyes have been going bad as a result of the fall. Okay? Because that's when death entered and I'm starting to die already. My eyes are starting to die. I don't see without the Things. Okay? But I am so grateful, I guess it was Ben Franklin or somebody that invented bifocals so that I can see you and I can see my Bible. Aren't bifocals a great thing? And uh we have all kinds of ways to correct our eyesight, even though as a result of the curse our eyes tend to go, okay? So we deal with a curse with modern science, and most of us are pretty good with that. Uh my wife is really good at having babies We could have probably had twenty. She wanted to have twelve. We settled for six. But uh, you know, uh Uh we practice contraceptives and we planned our children. And uh we were very happy to have children and to fill our home with children, but we really didn't want 27, okay? And it probably would have killed her in the process. So, you know, there is something in the scriptures here, at least a hint, that modern science addresses issues of the consequences of the fall. that took place with Adam and Eve and its consequences that have taken place upon us. I won't press that issue much further, but uh we we find here that there's a multiplication of conception. And then there is pain, praise God for modern medicine, that addresses the issues of pain in childbirth. But the most important thing that I want to leave with you is the fact That even though there is the issue of the order of creation And the reality of the fall into sin that has affected a woman, yet God provided Jesus. The prophecy was given that someday the seed of the woman would crush the head of the serpent. And even in the story of the fall of Adam and Eve into sin, there is that prophecy of the one who was to come. When they covered themselves with fig leaves, God provided coats of skins. He provided a blood sacrifice for the covering of their shame and nakedness. And so ultimately the story of the creation and fall of woman, we'll get to the man later, is is dealt with by God in the provision of the serpent crusher, Jesus. Who would do so by shedding his blood as the sacrificial substitute? And that that is the message of the gospel for every woman who is struggling. with sorrow, with difficulty in life, the answer is you need Jesus. He is the perfect man. He is the only man that can truly meet your needs. And it's so sad to see so many women looking for that perfect guy. Only to find out that any guy that ever comes into her life has his shortcomings and difficulties because only Jesus can satisfy your Well that's my presentation for Sunday School. So what questions or comments do you have on the subject of what is a woman? This is a class, so yes. I won't hide the video. When I moved to Lynchburg, I was looking for somebody to ride my motorcycle with, and so I joined the Christian Motorcycle Association. One of the activities that the members of that Christian group involve themselves in is is a prayer meeting called America Pray Now. uh it's a Virginia-based uh prayer movement. And uh so in Lynchburg we meet at a restaurant People from various churches in the city of Lynchburg. Our sheriff comes, our state delegate comes, our uh Our congressman's mother comes and members of our school board come as well as of our council that runs the city of Lynchburg. And people from various churches come. We eat a meal together. Often our Uh government officials will share something of prayer. These are all people who are born again love the Lord that are in government. locally and uh they will share uh what's going on in their respective uh government positions. And then we just go to prayer. We spend an hour in prayer and various ones. Short prayers, one subject each, and we pray. And uh I've been part of that group for about five years now. We meet once a month, and uh we have seen very direct answers to prayer. We now have a born-again governor, Governor Young in In Virginia, who loves the Lord, he and his wife, and who have hosted America Pray Now prayer meetings in the governor's mansion. They have asked us for prayer And we have seen a number of very clear answers to prayer in regard to Lynchburg government and in regard to our local school board. where we have believers now in a majority of our Lynchburg city government and believers now on our school board And so we have seen some very definite answers to prayer in regard to our government there in Lynchburg. I am now presently pastoring a church near Danville, Virginia. And uh Danville has a lot of problems. And we didn't have a America Pray Now prayer group. Just now, last week for the second month, we've now met together. With people from various churches, uh born-again believers that care about their government in Danville. And again, we get together and we pray. And uh I'm very excited by this for the very reason that you have stated because it appears that we are now living in Sodom and Gomorrah. You know, there's always been sin, and there's no new sins. All the sins that anybody can ever commit are already mentioned in the Bible, okay? So there's no new sins. And the sins have always been with us. America's always had its sins. But the fact is, the difference now is the sins are being celebrated at the highest levels. of our government, and we are even exporting these sins abroad and pushing them on other countries around the world. And so in that regard, I think we are right to say that America is Sodom and Gomorrah and that we are living in Sodom and Gomorrah. But it's interesting to me that in the midst of Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham, number one, wasn't living in the middle of it. He decided about where he'd live and lead his family where he could. outside of Sodom and Sodom and Gomorrah, but when the Lord with his angels came to destroy Sodom, Abraham didn't say, go get them, God. Nukem, they're terrible, clean them out, did he? No, Abraham interceded for Sodom. Isn't that interesting He cared enough about Sodom and Gomorrah to intercede with God, to pray, really. And when Earlier on in the story, when Sodom and Gomorrah were captured and people carried off, Abraham got his own army. It wasn't exactly the Second Amendment, but close. He got his own army to go out and bring them back and spare their lives. And then he introduced them to this mysterious character called Melchizedek. Okay? It was appears to be a preincarnate appearance of our Lord and Savior. The interaction of Abraham And uh Sodom and Gomorrah to me is a template for our attitude towards uh whether you call it gay rights or whatever pe you know, homosexuals in our society today. What do you do when you meet a homosexual? I was meeting homosexuals, blatant homosexuals, when we were going door to door and and Pennsylvania. So I wrote a tract called The True Story of the Rainbow. You know, the story of the rainbow is a story of God's love and redemption, isn't it? And the rainbow belongs to God. And it shows his grace and his promise. to people who in the flood deserve to be drowned, you know? And the word drowned. Anyways, God's rainbow. So I believe that Abraham provides a template for our approach. And I appreciate what you said there because my hope for America is the hope that Abraham had for Sodom that there maybe would be ten righteous in in Sodom that would uh be spared. And I believe, I don't know what the number is here. I don't know what God's uh uh you know threshold is on that. But but I believe that when God's people uh pray uh intercede with God for these people. You know, we've been talking about uh the genuine article. We've not I've not gone into the whole issue of ministry to people who are caught up in these things, but I'll tell you they need deliverance. They need people who love them. They need people who care for them. And they may be in your own family. They may be in your own workplace. They may be in your own neighborhood. And then how do you reach out to them? And basically You pray for them, you love them, you care them for them, and you try to bring them to Jesus. And that's that's a whole other subject to talk about. But uh I believe it starts with prayer. and gathering people together to pray specifically for our governmental leaders. The Bible says that, first of all, that we as believers should pray for kings and for those who are in authority. that our ministry of prayer is key to uh the blessing on a country. And so uh we may think, oh we're just a a small group of Christians here and it's just us and there's hardly anybody here, it's just us. Hey, if there'd been ten in Sodom and Gomorrah, you know? So the main thing for believers is not Uh so much that God wants us to fill up a lot of buildings and have a lot of people, but he wants us to be genuine believers who genuinely intercede for the lost people around us in our neighborhood, in our work, in our family, or whatever that situation is. So thank you for introducing that. That's another whole sermon, but uh yeah. I think Abraham is a wonderful example of how we should be towards the Sodom and Gomorrah that we live in today. Good. Any other comments or questions? We've got what four minutes left by my evaluation here. Any other comments or questions? Yes. Yeah, well so the question is about people that claim to be Christian leaders and claim to be Christian churches and yet are celebrating Pride Month. and are uh promoting uh uh th uh these kinds of lifestyles. Uh They really need a lot of prayer, don't they? But we uh the Bible makes it very clear that we are to come out from among them and be separate and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. And so there's a reason why Faith Bible Church is an independent church. And not part of any denomination that has compromised in regard to these and other issues And so I think it's very important for the church to remain separate and pure from Cooperating and compromising with churches and Christian leaders that promote sin. The hardest thing, though, is that God has not only called us to stand against sin and to stand for righteousness. But he has also told us to reach out and love and care for and draw sinners to himself. And that is the challenge, isn't it? Is how to show love and kindness and care uh for people who uh blatantly advertise these lifestyles uh while uh taking a stand against the sin. And that requires a lot of grace and wisdom, doesn't it? Especially if they're in our own family. But we certainly need to take a stand against leaders who stand for evil and whether they be religious leaders or government leaders. Okay? We need to stand against the sin and the evil and identify that, but we must on an individual basis show love and care for people as we can. And that requires great wisdom. It requires the wisdom of a surgeon who wants to cut out the cancer without killing the patient, you know? And uh we hate sin, what it does in our own lives. Of course, Jesus said we should all uh start with ourselves Take the beam out of your own eye so that you can see clearly to take uh the moat out of your your brother's eye. And so how to stand against evil in terms of elections and controversies in our society while loving individuals that we have personal contact with is a great challenge. And we will be misunderstood for that. Might as well face it. Does that make sense? Well that really leads to the issue of church discipline set up by the Lord Jesus Himself in Matthew 18. where he indicated that if you see a brother overtaken in a fall, you know, you go to him personally, privately, and with witnesses, and then the church disciplines that person out publicly. And so churches need to function using church discipline to keep the church in a pure situation. And then also uh in regard to Christian leaders, we again should follow that in terms of confrontation, confrontation with witnesses, and then public uh condemnation. And and that's a process that was set up by Jesus Himself and is really needs to be continued. So the individual local churches keep themselves pure and right and then also in their uh uh relationships with other churches and other ministries And that's why one of the functions of a pastor is to be alert to that and to also the elders in a church to be alert to those issues of people that creep in, you know, Book of Jude, creeps that come in, men have crept in and and then uh teach uh false things And so there's a constant, it's just like our bodies are fighting uh disease all the time. We're all encountering diseases all the time. And if our immune system is good, we stay healthy even though we are encountering all kinds of uh microbes all the time, okay? My belief is, and I want to end with this, is that many churches have AIDS. Churches have no immune system And so the church is kind of okay until somebody comes in and starts teaching wrong things or living a wrong life. And then the church just accepts that. And lets it go and doesn't deal with it. And then eventually that evil overtakes the body of a local church And so that's why it's important that the leaders of a church function in dealing with issues when they're small rather than letting become so big that they overwhelm and destroy the testimony of the church. Okay, that's my time for today. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor Dan. So uh hopefully you guys can stick around in at about eleven we're gonna start our worship service and Pastor Dan is going to preach on what is a man and and afterwards and actually even before the service you can talk with him if you have any person personal questions you want to talk to them one on one about but and then you can also talk with them after service as well. So um we'll take a break till eleven. So see you back here.