What is the price of that Bible in your hand? The pew Bible should be less than $10 per copy. I saw an imitation leather MacArthur Study Bible on Amazon for about $35. Now with all the phone apps and online resources these days, you can get it for free. But I meant that as a more historical question I'm asking what sacrifices did Christians make to get you that Bible translation? In the 14th century, John Wycliffe defied the Pope and translated the Latin Bible into English. His passion for the word inspired the Czech theologian John Huss, who in turn inspired the German Martin Luther. For the stay in England, we're indebted to William Tyndale for using Hebrew and Greek manuscripts for his English translation. But no good deed goes unpunished, as they say. Tyndale was arrested, imprisoned, sentenced to death, strangled and burned. It's reported that his last words were, Lord, open the King of England's eyes. Tyndale's dying prayer was answered a few years later, King Henry VIII allowed the Bible of Miles Coverdale in every parish of England. Tyndale's own version went into press. Many other translations would follow, including the King James Version. It may be hard to believe, people died for the sake of our English translations. What a blessing it is to have our private devotions or public worship in the vernacular, in the common language of our times. We can pray, sing, preach easily. This was worth fighting for. This was worth even dying for. Missionaries and linguists continue the work today. To translate the Bible into lesser-known languages. Today's passage will remind us why this matters, why it's so important for us to comprehend the scriptures in our own tongue. Last time we began 1 Corinthians 14, the first verse and the last two verses 39 to 40 are key. You can take these and put them in a syllogism. Love is supreme and love builds up others. We should be zealous for spiritual gifts. So if we prioritize love and also desire spiritual gifts, then we exalt those gifts that edify all. That's why Paul argued in verses 1 to 12 that prophecy along with revelation, knowledge, and teaching are preferred over tongues. That seems pretty obvious, but the Corinthians needed more convincing. So next Paul's going to present Some awkward hypothetical scenarios at church as he tries to persuade them to restrain their gift of tongues. Let's see as we read the middle portion of 1 Corinthians 14. That's verses thirteen to twenty-five. First Corinthians fourteen, thirteen to twenty-five Therefore, let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret. For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful. What is the conclusion then? I will pray with the Spirit and I will also pray with the understanding. I will sing with the Spirit and I will also sing with the understanding. Otherwise, if you bless with the Spirit, how will he who occupies occupies the place of the uninformed say Amen at your giving up things, since he does not understand what you say? For you indeed give thanks well, but the other is not edified. I thank my God I speak with tongues more than you all, yet in the church I would rather speak five words with my understanding That I may teach others also than 10,000 words in a tongue. Brethren, do not be children in understanding. However, in malice be base, but in understanding be mature. In the law it is written, with men of other tongues and other lips, I will speak to this people, and yet for all that they will not hear me, says the Lord. Therefore, tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to unbelievers. But prophesying is not for unbelievers, but for those who believe. Therefore, if the whole church comes together in one place and all speak with tongues and there come in those who are uninformed or unbelievers, will they not say that you are out of your mind? But if all prophesy and an unbeliever or an uninformed person comes in, he is convinced by all, he is convicted by all. And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed. And so falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you. There's some notes on the structure. Let me start backwards. Paul uses the term of affectionate address, reverend, to break up his lengthy argument in 1 Corinthians 14. It helps us to locate useful creases as the chapter unfolds. So it makes sense to treat verses 20 to 25 as a unit. Also, the use of brethren frames the next unit, verses 26 to 40, the passage for next week, if we gather, Lord willing. As for verses 13 to 19, we're picking up where we left off last time. That's why you see the word therefore. The logical outcome of love that edifies is that tongues should be translated. So after only making a passing mention of interpreting tongues back in verse 5, Paul explains in more detail here. So that gives us the two parts to today's passage, verses 13 to 19. and twenty to twenty-five. And based on this structural division, I want to discuss two harmonious practices of a sound healthy. Church. There they are. Sorry, this is going to sound like some worn weirsby offline. But uh one, be mindful of others for edification's sake. That's 13 to 19. And two, be mature among others for conviction's sake. That's 20 to 25. Good thing I don't have to repeat it, it's up there. But I will repeat it throughout. But so first be mindful of others for edification's sake. Verse 13 makes most sense if we Reread the two verses before it verses eleven to twelve says, Therefore if I do not know the meaning of the language, I shall be a foreigner to him who speaks. And he who speaks will be a foreigner to me. Even so you, since you are zealous for spiritual gifts, let it be for the edification of the church that you seek to excel. So if we're to be excellent in building up the church, we must pair the gift of tongues with the gift of interpretation. So that's why Paul says what he says in verse 13. It's interesting to note here that in the first century the church uh church, the Holy Spirit can give you to speak in a foreign language without you understanding what you're saying I was trying to imagine how this could be. So I came up with this example. What if I took some Korean lyrics and anglicized them and put them up on the screen here? I didn't, but what if I did? Now you'll be able to speak Korean, but you have no idea what you're saying. For all you know, you could be reciting lyrics to a hymn, it could be a Bible verse, or it could be lyrics to a BTS song. We have no idea, right? Well, I would know. But at any rate you have to make effort to learn some Korean to understand the words that would be coming out of your mouth. Back to Corinth, Paul saying to them, pray so you understand what you're saying, so you can explain it to others. In other words, if we're mindful of others for edification's sake, we pray for interpretation. Look beyond yourselves, right? In verses 14 to 19, three supporting arguments follow as a sort of subpoints if you want to. I don't have those up there, but um And you might call these three supporting arguments in 14 to 19 best practices for speech under the labels of self-orientation, selflessness, And self-limitation. So the three practices are explained in two verses each So first in verses 14 to 15, Paul speaks of proper self-orientation. It's best to have both the spirit and the mind engaged in speech. Notice how Paul juxtaposes spirit and understanding three times. It's interesting for our anthropological studies to note that note here the inner parts of man include spirit and mind. At any rate, the point here that when someone speaks in tongues without interpretation, he or she prays or sings with the spirit, but not with the mind. So uninterpreted tongues creates a sort of a self-division with in the individual, and that's not a good way to be self-oriented. Secondly, another best practice for church speech is in verses sixteen to seventeen, and it has to do with selflessness. It's best to include others in your speech. Besides prayer and singing in verses 14-15, Paul speaks of giving thanks in verses 16 to 17. It is perfectly fine to share reasons for gratitude. We actually do that every year around Thanksgiving. Okay, as a part of our soup and bread fellowship on Sunday before Thanksgiving. Like the Corinthians, we do well, but it'd be no help to others. If we talk in a foreign tongue, no one can say in response, Amen. Thanks for sharing. Etc. The apostle wants the Corinthians to look around when they talk, not just look within or look up. They should consider those in their congregation who are, quote, uninformed. Just an explanation here. We see this word used in Acts 4. 13 To describe Peter and John as unlearned men who have been with Jesus. Paul uses this word in 2 Corinthians 11, 6 to describe his lack of formal training in speech. Here in First Corinthians 14 the context suggests someone who's just ordinary, right? Like most other ordinary people in the world, they cannot speak exotic languages from all over the world. So they're uninformed in relation to the tongue speaker. There's no understanding. There's no edification. So for their sake, be more selfless. Thirdly, another best practice for church speech is in verses 18 to 19, and it has to do with self-limitation. It's best to limit yourself to help others. Paul, as he'll do later in verse 39, wants to be clear, he's not forbidding tongues. In fact, speaking of Thanksgiving, the apostle is quite thankful, grateful for his ability to speak in various different languages. Paul's a polyglot, right? More so than those with the same gift in the Corinthian church. No doubt that ability helped him to fulfill his calling to be the apostle to the Gentiles. But as you see in verse 19, the Corinthians were not speaking tongues out in the mission field or at home, but at church. And Paul's saying that at church he himself would limit his use of untranslated tongues or languages. Just for fun, I took Paul's mention of 10,000 words literally I divided that number by 130, which by one count is the average words per minute in a normal-paced speech. That gives us 77 minutes, an hour and 70 minutes of nonsense in your ears No subtitles, no interpreter. That's about the length of our worship services. Could you imagine a rant rant in a foreign language for that long from 11 to 1217? This is not how to be mindful of others to be edifications for edification's sake. Why not rather devote those 77 minutes, not for tongues and confusion, but for revelation or knowledge or prophecy or word of instruction in plain language? Yes, that means you limit yourself for a greater cause. And this takes some maturity on our part, and that leads us to the second harmonious practice of a sound, healthy church. Be mature among others for conviction's sake. What's been implicit throughout this discussion is the lack of maturity on the part of the Corinthian church. As he often does, Paul has got to be the adult in the room, the disciplinarian. He's a parent who's firm yet gentle He again warmly addresses them as brethren before he criticizes them. He's been doing this throughout the letter, actually. Yes, the truth is God's people can act immature while using spiritual gifts. Children, children, to rephrase verse 20, let's act our age and be mature in understanding God's will for our time together. Of course, there is time to be childlike and simple, say, with regard to malice and evil. Don't ever intend harm on others. But true maturity goes beyond avoiding harm. Right? Mature Christians also consider what's good and even what's best for others. It's not merely minimizing loss, but maximizing gain. And for that end, mature believers would ask two questions as suggested by Paul here. When it comes to tongues and prophecies, what did God say in the scripture? That's the question implied in verses 21 to 22. What did God say in the scriptures? And what does God say through the church? That's the question implied in verses 21. By answering these questions correctly, we see why we must be mature among others for conviction's sake. First, mature Christians should ask, what did God say in the scriptures, specifically on the topic of tongues? In verse 21, Paul gives the answer. He loosely cites from Isaiah 28, paraphrasing verses 11 to 12. We read verses 1 to 12 earlier in the server. He said in the law it is written, even though he's citing a prophet, that the term but the term law can describe all of what we call the Old Testament So law can refer to Psalms and Isaiah, not just the first five books of Moses. We see this a few times in John and Romans as well. But do keep in mind that Isaiah is pretty much repeating what Moses predicted in Deuteronomy 28, 49 to 50. There the lawgiver was giving, uh declaring the curses of disobedience. He spared no details of horror that awaits a rebellious nation. He wrote, The Lord will bring a nation against you from afar, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flies, a nation whose language you will not understand. A nation of fierce countenance, which does not respect the elderly nor show favor to the young. Centuries later, the northern kingdom was at the precipice of such a disaster. What Moses saw at a distance, Isaiah saw right at his footsteps, doorsteps. He's warning the prideful people of Israel in the second half of 8th century BC If they don't change their ways, God will judge them. That seems simple enough of a message, but to Isaiah's proud hearers, therein lies the problem. The message is too simple for their taste. They're too inebriated and arrogant to care for what the prophet has to say. And so in response, God says, Oh, if you won't listen to me speak through my prophet in my plane common language, then I'll speak to you with stammering lips and another tongue of foreign invaders. And that prediction came true in 722 BC. As accounted in 2 Kings 17, the Assyrians invaded and conquered them. Had they listened first, Israelites would not have suffered and be displaced in foreign land. Now, Paul is not only interested in a purely historical study here, he's gleaning a theological and practical insight. As the Lord's just punishment of unrepentant Israel was confirmed with the sound of foreign tongues. What happened in the 8th century happens again centuries later. at the day of Pentecost in Acts 2, unbelieving Jews heard their fellow countrymen, uneducated Galileans, speak in foreign languages they've never formerly learned. This now was their sign of their condemnation. Of course, unless they repent. Back to our text, a few decades later, the Corinthians needed a reminder that such was the purpose of the gift of tongues. We need this reminder too. Tongues are for unbelievers out there, not for believers in here. For church settings, prophecy is far more valuable. Prophecy should be read, expounded, and discussed within these walls. That's the sound of a sound church. As I said already a few times, I think prophecy is a gift combined to the early church age, and today we have all the prophecy we need. need in the pages of our Bibles. We still benefit from its contents as they're taught continually. There's great blessing in such study. Consider all the benefits outlined in First Corinthians 14. Three, edification, exhortation, and comfort. Let's move on. So Paul calls for maturity in verse 20. And in verses 21 to 22, he's asking the Corinthians to consider what God said in the scriptures. Now in verses 23 to 25, we consider what God says through the church. You hear the expression, pleas and warnings falling on deaf ears? Paul suggests something far worse than that. It's pleas and warnings spoken in tongues. As we saw in verse 9, many immature Corinthians were just speaking into the air. There's no real communication. There's no burden put on the hearers to repent and believe. The fault is with the speaker. He does not act as a watchman for the church as Ezekiel was for Israel. Again, tongues are better for out there, not in here. Paul gets us back into the church gathering in verse 23. The saints are gathered together in one place. That's the expression used back in 1120 in context of the Lord's Supper. Say the meal has concluded. Next on the agenda is instruction. But instead of someone preaching or teaching, we have everyone speaking in different languages. That's not a worship service. It's basically a reenactment of the power of Babel There's confusion. There's no understanding. It made more sense to scatter, not congregate. There's no building of an edifice or edification of the church. And into this mess enters those who are uninformed and unbelievers. Paul's hypothetical scenario suggests that while the Sunday gatherings focused on edifying the saints There may be some visitors in attendance whose spiritual status is unknown. They're far from God. What is known is that the Corinthian church was supposed to be a Greek-speaking church, reaching Greek speakers of the city. It's like you and American English speaker visiting a typical American evangelical, you know, English speaking church It's not like you're visiting an immigrant church, I don't know, like a Indian Pentecostal church or a Korean Presbyterian church. I mean, there you'd expect a lesser-known language to be spoken. So in the Corinthian setting, there's no benefit the crowd of tongues speakers give to any of the hearers. They walk out of that meeting, concluding that these folks are crazy. Paul offers a far better scenario in verse 20. An unbeliever walks in and here's the a future judgment. And her need to repent. Another one walks in and hears a public rebuke of his secret hidden sin. Paul uses two words to describe what goes on inside the heart. Convinced by all, one is exposed of some wrong. Convicted by all, one is examined by God Himself. Those words are basically similar. The public ministry of God's word can do wonders. Do we believe that? As we see in verse 25. It's worth rereading. The secrets of his heart are revealed, and so falling down on his face, he'll worship God and report that God is truly among you. What a sight and sound that would be, right? Sinners humbled to the ground, prideful people becoming worshippers of God. What Joshua did before the preincarnate son, what the Magi did before child Jesus, what the woman did before the risen Savior, it's happening at church. Isn't that what we want? Isn't that worth all the trouble? Thanks to passages like this one, we now have the agenda for our Sunday morning gatherings. We need to ask, are we seeking edification of the church and conviction of all who hear? We get both through the Bible read, taught, and applied. Do we want more than anything for God to speak through us in our midst? Then open the word of authority and open your mouth for clarity. So I say again, be mindful of others for edification's sake, and be mature among others for conviction's sake. Let me conclude with two applications. First, we must put in maximal effort to improve our all-church gatherings. Yes, we have the prescription, God's Word, and we have the goals, edification and conviction. But do we have the desire to improve the quality of our time together? I'm not talking about gender-based or age-based ministries like men's Bible study, ladies' ensemble, or awana. I'm talking about when the whole church comes together. In one place, as it says in verse 23. I'm talking about our 11 a. m. gatherings, and yes, I know some of you don't like it. The membership meetings, right? And the all-church prayer meetings are coming up next week. I'm convinced that reforming and improving those all-church gathering is both our greatest task and challenge. There we have the litmus test of our church unity, maturity. When I was in college, I admit I was more excited about Thursday nights than Sunday mornings. Just that's because I was part of a campus ministry at University of Maryland, College Park. My church was in Millersville. I mean, and on Thursdays they had their large group meetings for the campus ministry. And I was hanging out with friends my age and or close to my age. By the way, there's nothing wrong with that. By all means have friends you'll reach, right? After all, I was passionately worshiping God and even went on a mission trip with these college campus ministry friends. But in the end, campus ministry is a parachurch. It's not the church God intended. The body of Christ does not consist of primarily 18 to 22 year olds. You'd have a more realistic picture of what the body is on Sundays. A bit of a tinge of regret as I remember my immature perspective in my youth. Thankfully, in the last 10 years or so, God has ignited my love for the local church. I want to ask you, what are your feelings about the local church? Members, are you all in and devoted to building something here through edification? Visitors, are you searching for God, seeking conviction, but looking everywhere but the local church? Let's put in maximal effort to improve our all-church gatherings. One more application We saw in 1 Corinthians 14, 23 to 24, the very real possibility of unbelievers visiting us. Will they sit down and hear what a sound church sounds like? Now, while being accommodating, we don't want to go as far as being seek or sensitive. We don't need to apologize for who we are and what we do as we follow the Bible. I think it's fine if the lyrics, you know, prayers and teachings sound new to them or they're slightly challenging as long as it's in their native tongue. Everyone's got a dictionary, it's fine. But I will say this, for the sake of unbelievers, there must be a clear gospel presentation during our gathering. Now I don't have to be the only one preaching the gospel. I love it when the when we have baptism testimonies and I can't wait to hear the next one. But I've decided that that as long as the Lord would have me as a pastor on a pulpit on Sundays, I must preach the gospel. People are our time together in it. And it's a great choice to do so, right? And and I'll do that today as well. Like the prophecies in the Bible and those of early church, the good news, the gospel, demands genuine change in the present, in light of God's wrath to come. We must understand currently that we are in serious peril, right? In trouble. We've rebelled against our Creator, we've sinned against him Him in thought, word, and deed. We violated his laws, coveting, blasphemy, murdering with hate, committing adultery in our hearts. We've offended the holy Lord God As a consequence, there's something far worse in store than some foreign invading army. It says in Exodus, the Lord is a warrior. Sometimes we sing here, his chariots of wrath the deep thunderclouds form, and dark is his path on the wings of the storm. This is Habakkuk III. He divides the earth with rivers. The mountains see him and tremble. The overflowing of the water passes by, the deep utters its voice. and lifts its hands on high. The sun and moon stand still in their habitation. At the light of his arrows they went, at the shining of his glittering spear. This is the Lord coming to judge the earth. He shall judge the world in righteousness and the peoples with his truth. And the truth is this: all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. The law declares that there is none righteous. No, not one. None who understands, none who seeks after God. That's why we're all justly condemned to hell, eternity apart from God. But there is a provision of mercy, there is forgiveness with God But you must surrender first. God is the mighty king, but it's not too late. You can, as it were, send a delegation and ask conditions of peace. The Lord Almighty is dreadful to sinners. But remember what we sang earlier. Ponder anew what the Almighty can do, if with his love he befriends you. Yes, there's a way to be God's beloved and be his friends And that way is through faith, the same faith in the Lord's promise that we saw or see and saw in Abraham It's a faith in Jesus, his person and his works. First, know who Jesus is. He is God's Son, one with the Father. He is God and man in one person. The word in flesh, word uh word has become flesh and come to us. With words of eternal life. And then there's Christ's works. He led the perfect life. He laid down his life to pay for our sins, our selfishness and malice. At the cross he took our place as substitute, paying in full the penalty of sin that we should pay. He died, he was buried. On the third day he rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection. He ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return and judge all mankind. You want to be saved, you must respond biblically. If you're convinced you're a sinner, if you're convicted to repent, there's hope for you. Let's turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus. Trust in Him only. You cannot earn or deserve eternal life. It is a gift. God saves us by grace alone. Through faith alone, in Christ alone. Because the Lord has done it all through Jesus, all that's left for us to do is gratefully worship Him. Now to all who believe in his name, all the promises of God and Jesus are yes, and in him, Amen. To the glory of God. We live with purpose in the present, asking that the Lord would use us in our speech. And we seek edification and conviction. And let's make this final portion of our last song our prayer. Asking the Lord to speak. Speak, O Lord, till your church is built and the earth is filled with your glory. Let's pray. God who speaks, who utters his voice. The idolaters of the world worship mute gods. Who cannot even speak, who have no power to effect anything. We have a God who speaks and not only speak In language, but a language that we can understand. And Lord, your church has throughout the ages In effort to spread the gospel to all nations, have tirelessly either used their gift of tongues or have done the hard work. Of being missionaries and linguists and translating the Bible in different parts of the world. And we're thankful that it came to Europe and it was translated into English Went to Africa, I went to Asia, went to Korea. Because your desire is to gather for yourself, to select from every nation. And we're thankful for that truth. And Lord, as long as the fullness of Gentiles has not come in yet, may we do our part. In promoting understanding of your truth and your will as we declare your word, as we try to build up each other. through the word and as we are sensitive to those who do not know you yet, that as we try to speak to their hearts to your truths, may we be bold, may we be clear, may we make effort to just uh center our lives according to your word. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.