Why don't you open your Bibles to Ezekiel chapter 1? You and I serve an amazing God. Try to come up with words to talk about the superlative nature of God, and Christians become a little redundant. He's amazing, he's wonderful, he is Awesome, which is a word from my youth in the 80s. I heard some guy my age saying it the other day. Sounded kind of weird. He was like, yeah, that's awesome. And he was like 40 years old. I like to use the word awe-inspiring. When you talk about your God, what do you say about him? When was the last time you looked at him, or at least not literally, you can't see him, but looked up into the heavens and said, Lord, I want to praise you for being such a great and magnificent God Folks, think about the complexity of his mind. It's demonstrated in the smallest details of the animal kingdom. the kind of mathematical genius that formed the hind leg of a grasshopper, decided the tension that is in that leg, paired them up, and so there is this Silent little jump. The kind of mathematical genius that decided that the sun would be possess so much heat and so much mass and hang there in outer space What kind of mathematical genius did it take to number the dendrites and the axons? I think they're axioms or axons, I'm sorry, in your brain. How many are there? And he made that decision. Isn't he worthy of praise? Isn't he worthy of praise by virtue of the wind that you feel on your cheek in the summertime and the cool water you drink on a hot day? Isn't he worthy of praise because all these things there is still The rain falling on the just and the unjust. Isn't he worthy of praise because of that? By virtue of creation alone He is worthy of praise. But he's done so much more than that. He has given us a book, and in this book there is revelation as to the nature of who he is and what he's like. And he's told us message after message from the beginning when he made the heavens and the earth all the way to the end when all things are going to be summed up in Christ. He's given us so much data, so much information on how great he is. And of course, he's done this in the face of his greatest revelation, the incarnation, his son, Jesus Christ. When Jesus walked the streets of Galilee and Jerusalem and stepped into the boat and spoke face to face with his creatures, God the Son, speaking. ministering, serving, washing feet, God the Son doing that for us. In the Old Testament or the New Testament, he is the same. And sometimes we look at the Old Testament and we think. Wow, that God is so much more angry and so much more volatile than the God of the New Testament. But that really is not true. Listen to the heart of God in 2 Chronicles 36. Here's what the writer says: the Lord God of their fathers sent warnings to them by his messengers, rising up early and sending them, because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place. Listen to Jeremiah 35. Here's God speaking through Jeremiah. I have also sent to you all my servants, the prophets. Rising up early and sending them, saying, Turn now everyone from his evil way. Amend your doings, and do not go after other gods to serve them. Then you will dwell in the land which I have given you. And your fathers. God is patient. And in the Old Testament, he over and over again sent prophets even before the nation of Israel was formed. There was Enoch and Noah and Jacob and Aaron and Moses and Miriam and Deborah. There was a prophet sent to Israel in Judges chapter 6. There was a prophet sent to Eli in 1 Samuel chapter 2. There was Samuel and David and Nathan and Zadak and Gad. There was Ahijah, there was a prophet sent to Judah in 1 Kings 13. There was Edo, there was Shemiah, there was Azariah the son of Oded, there was Hananiah, there was Jehu the son of Hananiah, there was Elijah and Elisha. There was Micaiah the son of Imli. There was Jonah. There was Isaiah. There was Hosea. There was Amos and Micah and Oded, Nahum, Joel, Zephaniah, Huldah, or Haldah. Jedathon in 2 Chronicles chapter 35, Jeremiah, Habakkuk, Obadiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, there was Haggai, Zechariah, son of Edo, Malachi, there was Zacharias, the father of John, there was Anna, and there was John the Baptist And there was Jesus. In the last days, he's spoken to us by his son. And that is probably that is definitely not All of them. Because we have passages in the Old Testament where you have someone gathering up all the prophets and putting them in a cave, and there was a lot of prophets, and they were filling the land. What does this tell us about our God? Folks, it tells us that in the history of Israel and Judah, God was constantly trying to tell his people, repent. Please, I want you to dwell in your land. I have compassion on you. Listen to me. I love you. You have in Deuteronomy this heart of God revealed when he says, Oh, that my people would just listen, obey my law, that it would be well with them and with their children forever. That is the heart of God to his people. So sometimes we have liberal theologians and skeptics and atheists who look at the Old Testament and say, wow, God kills a lot of people. And frankly, that is true. God is a God of justice. The flood and Noah is true. The entire world was filled with only wickedness continually, and God did have the judge that But God, that is not, that is not the original intent of God when He put Adam and Eve in that garden of paradise and said, eat any of the fruit except that one tree. The heart of God, he is good. He is love. He is light. He is worthy. Worthy of our praise. You and I. You and I are like the prophets, aren't we? All those prophets. Let me get you to turn quickly to Hebrews chapter 11. Just keep your hand in Ezekiel 1, and we will be back here. Try to follow me, and we're going to end up at a sort of a line of reasoning here. So God sent all those prophets because he is such a good God. What was the response of Israel? How did they take it all in? Did they listen to Jeremiah? No, they threw him in a well And then at the end of his ministry, he had to follow the disobedient Hebrews back to Egypt. Can you imagine after years and years, decades of ministry, Jeremiah has to go back to Egypt with these Really foolish people. Isaiah they mocked. Line upon line, precept upon precept, Isaiah. Oh yeah, Isaiah says, you say line upon line. Elijah. They chased him and mocked him, and he was to the point of exhaustion and despair. Here's a summary of how they treated the prophets in Hebrews 11, verses 33, 36 to 37. Look at this. It says, and others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned. They were sawn asunder. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. This certainly could be a description of the prophets of the Old Testament, although it could also include remnant believers who were faithful to Yahweh, to the Lord, in the face of the chastisement of God. and the mockery of their fellow Jews who hated their guts. But you and I, are we like that? Matthew 5, verses 11 to 12, the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, Blessed are you when men revile you and persecute you for my name's sake, for such were the prophets. Here's something I want to introduce to you this morning. All those names that I read, they had a hard job, didn't they? It was difficult. And you know what? Jesus has given you and I a hard job. We are sheep in the midst of wolves. He makes a parallel between the Old Testament prophets and little old you. You and me in our little job sitting in our cubicle in some office. I'm like Isaiah? Yes. If you're persecuted, if you are trying to endure and maintain a Christian testimony in the midst of a wicked and perverse generation, yes. How are we going to endure? I mean, we had Jeremiah who endured for decades, and Isaiah, who did the same, and Ezekiel, who was asked perhaps to have one of the hardest ministries in the Old Testament. And they endured. How can we endure? Folks, if you turn back to Ezekiel chapter 1, I want to present to you a proposition this morning that I believe is sound. When it comes to New Testament theology and consistent in Old Testament theology. If we want to endure in our age. To be faithful, to hear the well done, good and faithful servant of our master. If we want to endure the opposition to our faith, the attacks on our character, we Must know what happens if the heavens were to open. That's what we need. Do you remember Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6? He had this call to ministry and he saw this vision of what it is like up there. The same thing happens to Ezekiel in Ezekiel chapter 1. We also have God talking to Jeremiah in Jeremiah chapter 1. And we certainly have Moses and this burning bush. We have this pattern in the Old Testament where when God is about to commission a prophet to do a hard task. He opens up heaven and lets him look in. Even Paul was able to go up into the third heaven and have some kind of special revelation. He couldn't say what it was. But he had that. God encourages his prophets by showing him who he is in these visions. Now, you and I don't have this, okay? The scriptures are the revelation to us from God. Hebrews 1, the last days, it's the incarnation and the word of God that explains this, that is our opening of heaven. What we do, if we're to endure, is to look back at the experiences of Ezekiel and Jeremiah and Isaiah and learn, as they learned, what a great God we have. If you look back now at Ezekiel 1, we're just going to read some of this. It's going to be hard for you to put together these strange visual images. We're not going to really give a line-by-line commentary, but I want you to look first at two things. First, there is Ezekiel, and he is looking. And he's looking, and he's looking. And then there is Ezekiel, and he is listening, because someone is talking to him. He looks and he listens. Ezekiel chapter 1, verse 3. It says, the word of the Lord came expressly unto Ezekiel the priest. The son of Buzai in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chibar, and the hand of the Lord was there upon him. Ezekiel was taken away with the captives. He was in a land of captivity, and I'll hopefully talk more about that next week. And this was the moment when he was called and commissioned. Verse 4: He says, I looked, and behold, a whirlwind came out of the north, a great cloud, and a fire enfolding itself, and a brightness was about it. And out of the midst thereof, as the color of amber, out of the midst of the fire, also out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four living creatures, and this was their appearance. They had the likeness of a man. And everyone had four faces, and everyone had four wings, and their feet were straight feet, and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot. And they sparkled like the color of burnished brass. And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides. And they four had their faces and their wings. And their wings were joined one to another, and they turned not when they went, and they went every one straight forward. As for the likeness of their faces, they four had the face of a man. And the face of a lion on the right side, and they four had the face of an ox on the left side. They four also had the face of an eagle. Thus were their faces, and their wings were stretched upward. Two wings of every one were joined, one to another, and two covered their bodies And they went, everyone, straightforward, whither the Spirit was to go. They went, and they turned not when they went. As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire. And like the appearance of lamps, it went up and down among the living creatures, and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning. And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of the flash of lightning. Now, were you able to keep all that in your mind? Difficult, isn't it? The first thing I want you to notice, and this isn't all he saw, was that he uses this term likeness. Look at verse 5. Also out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four living creatures. The repetition of that word indicates that he was seeing something that he was having a hard time describing. The word likeness, he's trying to compare what he is now seeing with his experience in the past. He knows what living creatures are, and he knows what a man is. So in verse 5, he's saying, what I'm seeing is kind of like four living Creatures. They have life in them. They are, it's not God. It's a creature. And one of them is like the they have the likeness, sort of a humanoid kind of appearance. They're upright. So what he's seeing is hard to describe. He's not exactly sure. There's no real parallel. He hasn't didn't walk to Jerusalem. Well, he wasn't in Jerusalem at this point, but back when he was. He didn't walk to Jerusalem and see one of these creatures at the daily, you know, at the local bagel shop. No, this was something outside of his experience. Also, I want you to notice that what he is seeing here is spectacular. It is beyond he's seeing something that is in its proportion epic It's sort of something that God is impressing on his mind is big. You see here that it comes, and look at verse 4. Behold, a whirlwind came out of the north, a great cloud. And there was fire enfolding itself and brightness and there there's this color. I mean God introduces the vision with this whirlwind and And if the the noises were accompanying, and we could assume or not assume, but I'm I'm thinking here that the noise went with it. Whirlwind and noise and this catastrophic movement and color, color, color, and this huge things coming down. Out of the whirlwind. So we see here that this vision was meant, folks. Could we say this? This vision was meant to impress Did you know that God sometimes wants to impress you with his glory? That is the point? I already mentioned creation and what we see there. The the little things like the engineering decisions that God made on the hind leg of a grasshopper. And the big things like the decision on how hot to make the sun. And you know there are bigger stars out there than our than our sun. Is it possible that God has a desire for you to see his glory and ascribe him with that greatness? I know. I know he wants that. How do I know that? Because Jesus said so. In John 17, in the high priestly prayer, he said. I would that they could see my glory, the same glory that I had with you before the world was made. It is the desire of God that you and I at times just look up and go, whoa. That's my God. He's capable of that. Not that those creatures were God, big G, but that my God is capable of this kind of thing. Who is my God? What is he like that he can do such wondrous and spectacular things? What does he see here? Well, look at your Bibles. First, you see the repetition of the word for You see here in verse 6, they had four faces and four wings, and they also had, and then the faces are described. Alright, you look in verse 10, and there is the face of a man, a lion, then there's the face of the cow or the ox, and the face of an eagle. So, what does all of this represent? Well, that's where commentators tend to figure out there's some disagreement here on how to take this passage. Alright, so if you're going to say what it represents, you're going to be able to kind of take it apart piece by piece, and if you are to interpret it that way, like like this is sort of like the image that Daniel saw of that huge statue. And there were In that image, there are different strengths to the statue. So each one piece of that statue represents something else. It's a kingdom. And it's the period between the Old Testament and the New. So it is possible to take this and look at these images and say, hmm, that face of a man must represent something, and that face of a lion must represent something. represents something. But no one that I'm aware of has been able to actually put this into sort of a historical context. So I would take it at least I would say this. And you tell me what you think. The fact I already mentioned that it's meant to impress So obviously it's this big vision. Secondly, there is it is an order of creation. That is different from the human category, and it's different from the animal category. This is something that God has made that is not animal, could we say plant or man? It is angelic. And we see here in Isaiah 6, don't turn there, but he's also looking at these incredible creatures that God has made. So it's a different category of Being, and yet there are these reflections of things that Ezekiel has seen. Verse 10, there's the face of a man and a lion. What could this mean? Well, I would say at least it represents the fact that there is an authority that God has over all of creation. Because after these creatures appear, something else appears that's even higher. And let's look at this In verse 15, the vision gets even more complicated. I'm starting to run out of time, so I'm going to try to summarize this. We have wheels that appear in verse 15. And then we have verse 16 that these wheels and their work was like unto the color of barrel. And they had four, then the four had one likeness, so all the wheels looked the same way. And so in their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel in the middle of a wheel. And verse 17, when they went, there were these sides, and wherever the creatures went, the wheels went, is what we find out. And we also find out. That the spirit of the creatures, verse 20, is inside of the wheels. And the creatures move, but they don't turn. They kind of move and lift and go like lightning, and then the wheels are here, and the spirit of the creatures is in the wheels. So it's sort of a spectacular thing that's happening. But when we get down to it, and we get done with the seeing, if you look down in verse 25, we begin to hear. And there was a voice from the firmament that was over their heads when they stood and had let down their wings. And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne. Above their heads there was a throne. Here we have the throne of God I mean, these are some spectacular creatures, angelic, cherubim, but there is one who is higher still. What's happening here? Well, have you ever seen a really spectacular animal and thought there's nothing that could ever trump that animal? And then along comes something else, bigger, more powerful. And your previous estimation of the other animal is gone down. Here is this cherubim. Here are these creatures. And now the throne of God is higher still. By virtue of its height, and the one who sits upon it. Could Ezekiel be thinking this? God must be truly great if his authority is above the authority of these beings. If he is above them. Who is my God? And look at it. Look at the description of the throne here. It's like the one in Revelation. Verse 27. And I saw as the color of amber and as the appearance of fire roundabout within it From the appearance of his loins, ah, now he's describing the one on the throne, even upward, and from the appearance of his loins even downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and it had brightness round about it, as the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain. So was the appearance of the brightness round about. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord, and when I saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake. He got it right. He didn't fall down when he saw these angels, but when he saw the throne and the one sitting on it, it was time to bow. Yes, the angels were spectacular, but there is only one Lord of glory. Now, folks, we're going to look at what the Lord said to him But the Lord waited. Note this, please. If we're going to endure the things that are ahead of us in this nation or in this life, if we're going to maintain a good testimony like Ezekiel was able to do. We should understand at least this that sometimes God wants to impress us through his word, remembering his character, what he is, who he is. Sort of taking in the theology, the attributes, the perfections of God before He'll say anything. That's what he did here. He wanted Ezekiel to get it. Look at this, Ezekiel. Look at that color. Listen to that whirlwind. Look at how powerful these things are, and they're wheels, and they have four faces, and they don't even have to turn to move. They just glide along and then they strike like lightning. Now look at that throne. It's higher than these things. And Ezekiel bows. He gets the revelation. Folks, you and I are like flies that get stuck on fly paper sometimes Our troubles and our lives are sticky, and we kind of just we get stuck there. And we and we our our vision is all we see below our feet is just that stickiness of life. The mess that it often is, the problems that we often have. And you know, the devil loves for us to be there because it's a loss of perspective. I get that way. Have you ever gotten that way? Certainly John the Baptist got that way when he was in prison and he questioned whether Jesus was the Messiah who was to come. Ezekiel was about to be commissioned for a very, very difficult ministry. He was to be an actor. One of the first things he did was to build a little set of Jerusalem and to act out its destruction. Another thing he was asked to do was to lay on his side. for well over a hundred days and then to lay on his other side for I think forty-two days. When his wife died, the Lord said, Don't mourn for her. The Lord was going to ask this man to do some really hard things. And you and I don't know what the future holds But we do know that we've already been asked to do some hard things. Is it easy to be a Christian right now in this country or any country? Has it ever been easy? It has to a point in America. But still, go into all the world and make disciples. Is that easy? And so are there going to be those moments, if we want to endure and have a good testimony and so on, when we just have to look up. And realize that God is bigger than this fly paper I'm stuck on. That He is God. His ways are just and magnificent and loving. And that he is so much bigger than America or Europe or the Muslim problem. That's true, the Muslim problem. He's bigger than all these things. And before we say anything, fall on our face and just say, Lord, I admit at this moment that you are bigger than those angels and you're bigger than my problems and you know what like job put his hand over his mouth that's what I I'm gonna do. When's the last time you actually did that? Have you found yourself caught in the hamster wheel every time you pray? Oh Lord, I need, I need, I need, I need. Look, look, look, look, look, look. Fly paper, fly paper, fly paper. Look at this. Take a moment. And then, then, once you have a full vision of God, then you look and you listen to what He has to tell you. And this is what God told. Ezekiel. Let me just summarize it for you. You don't have to read, just listen. I'll summarize the verses. Verse 3: I'm sending you to the people of Israel. And I want you to go, verse 5, and do what I tell you, whether they listen to you or refuse to listen. That's verse 5. Go. Verse 6, don't be afraid of them. Do not be afraid of them. He refers to them, the Lord does, as scorpions. When you're walking in the midst of scorpions, don't be afraid of them. Ezekiel, don't be rebellious like they're rebellious. You're going to go out and you're going to see: whoa, these people are really rebellious. Don't be like them. That's verse 8. And then in chapter 3, look at chapter 3, he gives him the scroll to eat. And this is sort of God. Showing Ezekiel that principally his ministry is a ministry of words. Take my words, eat these, and then share my words with the people. Chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. Moreover, he said unto them, Son of man, eat thou this f eat that thou findest, eat this roll, and go speak unto the house of Israel. The roll is a scroll, it's not like a little biscuit or something So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat the roll. And he said unto me, Son of man, cause thy belly to eat, and fill thy vows with this roll that I give thee. Then did I eat, and it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness. Wow, it's a message of sort of gloom and doom, but future future joy and restoration. But there was this This response in Ezekiel of joy to receive the scroll, to know that he had this ministry. It was sweet to his taste. And so what did he do? Well, Verses 6 and 7. God. How would you like for God to say this to you? Look at verses 6 and 7. Not to many people of a strange speech and of a hard language whose words thou canst not understand, surely had I sent thee to them, they would have hearkened unto thee But to the house of Israel. But the house of Israel will not hearken unto thee, for they will not hearken unto me For all the house of Israel are impudent and hard-hearted. Behold, I have made thy face strong against their faces, and thy forehead against their foreheads. As an adamant, harder than flint have I made thy forehead. Fear them not. Don't be dismayed by their looks, their rebellious house. So, Ezekiel looks, he bows, he listens. And then he goes. And we find out in chapter 3, verse 15. He ends up in the spirit. Look at verse 15. I came to them of the captivity of Telabib. That dwelt by the river Chibar, and I sat where they sat and remained there astonished among them seven days. So he goes and he just sits. Now, it's possible that he wanted to share in their grief because they were captives, and he was sort of doing what Job's friends tried to do, comfort. He was there with the people and sort of empathetically entering into their sufferings. And it's also possible that the vision and the ministry he had been called to was such a weighty one that it sort of just left him stunned. And it's also possible that it was a combination of the two. And I would tend to think that it was more a combination of the two. Now, you and I are sent out to do the same, right? How powerful is Christ. Can I get you, let's wrap this up and get into the Lord's table by looking at one other passage, Colossians 1. Colossians 1, and we'll tie this to Ezekiel and be done. All right. Who did Ezekiel see sitting on that throne? And in the Old Testament, there are these times when we think the preincarnate Christ is there, and there are other times in the book of Ezekiel when a person approaches Ezekiel, and it probably is the preincarnate Christ. Let's face it, you and I can't see God. And we've never even seen Jesus And we have to walk by faith. And that's not always easy, is it? We see our enemies. We know we're supposed to love our enemies. We see our problems. We know we're supposed to deal with it. And so, what I'm about to read, you just have to accept by faith. You have to decide as you read this passage: do I believe it? And am I really going to stand on it? Like Ezekiel stood on the vision that God gave him and was able to minister so faithfully for so many years? Or am I going to question it? Listen There is this person, verse 15. This is chapter 1, verse 15. Let the word of God speak to you. It's Jesus is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Now what that means, and it could be translated, the firstborn over every It's the right of the firstborn. It doesn't mean that he was created, because he was the creator, verse 16. By him were all things created. That are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, those angels with the four faces and the wheels, whatever that is, the cherubim and the seraphim. Whether there be thrones or dominions, why this language? It's language of authority The emphasis here is not on complexity, but on what we see and what we don't see, and whether it's in heaven or earth, and whether it has authority or not. Thrones, dominions, principalities, powers. Now it's one thing to create a grasshopper, it's another thing to create a king. It's another thing to put a president in power It's another thing to create the very essence of authority and to establish structure into the universe. Our God did that Jesus looks at Pilate and says, You would have no authority except by my Father. Our God not only has authority, he invented it. He built it into creation. And Jesus, by him, all things were created. And so in Colossians 1, there's a definite emphasis on the superlative nature of the authority of Jesus Christ, and this is certainly something that Jesus used to encourage his disciples, because in Matthew 28 he says, all Authority has been given unto me. Go, make disciples. You and I are trapped in this world, as it were, and we have to have these moments when we say, okay, I see the kings. I see the lords, I see the masters of this world, whether it's a Putin in Russia or whether it's the guy in Iran currently, the guy in Iraq currently, whoever's on the in the presidency in Egypt, I see the people that are in charge. But the one I worship, he is the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings. There is no higher authority. He's the one who lives above the cherubim That Ezekiel saw. He's the one who was above the angels that Isaiah saw in Isaiah 6. There is no greater authority than my God, and no greater God than my God. That's where I stand. And followers of Jesus Christ have never and should never be followers of this weak man who wore this nice light blue and white robe, who sort of walked through Israel saying nice platitudes and moral things to people so that they would follow him with this nice flowing Caucasian hair. That's not Jesus. We have in Revelation 1 what he looks like now, and of course John the apostle falls at his feet. Jesus is the one, if you saw him today, from the Mount of Transfiguration. Now, folks, this is not pie-in-the-sky theology. This is intensely practical. Because this is what the Lord did with his prophets. Boy, I've got a hard job for Ezekiel. I'm just going to open up heaven. I'm going to really let him see some stuff. And then I'm going to talk to him And you and I, we see the face of the Lord in Jesus Christ. So when was the last time you looked? When was the last time you praised? How do you know this God Say, yes, I've been saved a long time. Okay, but when was the last time you really dwelled on this greatness? Verse 17, really, Colossians 1 is delivering the preeminence of Christ. He is, verse 17, before all things, and by him all things consist. And he is the head of the body of the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. That is the second sense in which he is born. He is the firstborn from the dead. That in all things he might have the preeminence. Okay, what how is this preeminence uh uh given? First, he is the firstborn son. He is overall as that son. He is the creator, and so thus he is preeminent, verse 16. And he is also the head of the church. He's been placed as the ultimate head of the church, capital C, throughout church history. Christ is our Lord and Master. And this is what pleased the Father, that in Christ all the fullness is going to dwell Because it was verse 20, it was his cross that made peace to reconcile all things back to God. So the cross itself is another reason why Jesus has the preeminence. So where does this lead us? In my own life, I have been very burdened that I should be more stunned with the glory of God. I personally am fighting as your pastor. To fall at the feet of God more. My challenge to you this week, and even as we go into the Lord's table, is to give him some glory, folks. Come on, isn't God bigger than politics? Aren't you tired of sitting around bemoaning how bad things are in our nation? Oh, uh, God's, you know, oh, there is a God somewhere, I think. Now, yes, we have to deal with issues, the Supreme Court, and there are times when a pastor has to just land on the line, our nation's judged. And it is, Romans 1. But there are also times, folks, when we have to let heavens be open and look. So here's what I want to encourage us to do. Let's take a moment and let's bow together in prayer, and let's just. Look. Think about what you know theologically about God. Praise Him for a while. Talk to Him