Take your Bibles and turn to Daniel chapter 3. Daniel chapter 3. As I said in Sunday school, it's good to be back here at Faith Bible Church. It's good to open the word with you. If you didn't get a chance chance to uh hear our presentation this morning and feel free to talk to me afterwards. I'll I'll be back at the table there. Lord's doing a great work in the Middle East and East Africa. And In the work of uh leadership training. And I'm not going to talk a lot about that today because right right now we're uh during this time, and right now we're looking at Daniel chapter three. But we will start in the Middle East and we'll start with this. Anybody recognize what that is? That's me and my wife. And there's something behind me too. That is a very large triangle. Very large. It's larger than you'd think. You look at it and you think, well, well, first picture, I mean we we look pretty big in this picture. But actually I'm really close. This is a selfie. You get a little clo take a look there and you're like, oh those camels are kind of small next to that. But you know, you look a little c closer now and like, okay, those people are really, really short compared to how tall this pyramid is. There's a reason why they call it the Great Pyramid. at Giza. It's great. It's huge. And then of course if you stand at the base of it and you look up, it just keeps going up and up and up and up. You think this is ceiling's tall? No, no. This is a very large pyramid. You see the little guys there in the bottom right? Those are full-grown people. It's a very, very tall pyramid. When we come to Daniel chapter 3, there's something very, very tall here, and it's not a pyramid, and it's not quite as tall as the Great Pyramid at Giza. But I think it's a lot bigger than you think it is. Think it is as you read the chapter. Daniel chapter 3, verse 1 says, Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold. whose height was sixty cubits and width six cubits. He set it up in the plain of Durah in the province of Babylon. And so maybe you have something like this. Here's a nice picture from Junior Church. There's a very large statue and some very little people. Now I don't think it was in a canyon. That's not what it was in the plain of Dura. There were mountains nearby. There was a city. The capital city. Babylon is there very, very close by. Maybe it looked a little bit more like something like this. And see once again, I put some little people in there. It's a very big statue because you have to stack 17 people up on top of each other in order to get as tall as this is. Now, I think it was also a very skinny statue because it says ninety feet by nine. It would be a lot skinnier than that. But it was very, very striking. You think about it, picture in your mind, you've got this giant gold statue there. Probably looks just like Nebuchadnezzar. Kings are like that. And uh he had recently had a dream, just a couple years before. That statue and his dream wasn't completely gold, just the head was. And the head was supposed to represent him, but he figured, no, no, no, let's just make make this whole thing about me. We'll make the whole thing gold. And I'm gonna get all all the people in front. Everybody who's important, anybody who's anybody, they got to be here at the dedication of this gigantic Gigantic statue. Look what he says here, verse 2. And King Nebuchadnezzar sent word to gather together the satraps, the administrators, the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the judges, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces. To come up to the dedication of the image which King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. So, the state traps, the administrators, the governors, the counselors, the treasures, the church, get the idea he lists them twice. Everybody's gonna be there. And what are they going to do? Well, they're going to listen to some music. Some critics of the of the of the Bible see these lists of instruments. And uh they say, wait a minute, some of those are Greek instruments. They say, oh, that means Daniel was written during the Greek Empire. Some hundreds of years later, because look, there's Greek words there, Greek instruments there. But look who's here. They're coming from every language, every nation. If you jump down to verse seven it says at the time when all the people heard the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp Actually they said that earlier. They said it twice. If you jump back to verse five, that time at the time you fear the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp, the lyre, the psaltery and symphony with all kinds of music, you'll fall you shall fall down and worship the golden image. And we see in verse 7 that all people, nations, and languages, people came from all over. This empire, the Persian Empire, was massive. This wasn't the Persian Empire. Empire. This was the Babylonian Empire. Persians came later. But they were all over the place. There were some Persian instruments in there. They got me confused. But even though the Greeks weren't part of this empire. Their influence was well beyond that. And the king says, you know what, I want everybody here bowing to this image image. And this is what we're this is the way it goes. Everybody comes here, everybody stands, they look up this image of me, and when the music plays, you bow. And of course if you don't bow Verse 6. Whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast immediately into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. Guess what everybody did? Got an option. Bow or burn. Everybody was bowing. They're all bowing. That's what we got here, verse 7. So at the time when all the people heard the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp, the lyre, and symphony with all kinds of music, all the people, nations, and language fell down and worshipped the golden image which the king, Nebuchadnezzar, had set up. And it's almost like here at the very beginning of this story. There's a question. Is anybody gonna challenge the king? Verses 1 through 7 is the setting of the story. There's going to be two scenes that come afterwards, but here's the setting, and it's a very incomplete setting. What's missing from verses 1 to 7? We've got a king. We've got a giant gold statue. We've got a whole lot of people. Anybody who's anybody is there. We've got a challenge here. Is anybody going to defy the king? But what are we missing? You've read the story so many times, and you've probably never noticed this. You heard it in junior church when you were a kid. You know where this story is going. I can't build any suspense, can I? If this is the first time you heard the story, then this could be really, really cool. But it's not. You've heard this before. But what's missing from the setting here? Where are the good guys? There are no good guys in the setting of the story. Usually in the setting you you have this You have this it sets up who's the good guy, who's the bad guy, then you get the challenge, but there's no good guys here. Now As you read to the book of Daniel, you know that there are good guys in this story, right? What's the name of the main good guy? Daniel. It's on the name of the book. You know, you got Daniel. Where's Daniel? Not there. There's some other good guys. Hananai, Azariah, Mishael. These are good guys. And you already know the story, and you know we're going to talk about these guys. Don't get confused. Of course you won't because you already know the story. But they also have a second name. Hannah No, that's the first name. Second name is Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Funny thing, I know a guy in Africa named Shadrach. I know a guy who lives in China named Mishak. I'm still looking for an Abednego. So if any of y'all are gonna have any children or grandchildren, just like hey Abednego, and just let me know so I can get the trifecta. There's no good guys here in the beginning, is there? No good guys at all. We've got a bad guy, we've got everybody who's anybody, we've got a challenge, who's gonna challenge the king? Of course, nobody is challenging the king. Why aren't the good guys mentioned? There's no like dilemma dilemma, like Daniel, Shadrach, Mesha, and Abed to go get together, or if we're gonna get together. the name's correct correct here. Let's do all the Hebrew ones at one time. Daniel, Hananiah, Mishah, and Abigail Abigail. Hananiah, Mishah, and Azariah. They didn't this there's no scene where they're going, what should we do? I mean, I don't want to be in the fire. There's no scene where like, should we bow? Should we not bow There's no question about, you know, ten commandments are nice, but what do you think about eight? Those first two aren't important, are they? The one about no other gods and bowing to grave and images? How about we just be, you know, start a new denomination, the Eight Commandment Jews. There's no such dilemma. Why not? Now we can't argue from silence, but we see later on that when the king gives them a second chance, I tell you this because you already know the story. When the Sing King gives them a second chance, what do they say? We don't need to wait and deliberate about this. They already knew their answer as the king even gave them a second chance. Do you want to bow and you know then you won't go in the fire? They said we we don't we don't we don't need to wait And probably this first time, they had already made the decision. There's no dis discussion here. Well, should we do it? Should we not do it? It was obvious they made that decision back in Daniel 1, a couple of years before, when the king said. Those vegetables. No, they weren't vegetables. I get the story backwards over and over, aren't I? Well the king sat before the delicacy there, and he realized this is not what God's law says we should eat as Jews. And they made their choice then Back when Daniel in chapter Daniel 1 verse 8 says, Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself, and he led the way with Hananiah, Mishia, Azariah, and they made their choice. And now as they faced the fire, they didn't have to choose. That choice was made ahead of time. They already decided they were going to follow God. They had already seen God work. Daniel chapter 2. Hey, once again, they were about to get killed. The king said, if somebody doesn't tell me my my dream and the interpretation of my dream, then y'all are going to die. All the wise men are going to die. Daniel, Hanani, Azariah, Misael, they're together. They prayed. to the God of heaven and God answered them, saved their lives. They had made their choice. They'd seen God work. And we don't see any dilemma at the beginning of Daniel Chapter 3. What do we do when we face the fire? When we face difficulties? When we have a dilemma. Should I follow God? Or not? Is pleasing God the most important thing? Or is it pleasing man, pleasing parents, pleasing uh bosses, pleasing the government, depending on where you are? Well, if if there's a conflict between the two, Have you already made up your mind? Have you already decided what you're going to do? As for me and my house, I will serve the Lord. You've got to decide ahead of the conflict. Don't wait until you face the fire. Don't wait until you're challenged on your beliefs. Don't rely on others to bolster your faith. Know God for yourself. Grow in your faith before the fire comes. The fire can only strengthen faith that's already there. Have you already chosen to follow God? Is your faith your own? Is it real? The fire of trials will test your faith. If you haven't yet made your decision, you may get just pressured like everyone else Like all of the satraps and administrators and governors and counselors and treasurers and judges and magistrates, we don't use those titles, but Oh, anybody who's anybody, they're going and bowing. I'm just going to go do it too, because that's the that's the easy way. That's the way forward. I don't want to face the fire. And you give in to the pressure that you haven't already made up your mind that you are going to follow God. The setting to the story Is incomplete. But suddenly, as we move on to the first scene of the story, we see three men. Standing. Three men who dared to challenge the king Here's the king, Nebuchadnezzar. Look at his empire, Babylon. It's huge. It's massive. It includes the land of Israel. You don't want to confront. A guy who owns that much real estate, a guy with that much power, a guy when he says, I made a gold statue of myself, it's very, very big, and you're gonna bow to it or you're gonna die. You don't want to confront that guy. And I don't know how he did it. Now we get the idea that Hananiah and Michelle and Azariah, we kind of get this picture. Once again, pull up another junior church picture. Here's the picture. The statue's very big. Not quite big enough in this picture. But very big. And you know, you've got these three guys standing, everybody bowing. It's a dramatic scene. Actually, that's we don't know exactly how it happened. It could happen like that. Or it could have been they just tried to find excuses why not to be there. You know? They just tried to, you know, maybe I can get out of this particular gathering. Maybe today I'm taking a sick day. And actually we don't know where Daniel is. So you're looking around, where's Daniel? Daniel's not in the story. I don't think Daniel's bowing, but he's not in this story. Maybe he's away on the king's business somewhere else in that very, very large empire. Here's Hananiah, Mishael, Azariah, without their leader, without their godly influence. And they're about to do the right thing. Their faith was their own. And whether it be they stood up like this with another guy saying, quick, bow, bow before you, you know. Before you get cooked. No, no, no, no. Or maybe it's just quieter. They just tried to stay under the radar and they just couldn't. Because somebody Shows up and goes to the king. Look at verse 8. Therefore, at that time, certain Chaldeans came forward and accused the Jews They spoke and said to King Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live forever. You, O king, have made a decree. And there's that decree again with all the list of instruments there. We know what happens. They're supposed to bow down, or they're going to get burned in the fiery furnace. Verse 12. There are certain Jews whom you have set over the affairs of the province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. These men, O king, have not paid due regard to you. They don't respect you. They do not serve your gods or worship the gold image which you have set up. However, it happened. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego find themselves in the crosshairs. Now, now they're really facing the fire. Now the king's focus is on them. And as we see this this this Challenge, this confrontation between Nebuchadnezzar and Henaniah, Mishael, and Azariah, we see two questions that come up. As we look at what they say back and forth, we see two things that are definitely being emphasized. See if you can figure them out as I read through their discussion here. Two main questions that are being asked and answered here in this passage. Can you find them? Verse 13. Then Nebuchadnezzar in a rage and fury gave the command to bring Shadrach, Meshech, and Abednego. So they brought these men before the king Nebuchadnezzar spoke, saying to them, Is it true, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the gold image which I have set up? Now, if you are ready, at the time you hear the sound of the horn, the flute, the harp, the lyre, and the psaltery, and the symphony with all kinds of music, and you fall down and worship the image which I have made, good. He puts it to them again, second chance. But if you do not worship, you shall be cast immediately into the midst of the burning fire you furnace, and who is the God who will deliver you from my hands? Two questions are brought up here. Number one, it's a question of worship. Are you going to worship that giant idol? Are you going to worship Nebuchadnezzar? And secondly, Nebuchadnezzar asked the second one himself, who is the God who's able to deliver from my hand? I'm number one. There's nobody higher than me, is what he's saying here. I'm number one, so worship me. And nobody can deliver you if you try to avoid it. You've been trying to avoid it. Here you've got you you get you this is your choice. It's a question of worship. It's a question of authority. I mean look at what they're saying. Here's the question of worship. They do not serve your gods or worship the gold image which you have set up. Now look at the question, the king says, Is it true that you do not serve my gods or worship the gold image which I have set up? Same words again, serve, worship. Hanani, Michel, Azariah, they answer, We do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up. Serve and worship, serve and worship. Really those two kind of go together. And sometimes actually they can be they can be uh translated interchangeably. For example, Romans chapter 12, verse 2. This is this is New Testament, Greek, not Hebrew in the Old Testament. But in Romans 12, 2 it says that we're supposed to present our bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. or some translations will translate it, which is your act of worship. Worship is not just bowing or some kind of ritual in a certain place and certain time. That worship is an expression of what's most important to you. Not just in that one point at a time, but you worship what you worship, you also serve in your daily life. What you worship through your words, you serve through what you do. The king is saying, I am number one. You must worship me and live for me. This is a loyalty test for all of his top officials. Who is number one? The king is number one. Who do you worship? Who do you serve? Question of worship. This morning, who do you worship? You're here in a worship service. I guess actually got the both words there, worship and service. It's actually But who do you worship? You can be here and not be worshiping God. This could be a mere ritual. But if you truly are worshiping God as you sing his praises this morning, that means when you leave these doors and go out, God continues to be number one. He's not just number one. From 11 to 12 on Sunday mornings. He's number one every hour of every day. Do you live like he's number one every hour or every day? Or have you constrained him to just that one hour on Sunday mornings? Who do you worship? Who is number one in your life? Worship, it's not a feeling. Sometimes nowadays we hear the word worship and it's like it's some kind of some kind of feeling, although emotions are definitely involved when we realize how great God is, how awesome He is, how wonderful, how loving, how holy He is. There should be emotions involved, but worship is much more than just a feeling or an emotion. Worship is more than experience. Sometimes people say, I want to come to a church where I can have this experience where it kind of feels like it's lifting me up to God, whether that be through like a contemporary service or whether that be through liturgy. Where you're in a massive cathedral and and and and everything is is just kind of lifting you up to feel like you are you are heading towards heaven or something like that. But worship is more than just some kind of experience or feeling. It's more than an environment created by the right music, whatever that is. It's more than a ritual. In fact, all these kind of things, these misconceptions of worship, he actually had all of those there as as uh all these people were bowing in front of this giant. giant statue. I mean there must have been quite a feeling there with all these people together, this big music going up from instruments from all over the world. Everybody bowing at the same time in front of this massive statue that was just awesome as you looked at it. I mean I've been I've been to places in the world. In Hong Kong there's a massive Buddha. And it actually is quite impressive. It's at the top of the mountain. You're like, wow. It creates a feeling. Worship is much more than a feeling, an experience, an environment created to make you. Make you feel the awe of something. The worship of the statue had all these elements, but the object of the worship was all wrong. There's only one God, only one worthy of our worship. What is worship? Worship, says A. D. A. W. Tozer. True worship is a response to the God who's there and who is as he has revealed himself to be Wayne Grudham describes worship this way in his systematic theology. Worship is the ascription of ultimate worth to God. It is the direct acknowledgement of God's worth to God Himself, expressing in words and actions the praise, adoration, and thanksgiving that are due to Him. Expressed in words what we say, expressed in action, what we do, how we live our life on a daily basis, showing that God is number one, that He is worthy. Warren Wersby describes worship this way. Worship is the believer's response of all that they are, mind, emotions, will, and body, to what God is and says and does. This response has its mystical side in subjective experience, and its practical side in objective obedience to God's revealed will. Worship is a loving response that's balanced by the fear of the Lord, and it's a deepening response as the believer comes to know God better. Whereas we later says, real worship always leads to service. The two are connected. If God is number one in your life, if he's that important, it's not just something you do. on Sunday mornings. It's something that permeates your life. It's a question here of worship. The king says, are you going to worship me? Who are you going to worship? Who is number one in your life? They do not worship your gods. They don't serve your gods or worship the gold image which you have set up. The king, even though he's full of rage and fury, I do give him a little bit of credit here before he goes absolutely homicidal. He says, I'm going to give you a second chance here. You gonna bow? What do you do when you're gonna face the fire? Do you capitulate? You think about it. All those other people bowing. It's almost like, Hanai and Misha, and Ezra, are you stupid? They had already made the decision. Before the crowd was there to influence them to go against God. Sometimes we say that many people could not have made they can't all be wrong. They could not all have made a mistake. There were other Jews that were that were there that had been carried away captive that were there bowing. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Don't you remember who lost the war? Don't you remember back Daniel chapter 1? Nebuchadnezzar defeated the people of God. He took the the the the the the stuff out of the temple. He put it in the temple of his God. It's a symbolic thing he did to show my God is better than your God. We lost. You're following an archaic code. Those Ten Commandments, it doesn't apply anymore. We lost. We're no longer in Israel. We don't have to worry about no other God before me or graven image or whatnot. But Hananiah, Misha, and Azariah, they had not conceded that God had lost. They believed that God had put Jehoiakim into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. That's what Daniel 1 says. They believed that God was still sovereign Which is what the book of Daniel is all about. Everybody else didn't. The crowd is all bowing. And yet they said, no, no, no, no. God is still God. We're going to worship him. It may look like he's lost, but this is only temporary. We may look like we're in the minority, but this is only for just a short period of time. God is still in control, even when it looks like he's not. And so when the king says, who is a God who's able to deliver out of my hand? They also knew the answer to that question. Who's the God who's going to deliver you? Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us. From your hand, O King. He is able and he will. But if not, look at verse seventeen. Actually, verse eighteen. But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you have set up. They had already made their choice. And they didn't rethink it under times of stress. They didn't need a second chance to change their mind about doing what's right. They knew that they would worship God. They knew God was able to deliver. They didn't know they were in the middle of a very popular book in the future that people enjoy studying, which is all about God. Because God really is the main character. I mentioned the setting that where's the main characters? Where's the good guys? Where's Daniel? Not there. Even Sh-H-Shadrach, Meshach, and Nebedigo, not mentioned in the first seven verses. Why is that? Because the main character in the book of Daniel is not Daniel. It's not Hananiah, Meshah, and Azariah. It is God Himself. And it's written to prove this, that the Most High rules in the affairs of mankind. Chapter 2 through 2 through 7 in the book of Daniel is actually written in a different language than chapter 1 and 7 to the end. I mean 8 to the end. 1 and 8 to the end is in Hebrew. 2 through 7 is in Aramaic, the common language that could have been read by anybody there in the in the in the kingdom. And this air this this section, the Aramaic section, actually, many have observed that it's actually kind of in a pattern. A pattern actually that's often seen in Hebrew poetry. It's called kiasm or chiasm after the Greek letter ki, or qi, depending on how you pronounce it. And what happens is you've got this A, B, C, C, B, A pattern there. And there's repetition. You can see the A's there. Chapter 2, the vision of the kingdom of God coming. We're going to see in chapter 7 later on. It's a vision of the kingdom of God coming. And then the bees are the same. Chapter 3 and Chapter 6. Here's exhortation to God's people. Remain faithful. And Azar Mishel remain faithful in the fire. Daniel, remain faithful in the face of lions. And then chapters 4 and 5, this is the center of the Chiasm. And what this form does, it points to this. This is the main point. That God raises up whom he will and puts down whom he will. He did it to Nebuchadnezzar, who eats grass, and he did it to Beltashazar, who loses his kingdom to the Persians. God raises up whom he will. He puts down whom he will. That's the main point. God is in charge. And that's what Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah believed. And that's what they were thinking when they said, our God is able to deliver us. And really, this story isn't about us. It's about him, the king, has made a challenge. He's called down a showdown between himself and the Most High God. It's almost like, you know, if this wasn't Babylonian, you could picture this in the Wild West. Here's the king. He's pulling out his gun. And he said, I'm gonna pull out this gun. And you can't picture it. I mean, can God have a gun? I tried to ask AI to make this picture. It didn't work. But here's the showdown. King is going to make his move. Okay, you're not gonna bow and worship me. I'm gonna put you in the fiery furnace. Here is the king's move. He didn't waste any time. As soon as Hanani, Azar, and Mishrael said, we don't need a second chance. Well, off they go. It's already been mentioned once back in verse 13. Nebuchadnezzar in rage and fury gave a command to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and to Bednego to come. Now, verse 19. Nebuchadnezzar was full of fury. And the expression of his face changed toward Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And he spoke and commanded that the heat that they heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated. And he gets his mighty men to come and to tie them up as tight as possible and to throw them into the fire. And the fire is so hot. You know the story. It kills the the the mighty men. And in goes Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. The king made his move. And who's the God who can deliver from this? The answer is supposed to be nobody. It's supposed to be a rhetorical question, the king asks. Because nobody is stronger than him. He beat all the other kings. He owns everything he can as far as he can go. He's got the hanging gardens of Babylon going on there. He's got this giant gold statue of himself. Everybody is bowing. Everybody who's anybody is bowing. Just these three guys. Who is the God who can deliver you? He sacrifices his mighty men of valor to make this point. You're going to worship me, and your God cannot deliver you. And now God makes his move. And Nebuchadnezzar cannot believe his eyes. He looks into the fire, and he sees four men And he turns to the men beside him and he says, Didn't we throw three guys in there? Where did that fourth guy come from? We threw three guys, right? I mean guys we didn't throw in an extra one accidentally, did we? God's move. God does the impossible. He does four things that is completely impossible here. Number one There are four men in that fire. And as Nebuchadnezzar looks in there, he says, one of them is like the son of the gods. He's looking in there Let's read his words here. Verse 25, Look, he answered, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not hurt. And the form of the fourth is like the Son of God. How do you know what the Son of God looks like? Is he really saying? That Jesus is in there? Because now we know we have the New Testament, we know who the Son of God is, is Jesus. Does Nebuchadnezzar know what he looks like? Can he recognize him? Later on, when he re recaps what's going on in verse 28, he says that God sent his angel and delivered his servant. So he's a little bit unclear here. We, since we have the New Testament, we know that. Jesus, second person of the eternity, often shows up in the Old Testament as the angel of the Lord. He is the Son of God. Nebuchadnezzar, no way he could have known all that. Maybe he's accidentally saying the right thing here. Somebody, there's a fourth guy there. It's impossible for there to be a fourth guy there. It's somebody that God sent into the fire to be with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. This is just impossible. And yet the fourth man is there with them. It probably was Jesus Himself. But that's not the only impossible thing. We already read a little bit of it just now. But they were walking in the fire. The mighty men of Vala, they fell down dead. They're not even in the fire and they're dead laying down. But they're walking around as if, you know, this is you know, I have a nice little stroll here in the fire. That's not something you do when you're in the fire. Walking around. You don't do that. Next, they're not hurt. And then when they come out, I presumably they walked out because nobody was going in there to get them, when they come out, They don't even have the smell of the fire on them or their clothes or their turbans. This is impossible. Who is the God who's able to deliver you? They didn't just survive. They took a stroll and they looked great when they came out again. Nebuchadnezzar is absolutely Astounded. Never doubt God's ability. God made the world. God sent the flood. God became man. He deserves worship for who he is, for what he's done, and for what he can do. Why should we be surprised when God does things that only God can do? He's God. That's what God does. Why should we be surprised when he does the impossible? It's impossible for us, but nothing is impossible for God. When we face the fire, sometimes it's easy to forget how great our God is. Sometimes it's easy for us to forget that He's a God who delivers. We only see what we could lose if we did what was right. We only see the risk, and we forget who it is that we serve and worship. What do you do? What should you do when you find yourself facing the fire? You should worship God alone. It was power to save like none other. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego did not know that God was going to deliver them. But they were certain that he could. This question brings this passage brings up two questions. One, whom do you worship? And two, can God deliver? And I, Azurai and Mishrael, they decided ahead of the conflict. Before they faced the fire, they had decided we are going to worship God alone. We're going to follow Him. We're going to keep His commands. They had made this choice in Daniel 1. They had seen God work in Daniel 2. And when the fiery trial came up, they knew where to look. It wasn't time to rethink things or reevaluate their priorities. Their priorities were already set. They were going to worship God above all. They were going to put God ahead of anyone and everything else, even if it was the king of the world at the time. Have you made that decision to please God above all? If you know Christ as your Savior, He wants you to worship Him. He wants you to worship him in what you say, praising him, speaking of him. He wants you to worship him in what you do each day as you live your life. Who is number one in your life? Whom do you serve? What is most important to you? Do others know? This isn't something you hide. This is something that is bound to come out. If you truly worship God, truly follow him, it's bound to come out if people are around you for any period of time. Do others know? I think of Hannah, Mizrael, and Azariah. Why did they get a chance to witness to the king of the empire? Well, it's because they had decided to do what was right. It's because they took a risk and put God first ahead of that king. If they had not put that risk, they never would have had a chance. To show Nebuchadnezzar how great God is. Nebuchadnezzar realizes this. Notice what he says here at the end of the chapter, verse 26. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High God, come out and come here. He calls God the Most High God. Who is the God who's able to deliver from me? I'm the most high. Nebuchadnezzar has reevaluated. I'm no longer most high. This is the first time in Daniel you see this title, Most High God, and then it's used over and over and over again throughout the rest of the book. God is the most high, he deserves our worship. How did they know God was the most high? Well, because Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah Demonstrated it before him. They said, we're going to worship God. We're going to trust him to deliver. Only because they took that risk that they have a chance to share about this God to Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar saw what they did before they heard what he said. How many witnessing opportunities do we miss because we're afraid of what we might lose? Because something else is more important than speaking for God or living for God Worship God above all. Second question is a question of deliverance. And this one's a bit risk risky. Trust God to deliver however he deems best. Look back one more time at verse 17 and 18. Here's Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego before they get tossed into the fire. They said, if that is the case, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning firing furnace. He can do it. But look at verse 18. But if not, let it be known to you that we do not serve your gods, nor will we worship the gold image which you've set up. up. God can, but if not, throughout history we've seen people make the same, come to the same conclusion. Followers of God have come to the face of fire and realized if I follow God, this is risky. If I follow God, this could go really bad for me. And they make the same choice to Shadrach, Meshach, and Tabedigo and say, we're going to worship God. We're going to put him first. We're going to do what he wants us to do first. We know he can deliver. We don't know if he will. We know he can. Think of this story here. I enjoy reading missionary biographies, as many of you know. Here are two stories. One of them is very famous. How many of you are familiar with Jim Elliott? Lots of hands. How many of you know familiar with with Frank Drown? Nobody. See? Jim Elliott died. Frank Down did not. Actually I got this book from El Elliot Garbado way way years ago when I was serving as uh assistant pastor here. Uh the biography of of Frank Drown. It's excellent. But you never heard of him because he didn't die. But he did actually very similar things to Jim Elliott. Jim Elliott, you know what he did in case you didn't familiar with him. He's a missionary to Ecuador in the 1950s. He and four of his co-workers went together and they were very risky. They went into the jungles of Ecuador to bring the gospel to the Wayadani people. These people were like stone age type uh culture, didn't have much contact with the outside, they were armed with spears, and very sadly, despite their precautions, when they tried to make contact, Jim Elliott and his friends were killed with those spears. Frank Drown actually knew many of the members of the team. He was working in a different part of the jungles of Ecuador. One of Jim Elliott's co-workers, Roger Yalderian, was also Frank Brown's co-worker. uh before uh before he joined Jamelia's team. Um they Frank Brown was going to reach out to another tribe of people called the Ash um atsuaras. And the Atshuwaras, they were not armed with spears. They were armed with guns. And in their culture, they would fight their enemies and uh take their heads and shrink them and have decorations. I thought about putting one of those on the screen but decided against it. That's a little bit too much. But not an I mean this is very dangerous. This is a lot of risk. In fact, if you have a ch ever chance have a chance to read Frank Drown's biography, there's one time we was making first contact with the Atsuwaras. He and a couple of uh men from a neighboring tribe, they they they took a boat, went deep into their territory, they they they went down down the river. Um got off the boat, they went uh to a guy they thought was gonna be friendly to them. He had traded with other people, wasn't isolated like the people Jim Elliott was working with. But they they they went there to this guy's house to make contact to see about reaching the the rest of the the uh the tribe and and making contacts. They go there and the house is completely They had heard that Frank was coming, nobody was there. Well, they're looking around, wondering, what are we gonna do here? There's nobody here. I guess we go back. And then one of this guy's wives comes out. And says, you better get out of here. He doesn't want to meet you. And so they said, okay, we're gonna get out of here. We're gonna we don't want our heads to be shrunk. We're we're we're leaving. And so they did. They're going down the single file, this path through the jungle, back to their boat. This obviously was not a good time to make first contact. What they did not know was the man they thought would be their friendly host was hiding in the bushes with a gun. And he had decided to shoot the last guy in the line. You know who the last guy in the line was? Frank Drown. As he passed this guy, as they passed this guy, they didn't know he's in the bushes. They can't see him He lifted the gun to fire. He's got prank drowned in his sights. And the guy just froze. He wanted to shoot him dead, but he couldn't. Now Frank didn't know this for until many years later. That God had spared his life. He knew the risk. But for Frank, God can. For Jim Elliott, God can. But if not, they trusted the same God. They took a risk for God, doing what they believed God wanted them to do. They left it in God's hands what the outcome would be. We could say it again with many, many other stories. How many of you have heard of Bonnie Witherall, missionary to Lebanon in the early 2000s after after after 9-11? She and her husband decided to stay in Lebanon during that time. She was working with Palestinian women in the city of Sidon and with a pregnancy clinic. Have a chance sometimes to share the gospel. One night, one one morning she came to the clinic, just like any other day, somebody came up behind her and shot her dead. She probably never saw the guy. She took a risk for God doing what she believed God would want her to do. She died. Then on the other hand, have you heard the story of Josh Sullivan? This was just earlier this year, like last, like two months ago. He's a missionary in South Africa. Right in the middle of his sermon there in South Africa, gummen burst in, seized him, kidnapped him right from the pulpit, and he disappeared. They wanted to get ransomed for him. This usually does not go well for the guy being ransomed. And for days nobody knew where he was. And then suddenly we heard news that that uh that the police had rescued him. There had been a gunfight. Like, wow, those police are amazing. South African police are not known for being quite that amazing, but this is this is pretty good. And then the facts came out. Turns out the police had been out on some other errand, and they came around the corner, and the bad guys had just put the missionary in the their car to transport him from one hiding place to another hiding place when the police came around the corner. And the bad guys assumed the police were coming to get the missionary. So they opened fire in the police. The police fired back 'cause you know, they're shooting at us. And they killed all the bad guys. And when they finished killing all the bad guys They went to the car and realized, oh, there's a missionary in the back seat, completely unharmed. They accidentally rescued the missionary. Or was it an accident? Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver. We don't know if he will, but he can. There's no doubt in his ability. So how do you how do you react? How do you face the fire? I work with guys who on a daily basis In the Middle East and East Africa face these kind of dilemmas. How do you face the fire? Look what Nebuchadnezzar says in verse 22. 28. He observed what Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego did. And he said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abedigo. Once again, not blessed be Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. He recognized God is the one who did this. It wasn't about these three guys, and it's never about us. It's about him. Blessed be God, who sent his angel and delivered his servants who trusted in him. First of all, what he observed, God is the greatest of God. He's the most high God. But what did his people do? They trusted him. They left the results in God's hands. They said, we're going to do what God wants us to do. God can deliver. We don't know if he will in this particular circumstance, but we're going to do it. I'm going to trust him. Leave the results in God's hand. Secondly, what did Nebuchadnezzar observe? They frustrated the king's word. He was the king that was being frustrated. They were going to do what God said regardless of the outcome. God was the most important What did they do? They yielded their bodies. That's what Nebuchadnezzar says. They yielded their bodies. Literally, they did that. To be chucked into the fiery furnace. They were willing to suffer if necessary. They didn't know what would happen. Why? Because they said they would not serve or worship any God except their own God. And now Nebuchadnezzar was saying this like it was a good thing. Because he had seen that this one true God is indeed the most high God. When you're facing the fire, trust God. The God that you serve before the trial is still God during the trial. So leave the results to Him and trust Him. Fear no one else. Fear no circumstance. Do what God wants you to do regardless. Take godly risks. Be willing to suffer if necessary. Most things done for God. Come with suffering. If you're going to make any kind of any kind of advance against the kingdom of darkness, there will be difficulty. There will be loss. There will be suffering. But commit to worship God alone. Put Him first. And you know what works in extreme situations like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego or Those missionary stories we just told. What works in extreme situations also works in the mundane. What fire do you find face today? What difficulties? What challenge? Is there any challenge to your belief from maybe teachers, maybe coworkers, maybe neighbors, maybe your boss? What risks are you facing for doing what is right? If you're saying, hey, we live in a free country, I'm not facing any risks. I'm not getting any blowback. Are you doing anything Are you serving God? Do the people around you know it? Are you putting him first? Above others, above money, above expectations. When you come to a situation where you think, hey, if I do the right thing here, I might lose. I might lose respect. Other people might think I'm falling some obsolete bigoted book. I might lose a relationship if I do the right thing. I might lose my job. I might lose a possible promotion. Or maybe that the losses are just a figment in our imagination. What if I lost? What if? I mean, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed together were thinking, we're going to lose here, probably our lives. Well they didn't expect that God was going to flip things over, not only deliver them, but instead of losing, they get a better position at the end Verse 30 says, the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed to go. You couldn't have seen that coming. They got a chance to witness to God, to the king there. They got more respect. Their God got more respect. The king says everybody's got to respect the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego here. But too often we're thinking, if I follow God, if I speak out, if I do this, it's so different from other other people that I'm going to lose some things. Our losses, our expected losses might just be a figment of our imaginations. Or it might be real. We've got to be willing to suffer if necessary, but we need to step out and say what God wants us to say. Do what God wants us to do When we face the fire, we should not stand back. We should remember the God we serve before the fire is the God during the fire. The decisions we made to follow him before the difficulty came should not be rethought during the trial. We should just just just commit. I'm gonna worship God alone. I'm gonna please him above all. And I'm gonna leave the results in his hands. I'm gonna trust him. And do what he wants me to do. Is that the kind of follower of God you are today? It's not always in these big crazy stories. Yes, this is a big crazy story. It gets our attention. You know, guys getting thrown in a fire. Wow, that's quite a story. Most of our stories aren't like that, and I'm really glad about that. But each one of us are faced with dilemmas. A question of worship? Yeah. We just need to answer answer that question of worship. A question of ability? Do you truly believe that God is able? In whatever situation you're facing today, do you live like you worship God? Do you live like you think God is able? He's the main character, not just of Daniel. Well Shadrach Mishnah Knabeda goes live. He's the main character in your story too. Trust him. Now if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, this message here was really not for you. This message is to those who have already become one of God's people by believing in Jesus. Jesus. But if you have questions about that, I'd love to talk to you afterwards. Nobody is on their way to heaven on their own. We're all sinners. We're separated from God. But God knows this and he loves us. He can't ignore your sin, but he did send a savior. And Jesus is that savior who died for you and rose again. And if you have questions about that, I'd love to talk to you after the service. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you for what you've recorded for us in your word. This story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego is not just a little kid's story from the front part of the Bible. It's a true account of what you did in the past. And a revelation of what you are able to do. Lord, help us to trust you. Help us to put you first. Help us to be willing to step out to speak for you Help other people to see that we worship you alone. And that it affects not just our habits on Sunday morning, but our life every day of the week.