Good morning all. How are you doing on the wanderers that you chose last week? Anybody chasing after their wanderers? Good. Good. Anybody else? Good. I'd encourage you to keep chasing after them So I'm talking today about uh the three wise men in Matthew 2. It's interesting that in singing these songs Having prepared this message, I see how inaccurate the songs are. It's just kind of funny that, you know, I I'm singing through this and saying, maybe not. I'm not sure. But We're grateful for these songs. So we're in Matthew 2 today, just in case you were back in the Old Testament. I'm reading the first three verses. Now, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. The statement these wise men made is a good introduction to Christmas. Or even Easter. Or even every Sunday morning. We have come to worship him. Matthew is the only gospel that records this unusual event of a group of men who appeared at the front door of a house in Bethlehem. where Christ the baby was staying because they wanted to worship him We have no record of what they said to Mary or to Joseph or to the baby No record of their testimony, you know. When did you come to believe in Yahweh as the true God? And yet they repeatedly stand out as unusual men. And they're used by Matthew in this chapter as primary evidence of people who believe that Jesus Christ was Messiah. The King of the Jews. Perhaps you say, I can't speak I can't do what other people do around here at Faith Bible. I can't play the piano. Well, here are men who preached no message They took no offering, they gave no invitation, they saw no fruit to their labors, they basically spent an hour or two, maybe, worshiping a baby who couldn't speak to them They gave him expensive gifts, and they went home satisfied. They only spoke twice in this chapter. And one of their messages is questionable. You know, in verse 2 they said, where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. And then in verse 10, they said something. You know, when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. So they probably said something like, hooray. Or super wonderful. Amen. Praise God. What's so striking about these men is what they did. Their actions are so unusual, so incredible, that Matthew has recorded them here eternally. They are in God's book eternally. And I believe that we can see and understand their worship, their faith, their commitment in their actions. Sometimes actions speak louder than words. I'm sure every one of you parents have used that phrase at some time with your kids. That phrase does not mean that actions replace words. Or that words are unnecessary when enough actions are present. What these men said was powerful, revolutionary, precise. But their actions stood as a testimony that should have convicted the entire nation of Israel. The action should have done the same thing that John the Baptist was going to do 30 years later. What did they mean when they said, We have come to worship him? What is worship? They described a type of worship that stood in complete contrast. To the nation that they appeared before, and the king that they visited. So, what is worship, according to the wise men? What's involved in worship? What I'd like to do is just talk about worship from three different perspectives, three different aspects. I'd like to talk about the effort involved, I'd like to talk about the effect, and I'd like to talk about the result. So number one, their worship was expensive. Their worship was expensive. The song we just sang talked about gold and frankincense and myrrh. Those were expensive gifts. We don't normally think about what it took for these men to show up in Jerusalem and to ask this question. Their actions are regularly misunderstood, misrepresented. For example This is Shoopy Dreaming, but this is what perhaps a TV special might look like on Channel 7 or 13 on Christmas afternoon. The camera zooms in on three kings with purple robes and crowns who are just demounting from three camels outside the entrance to the stable where Jesus was born. The announcer describes a trip they took that day from a nearby eastern city. They'd been following the star for much of the afternoon, but somehow either got off the track or lost the star. So they stopped in Jerusalem to ask Herod for directions. He didn't know, but he had some advisors who remembered that the Old Testament prophesied that Messiah should be born in Bethlehem. So Herod told them, try Bethlehem, and requested that they come back and let him know the address when they found it. As they leave Herod's palace, they suddenly find the star again and follow the star to the stable. The camera pictures the inside of the stable with many shepherds standing and sitting around, holding the baby, talking to Mary and Joseph. The wise men make a royal entrance, introduce themselves, and join in the happy talk. After a while, they pull out three gifts in gaily wrapped boxes And watch as Mary and Joseph unwrap the ribbon, open the gifts, and present them to the baby. The camera fades again. The final scene shows the wise men going home that night on their camels, discussing whether they should detour back to Jerusalem and tell Herod, and concluding, it wouldn't be worth the time. So the overall picture you get from a special like this is that a couple of neighbors Decided to come by and join in the celebration of a new baby. That is not the truth. The appearance of these wise men involved much effort. Let me give you a couple of ideas here. First of all, they had very little information. Very little information. The fact that they asked the question, where is he that is born king of the Jews, means that they didn't know. They were in Jerusalem. Why Jerusalem? That was the capital. We expect kings are going to be born in capitals So they go to the capital because they don't know where he's going to be born. They ask, where is he that is to be born king? Where is he that is born king of the Jews? Meaning. They're not. They're not Jewish. They didn't say, Where is our king? Where is he that is born king of the Jews? meaning these guys are Gentiles. That have come from outside Israel. The word wise man is the word magi. And it comes from an old Persian root of MAGA, which we see today, used today. And the word means greatness. It's the word for great. So these were important men who probably were early day astronomers. They were called astrologers, but they actually practiced legitimate astronomy. R. C. H. Lensky in his commentary says, the fact that they were astronomers probably indicates that they came from Babylon. Since Arabia, which is due east of Jerusalem, Arabia and even Persia, which is northeast in Iran Had no magi caste that practiced astronomy, that studied the stars. So these were probably leaders who had wielded the highest influence and power in the Babylonian court. The very fact that they were in Jerusalem asking for the location of the new king showed that they believed there was a king. The king of the Jews has been born. We know it. And we want to worship him. Where is he? And the whole city of Jerusalem, verses 4 and 5, was upset. Verses 3 and 4 was upset by the implication of the question. These are foreign leaders. They're here because they knew Israel's king had been born and they were going to find him. And it says the whole city was shook up over that. So, if this conclusion is true that these men are actually from Babylon. And I think there is good evidence that they actually came from that area. Babylon is sort of almost Due east, but you have to come north, northwest from Babylon, and then southwest to get to Jerusalem. So it's a trip of more than 500 miles. So think about what's involved in traveling five hundred miles. Walking or riding a camel twenty miles a day, or if the camel's fast, you know. Maybe 30 or 40 miles a day, but it means investing a considerable amount of time Counting the time for preparation, it may have taken these men a month to get there. They probably had to take off two months from work. Then think of the money they put out for this project. Two months from work, plus the cost of the trip, plus the gifts they purchased, plus all the arrangements of gas money. Food for the camels, you know. This was not a cheap trip. And all of that for what The privilege of spending an hour with a baby. Does that strike you at all as being kind of strange? Wise men, magi, important men, bowing down before a baby who can't even talk to him. He doesn't have a halo around his head. And this baby is not in Jerusalem. He's in an insignificant village. Micah describes Bethlehem as, of the thousands, an insignificant village. Living in the surroundings of the poorest kind. He's lying in the arms of a mother who was ranked down below, not up above. These were men who were often in the presence of kings who themselves perhaps were high and wealthy and mighty. How could such men treat this experience as so special? Only because they believed that he was the promised Messiah. Only because they wanted to be first in line to worship him You don't usually find this kind of effort effort among people who aren't sure. You know Who don't really trust God's word. Contrast, for example, the wise men in Jerusalem, who answered Herod's question, where should he be born? And they said, well, here it is in Micah chapter 5, verse 2, he's going to be born in Bethlehem. Did they believe that? Did they make any move? You would think they would say, hey, let's go with these guys. Let's go worship Messiah, who is first here, who is now here. They didn't move a muscle. No effort whatsoever. So maybe one of the key issues in worship is What have you done to prepare for it? How much effort have you put in to actually get ready to do it right? To worship Jesus Christ. You know, we use the word so lightly. We sing songs like, I just came to praise the Lord. The word just means what? I just feign to praise the Lord. I think the writer intended it to mean only. I only came to praise the Lord. But the word sort of makes it sound like a casual experience. Does it mean that you're putting your entire heart, your entire bank account into this act of worship? Or did you happen just happen to pass by and thought you'd stop in? Worship is an act of prostration, homage, sacrifice, offered to a worthy person of splendor. And specifically to God. They're coming to honor the king of the Jews, the Messiah, the Prince. So we live in a day of casual worship where you can come unprepared, unmotivated, just sort of show up and hope that the music or the people around you will somehow get you in the right mood. But that really is not worship. Worship involves all that a person does to prepare so that he or she can bring a gift worthy of the object of worship. You wouldn't slaughter, saunter into the throne room of an oriental king. unprepared. You know, you remember in Esther's day, you wouldn't walk into Xerxes throne room and say, hi, buddy. You'd be dead before you could say buddy. You know, The attitude wasn't the same as our attitude today. You know, the response wasn't, oh, come right in. Xerxes doesn't have anything else to do. Surely he'll see you Xerxes will have you taken out instantly. So these magi demonstrated the fact that true worship involves all that you have. Your life, your job, your business, your money, whatever it takes to prepare a right, to meet the ultimate one, the Messiah, the Prince. Now we're not talking about salvation. We're not talking about this is worship that gets a person saved. We're talking about people who already know Jesus. Christ, people who already have a relationship with Jesus Christ, and how they honor Him. What do they do to say to Him genuinely? Thank you. So here are guys that probably interrupted their lives. My guess is they interrupted their lives for probably two months to worship the newborn baby. Think about how much interruption you could take of your life To worship Christ. You are interrupting your life this morning, a couple of hours. How about a day, a day of interruption to just focus on Christ? How about a week? How about a month? Do you see where these guys are coming from? These fellows are saying we are going to worship him. Actions. Many times speak louder than words. So that's the first thing. Okay, their worship was expensive. Worship is expensive. Casual worship, I don't think, is worship. Number two, their worship affected others. Their worship affected others. When people set out to worship God in spirit and truth, with no thought of who sees them or what the outcome is, God uses them to touch others. Their desire to worship said things. How is that possible? It was clear that they had no idea of what was going to happen. They weren't intending to influence others, and yet their presence in Israel ministered to at least three groups of people. They ministered to Jerusalem. Here are leaders from a distant land that are here to worship our Messiah. They provided God's first message to Jerusalem that Messiah had arrived and was on the ground. So here is verse 3, 4, and 5. Verse 3, when Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him in Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. And they quote from Micah chapter 5, verse 2. Notice that the wise men asked the question in verse 2: where is the king of the Jews? In verse four, Herod equates the word king with the word Messiah. So Herod says to the chief priests, where is Christ, the Christ to be born, the Messiah? So Herod connects those two immediately They come and ask Jerusalem where the king was born. This is a verb that says the action is already done. It's an air's passive participle which states an accomplished fact The question assumes as a fact that the birth has occurred. It's the wording of this question that shook up the city. So verse 3 says, the city was troubled. That's a pretty strong word. It means the city was all up in arms over this thing. You know, it's like Paris this week. Everybody's Everybody's up in arms. Something had happened that didn't fit Jerusalem's normal categories. And they didn't know what to do with the new information. I can hear people on the street corner saying, you heard the news that these guys think Messiah's arrived? Really? Are you kidding? How do you know? Well, big names are here from Babylon who want to worship him. You can imagine that going all over the place And as a result of that, Herod himself is troubled. So these Magi provide a clear announcement to Jerusalem that her Messiah has arrived. The entire city knows about it. The wise men didn't go to Herod to begin with. They came to Jerusalem. And they're out on the street asking questions. They're just asking the question, where's your king? On the corners. The whole city is upset over this. Herod hears about it. And you'll notice it's not until verse 7. That Herod connects with a wise man. It says in verse 7, then Herod, when he had secretly called in the wise men, determined from them. What time the star appeared. So they're basically out talking in the city. And the news gets to Herod, and then Herod, after he assembles his wise men, calls them in secretly. So I wonder if the wise men in any way were surprised by the response of the city. Here's a whole city talking about their question, and after they met the king, who was very serious about worship, and said he wanted to come worship him, They go to Bethlehem alone. Does anybody join them? No. The whole city's talking about it. Herod's talking about it. The wise men, the wise Jewish leaders know where he is. Nobody goes. You find that unbelievable? Here's Messiah coming to his people. Here's Messiah making an announcement. In Jerusalem, public announcement. The city knows about it. He's on the ground. He's born. And nobody moved. They're all busy. They're all getting ready for Christmas. Or whatever they had back then. Yeah. So the wise men ministered to Jerusalem. They also ministered to Herod. He was less than three months from death. Herod is about dead. Okay? He was an absolutely, unbelievably evil king. This king could move could kill anything that moved. He killed his favorite wife. He was married quite a few times. Killed his favorite son. I mean, he was paranoid, he was crazy. And the wise men awakened him to the realization that he was going to be replaced. The King of the Jews is here. That was Herod's title. The King of the Jews is here. And and the fact that they woke him up to that gave him One more opportunity for terror before he disappeared So verse 7, then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child, and when you have found him, bring back word to me that I may come and worship him also. I don't know if anyone is affected by the incredible hypocrisy of the whole thing. You know, here's a man who is who is evil to the core, and so he looks helpful to these. Magi. He wants to appear helpful. But he basically wants to determine how old this king is. You know, when did that star appear? When did you see it? How long did it take you after you saw it to realize its significance? How long did it take you to get ready? How long did it take you to get here? You know? He's asking those kinds of questions. Can you imagine him saying, you search diligently. You find the address. Come back and tell me because I want to worship him also. I want to be like you. I want to celebrate this wonderful news of our King and Savior. Can you imagine that hypocrisy? Unbelievable. So what you have here are polar opposites in the same room. You have the wise men who have spent all kinds of money and time because they have this passion to worship the new king. And you got this beast. Who can say the same thing they do? Crazy. And then thirdly They ministered to Jesus Christ. They ministered to Jerusalem. They woke it up. They ministered to Herod Perhaps in a negative way, you know, giving him one more opportunity to destroy the nursery in Bethlehem But they ministered to Jesus Christ. They gave him expensive gifts. As far as we know, none of these gifts that we sang about this morning, gold frankincense, and myrrh. were in Babylon. All of this was imported to Babylon. Babylon had no gold except what they stole from Solomon's temple They had no frankincense. They had no myrrh. Frankincense and myrrh were usually imported from India. So that suggests that the price tags on these gifts were high. These were expensive gifts. And you'll notice they didn't give the gifts to Mary or Joseph. Here's verse 11. They fell down and worshiped him. implying their faces were on the ground. They fell down with their faces on the ground and worshiped him And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. They gave these expensive gifts to a baby. A baby in poverty. And they did this privately, with no one around to be impressed. You ever seen grown men bow with their faces on the ground before a baby? I haven't either. Maybe more than three? Maybe a dozen grown men bowing before a baby, opening expensive gifts Presenting them to a baby. I think this was an amazing sight for Mary and Joseph. I think this was a confirmation to them that God was at work. Even in distant lands. And here were people who knew from distant lands who their baby was. You know, my guess, I'm gonna I'm gonna talk about this next week. I've sort of decided that next week I want to a and try to answer the question, when did these guys come? You know? When? Were they there with the shepherds? I don't think they were there with the shepherds. That sort of eliminates one verse of the song we sang. When did they come? How did when did they show up? How does it fit Luke chapter two? You know, these kind of things So, Mary and Joseph, Mary heard the announcement from the angel, went to visit Elizabeth. Joseph heard the announcement from the angel. And then what happened after that? My guess is that after that, there was almost nothing. You know? No angels appearing to them. No it was just sort of life with all of its difficulties multiplied. That kind of thing. But here all of a sudden there's a knock on the door and these fellows show up. I think the shepherds showed up, and that encouraged them. But here are Strangers from distant lands who obviously are rich and are presenting expensive gifts to a baby. So here are privileged men who simply wanted to worship the prophesied king of the Jews. Yet, in the process, they affected all kinds of people around them. They weren't trying to shake up the city of Jerusalem. They were probably shocked when it happened They weren't trying to set up Herod for another murderous expedition and get the baby boys in Bethlehem wiped out. They had no thought of providing Mary and Joseph's emergency trip to Egypt. Which they did. They simply wanted to worship Messiah in the best way that they could. And God orchestrated all of these details. To fit together in amazing ways. I believe that he does the same kind of thing for you and for me. When our worship is genuine, God responds to genuine worship and organizes the details all around it. He blesses genuine worship. I'm sure you've heard stories like the little girl who gave all that she had to worship God and it was only a quarter. But a missionary used that quarter to buy a tract and gave it to a young man who got saved, and that young man became an evangelist and led hundreds of people to Christ. Or the little boy who gave his five loaves and two fish to Andrew, and Christ used them to feed 15,000 people So my question is, have you ever honestly prepared to worship Jesus Christ in spirit and in truth? With everything that you have. Have you ever asked him, what does it mean for you, for me to give you my all? Or how can I worship you this Christmas in a way that pleases you? You know, I think those kinds of questions are important because it is so easy to just go on, you know, and do the next thing and get it over with. What does it take to actually worship Jesus Christ this Christmas? So number one, worship is expensive. Number two, worship affects people around us. Number three, their worship changed their relationship with God. Their worship changed their relationship with God We see the way God blessed them. We see the way God blessed their faith. I think we can see a progression here that illustrates how God works in people's lives. A, it started with a record. It started with a record. This may be partly Shupi's false doctrine here, but I don't think so. I think these men, these Magi, came from a land that had a record. Babylon. Babylonian history. 500 years prior in Nebuchadnezzar's court There was one who was called, I quote, chief of the governors over all the wise men of Babylon, master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers. Daniel chapter 5, verse 11. I think these Magi believed in Daniel's God. I think they read his testimony, they read his book, they trusted his God. They became believers in pagan Babylon. And one of the things Daniel prophesied was the time when Messiah would arrive. Daniel 9 talks about a 70-week period of time that had been decreed by God upon Jerusalem. Listen to Daniel 9, 25. Here's Daniel 9. 25. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and build Jerusalem unto Messiah the Prince Shall be sixty-nine sevens. Sixty-nine sevens In other words, Daniel is saying you can calculate the arrival of Messiah by taking the date of the command to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, adding 69 sevens The word sevens means either seven days or seven years. If you have 697 days, you've got 483 days, which is a year and a third. If you have 69 69 seven years times seven years. Can't even figure out how to say it. It's getting complicated. 69 times 7 years, you have 483 years. So we know the time when the command went forth to restore and rebuild Jerusalem, okay? Encyclopedia Britannica has that, 444 BC. Restore, rebuild Jerusalem, and you calculate from then unto Messiah the Prince, the appearance of Messiah the Prince. Now, the appearance of Messiah the Prince is not talking about his birth. It's talking about his appearance as Messiah to Jerusalem. Which is a triumphal entry. But I think these fellows are calculating the dates, are calculating the time, And they're saying, hey, we're getting close to the end of that 483-year period. Do you think there's any way we could find out when he is going to be born? If we ever find out, let's go pay him a visit and worship him. So it started with a record. And then number two, they had a star. Somehow God gave them a star. I don't know what star it is. It was. I don't know what happened with the star. The point is that God chose to give them insight into the timing of the birth of Christ. Since they were astronomers, they knew there was something special about this star. It could have been a constellation. It could have been a combination of stars. We don't know. But they interpreted that as the indication of Messiah's birth. They packed up Traveled over to Jerusalem, the capital where the king of the Jews should be born. Number three, God provided a verse. They get to Jerusalem, and the wise men in Jerusalem say, here's the verse. Bethlehem. He will be born in Bethlehem, and they give Micah chapter 5, verse 2. Number four, they leave Herod's palace, and behold, there's the star. What that suggests is that another verse in a song that we sang is not quite accurate. They didn't follow us now. They saw a star when they were in the east. And so they came to Jerusalem. When they left Herod's palace, all of a sudden there it was again. That's why they were so excited. They saw the star which they had seen in the east. And now it leads them, and they follow the star. And it leads them right to the house. This time the star is moving. It's as if God is saying to them, let me help you at this stage, because this is the tricky part. You know? Finding the house in Bethlehem. So let me provide a little guidance here. Notice what's happened at this point. At this point, God has stepped in to personally guide them. He didn't step in when they were in Babylon. He didn't step in when they got to Jerusalem in the same way. But now he has provided a clear GPS guidance to the very house. And then number five, God warns them in a dream. So it started with a record. God provided a star. God provided a verse. God led them specifically by a star, and then God warned them. He warned them in a dream. Verse 12 about the next step they're going to take. Don't retrace your steps to Jerusalem. Don't take the interstate. Choose another route. Do you see how the directions get progressively more personal? Progressively more miraculous. But only after the first directions were followed I believe this is a picture of the way God works. It starts with the Word of God. The Word of God is available even in pagan Babylon. God is looking for someone to obey his word. Not every verse in it, just one verse. Obey one verse by faith. When someone does that, God provides another step. It may be a star. It may be another verse. It may be wisdom from someone else. It may be what looks like a miraculous event. Ever seen this kind of process in your life? You take one step and God turns on the lights for step number two. And then shows you step number three. I think that's the way God works. He enjoys working that way. I can assure you That this doesn't work when you're passive. This doesn't work until you obey. You take the step, and then the light goes on to the next step. It starts with obedience. It starts with faith. I think I read that somewhere in James. Something about faith if it does not have works is dead And without faith, it's impossible to please him. So here's a picture of the way God works. So my question, as I close at 1214, do you have as a goal in your life his Christmas to worship him? You notice the effect it, the effort it took to worship him? I wonder if it's possible that worship can't be done. without sacrifice and effort. David said in 2 Samuel 24, I will not offer burnt offerings to the Lord my God. Which cost me nothing. That is not an offering. Free is not worship. So this passage has introduced us to at least three kinds of worship. To the wise men, worship meant work and sacrifice and planning. To the city of Jerusalem, worship meant going through the motions without much thinking. Without much commitment, they worshiped as long as it didn't take much time, as long as it didn't cost much. To Herod, worship meant, I'm in charge. I'm the one to be worshiped He was his own God. And his goal was to eliminate Messiah, even as he assured the Magi in verse 8 that he was going to worship also. Christmas has become a time of so much nothingness in worship. Gifts that mean nothing. Attention that means nothing. Celebration that means nothing. Throw a quarter in the Salvation Army basket. Give a dollar to children's charity. Buy a gift for those on your list so you can get over with and get on with your life. Why not make it a time to genuinely, from your heart, with your pocketbook and everything you have, worship Jesus Christ? I close with this illustration. It was twenty-five years ago. It was a speech class. At Liberty University, and there was a girl who gave a speech. Her name was Carolyn, and I don't remember anything else about her. She gave a speech where she was. Passionate about worshiping Christ on Christmas by doing something for poor people. And if I remember right, she used Matthew 25, 40 and said, Here's what Christ is going to say to you. Inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brethren, you did it to me. It was a speech. It was speech class. You know, speech class, nothing happens in speech class. Everybody's scared to death. And so you don't expect anything to come out of a speech in speech class, other than a grade. Perhaps. So she spoke, sat down, somebody else spoke, sat down, you know, we'd have six or seven or eight speak in a in a day in a class period, and I got up afterwards and said Is any anybody going to do anything about Carolyn's speech? I mean you could tell that her heart was in this Anybody going to do anything? And the class started talking about it. And so the class decided that they were going to see if they could raise money as a class. And help some poor family in Lynchburg. So the speech was given sometime in November And they, this class, went through the dorms raising money. They also found a woman who was living with four kids in. A poor house on Campbell Avenue, down in the poor section. Her husband was in jail. And they raised, I think, $225. And they went out, this is all the class, you know, I didn't do it. I was just watching. They raised two hundred and twenty five dollars. They went out and they bought a Christmas tree, they bought lights, they bought gifts for the kids. They knew this woman had four kids. And one Sunday afternoon, they knocked on the front door. There were about twelve of them. Knocked on the front door. And I don't think that she knew what was happening. I came with our two youngest kids, Becca and Jonathan, and so we were all standing on the front door. She answers the door. The kids are there and they run. The kids hide. She invites us in. So the kids, the uh the students went in, sat up, set up the Christmas tree Put in the lights, they'd bought food that they put in the kitchen, they'd bought a lot of other kinds of things, gifts for the kids and so on, and probably spent an hour there Talking about Christmas and what it represented and the Lord and so on. And then we packed up and left. Don't know what happened to the lady. There's a report that the lady appeared in church after that. Don't know what happened to that class. But I'll never forget that. It all started with a girl in a speech class. My guess is that someday in eternity we're going to see the result of that. You know, as to where that spread and what that did, and how many copies of that event have occurred down through history. I think that's what God wants to do in each of our lives as we come to worship genuinely. Let's pray. Father, we are grateful for the opportunity of worshiping the one who is worthy of everything we have. have. May our worship this Christmas please you. May we worship in spirit and in truth. May we imitate these wise men. I pray with thanksgiving in Jesus' name. Amen.