Good morning, everyone. It's good to be back after a long pause. Realize I haven't been here for five weeks. My wife and I spent a very happy week in the Smoky Mountains. Her brother and his wife are sort of Some of our best friends. We have spent a couple of uh a couple of um long trips with them. Several years ago, I was invited to speak at a church in Oregon, and we decided we would drive. So we drove with them in their car. They had a new car. And we drove with them and the the result, it was actually a 30-day trip. And the result put almost 10,000 miles on their new car. So we were happy for the use of that. And then we took a trip with them to Minneapolis, and then we took a trip this past September with them to Maine. So we spent quite a bit of time with them cooped up in cars. And this was an attempt to surprise her brothers her brother on his 70th birthday. And so the lie that was communicated to him was that he was going to go hiking with his son. His son lives in Cleveland, Tennessee. He lives in Atlanta, Georgia, and they were going to meet in the Smoky Mountains and go camping. for a week. And the women, Joe, my wife's brother, his wife, and John, his son's wife, were going to be at this cabin. while they went hiking. So Joe was preparing beef jerky and all these other things for this great hiking trip. And they have five children who are all married, and they have 18 grandchildren. And they got them all assembled at these two log cabins by 2. 30 on a Saturday afternoon when Joe and Susan, his wife, drove in. They'd never, Joe and Susan had never been there before, and Joe gets there, drives in the driveway, and says, their cars here. This isn't the right place. Then he recognized a car. So he was completely surprised. And it was great. So we were there with 18 children and 12 other adults, and it was just a great week. It was a lot of fun. This was on the side of the mountain, outside of Pigeon Forge, five miles from Dollywood. And uh So on three sides of these were two cabins that were facing each other, on three sides, the ground just went off. You know? And there were five boys that were between eight and twelve. Who love to drop off. You know, they were dropping off on all sides at all times. Climbing back, filled with dirt, that kind of thing. So it was a great time. Much, much joy, much fun, and we thank God for it. So I was here on the 4th of February and talked about James chapter 2 verses 14 to 26. Talked about the four pictures of what real faith isn't and what it is. And then came back on the 11th And talked about how do you define faith, what actually is faith, and went to Romans chapter 10, verses 13 to 15. and try to define faith. And as I was thinking about what to do today, I I realized it's been five weeks and I'm afraid that there were a lot of Loose ends that I didn't tie up. So this is going back to James chapter 2, verses 14 to 26. If that's okay. And if it's not, we'll close in prayer because I don't have anything else ready. So this is James chapter 2, verses 14 to 26. We're talking about the fact, we're talking about this word believe and this word faith. And James is emphasizing the fact that faith believe doesn't always mean believe. It's possible for someone to believe and not receive Salvation in Christ. His example in verse 19 is the demons who believe that God is one. So they believe. And we have scripture that says whoever believes will be saved, but they're not saved. So what's wrong You know, is is it the fact that God refuses to give them salvation or that they don't really believe, even though it says they believe? And James is saying, you misunderstand this word believe if you don't put with the word believe, the word works. You have to put the word works with it. You have to understand works. Because if faith doesn't have works, it's not faith. James uses the word works twelve times in this passage. Five times he emphasizes the absolute necessity of works in order to have real faith. Here are the five times. Verse 14. I'm reading 2. 14. What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can faith save him? Can that faith save him? The faith that talks only. Verse 17. Thus also faith by itself If it does not have works, it's dead. Verse 20. But do you want to know, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead? Verse 24, you see then that a man is justified by works and not by faith only. Verse 26, for as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. It's obvious that James wants to correct a misunderstanding about faith, where people feel that faith is primarily mental. You believe a proposition. Or it's primarily a feeling. The demons believe and tremble. So in verse seventeen, James says, it's faith by itself. Without works. In verse 24, it's faith only without works. So we talked about these four pictures These four pictures of faith in verses 14 to 26. Two negative, too positive. Two pictures say the faith is dead. It's not faith. Two pictures say this is real faith. Do you remember the two of the four pictures? In verses 14 to 17, we saw the picture of how a neighbor Responded nicely to needy people, but had dead faith because he did nothing to meet their needs. He said, Depart in peace, be warmed, be filled. But he doesn't believe it. Because he did nothing to supply either peace or warmth or food The man thought that faith was talking intelligently and persuasively about what God said. He may have even added a scripture verse, you know, as he said, be warmed and be filled and be gone. But he didn't believe it, and his faith was dead. Verses 17 to 20, we saw how demons can believe and even get emotional over information about God and yet have dead faith because they won't submit. And obey the command to repent and receive Christ. This picture suggests that faith is feeling what God says. Getting emotional over it, shouting about it, singing over it, rejoicing over it. The demons get emotional over the belief that God is one. They even tremble. But that emotion is not real faith. Verses 21 to 24 give us a picture of real faith. Faith had obeyed God's command to offer up his treasure. He took Isaac, his son, to Mount Moriah to offer him up to the Lord. He was not doing what we would normally consider to be good works. He was obeying a specific command. He could have Held a prayer meeting. He could have read the Bible If he had one back then. He could have witnessed to the neighborhood about God's faithfulness. Could have gone back to see Melchizedek. That would have been disobedience. That would have been lack of faith. Faith was obeying the command. And he obeyed it instantly. And then the last two verses introduce us to the faith of Rahab. She's a great example of faith because she didn't even have God's word. She wasn't responding to any specific command of God. She was simply taking the next logical step. And the next logical step says, if Yahweh is God, then I want to join his side. And I want to help his people. Two spies show up, and she helps them by lying. To protect them. An example of faith. So these the the last two are an example of faith that has worked. Faith with works. How does James define works? He doesn't have in mind the normal thing that we talk about when we talk about good works. You know, giving money, helping older people, singing, praising. You know, people say that when someone trusts Christ as Savior, their life will change and they will produce good works. That's absolutely true. When somebody comes to Christ, when the Holy Spirit comes in their lives, into their life, their life changes. Amen. Okay, their life changes. Just want to make sure. So that if you have trusted Christ, If you have prayed to receive Christ and there's been no change in your life, you should ask a question about whether or not the Holy Spirit actually has entered your life. You cannot have God entering your life. And you being the same. Your life will change. But that's not what James is talking about here. James is talking about the kind of works That are obedience to what God says. He's talking about a specific work of obeying. He's not saying if you have faith, there will be good works someday that will show you have faith. He never uses the word good. in terms of works here. He's not talking about the nebulous idea about doing something good sometime after we got saved. What's he talking about? Well, he explains it back in chapter 1. I'm reading chapter 1, beginning in verse 21. Chapter 1, verse 21. Therefore, lay aside all filthiness and overflow of wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if any is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like a man observing his natural face in a mirror. For he observes himself, goes away, and immediately forgets what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it and is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work This one will be blessed in what he does. Do you see the contrast here between a hearer and a doer? It's possible to listen to God's word and be led astray if you don't do it, if you don't obey it. That's verse 22. Come to be doers of the word, not just hearers deceiving yourselves. And you have this this picture of a man in front of a mirror. who who sees in the mirror that there need to be changes on his face. And stays there until the changes take place. And that's a picture of our relationship with God's Word. God's Word is the mirror. You look into God's word and it says, no, you need changes. Just like your mirror says, probably, this morning. You know, you looked at the mirror, the mirror said, Ugh And you stayed there until the changes took place, until you made the changes. Same thing happens with God's Word. Verse 24 says He observes himself, goes away, immediately forgets what kind of man he was, but he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it. And is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work. This one will be blessed in what he does. It's an interesting phrase, doer of the work. Doer of the work. It's actually two nouns in Greek. It's the word, the noun, doer, and the noun work. So it's a workdoer. A workdoer. What kind of work? Any old kind of work? No. Obedience. He goes in God's word and he obeys what it says So the point is that the man is doing what the word directs him to do, and the result is that he is blessed in his works. So what kind of things does James have in mind, you say? He's talking about a worksdoer. What kind of works? Chapter 1, verse 2 says, When you fall into difficult situations, your responsibility is to count it all joy. Count it all joy when you fall into difficult situations. How are you doing on that verse? You see, becoming a doer of the work means that you take that verse and say, I am going to count it all joy. In this situation. That's an act of faith That's faith with works. The works are obedience, doing what God says. And James 1:25 says, you will be blessed. You can take that verse, count it all joy, and you can preach it. You can take it and sing about it. You can take it and encourage other people to do it. But you're not going to be blessed until you do it. Faith is trusting God enough Trusting God enough when difficulty comes, when things that I don't like come into my life, trusting God enough to obey and respond the way he says. So 1-2 says, James 1-2 says, count it all joy. James 1. 4 says, determined to go through it. And get all the benefit out of it. Because God says it's going to be good. He's going to make it good. James 1. 5 says, ask God for wisdom. As to how to do this and what to do. Do you see what's going on here? When James says faith that doesn't have works is not faith. He's talking about these kinds of things that he's started with. Faith that says it's good to count it all joy when you fall in difficult situations. Is not yet faith until you count it all joy, until you determine to go through it, until you ask God for wisdom. So that is an illustration of the process that we talked about back on the 11th of February in Romans chapter 10, verse. 13, 14, and 15. If you've got a Bible and we'll turn there, Romans 10, you'll notice that John that Paul says faith involves three steps. Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Verse 14, how then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? In other words, you've got to believe before you're going to call. And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? You've got to hear before you're going to believe. And how shall they hear without a preacher? From this, I have gotten three steps. Faith involves three steps It involves hearing what God says. It involves believing that to be true, and it involves obeying that. I call that HBO. Hearing, believing, obeying. You could do LAR, listening, accepting, responding. Something like, you know, you can use whatever title you want, but you've got those three steps that are in the process of faith. In Romans 10, 13. So true faith includes the work of listening to God. You start by getting what God says. It involves believing that to be true. Even though God's promises many times sound unbelievable. And number three, it includes obeying. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. All right. That's all introduction. You discouraged already? I hope not. My guess is that there will be some of you who will say to me, okay, Shupi, that's all good. I like that. But there's another verse in the Bible. Romans chapter 4 rings in my ear as you talk, Shupi. Here's what the verses say. Romans 4, 4, and 5. Now to him who works, The wages are not counted as grace but as debt. But to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. And then I remember Ephesians 2. 9, not of works lest any man boast. So when you, Shupi, emphasize obedience, it sounds like what you really have is a works system. You have a works for salvation system. Right? Anybody ever thought that? Nobody. All right. Say it again. So Romans four says to him who does not work But believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. So that verse says work is different than faith And Ephesians 2. 9 says, we are saved not of works, lest any man should boast. So when you say that faith has to have works to be faith That means you've got a system of salvation that's based on works. I'm hoping you're asking that question today, because that's the question I'm going to try to answer. So if nobody's asking the question, I might as well not talk. But I'm going to talk anyway. See, here's the problem that comes. We, I, I don't know about you, I grew up with the idea that if it's faith, it can't move. And faith has nothing to do with activity. You know, it's God at work. And I've got to let go and let God. God's going to do it. If God's not going to do it, then nothing's going to happen. And I grew up with this idea that if I move anything, then it's not faith. It's works. So I need to get saved. I need to grow in Christ. I need to develop in Christ without moving anything. Or without personal initiative. Everybody understand that? And that's exactly where Romans 4 is going. Romans 4 says, Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as debt. But to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. And Ephesians 2 says, not of works, lest any man should boast. So if you, Shupi, are saying that we need to obey the command in Scripture to get saved Aren't you promoting works? Somebody say Amen. All right. So let me give you. See, before I give you, there there are a couple issues here. The issue there's the issue of Faith, what is faith? Is faith something that has action to it, or is faith a passive kind of thing? Is faith active or passive? If it's passive, then I sit here and something hits me or gets given to me. If it's active, then I need to respond. I need to do something. Okay? And then secondly, if it's active Is it solely mental? Do I simply agree with a doctrine and say, yes, I believe in God? Or do I make a move of some sort? Do I receive Christ? Do I come to Christ? Okay? So let me give you four statements. Four statements. Statement number one: Scripture describes faith as a response. To God's promise. Scripture describes faith as a response. Response to God's promise. Here's John 6. 35. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. That's awesome. I am the bread. I am what you need to eat for life. For real life. I am the bread of life. Okay, how do I respond? He who comes to me will never hunger. He who believes on me will never thirst. Do you see what he's doing there? He's connecting, coming, and believing. You believe that Jesus Christ is the bread of life, you believe that Jesus Christ is the one that you need for life, you will come to him. And you have this all through Scripture. Romans 10, 9, if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord. Romans 10, 13, he who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. John 1. 12, as many as receive him, to them gave he power. Hebrews 5. 9 was a verse that always bothered me. He became the author of eternal salvation to all those who obey him. Obey him. So you have this continual emphasis in Scripture that faith is a response to God's promises. So here's the question. You've got to listen on this one. If Scripture pictures faith as a response to God's promise. How can that response be not of works and yet involve calling, receiving, coming to Christ? If Scripture pictures faith as a response to God's promise, how can that response be not of works? And yet involve calling or coming or receiving Christ. In other words, what are works, not works? Everybody understand the question? I mean it's eleven forty. Should be able to engage The brain. When are works not works? If Scripture pictures faith as a response, how can that response be not of works? And involve coming to Christ, calling upon Christ, obeying Christ. How can that be not of works? Here's number two. Number two. Number one, Scripture describes faith as a response to God's promise. Number two, Scripture distinguishes effort from earnings. Scripture distinguishes effort from earnings. We have to start by defining the word works. We can't assume that Scripture uses one definition consistently. Although the word normally means activity and earnings and accomplishing something, it has a surprising number of definitions. Check the Oxford Unabridged Dictionary someday. But for our purposes, there are two important definitions. Definition A. Work is something you produce or accomplish. Work is something you produce or accomplish. This definition equates work with Getting something produced, accomplishing something by exertion or toil. An act, a feat, a deed, as a good night's work. Work here is used in the sense of earnings. In terms of Scripture, work is what I accomplish, something I do well enough to impress God, so that He owes me the blessing. This is what happens in Romans 4. 4. Listen to Paul. Now to the one who works, his wage is not credited as a favor, but as what is due. God owes him. So Paul is using the word works here to mean something earned. I am working in Romans 4. They're obeying the law. So they can say to God, look at this, God, I have done 9. 7 out of the ten. And I've fulfilled them all. Impressed? You owe me something. Okay? That's the first definition. But salvation is a gift. And everyone knows that a gift cannot be earned. When you detect that one of your friends is trying to pay you back for your expensive Christmas gift, how do you respond? Do you thank them for trying to pay you back? No, you're insulted. And you say under your breath, why don't you just say thank you? And Run with the gift. You know? You don't have to pay me back. It's a gift. Exactly the same thing happens in our relationship with God. You know, when you say to God I'm going to earn it. I'm going to pay you for it. God says, all right, I'll pay you what it's worth. Which is hell. All our righteous deeds are as filthy rags in his sight. But there's a second definition of work. Not only work is earnings, but there's another definition It's the physics sense. It's the physics, the mechanical definition, as anything that takes effort. Work is the application of a force or movement against a resisting force. as when a mass is given acceleration or when somebody puts out energy. Thus the word work can be used in two different ways. That which I produce, that which I accomplish, that which I earn, or that which moves. Work can mean earnings, or work can mean effort. The word can either mean personal accomplishment Or personal activity. That's a significant difference. That is a huge difference If Paul is saying that salvation cannot be earned, and he is saying that, he may not necessarily be saying that salvation can have no movement or no effort at all. Just because a person moves doesn't mean he earns Last time I was here, I tried to give a demonstration of this. I said, and you remember, I Looks like almost all of you were here. I said, I've got something valuable in my hand. I'll give it to the first person who worked, walks to the back, and comes forward. You remember that? And it was an 11-year-old kid that came. And uh his name was JB. He happened to have come along with us to the meeting, and his he came primarily because his mother pushed him. But that was an example of faith. This 11-year-old kid, JB, never came to church with the idea, you know, I'm going to make 20 bucks today in church. That was completely out of his zone. But he heard a message. He heard me say, I will give this to whoever walks to the back and comes up. Then there was an issue of believing that. Do you believe this bald-headed guy who looks poor? That he's got anything of value up there? And I don't really know whether he believed it or whether his mother just pushed him off the pew. But He walked to the back. It was not only hearing, it was not only believing, but it was action. He walked to the back, and then he came forward, and I gave it to him. That is a picture of faith and our response with God. Our response with God begins with listening to his word Believing that word to be true and believing it enough to do what it says. Was that twenty dollars that I gave to J B a gift? Yes Did he earn it? Did he walk far enough to earn twenty dollars? No, not at all. Now, really, that is a poor illustration of our relationship with God. You know, a better illustration would have been if I had given him a million dollars. And he, as an 11-year-old, walked out of here a millionaire. That would have been a better illustration. But that was completely a gift I thought of the idea. I searched my wallet for a bill. I came up and announced it. I made the promise. All he did was respond. It was a response of faith. So even if he had to run around the building ten times, even if he came in sweating, he didn't earn it. It was a gift. Everybody see that? So the point is that faith can have effort connected with it. But the effort is not earning anything. So what do we call this little move that JB made? JB heard my voice. He believed. He went to the back and he came forward. What do you call that move of going to the back and coming forward? That's what James calls works. That's how James is using this word. What he's talking about with faith. He's saying you think you have faith because you sit in the pew and you say, yeah, you promised 20 bucks. Yeah, I believe you promised 20 bucks. And you haven't walked to the back and come forward. You've got dead faith. You may think you have faith because you talk about it. You may think you believe God. But if you have not responded according to the directions given, it's not faith. God's infinite grace comes down similar paths. The message comes to helpless and homeless people. If the message didn't come, there would be no way they could ever figure it out themselves The message brings light to open their eyes to new possibilities, but that new light gives them a new responsibility to respond to the light by believing it, by coming. Down the aisle to receive Jesus, his forgiveness, and his salvation. The distinction between the effort this 11-year-old put in and actually earning my $20 by his effort is an important decision, distinction. The fact that he responded with works, the fact that he worked to receive my gift in no way made my gift less a gift. The $20 was total grace. He had no part in thinking up the idea. Earning the money, bringing it to church, announcing the good news. God's gifts come the same way. They can never be earned by our efforts. But the fact that we can't earn them doesn't mean that there's no response on our part. The truth is that faith is hearing, believing, believing enough to move and obey. Number three. Number one, Scripture describes faith as a response. Number two, Scripture distinguishes effort and earnings. Number three, Scripture links faith with effort Scripture links faith with effort. When Jesus said, I'm the bread of life, he who comes to me will not hunger, he who believes in me will never thirst, the word come. Expects effort. It comes parallel to the word believe. Believing is coming to Jesus. The verse cannot be modified to say, whoever accepts the fact that I'm the bread of life will not hunger. Motionless faith. Or even whoever accepts that I'm God will not hunger. Or even whoever accepts that I will give the bread of life to whoever comes will not hunger. Believing is coming. Think of John 10. 9, where Jesus said, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. How is this person saved by faith? He's saved by faith by entering the door by me. So here was the problem when Jesus Christ came to earth. The problem was that people spoke well about him, or people spoke badly about him, but people did not respond. Here are the Pharisees. I'm reading John chapter 3, John chapter 5, verse 39 and 40. John 5, 39 and 40. Jesus said to the Pharisees, You search the scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life, and that's true. It is these that testify about me. Verse 40, and you are unwilling to come to me so that you might have life. See, they were busy searching Scripture. They were convinced that Scripture would give them life. They wouldn't come to Christ. Why were they not saved? Because they didn't have the works that accompanied faith. They probably didn't have any faith to start with, but they didn't have the works. So it's clear that the command to come is a command to believe. Linking these two. Then let me give you statement number four, that biblical examples of faith are filled with effort Biblical examples of faith are filled with effort. The passage that we read this morning Hebrews chapter 11, excellent passage just to identify what was going on in Abraham's life. In the first page of your bulletin, by faith Abraham obeyed. Notice faith was obedience. When he was called to go out to a place which he would receive as inheritance. And he went out. He went out by faith. Not knowing where he was going, by faith he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign land, dwelling in tents, and so on. So, how can you have Abraham living by faith? Living by faith for Abraham meant leaving Ur of the Chaldees leaving all the comforts of home and living in a tent in a dangerous location called Canaan. Where there were a lot of bad boys, sort of a terrorist activity area. And Abraham did this by faith. What kind of faith? Faith that listened to what God said. God said, I've got a city prepared for you. It's not here. You've got to leave this place. Believing that and obeying. And that involved leaving a highly developed civilization. We know that Ur of the Chaldees had two-story houses and running water. And going and living in a tent for how long? For a hundred years. Because he was looking for a city by faith. So the Bible continually connects faith with effort. Hebrews 11, by faith Abel offered, by faith Noah prepared, by faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. So faith is obedience. It is specific obedience. It's not just doing something good It's not just doing what one thinks would be best in the situation. Faith is obeying what God says It's quite interesting when you read Romans chapter 10 that Romans chapter 10 talks about Israel being disobedient. The end of the last verse in Romans 10 says, God says, all day long I've spread out my hands to a disobedient people. And yet Romans 10 begins by saying the Israelites were doing all kinds of good things. They were seeking God. They were seeking to establish their own righteousness. They were doing all of these things. So they were doing good stuff. But they were disobedient. Faith always has to be connected with what's the command. Now you as a parent understand this completely. You know? You say to your child, go clean your room. Your child goes up and does something good. You know? They go upstairs and they're quiet. But they don't clean the room. What you are looking for is someone, a child, who will believe you and obey exactly what you say. And children are known for inventing good things in disobedience. The same thing happens in our relationship with God. So the question today is, have you actually obeyed God's command? Have you really obeyed God's command to come to Jesus Christ? You know, I bet it's possible there's someone here today who has never come to Christ. You can talk about it, you can sing about it, you can do all kinds of things about it, but you you your relationship with Christ does not start until you come. You've got to deal with him personally, one-on-one. Have you ever counted it all joy? You've come to Christ. Christ has saved you. He's changed your life. Have you counted it all joy? How long ago did we talk about this? This was back in November. Count it all joy. Do you notice how you can do it once and then you forget? Or you can do it twice and forget? So chapter 1, verse 2 says, count it all joy when you fall into difficult situations. Verse 4, I remind you, says, determined to go through it. By faith, the right way, to get all the benefit. Verse 5 says, ask God for wisdom. He'll show you what to do He'll explain it to you. Ask him for wisdom. Verse 6 says, ask in faith. Verse 9 says, maybe instead of telling you I should be asking you, what does verse 9 say? Some of you have memorized those six commands. Verse 9 says, rejoice, glory in your status change. Remember that? Glory in your status change. You've been elevated. So my question this morning as I close is, have you exercised faith Have you exercised faith in coming to Christ? Have you actually obeyed the command? Have you exercised faith in growing in Christ? Have you actually obeyed the command? James 125 promises God's blessing only on those who obey. Nobody else. So I encourage you to obey what he says. Let's close in prayer. Father, what a privilege to realize that your word is directed to us in our situation today, 2018. And you desire to work in our lives to do things that we have never seen. You desire that we live in blessing. You desire that we experience your presence Your wisdom, your input into our lives. And I just pray that you would, by the Spirit of God, work in each of our hearts to identify specific commands that we by faith need to respond to Thank you for this word. I pray your blessing on each one here. I pray for your grace in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.