Good morning. Yeah, I hear you. Good to hear you out there. All right, take your Bibles and turn with me, please, to Revelation chapter 22. Revelation 22. It's been a busy summer at the mission. Lots of challenges and yet blessings. Tomorrow we are looking forward to having 200 brand new chairs delivered to the Baltimore Rescue Mission. Those of you that have been following that project, In our newsletter, you realize that our chairs are used 365 days a year, and some of the poor homeless. Are very large. And they're very tough on our chairs. And they like to lean back on them. And they like to break them. And they do that on purpose sometimes because they just want to be mean to us. Can you imagine that? They they don't have to pay anything for anything. Um and yet they they'd like to be mean to us. But uh so we found a way, we believe, to help fix that problem. First of all, we asked the Lord to help us. You know that we don't take government funding, we don't sell anything, we don't charge anything. So we were looking for chairs that would hold a 300-pound man. And uh my wife was looking on the internet and she said, I'll I'll look for you and we'll we'll try to find something. And So we had a while back looked and found some that were about fifty dollars apiece including shipping. So that comes out to ten thousand dollars for 200 shares, doesn't it? It's a lot of money. money and um we don't have that kind of money in savings and so you know for chairs we do have some savings but we don't have it you know so that we can just buy new stuff So we put out a letter and asked folks to consider helping us, and they have. And many of you have been involved, I'm sure. So as she's looking on the internet. She said, You're not going to believe what I found. And I said, What did you find? And she said, I found chairs that will hold a 450-pound person. I said, now we're talking. And so they are very rugged. They're very rugged is the deal. And She said not only that, she said they're $1,800 cheaper than the ones that would hold the 300-pound person. Now is that a good deal or not? I think that's pretty good So anyhow, we're excited about that and they are to be delivered tomorrow morning somewhere between 9 and noon. And uh we've already made preparations and we're we're in high gear and great expectation. Asking the Lord to allow them to come undamaged and that they will be a blessing for a long, long, long time. Now we also needed chairs for the dining room and the game room. And we need chairs for the stay uh the staff uh area where they eat in the kitchen and we need chairs for The this snack area downstairs, many times we'll have 40 men downstairs that come in before we actually open, and we have snacks down there for them when they come in so they're not hungry before the big meal. And anyhow, so we're just thinking of all that, and we're not asking the Lord to provide all new chairs for that, but I got a phone call. And the phone call was from a guy who was an assistant pastor out in Hartford County. And he said, we were gonna, you know, get this pilot church going, this pilot program, and on and on. And long story short, it it it didn't happen. And he said, I have uh 120 chairs. He sent me a picture of them on the text. And they were like brand new. They're very nice metal framed, black vinyl. And uh rugged. And he said, you can have them for free. Free works, folks. Free works. For us anyway. And uh so we said, yes, sir, we'll take those. So we went out to Hartford County and got those. That was enough to take care of all the chairs we needed in the dining room. the uh game room and the area where the men eat the the men staff eat uh their their meal in the kitchen and enough for six left over. He said, well then what does he need 200 chairs in the chapel for? Well, because we can't put 200 men in our dining room, we can only put about 80 in there. So we have to eat in shifts. But anyhow, we got enough to take care of that. Amen? Praise the Lord. I'm grateful. Anyhow, I'm sharing that with you because that's a praise And many things you hear from me are complaints and prayer requests and woe is me and the devil's after us and what are we going to do? So anyhow, I'm just sharing with you the good news that uh That the Lord has answered our prayers. And we are grateful. And I hope you're encouraged by that too. Thank you for your long, long time support of the Baltimore Rescue Mission. I know uh I've been there a long time, and before that Raleigh Holt was there. And uh the truth of the matter is though, the important thing is God's always been there And he's the one that's running it, and he's the one that's providing for it, and he's the one that's protecting it. And so we are so very grateful for his grace and mercy in our life. My wife and I have talked many times About how we just are amazed at how God loves poor people. 114 times in the Old Testament, 78 times in the New Testament, God mentions the poor. That's right. More than any other category of people, he mentions the poor. And I know there are poor that are poor because they're lazy. I know there are poor that are poor because they're addicts. But there are some folks that are poor just because they've had a tough time. So anyhow, it doesn't matter who they are or why they're poor. What matters is they have a soul. Amen? And the truth of the matter is, is that God, the real mission for the Baltimore Rescue Mission is the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ that they might hear how to be saved and that many of them would be saved And so that's our prayer. Thank you for being a partner with us. We read the scripture, so I'm not going to read it again. It's quite lengthy, but let me give you my my real. Bottom line text verse. It's the last one that we read. He that is unjust, let him be unjust still. He which is filthy, let him be filthy still. He that is righteous, let him be righteous still. And he that is holy, let him be holy still This day coming, the Bible says, when time is going to run out. I believe the introduction to the Bible is Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1. Because in Genesis chapter 2, the Bible starts out in the first verse saying that so the days of creation were completed, basically. And that God rested. So time began in Genesis 1. 1 when the Bible says, in the beginning. There was the Big Bang. Oh, it doesn't say that in your Bible? I'm glad. That doesn't say in the beginning Was the Big Bang? It says, in the beginning, God created the heavens and earth. God is the creator of everything, isn't he? Guess what? God is the creator of time as well. What happened before in the beginning? What was going on back there Eternity. Eternity was going on back there. And God stepped out on the edge of nothing because he didn't need anything to stand on, did he? And he wasn't in the darkness because God is light. And so God spoke out of the darkness because he is light and said, let it all begin. And time began. I believe there's a conclusion to the Bible, and it's not the last verse of the book of Revelation. Say, oh, he's going to preach heresy. Bear with me, okay? Look with me in our text, Revelation chapter 22, and if you will, look with me down to verse number 5. It says, There shall be no more no night there, and they need no candle, neither the light of the sun, for the Lord God giveth them light, and they shall reign forever and ever. And guess what forever is, folks? Eternity. Eternity. We're going to be with him through all of eternity. And eternity begins in verse 5 of chapter 22. Eternity future. Up until then, we've had about 6,000 years. I know it's supposed to be six trillion years or six billion years or whatever the evolutionists and the Darwinists want to try to convince us. I don't believe in that. I don't believe in the day-age theory either, that one day stands for a billion years in creation. No, God created ex mahilo out of nothing, and he didn't need anything to work with because he's omnipotent. And he's immutable, he's unchangeable. And anyhow, he hasn't gotten old in the last 6,000 years, and he hasn't got weak, and he hasn't gotten confused. You say, well, what about verse 6 to the end of the chapter? I think that's God's epilogue. You know what an epilogue is? Kind of a P. S. Because really time stops with verse 5, but what he gives us at the end is one final warning. One final warning to mankind. You see, what he does is he backs up there after verse 5. Now he's talking about He that is holy will be holy still. He that is unjust will be unjust still. He that is filthy will be filthy still. He that is righteous will be righteous still. The premise of the message this morning is simply this. As you are when you go into eternity. Is how you will be throughout eternity. And I think I can show you that from the Bible this morning. Let's pray together. Our Heavenly Father, I pray that you'll help me. To take the word of God that you have revealed to us and the Holy Spirit of God, who is the author, and the one who is the interpreter of the Bible for us. And use those things in this weak vessel that you've used for a few years in the past. Use me once again, I ask today, please, to be a help and a blessing and encouragement, and maybe, yea, even a challenge. To our dear friends this morning. Help us to realize that time is not something we're going to have forever. Time is running out rapidly. And help us to realize that there will be an accounting at the end of time. So speak to our hearts, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Time is gift. Ecclesiastes 3. 1 says to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. Time is a pause in eternity. Time is a pause in eternity. Because you see, before God said, let there be light. Before in the beginning there always was because he's God. And he's beyond our understanding and our finite minds can't figure that out. And we can sit around in our studies or we can sit around our campfires when we're having a retreat and we can try to imagine what God's all about and the what you're gonna find out about God is what you're gonna read in this book. That's God's revelation of Himself. Now you can look around nature and you can see the magnificence of God. You can see the beauty of God. But beyond what God has given, you remember the disciples were asking him questions? He said, I've got many things to say unto you, but you cannot bear them now. You cannot bear it, and they can't handle it. You know, do you realize that there's some things we can't handle right now? The Bible says that the Apostle Paul was caught up into the third heaven and given visions of unspeakable things, and he was told not to write them. Because the rest of us can't handle that stuff. Not what he saw. Time. It's locked in between Genesis chapter 1 and I believe Genesis chapter 22 verse 5. And if you don't agree with me on that, okay, I'll extend that and get make it to Genesis chapter 22, verse 21. I'll go with that. But I still think it ends at verse 5. A pause. A little a little hit the pause button on your computer. And for 6,000 years, the rest of what you see here is human history up until this day. The rest of it's still prophecy. Time to everything under season, time to every purpose under heaven, a time to be born and a time to die, and you will die. It's appointed unto man once to die and after this to judge me. He say, well, I'm going to be here for the rapture. Well, I hope so. But we don't have guarantee on that. We don't know when that's going to happen. We believe we're living in perilous what? Times. Timothy tells us, perilous times. But we don't know what time he's coming back. No man knows the day or the hour. So if I don't know the day or the hour, should I assume that he's coming in my lifetime? Well, I wouldn't live my life I wouldn't live my life with the idea that I won't die, but I want to live my life with the expectation, that's what Paul said, with the expectation that he could come back at any moment. That's the eminency of Christ. He could come imminently. At any time he could come. We don't believe there's anything left to be fulfilled scripture-wise. So if I believe he could come before I'm done preaching, I better make real sure I'm preaching right. Amen. Listen, if if God could come at any time during your week coming up, you better be prayed up on Monday morning. It oughtn't be amen at the end of the service. And you go out and live your life the rest of the week the way you want. You better live on your knees. You better walk humbly before a holy God because one day, dear friend, and you don't know what day that is, you're going to stand and see Him face to face. And if you're saved, it will be at the judgment seat of Christ. And if you're lost, it will be at the great white throne of judgment. But you will stand and face God, and so will I. To give an account of the things we've done in our body according to that we've done, whether it be good or bad. How's that work for you? Well, God sent his son when the time was right. You see, we're living under the curse. Sin brought the curse. I notice here in our text, chapter 22 of Revelation, verse 3, and there shall be no more curse. Hallelujah! Man, that's enough to Make you happy. What is the curse? Sickness and suffering and dying and death and pain and misery and thorns and thistles. And all that goes with it. The curse. Do you know that the reason Murphy's Law is a reality is because we live in a cursed world. Murphy's law, if it can go wrong, it will go wrong. I'll tell you why. Because we're under a curse. We're under a curse. But one day, at the end of time, it says in verse 3 of chapter 22 of Revelation, there shall be no more curse. So between Genesis chapter 3, which is when the curse came, and Revelation chapter 22, verse 3 That's when the curse is. And then the curse will be over. Isn't it amazing that after the millennium, the thousand-year reign of Christ, and here we are as as conquerors reigning with him for a thousand years. Isn't it amazing at the end of that thousand years that God turns the devil loose one more time? I think that's amazing. But that's God's program. That's God's business. He's God. He has a right to do that. But at the end of that final revolt, When heaven comes down, and verse 5 becomes a reality, there shall be no night there, and they need no candle. The light of us. For the Lord God give us a light. And they shall reign throughout all eternity, forever and ever. Are you looking forward to that? I hope you are. I hope you are. Time is running out. Would you back up with me to Revelation chapter 10, please? Revelation chapter 10. The message this morning is very short. I'm still in the introduction, however. Does that scare you? I am going to get to the message. But I wanna uh you know be before you paint something you need to prepare it. Huh? So I'm preparing, I'm preparing you for what's coming. And you say, oh my, yeah, I know. Revelation chapter 10, verse number 1, and I saw another mighty angel. Now this is at the end of the Trumpet seals. This is the sixth seal. There's one more trumpet seal to be given, which opens up the seven bowl seals. You see, in the tribulation period, there will be three series. of of tribulation, of of judgments. And each each time, like like with the the uh seal judgments, the seven seal is actually the seven uh trumpet judgments. And the seventh trumpet is actually the seven bold judgments or vile judgments. And each series of judgments becomes progressively harder and worse. And more fearful and painful. So we're at the sixth heel. Chapter 10 of Revelation, verse 1. I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven. clothed with a loud uh clot clothed with uh with a cloud and a rainbow was upon his head. By the way The LGBT crowd have stolen the rainbow from us. I like what Ken Ham is doing. You know what Ken Ham is doing? He is lighting that arc that he's got down there. Every night with the colors of the rainbow. And you know what he says? He says that rainbow is God's rainbow. He said, and Christians have a right to take it back. I like that. I don't know about you. I just threw that in there for For your info. The rainbow is God's sign. Not the sign of a much perverts, excuse me, but that's what they are, according to the word of God. Clothed with a cloud, and the rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire. Pretty pretty awesome looking, looking angel to me, and he had in his hand a little book. And he opened open, and he set his right foot, watch it now, he set his right foot upon the sea and his left foot upon the earth. Now I'm guessing he had to be a big angel. It says he was a mighty angel. I'm guessing he was a big angel. Because he had one foot on the sea and one foot on the earth. And he cried with a loud voice as when a lion roareth. Another little side thought, little rabbit trail, you ready? You want one of the ways that lions capture and kill their prey? They hunt most of the time at night. Sometimes they hunt during the day, but most of the time they hunt at night and they hunt in prides, which is groups. And when they get they get scent of game, they said, there's a herd of zebra down there. Or there's a herd of gazelle down there, and they'll kind of encircle it. And you know, you know what they'll do? I won't do it, because I can't roar like a lion, but I can get loud. But I won't, I'll save you that. They roar as loud as they can roar, and it paralyzes their prey. It paralyzes their prey with fear. With fear. Because they hear these lions roaring and they don't know exactly where they're coming from. And they don't want to be their next meal. This angel had a voice like a lion when it roars. He was called a mighty angel. He had one foot on the sea and one foot on the land. And the Bible says in verse number 4, and when the seven thunders Verse 4, had uttered their voices. I was about to write, and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which are are uh which the seventh thunders are see? He said, Don't don't write them. I don't want anybody to hear that. And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand. Watch me now. Watch me. He's standing on the sea and on the land, and he's got his hands lifted. He's a mighty angel, and he has a voice. like seven thunders or like a lion. And what is he going to say? And the angel I saw stand upon the sea, verse five, and upon the land lifted up his hand to heaven and swear by him that liveth forever and ever, who created Talk about God here, friend. Who created heaven and the things that are therein, and the earth and the things that are therein, and the sea and the things that are therein, that there should be time no longer. Time's running out. Did time end there? No. That there should be future tense. Should be. That doesn't happen until Revelation 22, verse 5. This is Revelation 10. But he's prophesying. That y'all better get right because time's running out. We're already in the sixth seal of the second set of judgments in the tribulation period, and there are people yet that have not heard the gospel that could still be saved. There are people today. The tribulation period hasn't started yet. The rapture hasn't taken place yet. Anybody could be saved. They need to be told how. When the last grain of sand passes through the hourglass of your life, your time will be over. And I don't care if you're in Johns Hopkins Hospital in their best ICU with their best surgeons and doctors with their most high-tech equipment. My friend, when God says the last sand of your hourglass of your life, when that last kernel of sand drops, you're dead. You're dead. And as the according to Revelation 22, verse 11 As you are when you go into eternity at that second, at that very second is how you will be throughout all of eternity. Are you ready for that? Let's take a look at these. Now the message. Okay, what have we got? Ten minutes? Number one, he that is unjust will be unjust still. I don't have to get into great detail on that, do I? Who is unjust? The lost Who's lost? Everybody that's not saved. There's none righteous, no, not one. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Isaiah 64, 6 says, All our righteousness is as filthy rags. So you say, but I'm doing this and I'm doing that. Don't tell me what you're doing. Tell me what God did for you. Tell me what Jesus did on the cross. Ephesians 3. 20, therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. And he that is unjust will be unjust through all of eternity. And what does that mean? That means hell. That means hell, friend. Man, I wish I had about another hour. I'd like to preach a message on hell this morning. To get you get the point. You already know it's hot, but there's a lot of other things involved in hell than heat. But he that is unjust going to hell. John 3. 18, what does it take to go to hell? He that believeth in him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Why? Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. What do you got to do to go to hell? Nothing. Just die without Jesus, and you'll go to hell. I don't have time. Matthew 7, 21, verse 21 through 20. Matthew 7, 21 through 23. You want to check it out later? You're going to find out that all the works in the world won't save you. But Lord, haven't we done many wonderful things in thy name? Well, we've even preached. There's going to be preachers here when the rapture comes. We preachers he'll still preaching. Because they're not saved. God gave me a message yesterday. I'm afraid to develop it. You know what God gave me yesterday? He gave me a message called Perverts in the Pulpit. And it's pitiful. Because that's a lot of what we got. I'm not against preachers. I am one. But I'm going to tell you what. Sin has so permeated our culture and our society that even the so-called men of God today are addicted to stuff. That I can't talk about with young children and ladies here. I'm talking about preachers. You all are looking for a preacher? I'm gonna tell you what, you you better ask him how his thought life's doing. Because as his thought life goes, is how his morality is. And you don't want a guy up here preaching to you. It's telling you one thing and doing another. Now, I don't know what kind of degrees you're looking for. I don't know what all kind of experience you're looking for. But I'll tell you one thing, you want a man of God who's trying to live a holy life. He that is just will be unjust still, lost through all eternity. But that's it doesn't end there. It says he which is filthy will be filthy still. Now let's use our logic a little bit because God has given us the ability to reason. Would you think a person who if God has already written one thing in this verse and that has to do with identifying the lost, would you think that a person that he identifies as filthy as being saved? I don't think so. Okay, so let's rule out that. Whoever is filthy in this in this verse is not a saved person. He is a lost person. So there are lost people, and there are lost people that are filthy. Hmm. Galatians 5. 19. Would you turn there with me, please? Galatians 5. 19. This is just one list of sins. This is not all the sins. This may not even include your besetting sin, because the Bible says we all have at least one. The sin which doth so easily beset us. But it does list some sins. It says in Genesis chapter 5, verse number 19, Now the works of the flesh. Now, the Bible also says, they that in the flesh cannot please God, the flesh has to do with the carnal self. The sin nature. And even though we're saved, we still have a sin nature, which is in uh which is going to be in battle if we will allow God to help us fight our flesh to the day we die. Galatians 5. 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest. They're obvious. Which are these? Adultery. Fornication. I won't get into it, but they're two different words and they mean two different things. Uncleanness, lasciviousness, that's an x-rated mind. Lasciviousness, an x-rated mind. He goes on to say idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies. Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like, of which I tell you before as I have told you in time past, that they which do such things And the verb there is in the present continuous action. In other words, it's not you slipped up one time. and did one of these things and now you're going to hell. No, it's saying here that they that do such things as a lifestyle, as a way of life. as a practice and they don't have any problem with it. They're just doing it. Listen, friend, the book says, the Bible says that if you practice this garbage, you're not even saved. Because we don't believe we can lose our salvation. Amen. So you can't lose salvation. So what's happening here? People that practice this stuff aren't even saved. Now I'm not judging anybody. I'm just reading a book. Because it says they that do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. There's only one option, and it's not purgatory. It's hell. You know, you better be careful the stuff you do. You can come to church on Sunday morning, put your tithe in, and sing holy, holy, holy, holy, all you want. But by their fruits they shall know them. And you know what I don't see your fruit. I don't follow you around all week long. But you know what I know somebody who does. His name is God. All things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. He sees it all, he hears it all, he knows it all, and you can't hide from him. Where can I go from thy spirit? And where shall I flee from thy presence? If I go down to the depths of hell, behold, thou art there! His his very eyes can see everything. You can't hide from God. He that is filthy will be filthy still Revelation. While we're in the in the vicinity, in Revelation, go back to Revelation if you're in Galatians. Turn me back to Revelation. Go to verse 20, would you please? Do you know there are varying degrees of punishment in hell? Varying degrees of punishment in hell. In other words, the ground is not level in hell, friend. Everybody doesn't get the same treatment in hell. Revelation chapter 20, verse number 11 says this. I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven flood away, and there was found no place for them. Now, friends, stop here and watch me. Listen, I talked earlier about how there's a judgment seat of Christ and there's a great white throne judgment, and this is talking about, now what I'm going to read in context, we're talking about everybody that's lost Because this is the great white throne judgment. God doesn't have a set of scales up there where He's going to put your good works on this side and your bad works on that side and He's going to weigh and see if your good works outweigh the bad works so you go to heaven, or if the bad does, you go to hell. That's not what this is about. Everybody that stands before God at this thing is going to hell. Everybody. No exceptions. Too late for an invitation. Too late to offer a gospel tract. They're damned and they're going to hell. Sorry, that's what the Bible says. You can look it up in 1 Thessalonians. That's what they're called. There's no place for them. Verse 12. I saw the dead small and great to stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which was the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the book of life. according to their works. Now why listen, here's a question for you. If they're already going to hell, why is God going to judge them? Because this ever everybody that's lost has lived a different kind of a life. Do you know there there are some people who are moral, who raise good families? Who go to work every day, who live an exemplary life as a citizen of this country, and they're going to die and split hell wide open. You know why? Because they think they're good enough. They may even be religious. They may even go to church. But if they don't have Jesus as their savior, friend, if they're not covered by the blood of Christ, they're going to hell. And they're unjust. But now we're getting into the filthy crowd. I I I hate to talk that way, but that's what the book says, okay? I'm just reading the book. God called me to preach this, by the way. I didn't write it. God called me to preach this, so I'm gonna preach this thing. He said he said the books were up. Why is God going to judge people according to their works? Because there are going to be varying degrees of punishment in hell. There's going to be play. I preached in prisons, you know that? I preach in prisons. Fortunately, most of the time from the outside looking in, but sometimes I have gone six electric doors deep inside prisons. All pris every place in prison's not the same, friend. Man, I was gonna preach in prison one night down floor d down in Alabama, right outside of Florida. I was gonna preach in there and they had to hold it up for an hour because some guy stabbed somebody over a chicken leg. I said, man, get that straightened out before I come in there. You lock that door behind me. Because I knew what I was going to preach that night, and I thought if you're going to stab him over that chicken leg, he'd probably kill me for this. But he didn't What I'm saying is, is they're going to be very look, we're we're in go to chapter 21, Revelation. Now jump over to verse 8, please. But the fearful and unbelieving, that's the unjust. All takes to go to hell is unbelief. But the fearful and unbelief, but it doesn't end there. And the abominable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers. And idolaters and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. And folks, everybody's not going to have the same part in hell. There's going to be some places that, according to this, are going to be a whole lot worse than others. Do I know any more detail than that? Nope, but I know that much. I know that much. If that were not the case, why would God have a great white throne of judgment? Well, I'll just God just throw all the lost people in hell and get it over with. No. Because those people that have done Quote, abominable things that you and I have read in the news and heard about in the news, and you look at them and you say, What kind of a monster is that? Well, if those monsters die without Jesus, don't worry about it. God's going to take care of it. Okay? God's going to take care of it. God is a righteous judge. And he will judge them righteously. Number three. Number three. Now we can put a smile on our face. Gets better from here. You've had the worst, okay? He that is righteous shall be righteous still. Thank God, thank God, that the blood covers it all. Thank God that no man can take me out of his hand. You know what? I can't even take myself out of his hand. I can't. If I'm truly saved, if I truly put my faith and trust in Jesus. Man, I have more people these days asking me if somebody's a Christian and they kill their self or they're going to hell. Not if they're Christian. If they're a Christian. What is suicide? Self-murder. Paul was a murderer, wasn't he? Moses was a murderer, wasn't he? Yeah, but they got saved. And you know, people even sin after they're saved, and and just check your own life and you can find that out. What is the unpardonable sin? I already gave it to you, John 3. 18. He that believeth not is condemned already. The Holy Spirit speaking to your heart. He's trying to convict you of your sin. He's trying to get you saved. You hear the gospel. Somebody's preaching, you you you hear it on the radio, you read a gospel tract, some some friend is witnessing to you, the Holy Spirit's can trying to convict you and trying to tell you, look, you you'd better listen, you're gonna go to hell if you don't get saved, you better get saved. And you stiff arm the Holy Spirit just like a running back running down a field trying to avoid a tackler. You take your hand and put it right in the Holy Spirit's face and say, not now. Not now. There may not be another time, friend. Now is the time, the Bible says. Now is the time. He that is righteous will be righteous still. He that is holy will be holy still. Now, what's the difference in being righteous and being holy? I put it this way: the difference between being a saved person and being a disciple of Jesus Christ. Salvation will cost you nothing. Discipleship could cost you everything. Are you a disciple of Christ? If any man hate not his father, mother, brother, or sister, may they have his own family. If you hate that not, he cannot be my disciple. They didn't say he couldn't be saved. Said he cannot be my disciple. There's a cost for discipleship. It has to do with separation from sin. The S word. People preachers are scared to death to preach it today because they're afraid somebody will get mad at them. I got news for you, friend. God, when you get saved, God wants you to live like you're saved. He doesn't he doesn't want you to be like the hog that goes back to to the the mire. He doesn't want you to be like the dog that returns to its vomit. He wants you to live different. Come out from among them and be ye separate. Hey, by the way, don't don't be yoked together with unbelievers. He that is holy will be holy still. You see, 1 Corinthians 3, 9 through 15, and you know it, I I'm not going to read it to you because my time's up and I'm I'm waiting for that trapdoor to catch me. I'll be going. See, we got got rid of Hope you got a parachute on that thing. Listen, 1 Corinthians 3, 9 through 15 Talks about how at the end of our lives and we stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, we'll give an account of everything we've done in our body. And it says we're going to stand there and God is going to evaluate our lives as Christians. At that point, our works will matter. Our works will matter. And the Bible says some their lives will be as gold, silver, and precious stone. Valuable. They will have been a blessing. They will have been a profitable servant of God. In other words, they allowed God to use them. And dear friend, God won't use a dirty vessel. There's no water in this cup, but let's say If there was there was a fly in it, there was water in it, okay? That could be the coldest, best quality water in the world. But if there was a fly in this cup. No matter how thirsty I was, trust me, I'm not drinking that water. And you could give me the best T-bone steak you can find. And I'll tell you what, you take that T-bone steak And then you pull out a dish that you that you used three days ago and didn't bother cleaning it. Maybe it's sitting in the sink and you haven't done the dishes, or you didn't stick it in the dishwasher, and you hand me that beautiful T-bone steak just the way I I like it. And you put it on that dirty, filthy plate. Guess what? I'd rather eat a peanut butter sandwich than that sticky steak. Because I'm not eating off of a dirty place. And I'm not drinking out of a dirty cup. And God won't use a dirty Christian to do his work. You wonder why? You wonder why Christians in this country, in this culture have no influence? Because the Bible says, when we have lost our Savior, we are good for nothing but to be thrown out and trodden under the feet of men. And Christians have no influence because they have no power, and they have no power with God because their lives are filthy. And God says our lives should be holy. Our lives should be holy. He that is, you know what? If you're not holy now, you won't be holy then. You say, well, wait, wait, wait, wait, I'm confused. Don't we get to heaven and everything gets right? Uh-huh. Well, you know what? The only way you can please God by faith is now. Do you have the faith to do anything by just trusting God? Like raising your kids, right? Would would you throw down Dr. Spock and at times Dr. Dobson? Oh, did I dare say the D word? I don't care what he says. If he says my kid needs time out and the Bible says he needs a spanking, he'd get a spank. Fortunately, he's now 30 years old to help me cut grass. You ask him if he ever got one or not, he'll probably say yes. Ask him if he liked it, he'll probably say no. I heard somebody say a long time ago, if you if they're still sassy when you're done, you ain't done. I found that to be true. I'll take away a lot of that. And it's as biblical as John 316. He that is holy will be holy still. God's going to judge us. There's a possibility we could get five crowns. I can't get into this. Crown of life, crown incorruptible, crown of rejoicing, crown of righteousness, and the crown of glory. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 3 9 through 15, you could see those crowns that you had earned, but you earned them with the wrong motive. Doing it not God's way. And see the crowns you were going to get burned up in front of you. Yet you will be saved, yet so is by fire. Somebody said it's kind of like being saved with a smell of hell on your coattails. That's probably not too far from right. Now you say, Well I I don't want the old crowns anyway. The Bible says we're not supposed to go around wearing crowns in heaven. No, I know, but wouldn't you like something to give to God? I mean, look what he's done for you. I won't get into that. That's another whole story, isn't it? He that is holy will be holy still. James 112 Blessed is a man that endureth temptation, for when he is tried he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. Do you love him? Oh how I love Jesus. Yeah, but you you can't You can't get away from that pet sin of yours, can you? Uh-huh. One more passage, I'm done. Romans chapter six. Romans 6. He that is holy. Are you trying to live a holy life or you just throw up your hands and say, I can't do it? Is that where you are? How about it, Christian? You say, well, I'm no worse than the next guy. God's not asking you to be like the next guy. God's asking you to be like his son, Jesus. You trying to be like him or you just trying to be like the next Christian that's trying to just get by? Romans chapter six, verse number eleven. Likewise reckon yourselves also to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies. You all have been talking about sin in Sunday school for the last year. Haven't you? How are you doing with that? You getting it in your head, you're getting it in your heart? That's the question. Is it coming down here? Is it changing your life? I hope so. Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. Who are you yielding to? It depends on who you choose to please. But yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. And then slip over to verse 19. I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh. For as ye have yielded your member's servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now yield your member's servants to righteousness unto there it is Yield yourselves to be servants unto holiness. It's not just for God Himself. For when ye were servants of sin, you were free from righteousness. What fruit have ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now being made free from sin and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness and the end everlasting life. Do you have fruit unto holiness? Don't get excited, I haven't gotten my conclusion yet. First Peter f uh one fifteen But as he which has called you is holy So ye be whole so be ye holy in all manner. All manner of conversation. That means manner of life. Your testimony. In every area of your life, sir, that means at work when you have a business deal to make. And you can cut corners and you can rip somebody off uh or you're at work and you know how you know where you can hide so that you can loaf r and get paid full time for your work but ha but you figured out how you can loaf on the job. You're a crook. Or you who won't pay your bills on time because they're going to give you an extra 30 days. So you're a crook for 30 days, is that it? See who you made at? I'm not mad at anybody. I'm just doing what God told me to do this morning. And I'm more interested in pleasing him than man. Because it is written, Be ye holy. Because I am holy. How hard are you trying to be holy, friend? How hard? Has it hurt? Are you enduring hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ? Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is tested, when he's tried, when he's tempted. He shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him. I want that one. I want that one. Oh, yeah, I want that one. Man, if I if I can't win a crown that shows Jesus that I love him, I have failed as a Christian. I might not get it, but I want that. I want that. Conclusion. Three points. Number one, now's the time to be saved. Are you saved? Do you play in church? 2 Corinthians 6, 2, for he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted. In a time accepted. Time's running out. Remember, that's the message. Time's out. Time's running out. And in the day of salvation have I succored thee. Help thee. Behold, now is the accepted time. Today is the day of salvation. Number one, it's time to be saved. Number two, to be sanctified. Separated. Separated. Romans 3 10 Love worketh no ill to his neighbor, therefore love is the fulfilling of the law, and that knowing the time that now it is high time to wake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than we believe. I've been saved uh Forty-six years. Hmm? Forty-six years. I'm a whole lot closer to seeing my Lord than I was 46 years ago. If God says the average lifespan is three score and ten, seventy years, and if you if you draw a graph from zero to seventy, I'm on the tail end of that. I'm just knocking on 70's door these days. Some of you are way over the line, I hate to tell you. It's all grace, ain't it? It's all grace. The night is far spent, the days at hand, let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, let us put on the armor of life, let us walk honestly in the day Not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wonenness, not in life and strife and envy, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no for provision for the flesh to fulfil the lust thereof. Be sanctified, separate from the garbage of this world. And then finally, it's not only time to be saved and sanctified, it's time to serve. Hebrews 9. 14, how much more shall the blood of Jesus Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. You haven't been saved to sit or soak? And say to sir, let's pray.