So have you guys ever asked yourself, why was I born as I am? It's an easy question for Jesus. He had to be the seed of Abraham. He had to be from the line of David to fulfill the prophecies. He was born to be king. He came into the world that he should bear witness to the truth. But what about me? I remember many years ago on the second floor of McKeldon Library at UMD, a fellow Korean talking to me about this. His conclusion, God has made us Korean for a reason. There's a purpose behind it. Not a hot take. Many years later I still hold to that. I mean I did give up the dream of being a K-pop star or starring in a K drama I don't think I have the looks for it. But I was still born to be Korean. And my sense of purpose is profoundly shaped by what unites us all more than what divides us. Again, I don't know all the specific reasons why I'm Korean, but like most of you, my boss is a Jewish carpenter. I'm an American, we live in Maryland, we gotta fulfill the Great Commission. This is the most important truth about my identity. Accordingly, the scriptures testify to the diversity of peoples and yet repeatedly remind us of our common origins. Of course, there's no place, there's no better place to start than the first book of the Bible. Today, as we turn to Genesis 10, we begin a new section. The way we know that is by identifying a division marker is a very important phrase found throughout Genesis. It contains a key Hebrew word, toledot, right? Polodote means genealogy, history, account, or records of generations. It's paired with the demonstrative pronoun this or these. So here's an entire phrase, this is the tolledot, or these are the toledot. Since it occurs eleven times in Genesis, we have twelve sections. And then you see the phrase in chapter 10, verse 1, marking the start of the fifth section. And as you go from one section to the next, you alternate between zooming in and zooming out. Genesis started with the most comprehensive perspective possible. God created all things in six days and rested. Doesn't get any wider than the whole universe. Then Moses zoomed into the sixth day of creation when mankind was created. After narrating the fall and the corruption of humanity, we zoomed out again. We speed through the many generations from Adam to Noah. Then, of course, we zoomed in again to focus on Noah himself, the flood, and the aftermath. Now we're zooming out again to look at the sons of Noah, how through them the whole earth was populated. Picture here, if you will, not a static paper map on a wall or the spinning globe on your desk. We're looking at something like a digital flow line map First, an arrow moves from the mountains of Ararat in Turkey to the land of Shinar and Iraq. Then from their smaller arrows spread out in all directions. Chapters 10 through 11 show us how humans began to fill the earth again after the flood. And but we're going to begin with chapter 10. And today I'm deviating from the norm as I won't read the chapter out loud, but I'll show you the verses as I go. The verses at the very beginning and at the very end, verses 1 and 32, carve out these verses as a chapter unit. We go from the genealogies of Noah's sons to the families of Noah's sons. Their descendants, born after the flood, are the founders of nations. The next chapter will explain why they all split off in all directions. This chapter shows us the results. As we go through it, it helps to consider two matters of division and order. First, we divide this large passage into three pieces, and that makes sense not only because Noah has three sons, also notice a cluster of ethnic vocabulary found three times. I'm looking at verse five, after the section on the Jephithites, their lands, according to his language, according to their families, their nations. Skip down to verse 20, concluding the section on the Hamites. You see the cluster again, according to their families, according to their languages, in their lands and in their nations. Finally, further down in verse 31, they're the Shemites, according to their families, according to their languages, in their lands, according to their nations. It makes good sense to organize the information into three sections, 1 to 5, verses 1 to 5, 6 to 20, 21 to 32. It also makes sense, good sense, that Moses proceeds in the order of Jephet, Ham, and Shem. Notice that this is not the order of age. Jeffhet's the oldest, yes, but Ham's the youngest. And Shem's the middle one. So it's not birth order we find here. Rather it's the ranking of relevance. We go from the Japhetites to the Hamites to the Shemites. And We go from the least relevant to the most relevant. So keep three words in mind. um as a periphery, enmity and affinity. And here's what I mean. Remember that the original audience of Genesis, the people of Israel As they leave Egypt, move from northern Africa to Middle East. The least relevant are the distant sons of Jephet. That's because Jeopardies grew in numbers and spread as Indo-European peoples. So most of them are in the outer periphery of where God's people were. Much more relevant to the Israelites are the Hamites. You have the Mizraim, the father of Egyptians who enslaved them, Canaan, the father of Canaanites who occupied the promised land. So many of the Hamites were in enmity with God's people. And then finally, of course, we have the Shemites. Their relevance is obvious. Israelites are from the line of Shem. So all of the Shemites are at least genetically in affinity with God's people, more so than others. In the next chapter, you'll see the genealogy of Shem continue beyond where it ends here. You end up with Abraham, the next principal figure in Genesis after Noah. Back to Genesis 10. Now that we understand its division and order, we should step back and admire what unique record we have here. Even those who do not respect the Bible's authority must admit this. William Albright, the father of biblical archaeology and twentieth century, by no means a conservative, had this to say. Quote, the tenth chapter of Genesis stands absolutely alone in ancient literature, without a remote parallel, even among the Greeks, where we find the closest approach to a distribution of the The table of nations remains an astonishingly accurate document. That's true because this is the word of God. Inspired and inerrant. It's not the genius of Moses that put all this together. From the revelation of God, we have this table of nation. Okay, so now the question for me is how am I gonna preach this chapter? Like most of my sermons, I'm going to make just one big point. Right. And to make this one big point, I'm going to have scripture interpret scripture, because that's the scriptures are united. Right? Old Testament, New Testament. We have one author. One Spirit inspiring it all. To be more specific, I'm asking Paul to help me read Moses. And to be even more specific, I'm looking at Acts 17, 26. It goes. And you might even memorize this as the main idea of today's passage. And he has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined their pre-appointed times. And the boundaries of their dwellings. So keep this big picture in mind as we go through the three sections I outlined. First, let's talk about the Jeopardy's in verses one to five. So um I already listed verse one, uh read verse one or showed you verse one, um I think. But but since verse one's an introduction, we really only have four verses devoted to the Japhethites. But they make up a vast branch of humanity. And since many of us trace our roots back to Europe, the names here are quite relevant to this congregation. But do keep in mind from Jeffet come not only Europeans but Indo-Europeans. You've got to keep that in mind. That again testifies to the great expansion of Jephet's legacy. We start with his seven sons in verse 2. As you see in verses 3 and 4, two in particular, Golmer and Javan, receive more attention, so it makes sense to start with them. FYI, while I go through many of the names, I'm going to rely heavily on the commentary of a man named Josephus. He's an important first century Jewish historian who seems to have access to ancient sources that may be lost to us today. So first, Josephus links the Gomerians, sons of Gomer, with the Gauls, right? A collection of Celtic tribes of Europe. Some ended up in Anatolia, in northern Galatia, modern-day Turkey. Then there are Gomer's sons in verse 3. Ashkenaz is made famous by the Ashkenazi Jews with their mix of European culture and their Yiddish language. Again, back to modern day Turkey, Rifbath and Togarma are fathers of Papylagonians and Phrygians in western, central, and northern Anatolia. Javan, the fifth son of Jephet, also deserves special attention. From Javan come the Ionians, one of the four leading ancient Greek tribes. Similarly, from Elisha or Elisha come the Aeolian tribe, whose origins are in Thessaly in central Greece. Tarsus is likely the ancestor of the Cilicians. His name corresponds to the capital Tarsus, where Paul grew up. Kitim refers to the dwellers of Cyprus, where Barnabas grew up. Kittim's name was preserved in the colony of Citium, and from there came Zeno, the founder of the Stoic philosophy. The history of Dodanims is a bit complex, but some suggest connections with the island of Rhodes. Now back up to Japheth's other sons, other five sons in verse 2. Bagog headed northward from Middle East. Josephus identifies the Magogais as Scythians, nomads who ventured to northern shores of Black Sea towards modern-day Russia and Ukraine. More generally, Magog led by May uh led by Gog stands for an international coalition of God's enemies, both before the millennial jug uh millennial kingdom and at the end of it. for future prophecy. From Mahdai come the Medes in close relations with Persia and modern-day Iran. Tubol has been linked to Caucasus Iberians in what's known as the country of Georgia. Something Mashek might be connected to Moscow River But Josephus connects them to Mazaka and Kappadocia, again modern-day Turkey. It's a recurring theme. He also believes Josephus from Tyrus come the Thracians. Now keep in mind, only God knows the hundred percent accuracy of these connections. There's so much complexity resulting from a mix of cultures and conquests of peoples. What's certain is that the Lord answered Noah's wish for his firstborn. Back in Genesis 9:27. May God enlarge Japheth and enlarge he did. They'd explore and settle in coastlands and far extremes of the globe. It's no wonder Jephotites became synonymous with the Gentiles in verse 5. The Going. But as numerous as they are, concerning the main Bible storyline, they're in the periphery. Other nations are more immediately relevant to Jacob's sons. Go on to the sons of Ham, many of them in enmity with God's people. So owing to their direct opposition to the Israelites, 15 out of 32 verses, almost half of the chapters devoted to them. Ham's four sons are named in verse 6. Kush is associated with Nubia, a region south of Egypt. In verse 7, it's possible that one of his descendants gave rise to a prosperous nation in the present-day Yemen. If so, we learn in 1 Kings 10 that their queen visited Solomon. But the most impressive grandson of Ham and son of Cush is Nimrod, at least by worldly standards. He received special attention from verses eight to twelve. These days Nimrod's name is synonymous with foolishness and lack of skill. Trying to figure out why this is. Obviously if we would just read the Bible, you wouldn't think that. I think we have that old cartoon series, Looney Tunes, to blame for that. So I don't know if you've ever I mean I'm kind of showing my age here if you grew up watching Looney Tunes. Well there are some episodes in which Daffy Duck calls Elmer Budd Nimrod. Right? Bugs Bunny calls Yosemite Sam that too. It's a well scripted sarcasm Because Elmer Fudd and Yosemite Sam are not good at hunting, right? So it's like a you know, you're a Nimrod, right? Like it's a sarcasm there. But it was lost on the audience So those who grew up on TV have been shaped by this misunderstanding. Even I can't shake this feeling. Nimrod's a bad thing. But as you see in verses 8 and 9, Nimrod's not inest. He's not dumb. He mastered hunting. Okay? His fame spread. His field success led to worldly success. That's why you see for the first time in verse 10 in the entire Bible that word kingdom. We're jumping ahead, but it's he's likely one of the leaders, if not the leader, in the Tower of Babel project in the next chapter. Nimrod may have been the earliest tyrant. His name is derived from the verb for rebel. Some traditions say he wasn't even a hunter of game to begin with, he was a hunter of people. One Jewish source says this about Nimrod. He was powerful in hunting and in wickedness before the Lord, for he was a hunter of the sons of men. And he said to them, Depart from the judgment of the Lord and adhere to the judgment of Nimrod. Therefore it is said, As Nimrod a strong one, strong in hunting and in wickedness before the Lord Again, by worldly standards, his resume is impressive. Besides Babel, from where we get Babylon, he established other places in the land of Shinor. Akkad is interesting to students of ancient Near East studies. Akkadians among the oldest written languages of the world from about 4,600 years ago. Around the time we find the earliest Egyptian and Sumerian records. But back to Nimrod, who was not satisfied with the places he had in the land of Shinnar, as you see in verse 11, He built Nineveh in Assyria, the famous city, at the focal point of the prophets Jonah and Nahum. Somewhere nearby is Rehobo, not the beach in Delaware. If the name suggests anything, it was a place with broad streets. The last city mentioned in verse 12, Kala's prominent enough to be named after his founder later, Nimrud, I think. Moving on to another son of Ham, there's Mitzrai. Again, his name is the original name for Egypt. Josephus says, they have been joined the sons of Put in Libya, named after them. Kasluhim may not mean much to us. But the Israelites learned that from them come the Philistines, the deadly enemies, during the periods of the judges and early monarchy. In fact, the word Palestine is rooted in Philistine They got there as a seafaring people, actually a very sophisticated people. So again, Philistine is seemed to be negative, but they were actually advanced culture. And Kaptor was their homeland, often identified as the island of Crete in the Aegean Sea. But even more relevant as enemies of Israel are the descendants of Canaan. You find in verses 15 to 19 all kinds of names that reappear later in the Bible. Sidonians were famous as woodcutters, but infamous as worshippers of Ashtorid. From them is that famous or should I say infamous, wicked Queen Jezebel, the worshipper of Baal, who married King Ahab, sons of Het We're in friendlier terms with God's people. As you'll see later in Genesis, Abraham bought family burial grounds from them. But then they became too friendly. Rebecca Isaac's wife was worried that their son Jacob might marry one of them and compromise his faith. In verse 16, we have more occupants of the promised land. The Jebusites held Jerusalem until David took it as the new capital of his United Kingdom. The Amorites were known for their iniquity that piled up until judgment. Moving on to verse 17. Perhaps the most infamous Hivite was Hamor and his son Shechem, who violated Dina, Jacob's daughter in Genesis 34. Concerning the other names in verse 18, we know very little except that God's people overthrew them and their cities. In verse 19, you see Moses chasing a line southward along the Mediterranean coast and then eastward toward the Dead Sea. Verse 20 concludes the section on the Hamites. In review, many of them were enemies of Israel, but not all of them. We must remember that even among the Canaanites, individuals found acceptance among God's people. As long as they forsook their gods to follow Yahweh, the God of Israel. I'm thinking of Arama the Jebusite. I'm thinking of Rahab, the Canaanite, Jericho. It wasn't just out of coincidence. I we read Matthew 15 earlier. Okay. Recall from earlier that Syrophonician or the Canaanite woman in the gospel. Jesus rewarded and recognized her faith and humility. So those in the periphery of God's people, even those in enmity with God's people, can and do find grace and mercy by repenting and putting their faith in God. More on how later, but first let's see how God's plan continues through the line of Shem. The Lord chooses one man from Shem's line to make a nation, but all the sons of Shem have affinity with God's people. Shem's given a proper introduction in verse 21. Moses first connects them to his great grandson Eber. That's very relevant to the Israelites. We get the people named Hebrew from Eber, which means crossover. I'm not talking about the basketball move. I'm talking about the migratory move they made from beyond the river Euphrates. This reminds me of Joshua 24, verse 2. As the Lord reminded his people to Joshua, your fathers, including Terah, the father of Abraham, and the father of Nahor, dwelt on the other side of the river in old times. And they serve other gods. Um as the brother of Japheth. The fact that Hamza given this kind of introduction earlier is telling. We're reminded of what happened last chapter when Shem and Jephet together honored their father Noah. Well Ham didn't. So Noah called upon the Lord, the God of Shem, and asked that Jepha dwell in harmony with Shem. In verse 22, we have the five sons of Shem. From Elam come the Persians, who are close to Medes, to the Medes. From Asher come the Assyrians, who were close to the Babylonians. From Lud come the Lydians in modern-day Turkey. Their capital city was Sardis, where there was a church that Jesus addressed in Revelation. Arphasad and Aram received special attention. First in verse 23 from Aram we have the Aramaeans or Syrians. The most famous from the land of Ooze is Job, our hero of faith. Josephus has sources that say Ho founded Armenia. We also learned that Gethir and Mash are connected to modern-day Iran and Iraq, respectively. Now notice up to this point in Genesis 10 that we have not moved in detail beyond three generations of Japheth Ham and Shem. And had the pattern continued with Shem, you'd expect verse 24 to end at the comma. At the first comma. So that would have amounted to Shem, Arfasad, and Salah. the three generations. But verse 24 continues, onto the fourth generation as Salah begot Abor. Again, that's where we get the word Hebrew. On to the fifth generation in verse 25. Aber has two sons, and we see that one of them is Pelek. His name marks a monumental change in human history. Some think that his name, meaning division, refers to the splitting of the Earth's landmass, the effects of the global flood on the world. It's more likely that Peleg's name refers to the events of the next chapter, the confusion at the Tower of Babel that leads to the dispersion of peoples. Also in the next chapter, Moses will continue in the genealogy of Palah until it ends with Abraham. For now, we learn about his Palek's brother Joktan. He had many sons. That's the sixth generation of Shem. Their names fill up four verses. 26 to 29. Not much is known about them, but commenting on verse thirty, uh Josephus locates some of them as far as Kophan or Kabul and the Kabul River. And here at verse 31, that's all folks, right? For the sons of Shem until the next chapter. Whether genetically closer to God's people, that does not guarantee entry into God's favor. For example, Syrians were fellow Shemites, but they often fought Israel if you go to the Old Testament. There are many heroes of faith among them, except Naaman. So affinity, as good as it is, proximity and all that doesn't mean you're automatically safe. Now let's zoom out again to conclude this chapter of verse 32. If you've been counting, there are 70 people groups here. That's 14 from Japhet, 30 from Ham, 26 from Shem. And as obviously history tells us, there will be many more countries and nations and peoples. But for now we have a snatch out of nations and periphery of, enmity with. an affinity with God's people. As I cited at the very beginning, this chapter is a live map illustration of Acts 17. 25. 26, even as arrows move in all directions, we have this vital centripetal truth. Our Creator has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth. He has determined their pre-appointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings. Now, careful readers will note that this verse consists only of a part of a sentence. We must read verse 26 together with 27. And he has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined their pre-appointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings. so that they should seek the Lord in the hope that they might grow for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us. That's much better in terms of finding applications. We have here the answer to that question I raised at the beginning. Why was I born as I am? God created us and placed us at this time in history and at this place in the world. For what reason? That we might seek the Lord, that we might grow for Him, that we might find Him. Finding God is not about climbing heights, Mount Gerizim or Mount Zion. It's not a pilgrimage to a certain city, Mecca or Jerusalem. It's about worshiping in spirit and truth. But here's the sad universal truth applicable to all humans at all times. There's none who seeks after God. We've all turned aside. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. We bow down to created things, we foolishly think divine nature is like gold, silver, or stone. Something shaped by art and man's devising. And each culture has their gods. The Greeks their Pantheon. The Egyptians their Amun Ra. Even the Israelites turn to foreign deities like Baals and Ashtareks. They worshipped the host of heaven, took up the tabernacle of Molech, and the star of their god Ramphan. We're no better today. Even with all our advances and knowledge and culture, we too are idolaters. We changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man. To this day we serve mammon, coveting, idolizing money It's not just the love of money. Tinkeller wrote about our counterfeit gods, how quote, An idol is whatever you look at and say, in your heart of hearts, if I have that, then I feel my life has meaning. Then I'll know I have value. Then I'll feel significant and secure. So in thousands and myriads of ways, we provoke the Lord in his jealous wrath, and for that we deserve to be punished in hell forever. But our Father in heaven did not leave us like this. Gospel of the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. The Creator of the ends of the earth sent God the Son to be one of us, divine and human in one person. He lived a perfect life. He's destined not only to be the prince and savior of the chosen people, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins, it is too small a thing that he should be God's servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob. And to restore the preserved ones of Israel. God gave him to be the light to the Gentiles, to be his salvation to the ends of the earth. But to give repentance, to grant forgiveness, to shine that light, to be our salvation, Jesus had to suffer and die. He must be the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So he went to the cross to pay for our sins, our wrongs, our idolatries. He did that as our substitute. Before he fleeted his last, he declared his work finished. He died and he was buried. But as death no longer had dominion over him, Jesus rose from the grave. He gave many proofs of his resurrection for 40 days. He ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. And this is the gospel, the good news of Jesus. And it demands a response. Back to Acts 17. Here's what we must do. You know, God's been patient with us, putting up with our ignorance. and idolatry. But now he commands all men everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising him from the dead. So there's that call to repent, not just for those in Athens, but for all of us. Turn from sin and self-righteousness. Turn to Jesus, the Son sent by the Father, the man whom He has ordained. Put your hope of heaven in Him and Him only. Don't put any weight on your good words, good works, or effort. Eternal life's a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. And because this good news is for all, we look forward to a great gathering of the redeemed around God's throne. Our last song anticipates that day. Ye chosen seed of Israel's race, ye ransom from the fall. Let every kindred, every tribe on this terrestrial wall Oh that with yonder sacred throng we at his feet may fall. Let's sing that together after closing in prayer. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for your word and how it answers all the essential questions of life. Where are we from? How did the world get populated after the flood? And Lord, it also answers the biggest, most important questions about where we're headed and what we must do to be in a right relationship with you. We thank you that you you have a plan of salvation for every tribe and every nation, every tongue. Lord, even in our foolishness and our ignorance and our pride, you did not give up on us. you you stayed and stuck with that plan to save us through your son Jesus Christ. And we pray that we would spread this news. To abroad. We live in a diverse world. We live in a globalized world. Help us to take advantage of this, to share our faith with those around us. And we thank you that we are secure in the salvation that is found in Jesus. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.