ED. All right, I invite you this morning to turn to the book of Ezekiel, but we are going to look at a few other passages as well. But just turn to Ezekiel chapter one. Well, you've got your hand in Ezekiel. Keep it there. And turn to the last chapter in Matthew. Maybe put a bookmark in uh in Ezekiel if you want to How difficult is the task of making disciples of the nations? How difficult is the task of making disciples of the nations? When God became incarnate, Jesus Christ was born. God in the form of helpless babe. Growing up to become a man, training the twelve, training others as well, the seventy, and really the masses endeavoring to speak to them and calling them to a belief in himself. It was along that journey with the twelve men that he said things like this, A new command I give unto you That you love one another as I have loved you. And it was by virtue of their new relationship they had walked with the God who is love. It was by virtue of the newness of seeing love incarnate that now their estimation of love was so superlative, so big. That Jesus is putting it in a separate category and saying it's almost a new command. You love each other like I have loved you. And then there was another time when Jesus said, as the Father sends me, so send I you. And so we have, again, in Matthew 28, one of the last things he did was commission his disciples to go, Matthew 28, verse 18, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things. Whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Or it could be translated, age. Amen. How hard is it to do that? Well, consider for a second the book of Acts. Consider the formation of the church in Jerusalem. All those people on the day of Pentecost get saved, thousands. And suddenly the Christian community living there, those who had followed Christ previously, which was only a meager 120, and then all the new ones, had to sort of organize themselves and figure out where to put the people who wanted to stay. and how to help the others off to wherever they wanted to go while training and teaching them. And there was this constant movement from homes and the churches that were there. to the temple and evangelism that took place there. There was the breaking of bread from house to house. There was all this activity and all this movement. It was almost like a a good kind of explosion all over that city. How hard was it to manage that and to do all the details that were necessary to keep that going? And then there was this moment in the life of the church when the Gentiles became an object of evangelism. And of course you know Philip, he went out and he did some evangelizing, and you know Stephen, who was martyred. And then you know Paul, who was called and commissioned, and he went out and planted churches. And what he did was he went to the hornet's nest in every single town that he went to. He went right to the nest and he stirred up those wasps. And he preached to them that Jesus was the Jewish Messiah. Accept him. And if they did accept him, a certain group would come out and sort of be the nucleus of a local church in that area. How difficult was that? Well, you can remember that Paul was shipwrecked multiple times. He was beaten with rods. He was left for dead after they stoned him. It wasn't very easy, right? We know that. There were those times when Paul despaired of life, and God himself had to come and comfort him. And say, Paul, when he was in Corinth, when he was ready to start a ministry there, Paul, don't be afraid. I have many people in this place. He needed that kind of encouragement. But you know, there's also encouragement for the prophet of God, for the apostle of God, for the Christian of God That is kind of built into the commands that God gives us often. And it's right here in this Matthew 28 passage, and it's in Isaiah chapter 6. And in Ezekiel chapters 1 and 2. And last week we looked at the encouragement that was built into Ezekiel. When the heavens were opened, and Ezekiel had that vision of what it was like to see that those beams that God had made and ruled over That encouragement in Matthew 28 is found, if you look at your Bible, in these statements, 18: all authority is given unto me in heaven and on earth. Jesus is the authority over the earth. Go, that's okay, that's the command. Baptizing, that's the command. Teaching, that's the command. Here's the encouragement, verse 20. I am with you always. So here is the encouragement built into this series of commands. I have all authority, Jesus says, in heaven and earth, and I will be with you. Now here's something I've learned, and maybe you've learned this as well. The encouragement you get out of statements like that is completely related to your estimation of who God is. And how big he is, and how powerful Christ is, and just how that authority works, because you and I walk a walk of faith Jesus says, I'm with you always, and we look around and he's not here. And he says, I have authority over all of this mess. And we look around and we say, this is a mess. How does his authority even, is that real? And so there are often times in the Christian experience as we grow when we have to go back to the most fundamental things and ask ourselves Who do I think he is? And how powerful do I think he is You know, it's one thing for a scrawny little buddy of yours in seventh grade to come up to you and say, hey, I heard yesterday that you're getting beat up by the bully. And this is happening like every day. Don't worry, I'm going to walk with you today. And I'll protect you. Like your kid brother comes up to you and says, hey, I'll protect you. And you're like 10 years older than him, and he's only five. Uh not much protection, not much authority, not much power from my five-year-old kid brother. But it would be another thing if If a heavyweight boxer came up next to you and said, hey, you know what? I hear you're getting bullied. I'm going to walk with you through your classes today. And I'm not going to say a whole lot. I'm just going to do this. I'm just gonna glare at people. And if anybody even lifts a finger, you know what's gonna happen I mean there's a lot more comfort in that. Now, we don't create God. Our estimation of Him is irrelevant if it's not Biblical. So we don't say, I think I'll make God the heavyweight boxer today because I need that kind of encouragement. We don't make him. We look to the word and we see who he really is. And we adjust our estimation of him based on what the Word of God says. And so we derive comfort from it. These are dark days in our country. Will they get better or will they get worse? I don't know. Throughout church history, there have been savage seasons that the church has had to endure. Some good, some bad, many, many, many bad. And so it is really important for you and I to go to scripture passages and say, all right, all this authority is Christ's, and he is with me right now, and so I will I will do what God is asking me to do. Turn back to Ezekiel now, Ezekiel 1. What we're going to do today is look at the commission with more detail. That God had given Ezekiel. And you're going to see with me that it is not easy and why he had to be someone who not just once, but on multiple occasions, the heavens were opened, and he was reminded of the greatness of his God. If you recall from before in Ezekiel chapter 1, he first saw the glory of God in the creatures and in the throne itself. He saw these four living creatures, and you remember there were these wheels beside them turning, and the spirit of the creatures was in the wheels, and this vision was there. To show Ezekiel the greatness of God's creative power and then the throne that was above this to show that God was ultimately in control and having authority over all of these creatures and all over the earth. And you remember that there is, secondly, a voice. Look at Ezekiel chapter 1 verse 25. There was a voice from the firmament that was over their heads when they stood and had let down their wings. And there was, verse 26, a throne. It says, And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone. And upon the likeness of the throne Was the likeness as of the appearance of a man above upon it? And so there was a throne higher than these creatures, and thus showing the authority of God. And he looks And then God starts speaking, the Lord gives him command. Chapter 2 verse 1, we see one of the first times that the Lord addresses Ezekiel as the son of man. This happens dozens of times throughout the book of Ezekiel. It's sort of The Lord's way of talking to Ezekiel. Doesn't mean that Ezekiel was the son of man, like Jesus was the son of man. It is really probably a reference to his humanity. Like he was a son of a man. And this was sort of a reference to the weakness that Ezekiel had. It could also be sort of I don't want to say a pet name, that doesn't sound right, but it's a sort of a name, a special name that God shared just with Ezekiel during the hard ministry that God gave him. So we see the vision, we see the throne, and we see the commission here. And in verse 3, he says Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me even unto this very day. And so he begins to give him instructions on what to do and the kind of people that he was going to go to. So the first thing I want us to see this morning is that Ezekiel was sent to a house that was in rebellion against God. If you turn in your Bible a few more chapters and you go to chapter 8 After Ezekiel is given these visions. Let me just give you a quick narration here. So after Ezekiel receives the vision from on high, is given instructions from the Lord in chapter 3. He then has to dramatize two things in chapter 4 and 5. One is how Jerusalem is going to be besieged and attacked and overwhelmed and conquered. And so he kind of has this little act that he does with this model showing to the people that this is going to happen And then he dramatizes the fall of Ezekiel by laying on his side and really suffering in that way. And the people watch this and they're supposed to think, what in the world is Ezekiel doing? And then Ezekiel gives the interpretation. Of what is happening. But then we see, I'm going to kind of skip over everything until we get to verse to chapter 8. Because in chapter 8, we begin to see Ezekiel indicting the people for specific sins that they're committing. And we see something begin to happen which should terrify us, even as New Testament believers. If you look down, you see in this chapter, in chapter 8, verse 6, the glory of the Lord. It says here, he said furthermore unto me, Son of man, seeest thou what they do, even the great abominations that the house of Israel committeth here That I should go far off from my sanctuary. But turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abomination. What does this mean? I shall go far off from my sanctuary. Well, if you look at chapter 10, verse 4, you might want to just write this in your the margin of your Bible. What we have is the glory of the Lord begins to depart from Israel, to leave. In chapter 10, verse 4. It says, the glory of the Lord went up from the cherub and stood over the threshold of the house, and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory. But then in verse 18, it says the glory of the Lord departed from off the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubimes. And then in chapter 9 in verse 19, the cherubims lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth in my sight. When they went out, the wheels also were before them And besides them, and everyone stood at the door of the east gate of the Lord's house, and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. From inside to threshold to above. And then you turn to chapter 11, verse 23. The glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city and stood upon the mountain which was on the east side of the city. You track these changes, and what you have is the Lord revealing to Ezekiel that his glory is leaving. The Jewish people, the Hebrew nation. His glory represents different things in the Old Testament, one of which is the blessing that his covenant with Israel brought. What could be worse? Folks, what could be worse than to lose the blessing of God on your life or on a nation? Now, we often say God bless America, and I certainly don't want to get into any politics this morning, but folks, God cannot bless sin. He can't. Would you want that? A nation that has committed so many acts of atrocity, what I speak of is abortion. A nation that is turned its back on God. Would you want God to bless that? What kind of God would he be if he did that? And yet, there's a remnant in this nation. And that's all I can say. I don't want to delve into my opinion. What we want here this morning is the Word of God. And here it is: the presence of the Lord leaving the temple of God. Well, what caused this? Well, I think you and I should see and know that this morning, and that's where we go back to the first chapter I mentioned, chapter 8. There are six things in chapter eight, and I won't have time to preach all these things, but there are six different things, and they they're detailed, but they sort of fall into the category of idolatry. If you look at chapter 8 and you go down to chap to verse 5, here's what it says. Then said he unto me, Son of Man, lift up thine eyes now, the way toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes the way toward the north, and behold, northward at the gate of the altar, this image of jealousy in the entry or in the entrance. This image of jealousy, it is the idea here, it's an idol, and it is very public. You can see it. There it is. What this means in the life of God's people is they had arrived at the place where they were very willing to be public about their idolatry. They didn't care who saw it. Now, in the life of a nation, this is sort of a boldness to just put something out there that should not be there. When it comes to your walk and my walk with Christ, it would be parallel to you and I becoming so hardened in a sinful practice and so unashamed of a sinful practice. that when you come to a home, you just see that sinful practice on display. You know, different people display their religions. uh visually or in an auditory fashion, wherever you go. When I was in Egypt, I heard the religion every day with that blast of the Muslim call to prayer. I once had a chiropractor who who thought he was a Hindu, and so he had a shrine to this. He was an American, he wasn't from India or anything. But he had the shrine that he had created in the waiting room there in his office. So every time I went, I would sit there and have to look at this the shrine that he had made and candles that were there ready to be lit. Is there anything in your life that you've become so unashamed of that it's right out there for everyone to see? But when God sees it, If God and Ezekiel were there looking at it, God would say, Look, verse 6, seeest thou what they do, even the great abominations that the house of Israel committeth? One translation in referring to this statue calls it an offensive statue. Something that when God sees it, there's this immediate offense. And a sensitive believer, a sensitive Hebrew. would see it as well and groan to see that. So what we see first, number one, in the life of Israel, there was a boldness when it came to their idolatry. They did not care if it it had entered into the public arena. Number two, you continue to see, and you go down to verse 10 of this chapter, and it's so God takes him and he says, So I went in and saw. Actually, let's let's go up a little bit further and just start at verse 7 so you know the context. And he brought me to the door of the court, and when I looked, behold, a hole in the wall. Then said he unto me, Son of man, dig now in the wall, and when I had digged in the wall, behold a door. And he said unto me, Go in and behold the wicked abominations that they do here. So I went in and saw and behold every form of creeping things and abominable beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel portrayed upon the wall round about. So here we have in verse 10 the idols that are all there ready to see Now on the one hand the statue is public. Number two, this is a depiction of a multitude of idolatries. It's a smorgasbord available to the Hebrew. It wasn't just one God they worshipped. I mean, they wanted it all. I mean, look at this description again. There was every form. of creeping things and abominable beasts and idols of the house of Israel. That's the point. It was all there. And number three, not only that, in verse eleven, and there stood before them seventy men of the ancients of the house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaz Anah. The son of Shaphan, with every man his censor in his hand, and a thick cloud of incense went up. What does this say? Was all that smorgasport of idolatry limited to the young and the inexperienced? Was it limited to the rock and roll generation? No. It was the ancients, the elders, seventy men, perhaps a designation for the most important of the ancients or the elders of the house of Israel. And there's a name. So this is not just all some sort of poetry here. This is history. Here's the guy. Good luck pronouncing him. But there he is in verse 11. Public idolatry, a multitude of different idols practiced from the oldest probably down to the youngest. In that land. Folks, it's really hard not to draw a parallel between this and America, isn't it? In our country, we've taken the Ten Commandments off of courthouse buildings after courthouse building. I haven't and I've never actually added it all up to see how many different states that's happened in, but it's happened all over the place, isn't it? Of course we know the removal of prayer from schools. I don't know what your opinion is on that. I I don't think it could be a good thing to remove the reading of the Word of God in prayer. But on the other hand, I don't want people who aren't Christians to think that they have a A New Testament with God because of good works, but the point is this: the influence of Christianity is removed And have you noticed the ages of people who are really into sin nowadays? Is it just the young people? What do you see in your life? Well, I mean the baby boomers, what age group is that now? Would that be 60 to 70-ish? And how are they behaving in our country? But you know it also works this way in the church. You've heard of the frog in the pot illustration, right? You put the frog in and you turn the heat up slowly, and over time the frog the frog is cooked. Could that happen to us? Could uh we, as we age, be moving with our culture and sort of allowing things into our lives that we wouldn't have when we were younger? I mean, isn't there a particular kind of temptation for the aged? Because they have lived many years and they can move in such a way that the younger people have not yet had opportunity to move in that way. How many channels are on television now? How many? Are there hundreds? Every form of creeping things and abominable beasts and all the idols of the house of Israel is right there on the wall. Isn't that an amazing parallel between our television sets and what's painted on this wall? Be careful. Be careful. Public idolatry, a multitude of idols, from the oldest to the youngest, and fourth. There's this emotional yearning for what could be lost when it comes to these idols. Look at verse 14. Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the Lord's house, which was toward the north, and behold, there sat Women weeping for tamas. Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen this, O Son of Man? Turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations. Ven these. Possible reference to idolatry or those things connected with idolatry. And here are the women, and they are really emotional about what's happening here. We'll keep going because we don't have time. So verse 16, there's the fifth thing, and he brought me into the inner court of the Lord's house, and behold, at the door of the temple of the Lord. Between the porch and the altar, there were about five and twenty men with their backs toward the temple of the Lord and their faces toward the east, and they worshiped the sun toward the east. Now, whereas in verses 10 and 11 you have this multiplicity of idols, you also have groups of people who are dedicated to particular kinds of false religions. And here they are worshiping the sun. And they are willing to do this with one another. Wow. They've sort of a little sect going on here worshiping the sun And then verse six, let's look at this. I'm I'm sorry, verse verse seventeen for the sixth thing. Then he said unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man, is it a light thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominations which they commit here? For they have filled the land with violence, and have returned to provoke me to anger. And lo, they put the branch to their nose. I mean, they are just bold and willing to do this. Here is the mention of violence. The land is filled with it. How many murders have they had in Baltimore this year? So we have public idolatry, a proliferation of idolatry, from the oldest to the youngest The women are emotionally attached to their idolatry. We have different groups. You might have the 70 here and 25 over here worshiping the sun as UN and we have a land that is overrun with violence. Is there a correlation between idolatry and violence? I would say there definitely is based on the entirety of the scriptures and what it teaches, but here's what what we have in Israel at this time, and of course throughout the ministry of Ezekiel. Why am I bringing this up? Okay, here comes Ezekiel. You've got to picture this. Here's Ezekiel, and God says, all right, I want you to build a model of Jerusalem. And I want you to act like it's being besieged and broken down. And at another time he says, I want you to take your bag and go out in the people and pretend that you're being taken out into exile. So imagine for a second what this would be like. So here is Ezekiel. I don't have my thing. Oh well. My uh what I mean is my I'll have to stay up here so you can hear me. Here is Ezekiel walking out past this public statue. There it is. And here's Ezekiel in exile, and he's acting out, dramatizing what is to come. And here he is walking past these ancients, these leaders, these 70 men, and they're watching him, but they're heart from their hard hearts and their little squinted eyes watching what he's doing. And here he is walking past the families and the ladies whose hearts are so involved emotionally with their idolatry. And here he is, and all these people are watching. Do you think Ezekiel ever felt small, inconsequential, insignificant? How many people are in this room? Compared by what's out there. Have you ever felt that way? When you go to work and you sit in your cubicle and you're thinking, Okay, I I'm supposed to somehow reach out to these people and minister to them and get the gospel to them. How do I do that without, you know, violating Christian ethics, being a good worker? And and you might be the only Christian within a hundred people on your different work teams. Or in your neighborhood, and you're the only person and there and there's maybe a Muslim family here and a family from India here that they're definitely not Indian Christians. Have you ever just thought about how small and insignificant you are? Did Ezekiel ever feel that way? This was tough. And the thing is, God's pointing it out. God is not saying, okay, Ezekiel, I have a task for you, but I'm not going to really tell you all the details. I'm going to kind of, you don't want to know. Ezekiel, you just don't want to know how bad this is. So here, uh, I want you to go and just sort of do these things, just leave the rest up to me. He gives them all the details of all this stuff. I would be like, okay, I've seen enough. That's enough, Lord. I don't want to see anymore. Really, okay, I get it. I get it. Six This is a list of six different things that God gives him. But then the Lord shows him that there are some, there are some who hate this. And that is chapter 9. And let's just look at a few verses here. In chapter 9, there are two different groups of people identified in the city. In verse 1, he said, He cried also in mine ears with a loud voice. Okay, this is a loud voice saying, Cause them that have charge over the city to draw near. Even every man, even his destroying weapon in his hand. And behold, six men came from the way of the higher gate, which lieth toward the north. And every man had a slaughter weapon in his hand, and one man among them was clothed with linen, with a writer's ink horn by his side, and they went in and stood beside the brazen altar. And this is the instructions he gave. Look at verse 4. And the Lord said unto him, Go through the midst of the city, throughout the midst of Jerusalem. He sang this to the writer with the inkhorn. And set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that be done in the midst thereof. And to the others he said in mine hearing, Go ye after him through the city, and smite, and let not your eyes spare, neither have ye pity, slay utterly. Wow. So here Ezekiel is being shown that there are some, and they're described here as those, if you look at it again. Who sigh, verse 4, and cry for all the abominations that be done in the midst of the city of Jerusalem. And so they receive a mark so that their life is preserved. And there are those who are not. And this is a prophecy of the coming of the destruction of the city, that no one would be spared And that some would be preserved because of their hard attitude of grief over the sin of Jerusalem, but they would all go into captivity, and many would die And so the Ezekiel is shown that even though there is this terrible situation in Jerusalem, chapter 8, there are those who have a heart that seeks God and that's grieved over this. And so, what about you? How do you feel about it? America, I mean, and the state of a lot of churches in our country. Have you ever cried? Because of the State of America? Have you ever cried because of the state of the New Testament Church in our land There are still many strange things done in churches today. Then often it grieves us. Where does this lead us? Well, the final thing I want to pull out of this when it comes to Ezekiel's mission. Is that God was completely fair with Ezekiel? He was totally fair with what he said. And that we have to go back to Ezekiel 3 to kind of pick up some further instruction that God gave him when he originally commissioned him. In Ezekiel 3, 16 down to verse 21. All right, what have we seen so far? We've seen the six things that Ezekiel's had to deal with. We've seen that there are still some that are willing to grieve And here we see that God was very fair with him. He calls him a watchman in Ezekiel 3, verses 16 and following. Let's look at look at what this says and see what you think. Ezekiel 3, verse 16. And it came to pass at the end of seven days that the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel. Therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speaketh to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life. The same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood shall I require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, He shall die in his iniquity, but thou hast delivered thy soul. Again, when a righteous man doth turn away f turn from his righteousness and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, and he shall die. because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness, which he hath done, shall not be remembered. But his blood will I require at thine hand Nevertheless, if thou warn the righteous man that the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin, he shall surely live. Because he is warned, also thou hast delivered thy soul. What's happening here? Two groups of people, the wicked and the righteous. The wicked has always been wicked, never righteous, and he is going on to destruction. Ezekiel comes in, he's the watchman, he says, stop, repent. The Lord says, repent. And the man repents and he's saved. But what if he doesn't repent? And he goes on to his destruction? Is it Ezekiel's fault? No, it is not. But if God tells him to warn this unrighteous person, the sinner, and Ezekiel doesn't. Well, the natural consequences of the man's sin will carry him to his destruction, but Ezekiel bears some guilt for that because he did not warn him. He's almost counted as a manslayer here. What about the righteous? Well, there's a righteous person, and he was righteous, but he fell from righteousness, and now he's living an unrighteous life. Ezekiel has to come in and say, hey, return to the straight and narrow. And if he doesn't warn that person, Ezekiel bears some of the blame for that. So on the one hand, what do these commands do for you and me? They scare us, don't they? This is serious. We do have a job to do this week. We do have people to talk to. And on the other hand, they should be a comfort because is God going to require of us what we cannot do? We cannot make someone repent. We cannot force someone to do what's right. We just need to be faithful to deliver the message. And so God was teaching Ezekiel. It was a warning and a comfort. And so God said this to Ezekiel in order to sort of shore up his work that he had for him to do. Where does this lead us then? It leads us to this. Folks, you and I are not going to grow as Christians if we ignore how bad things are out there. If we just put our head in the sand. And say, Well, I can't do anything about it. That's not the pattern here in Ezekiel. God pointed it all out And that is one reason why when the Supreme Court did what they did, we had a Sunday and we said, this is bad. We need to realize what's happening in our culture. Here's the pattern. How then do we get strength? I go back to this, that God is bigger than the mission he has given us to do. He is so much bigger than that. Ezekiel was given a tough thing, and you and I are equally given a tough job. And the only way we're going to make it is if we look back and remember who our God is. And we draw strength and power from that. So here's what I want you to do. You don't have to get out a piece of paper to do this this morning. But you could. What is it that God is asking you to do right now that you can't do? What tough job is God giving you to do? Can you think of anything in your mind? What is God asking you in your life to do? And you think, I can't do this. It's too hard. And you're tempted to run away from it or put your head in the sand. You should write that out, and then you should write next to it, who is your God? Who is your God? He is the God of the cherubim and the seraphim. Actually, I think the plural for cherubims is cherubim, not cherubims with an S. But he is the God of those angels. Is he bigger than what he's asking you to do? Is he able to provide for you so that you can do what he's asking you to do? Or is your God just too small? Seriously? Is he just too small? Have you lost sight of who he is? Now, by remembering how big he is, you don't make him big. He's always been big But who is he? And let's pray about this right now. Let's pray. Want to pray together? Let's bow