As we look at the next major event of the Bible after creation and the fall. I was reminded of how many how many different cultures recount a major flood in the past. Of course, we believe theirs is mythological while the Genesis account is historical and true. And then comparing and contrasting, you'll find that ours is more credible and reasonable too. For example, in the Babylonian ethic of Gilgamesh, we see that thickle gods get annoyed by noisy humans, and their solution is to eradicate them with the flood. There is an ark, but it's hor is poorly designed as a cube, very dangerous for turbulent waters. Only seven days are given to build and gather the animals, and only seven days of rainfall cover the flood. And then there's this one Chinese legend. The flood came from an argument between a crab and a bird. Always think of like blue crab and an Oreo, just as a Marylander, but uh in a Greek mythology, and apparently there's several flood accounts, there's one account where there's a man named Dukalion. who builds a chest to survive a flood, but then there's also men who live on the high mountains who survive too. The widespread knowledge of a catastrophic flood points to a common origin, but somewhere along the way the true account was distorted. Not surprising. But only the Bible gives us the accurate retelling of what happened. The God of the Bible is not fickle. She's not crabby. Divine long-suffering waited in the days of Noah, patient, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And once judgment day arrived, we see how Noah's Ark itself was well designed and rectangular shape, is able to stand, withstand great torrents and waves. We see all that as we open our Bibles. Today we're beginning another new section of Genesis. The first sentence of chapter 6, verse 9 goes, this is the genealogy. Of Noah. The key words there are the pronoun this and the noun genealogy. Behind that word genealogy is Toledot, sometimes translated as history, as you find in chapter 2, verse 4. Chapter 37, verse 2. Together the pronoun and the noun, whether singular or plural, form a key phrase. It's used throughout Genesis as a section division marker. Since it appears eleven times, we have twelve sections, and many people divide up the Bible of Genesis that way. Genesis 1, 1 to 2, 3. For in the first opening section, and the second section runs from 2. 4 to end of chapter 4. The third section from chapter 5, verse 1 to 6. 8 spans 1600 years in mere 40 verses. We finished that last week. The fourth section starts in chapter 6, verse 9, and ends at the close of chapter 9. As the heading of the passage suggests, this section is all about Noah, and he's not only our ancestor genetically, he's our example spiritually. It's imperative that like him we find grace in the eyes of the Lord. As Carrie read earlier from Hebrews 11:7, we must imitate Noah and his godly fear. That way we too can become an air righteousness, which is according to faith With all that in mind, let's read today's passage from Genesis 6. 9 to the end of chapter, verses 22. This is the genealogy of Noah. Noah was a just man, perfect in his generations. Noah walked with God. And Noah begot three sons, Shem, Ham, and Jephet. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. So God looked upon the earth and indeed it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth. And God said to Noah The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make yourself an ark of gopher wood, make rooms in the ark, and cover it inside and outside with pitch. And this is how you shall make it. The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, its width fifty cubits, and its height, thirty cubits. You shall make a window for the ark, and you shall finish it. To a cubit from above and set the door of the ark in its side, you shall make it with lower second and third decks, and behold, I myself am bringing flood waters on the earth To destroy from under heaven all flesh in which is the breath of life, everything that is on the earth shall die. But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall go into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you. You, and of every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female with you Of the birds after their kind, of animals after their kind, and of every creeping thing of the earth after its kind, two of every kind will come to you to keep them alive. And you shall take for yourself of all food that is eaten And you shall gather it to yourself, and it shall be food for you and for them. Thus Noah did according to all that God commanded him, so he did. Today's passage properly introduces us to Noah, and I see three topics for discussion. First, in verses 9 through 10, we learn about Noah's life. His faith and family. Secondly, in verses 11 to 12, we learn about Noah's world, its corruption and cruelty. Thirdly, in verses 13 to 22, we learn about Noah's mission, preparation and preservation. That could be a very quick summary of this passage. But we not only want to deal with facts here, we seek principles. for ourselves today. So to restate the three topics as three points, consider three assembly instructions. today's passage. Of course we're not building an ark like Noah. We're not building a life-size replica like either like Ken Ham and Answers in Genesis. What we are doing is building a lasting legacy of faith. You can make your works great. You can build houses, plant vineyards, as Ecclesiastes tells us. But there's something far, far more valuable you can build. So again, if you want to build something that lasts, right, follow these three assembly instructions. First, start with the foundational faith in God and influence your family. That's not Secondly, avoid the corruption and cruelty of the condemned world. That's eleven to twelve. Thirdly, follow God's plan to prepare for judgment and preserve life. That's 13 to 22. First, start with the foundation of faith in God and influence your family. We already discussed the first of three sentences in verse 9. This is the genealogy of Noah. I'll call it 9a. It marks the new section. Here's the second sentence, call it 9b. Noah was a just man, perfect in his generations. Right away, we're confronted with life's most important questions. They're gospel matters of heaven and hell. So today I have to sort of invert my order here and talk about the gospel now. You have to ask questions like, how can one be just and righteous like Noah? How can anyone be perfect and stand out among everyone else? Well, first we must own up to the bad news. We can't be just. We can't be perfect on our own. Not you, not me, not even Noah. The Bible is clear there's none righteous, no, not one. That's because all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God Like sons of God from earlier in the chapter, we committed sexual immorality, obviously in a different way, but look at all mankind at all times, from Noah's times to our times, every intent of the thoughts of our heart is only evil continually. Our mind is corrupt, our speech is corrupt, our ways are corrupt. The Bible is very clear on this bad news. There's no use also in trying to improve ourselves or get better. Right. And some think that some think that by keeping God's commands they can be a good person, or somehow all the good they do counterbalance or cancel out the bad we do. But the Bible is clear. By the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Knowledge of sin. God's word and its demands are like body scans, biopsies, laboratory tests They can show you the disease, they can help diagnose, and while that diagnosis is valuable, the knowledge itself is not the cure or treatment. In the same way, the law only reveals that we're in trouble under God's wrath. We're headed towards eternal death, never-ending torment in hell. But that's where the good news comes in. God our Creator did not leave us like this in our pitiful state In love and compassion, he sent his son Jesus, God and man, in one person. He came to those who are not well, but to the sick. He did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Christ Jesus himself lived without any blemish. He was righteous on his own merit. It was a perfect man who never stumbled in word or deed. As you'll see later, even Noah cannot claim that. He had his faults. The best of us can never reach that ideal. That this Jesus, who is the best of all, took on the worst of pains. He humbled himself and became Obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. He offered his life and satisfied God's holy wrath with his willing sacrifice. He suffered once for sins, the just for the unjust. That he might bring us to God. He was put to death in the flesh and placed in a grave. But then Jesus was made alive by the Spirit. After proclaiming triumph to disobedient imprisoned spirits of Noah's time, he rose from the grave. He presented himself alive to his disciples after his suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen by them during forty days. Then he went into heaven. He is now at the right hand of God. Angels and authorities and powers having been made subject to him. And someday all things will be made subject to him. Urge you to bow the knee willingly now. Surrender, ask conditions of peace before it's too late. Turn from sin, turn from self-reliance, turn to Jesus. Jesus trusts in him only for salvation. We cannot earn or deserve a place in heaven. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone. Hopefully you see how important is this foundational saving faith We're justified by faith in Christ, not by the works of the law. The only way to be just is by faith. And then we can be perfect in our generation, not because we're good inherently, but as we grow in sanctification. In Christ we can be blameless and harmless, children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, shine as lights in the world, as in Philippians 2. And once you got your footing with this foundation, you begin to live like Noah did, like other saints Throughout history. Back to Genesis, look again in 6. 9 and zoom into the third sentence 9C. It says, Noah walked with God. Careful readers, this should sound familiar to our ears or to our eyes, though was following in the footsteps of his great grandfather. Compare 6. 9 with 524, with only a slight variation just in word order. The same exact description once used for Enoch's applied to Noah. Now we might ask for application sake, how can we improve our walk with God, assuming we already have that foundational faith? We get how we start by trusting in his son, but how do we get better? And there are many things I could say to give advice about improving your walk with God, but I won't be exhaustive here. I'll just offer three subpoints and some passages for reflection. I gather from elsewhere in the Bible that we progress in our walk with God as we walk with integrity, walk with certainty, and walk with intimacy. First, walk with integrity as we walk in the light. So encourage you to meditate on First John one, I'll just read a few verses from there, five to seven. This is the message which we have heard from him and declared to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Now, walking in the light seems like a tough task, high calling here, but this isn't moralism. This doesn't mean we have to be perfect to be acceptable to God. Integrity isn't never messing up or deluding ourselves, thinking we were perfect or can be perfect on our own. No, integrity is admitting we're imperfect, confessing sin, and finding forgiveness in Jesus. That's what we find in as the message of 1 John chapter 1. Besides integrity, walking with God also requires walking with certainty. 2 Corinthians 5 tells us. Verse 7: we walk by faith and not by sight. Now, that doesn't mean we walk blindly. Far from it. Consider the context of what Paul says. Those who walk by faith have confidence always that God delivers on his promises. There's the guarantee of the Holy Spirit. There's an earnest desire for heaven and life in God's presence. So walk with certainty, trusting in God's faithfulness. Finally, again, these are just very quick application points. Walking with God requires intimacy that comes through the Holy Spirit. As we're led by the Spirit and lived by the Spirit, we walk by the Spirit, as Paul says in Galatians 5. A lot of riches of wisdom in there as well, a fruitful life. But distresses close dependence on God, God who remains close to us Back to Noah, I picture him walking with God in Genesis six nine to be like walking on cloud nine. Have you ever seen those cartoons where a man falls in love with a woman? At first sight. His smitten eyes have turned from round or oval shapes to heart shapes. He's floating in the air somehow, right, between heaven and earth Of course that's physically impossible. But spiritually and figuratively, very possible. That's how I picture walking with God. Again a lot more things we can say, but just those are few things. Things about walking with God and improving your walk with God. And often as we resolve to follow the Lord, he brings along fellow saints traveling on the same path. That's why, as we seek to build a legacy, we hope to influence others, especially those in our closest circles. Naturally, we must influence our family. Verse 10 says that Noah has three sons. I had it up there, sorry, but um I thought I had it up there, but you can turn there. But we already knew about the three sons from chapter five, verse thirty-two. What stands out in that chapter is how Noah had them a lot later than his predecessors. His grandfather was 187 when Lamech when he had Lamech his father. His father was 182 when he had Hannah, but Noah was five hundred. Maybe he got married late. We're not sure exactly why Anyway, back to chapter 6, verse 10, and the list of Noah's sons. And just on a side note, you think that the order of names reflects birth order? It'd be reasonable to conclude that Shem's first, Ham the second, Jephet the third. But certain passages suggest otherwise. Later in chapter 9, verse 24, we see that Ham's the third child. The most accurate um translations of 924, call them the youngest. Sorry. But then there are debates about who's the oldest, right? That's based on disagreements about the translation and the interpretation. of a few passages. If Japus the oldest, Noah had them about 500 and Shem at 502. That's based on 532 and 1110. That's the order suggested by the rabbis and 1027 in the New King James Version. If Shem is the oldest, Noah had him at 502, Jepht some time later. That's seems to be suggested by Genesis 1021 in other Bible translations. But at any rate, the more important than uh birth order is how the three sons followed in the example of Noah and followed him into the ark. If you want to build something worthwhile, like Noah, start with the foundational faith in God and influence your family. His application, Father, bring your family to church weekly. But also lead Bible readings and prayers at home. Collect our bulletins. Use them for family worship. Sing praises to the Lord. But to wrap up this point, walking with God and leading a household of faith is vital in a world gone mad. We need the Lord's presence and we need the Lord's people. We need all the grace and help the Lord provides to avoid the corruption and cruelty of the condemned world. That's where the we see the second assembly instruction. As we seek to build a legacy. We turn to verses 11 and 12. Shift the focus from Noah's family and faith to Noah's world. We count the word urg ha arets four times, but more important is the word corrupt, found three times. And when it comes to this word, it helps to observe some word pictures and a word play. First, here are some word pictures for corruption. You can look up those passages later, but I'll just Give you a quick survey. The word corrupt here in its specific grammatical form is used to describe Egypt after God sent the plague of flies. Swarms and swarms fill their houses. And then in the prophetic books, it's used to describe a sash or a belt that's been buried in a rock crevice. Over time it has become dirty, filthy, useless as an article of clothing. Needs to be tossed away. Or there's the potter who messes up the vessel on his wheel and it's ruined. Again, these are all word pictures. And finally, it's used to describe the idolatries of Israel, okay? Which wouldn't be surprising to find many idolatries in Noah's days. Besides these words, pictures were corrupt, there's also a word play in today's passage. The word corrupt in verses eleven and twelve can be understood as self-destructive and self-ruin. But then in verse 13, we find the same word, but in a different verbal stem, where God says he will destroy all flesh. Let me bring out the wordplay with an alternative translation. The earth. was also ruined itself before God and the earth was filled with violence. So God looked upon the earth and indeed it ruined itself, or all flesh had ruined their way on the earth. And God said to Noah, the end of all flesh has come to before me. For the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will ruin them with the earth That's poetic justice. You ruin yourself, you ruin your role, God will ruin you. So it turns out whether it's twenty-three forty-eight BC or twenty twenty-five AD, the greatest threat to this planet is not aliens, right? It's us, the earthlings, the inhabitants. We ruined the world. The biggest problems of earth are not environmental, but ethical and moral. In our flesh, we give easily into sensuality and depravity. Only with God's help can we avoid the corruption and cruelty of the condemned world. Well, thankfully, those who trust in Christ are saved from this perverse generation. We're delivered from this present evil age. But meanwhile, like no one in his family, we have a calling to stand apart and stand alone if necessary. And as we walk with God, we must follow His plan, prepare for judgment, and preserve life. That's the third assembly instruction as we seek to build a legacy of faith The Lord spoke of judgment twice already in this chapter, in verses three and seven. The third time he speaks in verses 13 to 21, he speaks directly to Noah. I divide up what he says into two parts based on this sermon point. Verse 13 to 17 emphasize preparing for judgment. What Moses narrated for us in verses 11 to 12, God explains to Noah in 13. The world is corrupt. It's full of violence. So God will destroy all flesh with the earth. But here's what Noah must do and how he must do it Notice the repetition of the word make in verses 14 to 16. He must make an ark, as verse 14 says. Concerning its function, we see the same word for ark used for the basket that carried Moses as a baby in Exodus 2. Noah's Ark has many rooms and it's outside is covered with pitch for waterproofing. Most guests that's bitumen, derived from crude oil. used today as a binder in asphalt concrete for roads, runways and parking lots and in roofing felt and sealants. Got that from Google. There are more details in verse fifteen. The arc's dimensions are given in qubit measures. By the way, most guests that are qubits about the length of a typical forearm, maybe a little bit longer than 18 inches. So if you want the estimated length, width, and depth here in US customary system, just multiply the qubits by 1. 5. That equals 450 feet long. Seventy five feet wide and forty-five feet tall. Sure, some of you guys have. It didn't hit me how big it was until like last year. Some of you know my son loves everything aquatic and related to seafaring. That includes the biblical account of Noah, of course. So last year we packed up our bags and drove to Kentucky to visit the Ark Encounter. So it was a quite a memorable experience even before we got near it, right? So how big it is. Even from a distance, the immensity was remarkable, right? It was worth the trip, all 540 miles a bit. Anyways, back to verse 16. Well much of the arch descriptions about keeping water out. There's also discussion of openings. The door serves as both an entrance and an exit for every survivor. With many rooms and three decks, Noah can assign and separate animals and supplies. Now the window is interesting It literally says you shall make a light so hard for the dark for the ark, sorry. Um we're not sure exactly what kind of lighting system was used here. Was it like a simple window, was it like a moon roof or sunroof, or something else? But the point here is that Noah had to prepare for judgment. After speaking of preparation in verses 13 to 16, God stresses preservation. Now in verse 17, we see exactly how the Lord will destroy all flesh. We learn about flood waters. Nothing can escape it as all flesh under heaven, and everything on earth will die. By the way, plants are not targeted as they do not have in them the breath of life, Ruach Chaim. And they don't need the special attention to continue. Can be resilient and survive in water for a long time. Others were stored in ark as food, and still others survive in carcasses and debris. Anyways, more important than plants are humans and animals. It's with them that God will establish a covenant after the flood. In uh chapter nine. As for mankind in verse 18, the Lord intends to preserve Noah and seven others. That's him and his wife, his three sons and their wives. That sets the pattern for animal kind in verses 19 to 20. No one must bring two of every sort, male and female, to keep them alive. That sounds like a lot. But we're not talking about millions of species We see today, the word kind here is closer to the higher rank of genus, numbering about a thousand. Recall from Genesis two, that's about the number Adam named basics of creature. Creation week. So about twice that number, male and female Noah will bring into the Ark. That's enough to form the variety, the wide variety of life we see today. So these are preserved in the Ark. Notice the repeated phrase to keep alive in verses 19 and 20. And no one wants to need to go hunt and trap these animals and drag them inside, they'll come to him. Finally, in verse 21, the Lord commands Noah to gather enough food to last for a year, about a year, probably talking dried fruits, seeds, vegetables, nuts, and legumes. But they don't have ziploc backs back then. I'm sure they understood the mechanics of airtight sealing to preserve freshness. Well admittedly, there are many much to speculate here concerning details. But what we are sure of is that we are sure that we must follow God's plan to prepare for judgment. And preserve life. And if you're like me, I want what's said about Noah in verse 22 to be true of me. Thus Noah did according to all that God commanded him, so he did. All the imperatives and all the you shall make, bring, and take are fulfilled in this man's life. As you'd expect, he who walks with God works for God. I hope that's true of us too. And we say after reading and hearing from the Word, you know, thus Jose did, you know, thus Krista did, thus Wally did, thus State Bible Church did. According to all that God commanded him, her us, so he, she, or we did. I want that to be the summary of my life. If I'm going to leave behind a legacy, build something significant, it must be a life of obedience to the Lord. If you agree, follow God's plan to prepare for judgment and preserve life. As we close this chapter, there are a few thoughts on transition for next time we do uh Genesis 7 And maybe a little talk on application here. In chapter seven, we'll fast forward to sick uh Noah's six hundredth year, a week before the flood. The Lord must have given these first instructions about the Ark and the Flood when Noah was about 530 or 540. That's after his sons grew up and got married. Just a conservative estimate. It could have been shorter amount of times, but if we take five thirty or five forty, that would give them about sixty to seventy years For all the planning and building of the Ark. Again, considering the massive size of the project and the lack of modern technology, that's not that much time, right? Rome wasn't built in a day, and neither was the Ark. I'm sure that Noah and his family worked hard for over days, weeks, months, years, and decades. Their life depended on it, their posterity depended on it. But it's not as if Noah cut himself off from the world or lived as a recluse or workaholic. This is where I think the application part comes in. Second Peter 2. 5 says that he was a preacher of righteousness. So Noah had two jobs really. He's like a mix of two doctors, Doolittle and Martin Lloyd Jones. And so just as Apostle Paul would be bivocational, preaching and tendering. making. Brother Noah would also be by vocational preaching and arc making. And if he needed to attract the crowd for an audience, the the frames of his gigantic ship would have done it, right? That's a very big object lesson. That's no deck or shed that he's building in his backyard. Imagine the neighbors whispering and pointing. That Noah guy has lost his mind. He and his family are talking about some global flood to disjudge all the earth. But no matter what, Noah continued to preach and he continued to build. So hopefully, like Noah, you're building a life according to God's assembly instructions. While you do so, find opportunities to share the truth of the gospel. Even if it was a foregone conclusion that only eight humans entered the ark, Noah did not stop warning his generation. His doctrine of election was not cold and lightless. While belonging to the remnant, he remained fiery for the truth. That's how he was perfect in his generation. I urge you to not only care for your own personal faith or your family of faith Consider the lost, evangelize them, pray for them, live a life of obedience for God to be an influence for others. Build something greater than your own personal kingdom. Again, verse 22 says, Thus Noah did according to all that God commanded him. So he did. Can the same be said of you? Can the same be said of us? So let's make our final song our prayer. By faith we'll walk as you walk with us. Speak, O Lord, till your church is filled and the earth is filled with your glory. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. Thank you that what connects us to people of the past, saints of the past. Is what's dynamic, what's hopefully growing in all of us, is a faith in you, in your promises. And Lord, the world changes. And we know that it's corrupt, we know it's changing and for the worse, even as we see technological advances. We know that just morally speaking, we're In spiritual danger. But Lord, we thank you that you've given us example. You've given us all that we need for godliness. So we pray that you'll help us to cling to your word. to prepare to to stand alone versus a hostile world or to to Just escape the corruption, the lust, and to trust in you. And Lord, help us to influence others. May we be in prayer for those in our family who do not know you. It might be our siblings, it might be our children, it might be our parents or Help us to influence them, Lord, to pray that you will grant us opportunities to speak the truth to them. Lord, may we also just again just live a life of obedience. You have shown us in your word. Christ's name we pray. Amen