What do you want on your tombstone is not just a clever leave a lasting message for family, friends, and comrades who visit your grave. I guess you can pull fun of yourself and get some laughs out of them. There's a few that make me chuckle. A punny one from New Mexico making fun of his own name. Here lies Johnny East. Pardon me for not rising. The lawyer in London, Sir John Strange Here lies an honest lawyer, and that is strange. Now to be more serious, your epitaph should summarize succinctly the one the life that you lived. While looking through famous ones, I was surprised to find this one citing Psalm 1914, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable to in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. You might think it belongs to a pastor or a missionary. Actually stands uh above the grave of one Johnny Cash. Yes, the one and only Johnny Cash who grew up a professing Christian but walked away. He was known as the man in black, right? He lived a tumultuous life of sex, drugs, and rock and roll. But when he hit rock bottom, the Lord brought this prodigal back to himself at age 40. Honestly, these are the kinds of testimonies that keep me going, praying for For lost family and friends, I hope you're motivated too. Never too late to for one to turn to Christ and for God to make something of Lord gives beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness. As we open up the word, I hope that you're inspired to use your valuable gift, that one precious life, to bring glory to God. There are many names in this book, right? Some we know well because chapters are devoted to them. Others will only get like a burst or two. But either way, we learn that it's not our name or family name that's most important. For us, it's how we bear the name of Christ and live worthy of it. Today we not only begin a new chapter in Genesis, we start a new section of it. We know this because there's a very key phrase. In the first sentence of chapter 5, verse 1, this is the book of the genealogy of Adam. The key words are the pronoun this and the noun genealogy. Behind that word genealogy is toledot. translated sometimes as history. And the proud noun and the noun together form a phrase that's used throughout Genesis as a section division marker. Since it appears eleven times, we have some say twelve sections of Genesis. Some sections are very short, lasting only a half handful of verses. Others are much longer, lasting more than a dozen chapters. The first time we saw the division marker was in Genesis 2. 4. As a result, Genesis 1 1 to 2 3 For the first opening section as a sort of a prelude. Then the second section began in chapter 2, verse 4, and stretched to the end of chapter 4, which we completed last week. Now the third section begins in chapter five, and there's no shortage of verses in this chapter. But even if the passage is a bit lengthy, I believe there's a one coherent, fairly simple message here. So I'll get to that, but first let's read Genesis five now. And get ready for some uh repetition. So interesting. Alright, so this is the book of the genealogy of Adam in the day that God created man. He made him In the likeness of God, he created them male and female, and blessed them and called them mankind in the day they were created. And Adam lived one hundred and thirty years and begot a son in his own likeness after his image and named him Seth. After he begot Set, the days of Adam were eight hundred years, and he had sons and daughters. So all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years and he died. Seth lived one hundred and five years and begot Enosh. After he begot Enosh, Seth lived eight hundred and seven years and had sons and daughters. So all the days of set were nine hundred and twelve years and he died. Enosh lived ninety years and begot Canaan. After he begot Canaan, Enosh lived eight hundred and fifteen years and had sons and daughters. So all the days of Enosh were 905 years and he died. Canaan lived seventy years and begot Mahalalel. After he begot Mahalalel, Canaan lived eight hundred and forty years and had sons and daughters, so all the days of Canaan were nine hundred and ten years and he died. Now Mahalalel lived sixty-five years and he died. and begot Jared. After he begot Jared, Mahalalel lived eight hundred and thirty years and had sons and daughters. So all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety-five years and he died. Jared lived 162 years and begot Enoch. After he begot Enoch, Jared lived 800 years and had sons and daughters, so all the days of Jared were 962 two years and he died. Enoch lived sixty five years and begot Methuselah. After he begot Methuselah, Enoch walked with God three hundred years and had sons and daughters. So all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty sixty five years and Enoch walked with God and he was not for God took him. Bethuzalah lived one hundred and eighty-seven years and begot Lamech. After he begot Lamech, Methuzalah lived seven hundred and eighty-two years and And had sons and daughters. So all the days of Methuselah were 969 years and he died. Lamech lived 182 years and had a son, and he called his name Noah Sim, saying, This one will comfort us concerning our work and the toil of our hands, because of the ground which the Lord has cursed. And after he begot Noah, Lamech lived five hundred and ninety-five years, and has Had sons and daughters. So all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died. And Noah was five hundred years old, and Noah begot Shem, Ham and Japhet. Let's be honest, if you're like me, you've asked yourself at least once why did God include passages like this one in his holy inherent inerrant word? Your eyes glaze over the tedium, they grow heavy during your morning devotions or evening readings. The monotony of he lived, he begot, he died, drove on and on. Maybe you try to read aloud. Now you sound like a school teacher recording attendance You know, the ones taking role on the first day of class and butchering names. But mispronunciations aside, seriously, what's the point of this chapter? Which helps to read it in comparison to the previous chapter. There's a lengthy genealogy in both. Obviously the uh this one's lengthier than chapter four one but each one ends with the mention of three sons. Each one ends with a certain Lamech speaking In chapter 4, Lamech from Cain's line scorns God's judgment. In chapter 5, Lamech from Seth's line mourns God's judgment. So in this arrangement and juxtaposition of chapters, we're shown what a godly line looks like in the latter chapter Cain and his descendants depart from God's presence and his will, but Seth and his descendants worship the Lord and call on his name. There are even more blessings in this godly line that worships and follows God. The faithful in one generation transmits God's promises to the faithful in the next generation. It's as if they're passing on a baton in a relay race. Now I don't know if Moses as narrator had access to many more names than the ones we see on the pages. Maybe he narrowed down the list to something like a top ten. Regardless, it made good sense for Moses to work backwards from the family that survived the flood. If no one's the end point, Adam will be the starting point. And at these points, the beginning of the genealogy and the end of it, we find appropriate emphasis. But then in the course of ten generations, there's something special about the seventh generation. There's this mysterious Enoch. We know very little about his family and his achievements, but we just know he walks with the Lord. upon earth. Then God took them away to heaven. With all that in mind, I think we can divide up this chapter into three parts. The first part's the longest from verses 1 to 20. It spans seven, I'm sorry, six generations of Adam through Seth. The second part's focused on Enoch, the seventh from Adam through Seth. He's discussed in verses 21 to 24. The third part, verses 25 to 32, covers from eight to ten generations of Adam through Seth, culminating with Noah. And as we traverse through chapter 5, we see how three virtues of faith run in the family of faith. Three virtues of faith running the family of faith. First, we bear the image of the Creator, though we sin and die like Adam. That's verses 1 to 2 twenty. Secondly, we live to please God though we live among the ungodly. That's twenty one to twenty-four. Thirdly, we anticipate the comfort of the Lord, though the world is full of pain. twenty five to thirty two. The first virtue of faith that runs in the family of faith is that we bear the image of the Creator, though we sin and die like Adam. As I said already, we begin a new section of Genesis in chapter 5. The first sentence of verse 1 marks its beginning. But as Moses is about to rev up the engine and speed through more than 1500 years, He stops to review. The review goes from the second sentence of verse 1 to the end of verse 2. Notice there's what's called an inclusio. Inclusio is a literary device in which similar material is placed both at the beginning and at the end of a unit. Right. So see there at the front, verse one A, in the day that God created man, then see at the end of verse two, in the day they were created. Yes is true. I know that seems obvious to us, but we have to tell the world. We were created, right? Our origins are not some primordial soup. Our identity is not advanced primates, right? We're the pinnacle of Creation Week. Made little, lower than angels, crowned with glory and honor, as it says in Psalm 8. That's because our Creator made us in his likeness. Moses simply summarizes what he wrote back in chapter 1, but again, on a day like today, in a month like this one. It's worth repeating. Say it boldly. We are made in his image, God's image, and that's what unites us as humanity. We're male and female, that's where we get our diversity. Plenty of diversity there, trust me. You guys know being married and seeing kids and next we see that God blessed both genders. What exactly is this blessing? I think it goes back to Genesis 1:28, the command to procreate, what the Lord said after He created them. Then it says in 128, God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over. Every living thing that moves on the earth. That's the exalted position of mankind. Mankind consists of male and female. Mankind consists of all sorts of personalities. We're uniform in that we're all God's image bearers, yet everyone has a unique fingerprint. Literally. We literally leave behind the lasting impression. All of us and each of us are fearfully and wonderfully made. This is the amazing truth that's so self-evident But even as we bear the image of God, we face this harsh reality, we bear the image of Adam. As 1 Corinthians 15, 49 says, We are born the image of the man of dust. That was true of Abel and Cain, and it's also true of Seth. It says in verse three that Adam begot set a son in his own likeness after his image. Now that doesn't mean you have your father's eyes or he's a chip off the old block. As is the case with almost all of humanity, with a few exceptions, Seth will live, but then he will also die. That's because we all sin individually and share in Adam's sin nature. So like Adam, we too will return to dust. This is an inescapable truth reinforced elsewhere in scriptures. In fact, you could say Genesis 5 demonstrates the truth, the Romans 5. There in Romans we're told that through one man sin entered the world and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned That reign from Adam to Moses, even over those who had not sin according to the likeness of the transgression of Adam Paul's teaching us that even before the age of the law, people died because people sinned. They died like Adam because they're carbon copies of him Even without sitting the same way, they died all the same. Now let me talk a bit about this idea of dying, right? Not the most pleasant thing, but the Bible says the wages of sin is death. But not just physical death, as bad as that is. There's something far worse than that. When your heart stops, brain ceases, and breeding ends, you're headed for the funeral and the burial ground. But if you're not right with God, there's another death waiting for you beyond the grave. It's second death. The Bible says it's the lake which burns with fire and brimstone. The place of torture, not only for the abominable and the murderers. Hell is for those without courage, as you said, cowards and those without faith. Also separated from God forever are those who lust in their hearts, the sexually immoral, right, and those who twist the truth. Those words liars. Apart from mercy and grace, that's where all of us are headed. So how do we avoid this terrible second death? Someone once told me a memo memorable axiom is about the good news, the gospel. Goes like this, born once, die twice, born twice, die once. Again, born once, die twice, born twice, die once. Okay, so here's what it means. First of all, all of us have birthdays, right? Maybe yours is this month or even this week. Maybe it's today, I don't know. But because of our simple Likeness to Adam in our nature will die twice. First physically, thus first death, second spiritually, thus second death. If all you have is your birth certificate and your death certificate and nothing in between, you'll face eternity apart from God. You who are born once will die twice. To avoid such faith, one must be born of the Spirit, not just born of the flesh. Jesus made it clear how necessary this is. He said in John 3:3, Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Okay? And if you're reborn, you have two birthdays, physical and spiritual. You are born twice. And Jesus promises those regenerated that they need not fear physical death anymore. He said, I am the resurrection of the life and the life. He who believes in me, though he may die, he shall live. John eleven twenty-five, right? First death is now only a door to paradise. It's a mere speed bump on the road before you turn into the streets of gold. We must all be born twice. So at worst, we die only once, right? And if you're reborn, there's a chance you won't die at all, like Enoch or Elijah. Might get raptured, right? We don't know though. Now a good number of Christians don't remember the exact moment or day they were saved I don't think you need to lose sleep over that. There's more to it than the exactitude of timing. Most important are the right doctrines and right living that give proof of genuine conversion I ask you first and foremost, do you believe the right things about Jesus? Do you believe that he's God's Son, God and man in one person? Do you believe that he's unlike Adam, his type? Do you believe he lived a perfect life without sin or transgression? But then he willingly laid down his perfect life at the cross. He suffered there as our substitute to pay the just penalty for our sins. It was there that the Father made him who knew no sin to be sinned for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. The wrath of God fell on the Son of God instead of us. But on the third day he rose from the grave. Death could no longer hold him. He presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. Afterwards, he ascended to heaven. He sits at the Father's right hand now. There's another day coming, a day of justice. The Father has appointed a day on which he would judge the world in righteousness. By the man whom he has ordained. Now God commands all men everywhere to repent. Repent means turn from yourself, turn from sin, turn from self-righteousness, turn to Jesus. And put your hope of heaven in him. Jesus is the last Adam and a life-giving spirit. He's the Lord from heaven and the heavenly man. As we sang earlier, see the true and better Adam come to save the hellbound man. Those who look to him will bear his image, and death will be swallowed up in victory. Jesus grants you all this in eternal life, not because you're so great or you do good works, but as a gift. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. Now even if we're born again and destined to be conformed to the image of Jesus, we still have to live our uh live out our days here on earth like Adam. So it's instructive to return to Genesis five and work through the pattern of life established there. Remember Adam's the prototype here. And you see, you notice all the Repeated words and phrases throughout today's passage. Blank lived years and begot blank and he begot blank, blank lived, and has sons and daughters. So all the days that blank lived were blank years and he died. So it just kept going on and on. Now some today are confused about the unusually long lives of our ancestors. No one this day and age lives remotely close to hundreds of years. Back in 97, a French woman set the modern world record. She lived to be 122 years and 164 days old. That's pretty remarkable. Back in 22, the life expectancy average was about 77. That appears to be the norm since the time of Moses, who wrote in Psalm 93. Verse 10, the days of our lives are seven years, and if by reason of strength they are eight years. What's going on here? Well just a preview, there will be a significant dramatic drop in the average length of life after the flood. So some suggest That the world before that cataclysmic event was conducive to long life. Maybe there were foods with de-aging properties, you know, special antioxidants and vitamins, nutrients we don't know about. We don't know exactly, but at any rate, combine that perfect environment with the fact that decaying effects of sin need time to spread. And you have this earliest humans living close to a thousand years. I believe this literal interpretation of the genealogy is the correct one. There's no suggestion here that numbers were inflated to show respect for our ancestors, as some people think. There's no reason to think a year meant anything other than twelve months, three hundred sixty five days or a full orbit of the Earth around the sun Also, even if Moses skipped over a few generations here or there, Earth still cannot be billions or millions of years old. It's at best thousands of years old. So with that in mind, we march through early world history. Moses records the account one generation after another. Adam to Seth to Enosh to Canaan to Mahalalel to Jared to Enoch to the like dominoes falling or train tracks connecting. But imagine now what a blessing it'd be for Adam to see so many of his descendants. Abraham had to imagine most of his descendants as stars in the sky and sand on the shore. Adam, on the other hand, got to see them and maybe hold them in person. Over years and years he would have been told, Dad, you're a grandfather now. Grandpa, you're a great grandfather now. Great grandpa, you're a great-great-grandpa now. On and on it goes. I can't imagine their family get together, but anyway he does get he was around when um Enoch, his great great great great grandson, was there. And that's four grace. I think I counted up correctly. And from Enoch's life, we learn about another virtue of faith that runs in the family of faith. We live to please God So we live among the ungodly. Now in verses twenty-two and twenty-four, there's a variation in the report of Enoch's life. He's not remarkable for his name. The name Enoch's been around for generations. Remember, Cain had a son named Enoch. Enoch's here is not unique for fathering children either, though he can boast that his son Matzelah holds the world record for longest life, 969 years. Now what made Enoch unique is his walk with God. Having gone through this chapter, you'd expect these verses to say he lived this long and You know, and then he died. But twice it says he walked with God. We're told of his walk that lasted over three hundred years on earth. We're told ha then how his walk ended here, but continued in heaven. That's from this passage alone, we won't get much. But other translations and passages help us. It's interesting to see how Greek translators of the Hebrew scriptures interpreted the word walk. It says in the Greek that Enoch was well pleasing to God instead of walk with God, both in verses twenty I believe this translation influenced the New Testament writer of Hebrews. We saw his interpretation of this passage earlier, the relevant portion from 11. 5. By faith, Enoch was taken away so that he did not see death, and was not found because God had taken him. For before he was taken, he had this testimony that he pleased God. So this man cheated death because he trusted God and thus pleased God. Now I'm not sure if the Lord took him up like he did Elijah. I don't know if Enoch You know, caught a ride in a chariot of fire with horses of fire. Was there a whirlwind? Maybe it was like the rapture of the church with a shout with the voice of an archangel with the trumpet of God in a moment in the twinkling of an eye. We don't know. What we do know is that Enoch's walk and talk, please God. Now that I know about his talk, along with the writer of Hebrews, Jude gives us a more practical insight into Enoch's life. We cover Jude in a sermon series of Hebrews. In his letter, he's warning the saints about ungodly men who've crept in unnoticed into the church. And while exposing them, he cites something Enoch said, which is not found in Genesis. And so I'll read Jude 14 to 15. Now Enoch the 7th from Adam prophesied about these men also. Saying, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousand of his saints to execute judgment on all, to convict all who are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds. Which they have committed in an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against them. What's controversial here is not that they're ungodly people. Just ungodly people everywhere every time. What was controversial here is that Jude cites from what's called First Enoch, the book of Enoch. And here's a quick explanation of why this is perfectly okay. Again, I talked about this already in the sermon series. We can trust that since Jude is inspired by the Spirit, everything he wrote in his letter is trustworthy. Okay. God not only superintended Jews' choice of vocabulary and argumentation, he also guided Jews' choice of sources. But do keep in mind that just because he's using a portion of some sort of Some source, that doesn't mean he's wholeheartedly endorsing that source in its entirety. God inspired all of Jude's letter, not all of first Enoch. Okay. The only part of first Enoch that's trustworthy is what Jude cites here as true. Or another example of this, take a look at Acts seventeen. Paul's citing Greek poets, but he's not saying they're all correct in everything they're saying. Now to connect back to Genesis, as scripture interprets scriptures, Hebrews and Jude help us help us seek Enoch in his godly walk and talk. Enoch pleased God by faith. Enoch stood out, and he spoke out against many in his generation. It was a godly man. And like him, we can live to please God, though we live among the ungodly. Moving on, it sure seems like Enoch's influence was great in his family. It's possible. His son Methuselah served as a living prophetic sign. Who reinforces his father's prophetic preaching and teaching? Some suggest Medusala's name is a compound word formed by two words: death and sent forth. Or Dart, right? It is curious that Methuselah died at age 969. Within the same year, Noah at age 600 entered the Ark with his family. So when Metusala died, it's as if a ticking time bomb had reached zero and exploded. And then it's as if a dam had burst open. That's definitely the perfect image here, isn't it? Time was up for the ungodly to repent. These are some speculations. We don't hear anything from Metusalah himself, so we're not sure, but we do hear from his son Lamech. Verse 28 starts out as usual, but you see the variation in verse 29. For the first time in this chapter, we hear a voice besides the narrator's voice, it's the voice of Lamech. Again, this is not that lusty and bloodthirsty Lamech from Cain's line we saw last chapter. This one's from the Gothi line of Seth. And from this Lamech we learn another virtue of faith that runs. We anticipate the comfort of the Lord, though the world is full of pain. I gotta say, like Lamech lived in crazy times. When he was about fifty-six, Adam the first man died. And he was Turn to dust. Fast forward to age one thirteen. His grandpa Enoch gets translated into heaven. But after all that, at age one hundred eighty-two, he has a Son. And the son's name indicates a very real human longing, right? After more than a thousand years of human history and misery in a world of sin. With all the prickly thorns and thistles and blood and sweat being poured out, Lamech expresses a godly hope in this naming of his son. Noah means rest or comfort. By the way, there's another person named Noah, a daughter of Zelofad in Numbers. It's the same spelling in English, but in Hebrew, the original language, the two names differ in spelling. Anyways, I I think as Lamech was naming Noah, he sensed that there's a relief in the near future. future. I won't go as far as to say his father thought he'd be the Messiah or something like that, but you know, but he did have some hopes for his son Again, with crazy things happening in his life, Adam dead, Enoch translated, Methuselah getting old, Lamech likely believed Noah would usher in a new age of humanity. Humanity. And he's right. We'll talk more about Noah and his sons in the next chapter. But we end this chapter focusing on Lamech Like him, we anticipate the comfort of the Lord, though the world is full of pain. Even as Christians, we face all kinds of pain: loss of health, loss of friends. Loss of family members. Face the effects of sin everywhere. We're thankful of course that we're forgiven of sin, but pain still continues. Until the end, right? That's why we cling on to the promise of the gospel. We find comfort in there. We know that this good news that someday the seed of the woman, which we know as Jesus already, will defeat the serpent, make all things new, and there shall be no more curse. It's a comfort that all of us can enjoy today, even as strangers and pilgrims on earth. So let's find rest for our souls in Jesus. We're gonna sing this last song. Now we hear his voice. Come unto me and rest. Lay down a weary one. Lay down thy head upon my breast. And we respond in faith. I came to Jesus as I was, weary and worn and sad. I found in him a resting place, and he has made me glad. Let's pray. So we thank you for your promises. As human history continues, as civilization continues, more you call to yourself. A remnant, your elect. Worship you. And Lord, in many ways we are like the world in that we have jobs, we We have family. We do a lot of the same things they do, but Lord, we trust in you. We worship you. Even the fact that we're here this morning is because we're determined to glorify your name. And Lord, help us to live a life of faith as Enoch lived. Help us to see and look forward to the vision of this future, new heavens and new earth. Or there will be no more curse. But we thank you that though we bear the image of Adam, Lord Though uh we have this image that you've given us us that we don't always reflect well, we know that we're destined to be conformed to the image of your Son. We thank you that we can have faith in him, trust in him, and someday be like him in glory. It's in his name we pray. Amen.