Right. I think you're gonna say he's no stranger to our church, right? Okay, so um yeah, so we're blessed to have Matt Conrad speak for us today, and he has served in our church for a long time. Including as one of our assistant pastors. And so we're going we're blessed to hear from him on contentment. After the service, he'll be sitting right in the Nartdeck. So if you want to to just ask him questions or just talk to him or say your goodbyes. I hope that um you guys can do that. So without further ado, pass it back. Good morning. It's good to be back here again at Faith Bible Church. I think before I begin preaching, I give a quick update here, because a lot of people have been asking us the same question. So let's just answer this question right off. Yes, we're going back on Tuesday, and yes, we're aware that there's a lot of protests in Hong Kong. And so uh the news does not look good lately. Um instead of I thought maybe around September things would start uh calming down. It hasn't really calmed down much. In fact in some areas it's gotten a little bit more intense and Hong Kong. So definitely keep being in in prayer about the situation there. They do keep shutting down the airport, which in view of the fact that on Wednesday we plan to land at that airport, uh that's a little bit concerning. But uh The protesters are all employed. At least most of them are employed or their students. They are very busy Monday through Friday usually at school or at work. Most of the protests that you see in the news are Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. So um my hope is that that trend continues and that it will be no problem landing at the airport and getting from the airport to our home. on Wednesday afternoon. But be in prayer for that if you happen to wake up at uh 4 a. m on uh which day? Let's figure it out Four it's four PM on on our Wednesday in Hong Kong. So that would be yeah, four a. m. on Wednesday morning if you happen to wake up, be in prayer for us as we try to get from the airport to uh to our house. It's about an hour away. Yeah, after 16 hours in the airplane, I don't want to be waiting through protesters. I didn't sound like fun to me at all. So uh be in prayer for us, be in prayer going forward as uh we continue working uh in Hong Kong. Um we plan to stay away from protest areas if at all possible. Most of Hong Kong especially during the week is going along life as fairly normal. So uh I think we'll be able to continue doing what we were doing before by being prayer there, especially for uh the believers at the church, especially the young believers, as uh they're facing this time of trial, a lot of questions. Uh sometimes there's some different views between Christians. I know within our church We have some that are more supportive of the police, we have some that are more supportive of the protesters, and so pray that we can have unity there as around Christ, uh, even though there's some different perspectives on what's going on. going on there in Hong Kong. So thank you for your prayers. Pray also end of October, we have Panda Project, and pray that there'll be no uh no issues there because of the uh un rest in Hong Kong. Take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews chapter 13. Hebrews chapter 13 Before we begin the message, I'd like to open in prayer. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your goodness to us. Thank you for the privilege of serving you. Thank you for the privilege of knowing you, of drawing close to you. Lord, thank you that uh you are our Heavenly Father, if we trusted you as our Savior. That you care for us. You care for our needs. You care for our safety. You care for us in in so many ways. And uh Lord, thank you for your provision for us, your care for us. This morning, as we look at your word, Lord, I pray that you would Open our eyes, open our ears, and give us ears to hear what your spirit says to us through your word. Help us, Lord, not just to be hearers of your word, but to be doers of your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Across the world, in every place that I've been, and probably in mo all places I haven't been, there's an epidemic. There's a problem. It sickened societies, rich, poor, men, women. Employed, unemployed. This problem is discontent, greed, covetousness, dissatisfaction, complaining, murmuring People look at the person next to them and they say, hey, they have more than I have. They have more money than I have. They have more fun than I have. Their family is better than my family. They travel more than I can. And we compare and we become discontent and upset. We always want more or better or different. We're not satisfied, not content We're kind of like the sheep in this picture here. I don't know what's wrong with the grass on that side. Looks the same to me, you know. In fact, I think he might be rest risking an electrical shock based on that little sign over there. But he is convinced That the cow's grass is better than his grass on this side. People are like that. Or in China, we have the same phrase, but you can't tra translate it Exactly like this. We don't we don't say in China the grass is always good on the other side. We say there's a Chinese phrase right there. Literally it means the food next to me smells so good. I don't like what I have. I I want what they have. Or in this case He seems not have any, but I want what he has. I don't like what I have. I'm not content Even people who are really rich have a problem with this. You think, uh if you have everything, I mean if you have two cars and you and you have and you have a giant house and you have and you you list the whole thing there, you think hey, if I'm Steve Jobs or if I'm Bill Gates, definitely I am content. There's a famous story about a guy named John Rockefeller, early nineteen hundreds. He was as rich as jobs and and uh Gates and the richest people in the world. And a reporter once asked them, how much is enough? And you know that who's responsible, right? Just a little more. It's never enough. No matter how much we have. We are never content. What is contentment? A couple definitions here. This one just came straight out of the lexicon. It says contentment is a state of having what is adequate. Sufficiency. But who defines what's adequate? It seems like everybody has a different definition and it always includes more than what I currently have. In the book called The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment, this was written back, I believe, in the 1800s by a guy named Jeremiah Burroughs. It's a little bit of a rough read, but he had a great, a great definition of contentment. Christian contentment is that sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. Or if you want to just put it really simply, contentment is that peace of mind that rests because what God has provided is enough. Why can a Christian be content? Why? We're gonna look at three passages today. Normally I just pick one and we just go through that passage and explain it. But today we have three passages that answer this question. Why can a Christian be content? Why can I be content? And so we're going to start here in Hebrews. chapter 13. We're going to go on later after that to Philippians, then to 1 Timothy. We'll start here in Hebrews chapter 13. And let's look at these verses. Hebrews 13, 5 to 6. And be asking yourself this question, why can I be content? Apparently I'm giving away the answer. So let's just read it here in our passage here. Let your conduct be without covetousness, be content with such things as ye have. For he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What can man do to me? Why can I be content? Well first he just describes contentment. He says, Let your conduct be without covetousness. This word conduct, the the the idea there is it's your manner of life, the way of doing things. This is your normal life. The normal attitude, normal spirit you have should be covetous. Content. In fact, when he has the command there of be content, in the Greek, it's not a imperative. It's a participle, which has the idea of we should always be being content. It should be a constant thing. It should be the normal state that we're in. Content. Not covetous. What's covetousness? Like I can say it's not being content. Literally the word means loving money, wanting something you don't have God says, you shouldn't do that. Let your conduct, your your normal way of living should not be covenant, but in fact it should be content with the things that you have. Not the things not looking at the things you don't have, not looking at the grass that's greener or the food that the other guy's got. But saying what God has given me is enough. Why can we have that perspective? Look at the passage there. Verse says, let your conduct be without covetousness and be content with such things that you have. And verse 6, for. Or you could translate that because. So he's going to tell us why we can be content. Because he himself has said, who is he himself? Here in my Bible you got capital he capital himself. Really emphasizing we're talking about this person. It's talking about capital letters we're talking about God. We're talking about Christ. He himself has given us a promise What's his promise? I will never leave you nor forsake you. This is what Christ said. I will never leave you. He's always going to be with you as a child of God, as someone who's who put their trust in Christ alone for salvation. He says, I will never leave you, I will never forsake you. So you can be content. No matter what you face. Maybe you think, well, maybe what I have right now isn't enough. But is Christ enough? He's never going to leave you. He says, I will never leave you or forsake you. It's a double negative. It says, I'm never, ever, ever, ever, ever gonna leave you. The word leave uh has the idea of to loosen chains. It's like Christ is like shackled to you, handcuffed to you. You can't get away. Wherever you're going, he's going. Whenever he's going, you're going. You're stuck together You're never alone. He will never abandon you. And so we can say this: I can be content because Christ will never abandon me. He's not going to forsake me. He's not going to desert me. He's not going to leave me alone. He says it twice. I will never leave you or forsake you. It's not going to happen. That's what he says. That's his promise. And so what do we say? In response to that promise, we say, the Lord is my helper. He's there for me. I will not fear. Do you fear maybe that stock market will crash and all the money you've saved in your four oh one K or in your IRA suddenly, you know, one day it looks great, next day, oh boy, it's all gone. Or, you know All those shares are worth very little. Fear. Fear often makes us discontent. In fact, if you think about this question, what is the opposite of contentment? We'd often say greed, right? And greed is an opposite. Covetousness is there in the passage. That's an opposite of contentment. But we often don't think that fear Is an opposite of contentment. But one of the major reasons why we feel discontent is because we're afraid. We're afraid that what God has provided is enough. We're afraid that what God has that we're afraid of insecurity. We don't trust God. God gives us the promise. I will never leave you or forsake you. And we think, well, that's not enough, you know. I want him never to leave me or forsake me, and I want money never to leave me and forsake me. Then I feel secure. In Hong Kong. I know right now people are thinking, you know, I would be content if society is stable. If I don't have to worry, if I walk out my house I'm gonna walk into a cloud of tear gas. I've never had to worry about that. I'm gonna go to Hong Kong and you know. Think about that. How can I be content in a situation where you might walk into tear gas or you may find yourself riding into a tea thing and there's a whole lot of riot police there I've never faced that before, but can I be content? Fear can make us feel discontent. Why do I live in a place like this? Why do I have to face what I have to face? Maybe it's a fear of a health problem. Something no that's genetically in your family. I'm not content with the body God has given me. If I'd only had a a a a more healthy body, then I would be content. You know you can be discontent about a lot of things. Health, money. A job, family. You look around and think that guy's got something better than me. My situation right now is not ideal. Although the guy you're looking at, probably his situation isn't ideal either. You just don't know all the details. But one thing we do know is that we have God's promise. I will never leave you or forsake you. That's what he says. So what should you say? The Lord is my helper. I will not be afraid. What can man do unto me? I shouldn't fear how others might hurt me or what other people might think of me. I should not be afraid. I can be content. In Hong Kong, we for about five years we lived in a uh a different house. Last year we moved, but five for five years we lived at a house a little ways from the road. I'd kind of walk down a hill through a village and there's one section that's kind of really, really dark. And um in fact people that visit us o will often say, you know, is is is it safe where your houses is the w one section is really dark. And little kids, especially when at Ben and M where we're really little, they would walk to that section and I'd feel a little hand slip into mine because one They're scared, you know, it's dark here. Then we get around the corner, there's the house. Run for the house as fast as you can. Sometimes because you're scared, sometimes just because it's good to race your brother or sister. But um they're not afraid when they're walking with me. Why? Because I'm with them. God is our Heavenly Father. His hand is always reaching out to us, His children. We can tell. We don't have to be afraid. Why can I be content? Because Christ will never abandon me. Second passage, look at Philippians chapter 4. Philippians chapter four. Why can I be content? Let's read Philippians chapter 4, verses 10 to 13. Philippians 4, 10 to 13. But I rejoice great in the Lord greatly that now at last your care for me has flourished again, though you surely did care, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am to be content. I know how to be abased. And I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I have learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Why can't we look at the description of what contentment is here? He says, contentment, basically he's saying contentment is not limited by my circumstances. So often the way we feel, our inner quietness is affected by what's going on around us. But but Paul says here, he says, I have learned to be content whether I have a whole lot of stuff or not much, whether I am full. or hungry, whether I'm uh overflowing with things or I'm lacking, whatever the situation, whatever my condition, I've learned to be content. I like how he says, I've learned to be content. It wasn't natural. In the last passage, we saw that our normal state should be contentment, should be resting in Christ, finding our satisfaction in him. But here It even though it's our normal state, here he says he reminds us this is not a natural state. This is not a a natural state for for human beings Naturally we're we're not content. But so Paul says, I have learned to be content, which means before in the past he was not content. If he was lacking, he was not content. If he was hungry, he was not content. But he's learned it. Me personally, I could say, I am learning to be content. I'm not sure I'm with Paul there saying I've learned to be content with all these different situations. But I am learning to be content. Are you willing to learn to be content? What's the opposite of contentment You think, well, the opposite of contentment is to read. Oh, we just learned last last passage. Oh, it's fear too. The opposite of contentment can be stubbornness. I don't want to learn to be content. I'll be content when I have what I need. I'll be content when I have this, this, this, this, this. Then I will feel good. Then I will trust God. I'll tr I'll trust God when I don't really need to trust him anymore How do you know you trust God? In a situation when you don't have what you need. Why can we be content? This passage says, in verse 13, he says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Why can he be content? Whether he's abounding or abase, whether he's full or he's hungry? Because he is relying on Christ's strength. This word strength means to cause to have the ability. Why do I have the ability to be content? Because I'm a better Christian than you are. That's not what Paul says. He said, I had to learn this too. I have learned to rely on He says, I can do all things through Christ. Now many times this verse is applied to a whole lot of situations. It does say the word all. You know, there it is. I can do all things through Christ. But in context, what's he talking about here? Definitely not talking about slam dunking a basketball. I wish that worked that way, but no, my game is not going to be improved by this verse I can do all things in context he's talking about all these things, all these situations, a base or a bound, everywhere and all things. I kind of laid out the passage here in a little bit of an outline to kinda help us see the main things. I've learned to be content, and then at the end he says, I can do all things through him. Why can't I be content? Because Christ gives me that ability. I'm relying on him. I'm looking to him. I can be content because Christ strengthens me. Paul in another verse, 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 9, says this. He says, My grace, Paul, this is this is Paul quoting Christ who's speaking to Paul. And he, that's Jesus, said to me, that's Paul, my grace is sufficient for you. That word sufficient there could be translated enough. In fact, it's the same word that we see in our our three passages we're looking today that's translated content. Just my grace is sufficient for you, or my grace can make you content. Why? Because my strength is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. I can do all things through Christ. Which strengthens me. Why can I be content? Because I'm not relying on my own strength. In my own strength, looking at my own resources, I'm going to be discontent. I'm going to think I I don't have enough. But we look to Christ and realize He can teach us to be content. Are you willing to learn to be content? Or are you infl inflexible, stubborn, not willing to look to Christ? Are you willing to have less than other people? Part of being content is to be willing to have less than other people. You look at your coworker, you look at your brother or sister, you look at your other person even sitting next to you here at church. Are you willing to have less than that person if that's God's plan for you? Nope, I'm not happy till we're all kind of even. I believe in social justice. Everybody's going to be exactly the same So what God says, you can be content when you have what everybody else has got. Then everything's fair. That's not what he says. He says, I can do all things. I mean that means I can be happy even though I have less than the other people. Because I'm looking to Christ. I find my sufficiency in him I had an opportunity to go to Bali, Indonesia back in May. We live in Hong Kong and we rarely leave Hong Kong. In fact, for two years we did didn't go anywhere out of Hong Kong. And Hong Kong geographically actually is not that big. We hadn't stepped out, hadn't gone anywhere. And then we had a conference with our uh with our mission board and they hosted it in Bali because it was less expensive there to rent the hotel and that kind of And so we thought, you know, we never know when they're gonna have another conference. Let's save up some money. Let's go to the conference. And we did. It was a nice place, very different from Hong Kong Bali, Indonesia. And the first night we were there, we we went out to the the the main street there, lots of shops. We went to a a restaurant, actually an Italian restaurant in Indonesia. Indonesia. It was quite good. And um in the front they had ice cream. Lots of ice cream. Here's a picture of the uh ice cream there. Lots and lots of choices, interesting flavors, that kind of thing in in Bali there. And Well, I shouldn't be eating ice cream. I I have eaten ice cream. I know what it tastes like, the real stuff, you know, with the actual milk, those That kind of thing. You know, that's good stuff. And this was obviously good ice cream. It was pretty cheap. Uh if you get a big ice cream comb for not a lot of money, and of course all the children saw that they want Ice cream and so afterwards we went and we got ice cream. But me, I got sherbet. That is not a good trait. It's hard to be content when everybody else has got real chocolate ice cream and you're stuck there with sour what was it? Sour whatever it was, it was not sweet and it was not chocolate That is not it was hard to be content. I mean that's a little issue, you know we sure but still still deserve, right? But you know it's I don't have what they had. This is not fair. Why does my body not process this right and I gotta eat this nasty stuff? Well it's not actually nasty, but comparatively it's nasty. Clearly I have a problem. I'm not content. I'm not content with the body God gave me. The issues I have to face. We're all different. We all face different things, but there's many things that make us discontent. It can be little things like this. It's amazing. Something as little as this can make you sin. You know? Not just the big things. But I can be content. Even in these little issues like this, how can I I'm I'm gonna look to Christ and say, you know what? In the grand scheme of things, it's not a big thing. I can be strong and eat my surebrush. Or in more serious things. I mean you get different people have different health issues. I have them, you have them. It's inconvenient. You think, why do I have this problem? I look around, everybody else is so healthy. Maybe they are, maybe they aren't. Maybe you don't know what they're facing. But can you be content if you don't have the same amount of money the other people have? have or the same healthy body that other people have or the same uh uh happy family safe family that other people you you look at them you think they have or be happy if you're stuck with sherbet when you should be having chocolate ice cream. Can you be content? I can be content in all situations. Serious? As well as goofy like this one. I can be content in all situations. He says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I'm going to learn. It's not easy. It's not natural. But I'm going to learn. I'm not going to be stubborn. I'm going to look to Christ. Let's look to the next passage. The next passage is 1 Timothy. 1 Timothy chapter 6. Why can I be content? We saw in the first passage, I can be content. Why? Because Christ will never abandon me. I can be content. Why? Because Christ strengthens me. I can be content. Why? Well, let's look at the passage. Let's see. First Timothy chapter 6, verses 6 to 8. First Timothy 6, 6 to 8. I think we have another Now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. See the word contentment there twice. Contentment. Godliness for the contentment is great gain. Why can I be content? First of all, what does he talk about say about contentment here? He's saying that contentment and godliness they kind of go together. In fact, if you have these two together, this is very, very valuable. I'm not talking about monetary value, but in the sight of God, he says, this is important. This is precious. Godliness and contentment. They go together. If you're godly, you should be content. What is godliness? Godliness is devoutness, it's piety. Basically, it's living out respect to God. It's living your life in the fear of God, saying, I want to live my life in a way that that that that honors Him. If I'm discontent, if I'm murmuring, if I'm complaining, am I honoring God? I'm not. Godliness and contentment, they go together. If I'm going to live in respect towards God, I need to be content with what God has provided. He says, now godliness with contentment is great gain. It's very valuable. It has true value in the sight of God. Why? For. There's the word for. You could also translate it again. Because. Why is this valuable? Because we brought nothing into this world and it's certainly we're going to carry nothing out. All that stuff that you think would make you content, that would make you happy, that would give you peace in your heart, that God says you're going to die and you're not going to have any of that stuff. Not even Sherbert. No, I didn't want Sherbert. I wanted ice cream. I got that backwards. God says, you you never see this, you know the old joke, you never see a a a uh a hearse with a U-hole in the back. But you know what? Actually I have. There's a picture. That's happened somewhere. I don't know where, but And I really would like to know the story behind that picture 'cause yeah. Some pastor said that that up. You know, he said, hey, uh got a guy in his in his in his in his church that has a hearsay. Could you just read a Utah stuff so I can get this pat so I can get this picture? That that that's probably what happened here. We brought nothing into this world. It's certain we can carry nothing out. The Egyptians tried it. Take a look at their tombs. Well at least the uh The most rich among them, the Pharaoh, you know. This is what they're to him. They try to take it all with them, you know? Take all the gold, take all the silver, even kill the servants, try to take them with them too, bury them together. Extreme example. But did the pharaoh take anything? No. His body is sitting in the British Museum somewhere Contentment. What is what has true value? I can be content because Christ has taught me what has true value. The things this earth do not have true value, they'll pass away. When we die, they're not coming with us. He says, and having food and clothing with these We shall be content. Godliness and contentment is great gain. This is valuable. You and your relationship with God, the way you've lived your life. Living for things that truly matter. Things that are eternal. In this world, what's eternal God's word is eternal. People around you, they're eternal. Your relationship with God, the moment you trust in Christ, you have a relationship that goes on forever. It starts the moment you believe. These things are eternal. Everything else makes li can make life more comfortable. Can be enjoyable. In fact, the Bible says later on in this passage, God gives us all things richly to enjoy. It's not wrong. But if that becomes our focus, if that is where we our happiness lies. There's something wrong with your perspective. In fact, if that's where your happiness lies, you're living your life not in a godly way. You're living your life in a way of the ungodly. Your values and the values of people who have not been saved are the same. You're seeking the same things. Colossians chapter 3 says, if you've been risen with Christ, seek those things that are above, or Christ sits on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth. Things that are eternal. Christ has taught us what has true value. But so often Our eyes go on to things that are not of true value. Let's read on here a little bit in verse 9. 1 Timothy 6, verse 9. What's the opposite of contentment here in this passage? But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, for which some having strayed from the faith and their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. What's the opposite here? Lust. Greed. Wanting things that God has not provided. Setting our eyes, our affections, our desires on things that are gonna pass away. He says, godliness with contentment is great gain. Godliness has true value. Why are you godly? Have you ever asked yourself that question? Why are you godly? In fact, look back in the passage uh just before earlier, verse 5. First Timothy 6. 5 it says, talks about these false teachers, a useless Wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth who suppose that godliness is a means of gain from such withdrawal yourself. Godliness is a means of gain. You have false teachers. In fact, we see them today on TV, some televangelist there. They're pretending to be godly people because they're going to make money. They're going to have gain from it. And we think, oh, those guys are bad. But we might be doing the same thing. Why are we godly? Well, because things, you know, tends to have better outcome if we do what's right We'll avoid consequences if we do what's right. So we're going to be godly. Is that kind of the same thing? Godliness is a way of gain? I'm using godliness to get my end. Instead of being godly to please God. Satan came to God and God said, Hey, have you seen Job? He's a godly man. He's just in all his dealings. And Satan says, Oh. You know why he's godly? Because you gave him all that stuff. He's rich. Got a big family, got lots of goats. That was a big thing back then. You know you got he's rich, he's wealthy. You just take away all that stuff He'll curse you. He's godly because of what he can get out of it. And so God allowed Satan to take all his stuff. His family, his houses, his goats. And Job was still godly He says, God gives, God takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. There's contentment, right? Not based on the circumstances. Job knew what had true value. Was he perfect? No. But how about us? Why are you godly? Are you godly for what you can get out of it or what you can avoid? But if you know if I'm ungodly, then bad things will happen, so I'll be godly Why are you godly? He says, godliness with contentment is great gain. What is truly important to you? Is it money? Is it position? Is it respect of other people? Where do you find your value? Value. Because if we're finding our value in the wrong place, we will not be content. If you find yourself always struggling, always questioning, always at val always unrest. You think, well if I do this then it'll be good. Or if my kids get this then then everything will be good. If if if this but then every time you get there's always something else. Maybe you value the wrong things. Maybe you're not valuing what is eternal. I can be content because Christ has taught me what has true value. We look at these three passages this morning. And we ask that question: why can I be content? It's very clear we should be content. We should be content with what God has provided us. But why can we be? We look at so many areas where we need to be content. Money, position, influence, family. Maybe you think, hey, I if I only had a you know, if only my my family was different. If only I had a different spouse, that's not a good question to say. If only I had a spouse. If only You know, if only I could didn't have food allergies, if only I was a healthier person, if only you know, I I'd move back to Hong Kong. If only my house was bigger. My house is tiny, my children have noticed they've gotten bigger When they were little, you know, we s it felt like we had more space. Now everybody's bigger and they have more stuff. Can I be content? Can I be content in Hong Kong with no car? Sometimes I like having no car, I don't like fixing it. But other times, you know, it'd be an awful nice to be able to stick things in a trunk. I love trunks. Trunks are great. You g you gotta go somewhere and you gotta carry everything you gotta decide. You know, do I need this? Nope, it's too heavy. You know? I'm gonna be gone all day. I have no trunk. Multitasking, it's really hard. Can I be content? In this situation. It's inconvenient. Can I be content in an inconvenient situation God has said we should be content. He's given us what we need. All of our situations are different. The things we face are different. So this morning, what what makes you discontent? Is it fear? Is it insecurity? Christ says to you, I will never leave you or forsake you What makes you discontent? Is it stubbornness? I don't want to learn to be content. I'll be content when I have what I need. Or what I think I need. What makes you discontent? Is it lust? Is it desire for things that you don't have? Is it greediness? You know, if we are content, that's a clear testimony that God has changed us. Because naturally, normally, people are not content. You know, when I'm talking about content here, I'm not talking about complacency either. Like, oh, whatever will happen will happen. I'm not talking about fatalism here. I'm not talking about, you know, there's some areas, in fact, we should not be content. You're you're how close you are to God. You should not be content. Oh I'm good. I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm this close to God. I could be closer, but I'm good here. That's not what we're talking about here. Nowhere in the Bible says you should be content. in that area. In fact we should have a holy discontent. We should always be trying to get closer to God. We should never say, oh, I'm content. I've witnessed to enough people in my life that that's good. Good. No, no, no. We should always be witnessing, sharing the gospel with more people. We should have a holy discontent. I I I I I want to reach more people. I want to make more of a difference for God. That that's not what these passages are talking about here. But we look at what God has provided to us. Are we content? John the Baptist had been witnessing, had been preaching the gospel. Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and people got saved from well people repented from all walks of life Even soldiers, some Roman soldiers had repented. And they came to John and they said, Hey John, what should we do now that we're repenting, now that we're following? It says, likewise the soldiers asked him, saying, And what shall we do? So he said to them, Do not intimidate anyway or fault or accuse falsely, and be content. With your wages. How can people tell that you are following God? One way is Because only God can give you that kind of peace. This morning, are you content? This morning, has the Lord shown you an era in your life where you are discontent? Where you are not at peace, where you are always wanting more or better or different. What is contentment again? We saw at the beginning of the message there a couple of definitions. Contentment is that sweet inward, quiet, and gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to us. And delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. It submits to God. It says, God, I think that at this situation this isn't enough. But you know what? I'm going to submit to you. I'm not going to fear. I'm not going to be always striving for something that you haven't yet provided. This isn't saying we shouldn't work hard. This isn't saying we shouldn't plan for the future. But it is saying that ultimately we should find our sufficiency in Christ. He will never leave you. That's what he says. I will never leave you or forsake you. He will strengthen you when you look to him for strength. He will teach you what has True value. In fact, today, let's summarize here. I can be content. Why? Because Christ will never abandon me. I can be content. Why? Because Christ strengthens me. I can be content. Why? Because Christ taught me what has true value. This morning, are you content? And if not, why not? What is keeping you from being content This morning, if there's some area in your life that you realize, hey, I'm not content in this area. I've been complaining. I've been murmuring. What are you going to do about it? Are you going to learn to be content? Are you going to learn to rely on Christ? Are you going to learn to find your security not in money and possessions, but in the promises of God? Or are you gonna walk out today and I heard a sermon? There are a couple jokes about hearses and ice cream. And then not change Are you content? Are you going to replace those wrong thought patterns, those discontent thought patterns? With patterns that will help you to focus on Christ. If you're struggling with discontent, I challenge you, memorize the three passages we looked at today. That's a good first step to changing your thought patterns. And being content. Whenever you start mumbling and complaining inside, you go back to those scriptures and remember, I can be content. Why? Maybe you don't have a problem with the first one. You don't feel like you're abandoned, but You're valuing things that are not right. Memorize 1 Timothy 6, 6 to 8. Look to God. Look to Him for strength. He can help you to be content. Paul says, in whatever state I am, I've learned to be content. He learned it. We can learn it. If you've never trusted as Christ as your Savior this morning, my prayer is that you will not be content to leave here without trusting Christ. God is our Heavenly Father, but only the Heavenly Father of those who have put their trust in Christ alone. God created everyone. But because of sin, we're naturally separated from God. That's why we're discontent. That's why we struggle with different different sins, different issues like It's because we're sinners. God created us, but we've walked away from Him. Instead of following God's road, instead of uh obeying Him, we've we've walked our own road. The Bible says, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. We're going our own way, not God's way God calls that rebellion. And he says, because we rebel against him, because we're sinners, we can't be in heaven. We can't have a relationship with God. He's not your father. But he can be. That's why God sent Jesus. God knows our problem. He loves us. He knows that we are separated from him. He knows that we deserve to be punished for our sin. So God sent Christ. God became man. He lived a perfect life. He died on the cross for you and for me. He took our punishment. He took your punishment. Instead of you dying and being separated from God forever and ever, Jesus died in your place. He took your punishment on himself You can't save yourself. There's nothing you can do to earn salvation, earn a place with God in heaven. The Bible says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourself, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any It's by grace. It's a free gift. It's not something you can earn. It's not something you can deserve. But today God offers you the gift of Salvation. He offers you a place in his family. John 1. 12 says, as many as received him, to them gave you the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. You can become a child of God, but the only way to do that is through Christ. The Bible says, neither is there salvation in any other, for there's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. You can't save yourself. Only Christ can save you. This morning. Will you put your faith and trust in Christ? The Bible says that if you believe on his name, you stop trusting yourself, stop trusting your good works, you say, Lord, I've been going my own way. I repent. I want to trust you alone. Admit you're a sinner. Put your faith in Christ alone. Ask Him to save you, and He will. God promises whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you've never called on the name of the Lord for salvation, if you've never put your trust in Christ alone for salvation, after the service, come talk to me, talk talk, talk to Pastor Cho. We'd love to answer your questions, help you see from the Bible how you can become a child of God. God and have a hope of heaven after you die. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you so much for your goodness to us. Thank you for your provision, your provision of salvation, so we can have hope for life after death. Thank you also for your provisions in our daily lives. Lord, all our situations are different. Our economic situation is different. Family situations are different, job situations are different, health situations are different But Lord, you can teach each one of us in our different situations how we can be content. Help us to look to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.