But we're looking this morning uh at the Word of God. We're looking at the book of Romans, and we're doing it to try to find some answers. Some of you know these answers, some of you our question question the biblical answers. But have you ever heard somebody go through briefly through the scriptures and tell you why the world is in such a mess? Have you ever had somebody? someone that do that for you? And then explain what the scriptures have to say about the solution to the world and the mess we're in. I have a printout of the Daily News. I've never seen this newspaper before, but evidently it's out of New York's, New York City. It says New York's hometown newspaper Fourteen dead in California, California mass shooting. We all know about what happened out there. But this newspaper chose to put on the front: God isn't fixing this. It quotes two, actually four conservative candidates for president who said things like, Our thoughts and prayers are with San Bernardino. Our prayers are with the victims, their families, the first responders in San Bernardino. This newspaper says As latest batch of innocent Americans are left lying in pools of blood, cowards who could truly end gun scourge continue to hide behind meaningless platitudes. And it has This God isn't fixing this. Now, putting politics aside, which I truly want to do. It is a mess, isn't it? I mean, our country right now, the kind of things that we're seeing in the newspapers, the number of murders that have happened already downtown Baltimore, the riots that we recently experienced. The things that might even be happening in your hometown, uh back if you're from Nigeria or China or somewhere else The whole world seems to be a mess. And the answers that politicians give are, in a sense, the scriptures would say, are good answers. Because we have in the letter to Romans, the 13th chapter, Paul writing to us, and you don't have to turn there, just listen, and he says that government is given, and it sort of bears a sword for evildoers. It's the function of good government to suppress crime, to protect citizens. So in that sense, when A government says we need to do something about it, that's good. But Romans is very clear That the ultimate problem with people is way more than terrorism, economic poverty. Growing up in a broken family, being in a country where you have too much stuff, materialism, for example. Romans describes the problem in terms of the choices mankind, humanity has made as a whole, and individuals have made one to one. individuals have made on an individual basis between themselves and God. The root cause of the problems of humanity. When it comes right down to it. If you want to know what the Bible teaches, not the Quran or the Book of Mormon, but specifically the Bible, the Bible teaches that the root problem is found in the three-letter English word. Jesus said that sin is not primarily something on the outside of us. For example, if that wall was sin and I touched it and now suddenly I'm a sinner. No, Jesus said that it's from the heart that comes adulteries and murders and thefts. There's something wrong in the heart of every person. That's born into this world. I want to just tell you briefly what Romans says, sort of the story here. Our people have heard some of this before, but I beg their patience and their prayers as we go through this a little bit more. In Romans chapter one, Paul is if you have a Bible, you can turn there. If not, just listen, that's fine. Romans 1 verse 18 says the wrath of God God is revealed from heaven against un all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness Now the word the New Testament was originally written in Greek, and the Greek term that's translated unrighteousness there has to do with the idea of Of an act that violates certain standards of conduct. Unrighteousness, you could say, is equal to wrongdoing. It's kind of like this: there's this right standard that God has. And right is always right. And then there's the wrong. And what this verse is saying is that humanity has taken the knowledge of God they had, and they are trying to push it away, suppress it. Stuff it down a hole. Get rid of it by their wrongdoing. The things that they do are an attempt to run away from God. Paul goes on, and he says that humanity as a whole, it says in Romans 1 verse 20 It says, For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. In talking about the suppression of truth and unrighteousness, Paul brings up the whole issue of creation. And he says here that all that people see what is made by God. And they're supposed to draw certain conclusions about it. Let me just get you quickly to turn back to another passage in Scripture. Have you ever looked at Psalm 19? Turn back there real quick. Again, if you don't have a Bible, just feel free to listen to what it says here. It says in Psalm 19, verse 1, that the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows his handiwork. Day unto day utter speech. And night unto night reveals knowledge. There is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard. Their line has gone out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world He gets more specific. He says here that in them he has set a tabernacle for the son, which is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber. And rejoices like a strong man to run its race. Its rising is from one end of heaven and its circuit to the other end. There's nothing hidden from its heat He he points out that creation is like it's something that everyone on this planet sees. And so we are accountable to the chamber. And because of that, back in Romans 1, as we look at creation, we learn two essential things about God that we're accountable for. One is that God is divinity, capital D, that He's in a class of being that is at the absolute height of all things. There must be a truly transcendent being, and we know this intuitively as we look at creation The second thing that Roman says that we're supposed to know is that God has eternal power. Now, when when have you ever Ever seen an arm wrestling contest where you've got two guys and you might locked in battle and the one guy wins and and you know how powerful his arm is based on how big the other guy is. Army is that he just beat. So you know, wow, that is a powerful guy. Look at who he just beat. When we look at creation, we see everything and we go, what kind of power did it take to hang the sun in our solar system with all those billions of degrees of heat? What kind of power does it take to make that and to maintain it? Only a God of eternal power. Omnipotent power. There's a level of power that's beyond our imagination, and there's this being who is divine, capital D, a one and only kind of being. And so Paul writes in Romans 1. That when humanity looks around at creation, there is this intuitive built-in response that everyone has. It doesn't matter whether Whether you're in China or India or Maryland or Africa or Australia or Russia, it's that same response. You know So uh I was at at in the Smithsoni Institute not too long ago and I was looking at some satellites. It was a display of a group of it was sort of a projection of all the satellites that are not top secret that are going around the planet Earth. Hundreds of them. And as I looked at those satellites, not one time did I say, wow. What amazing blind chance and luck that all of the dust just came up from the earth by I don't know why, and just organize itself to fashion the metal plating on the outside of that satellite. I never one time said, isn't it so amazing that all the fossil fuels just gave up the certain whatever it is to make plastic That can endure in space, that it just came out of nowhere. And it's amazing that what has happened there. I never said that The question we ask is, who made that? We never say, wow, what has happened? First, we have to say, who made that? No one here would even go home And see a nice piping hot peach cobbler on the dining room table, no one here would go and look at that and go, whoa, where did that come from? I mean the atoms of the table just spontaneously organize themselves into a peach cobbler. No, there's your mom in the other room. She just made it. I mean, from the most simplest thing Like a peach cobbler to more complex things that mankind makes, the question is always, who made it? And that's what Paul is getting at here when humanity looks at creation We're saying who made it. But the problem is, folks, the problem is that Paul writes that in knowing this, we rejected it It says in verse 21 of Romans 1, because although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts. And their foolish hearts were darkened, professing to be wise, they became fools and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man and birds. And four-footed animals and creeping things. What took place? They looked at God. They knew him from creation. Now they didn't know his son Jesus But they knew that there was a God, capital G, of great power, and they turned away, and they wanted to go and start making these. What is this I'm holding up right here? Well, it's not really an idol, but it kind of looks like one. Here we have another one. I've got I think King Tut's head in my left hand and somebody else's head in my right hand. But they're depictions of people. And so humanity turned away from the living. And made idols that represented creation, animals, four-footed beasts, and mankind. This scripture teaches us that. Voodoo or involved in Mormonism or has some sort of ritual that they're doing, and they're doing it in the name of God, this passage teaches us that that That is not them seeking God. That is them suppressing God, running away from Him, and trying to replace God Idols are the result of fallen mankind's attempt not to run to God, but to run away from God. Now, how would you respond if you if you had friends? And they rejected you. They weren't even appreciative of who you were. And they ran away from you and replaced you. Well, I can tell you how God responded in that situation. It says here that he simply in Romans 1:24, therefore God also gave them up to the Uncleanness. In verse 26, it says, For this reason, God gave them up to vile passions. In verse 28, it says, And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, You know what that looks like? I have a picture here of a Gideon Bible. Anybody ever been to a hotel and seen a Gideon Bible in your hotel drawer? There's an atheist group called I can't remember what they're called what their full name is, but they're they're putting stickers on Gideon Bibles in hotels warning literal belief in this book may endanger your health and life. Life, crossbones and a skull on the front. They did not like to retain God in their knowledge And so God gave them over, it says in verse 28, to a debased mind. The Apostle John described the world this way in terms of Of the desires of the flesh and of the eyes and the pride of life. And so here we have in Romans 1 and in 1 John sort of a two passages working together, and we get the idea that God has. Given mankind over to its desire to have idols and to its desire to just put pleasure first, me first, money first, and so mankind has made this rat race over. Here, you know? And we're all kind of stuck in this mess that we've created because we've rejected the one true God. And the kind of things that we see in Romans 1 are horrible things that God has given us over to And so that's sort of the state of humanity, but there's something still active in us, even as we are involved in all these idols. Even as we're involved in our the the vile passions, the wrong mindset, the godless desires, there's this knowledge, if you look at your Bible At the very end of chapter one it says that we know the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice such things are deserving of death, not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice. Here's what this passage is saying if you take it all together. First, creation. Mankind rejects the knowledge of God in creation. Turns to idols. God's response, give them over to what we want. Man's condition. I know in the middle of all this, I know That I'm still going to be accountable to someone. I know that. How do they know that? Conscience. There's something inside of all of us. That says, maybe I shouldn't. Have you ever had that happen to you? Have you ever been in the act of doing something, and something in your heart says, uh, maybe you shouldn't? But you did it anyway. And so chapter one of Romans places all of humanity in that mess. All of humanity us together. And it's not really a very pretty picture. Creation reveals to us some things about God, and we retain this knowledge of God. And let me ask God. Let me get you to think for a second. When you watch CNN, when you click on USA Today. com, when you look at BBC America, do you see Sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, envy, murder, strife, deceit Evil-mindedness, gossips, backbiters, haters of God, violent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents. Is that what you see on the news? It is what I see on the news. And so you see, folks, when you look at Life. You look at what's out there, and then you look at the scriptures. You see the scriptures confirmed by this experience that we all have of the mess that we're in Now here's what happens after after you explain this to someone, and even after I think about it, there usually emerges a couple of people who want to stand forward and they want to say, wait a minute. And they Have questions, and that's good. Everyone should have questions. You should have questions. There is, for example, in Romans chapter 2, there is this person who judges and agrees with God's judgment. And Paul says here in Romans 2, verse 1, he says, kind of turns the head on the judge and says, Therefore, you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are who judge For in whatever you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you who judge practice the same things. And what he's saying here, folks, is that I, look, let's face it, I'm gonna say something really self-righteously. I, Van Fox, am probably not as evil as Osama bin Laden was. Can you agree with me on that? I hope. Even the people in my church who know me. Can my wife agree with me on that? I sure hope so. Or I'm in trouble. You probably are not as evil in your practice. As Adolf Hitler was. And the tendency for you and me, we look at this group of people who are doing the most promiscuous, open-handed evil And because we don't practice evil at the same level, we look at them and go, mm-mm. Amen, Pastor Dan, you're well right. Those are bad people. And Paul is saying here in Romans 2, okay, hold on. Do you practice the same things? Now, I have to Reminds you of Matthew 5 in the Sermon on the Mount. You here's what Jesus said. If If you are angry, all right, you know that the law, the Mosaic law said, Thou shalt not murder. And so you know you're not supposed to murder. That's fair enough. But I tell you If you're angry with your brother without cause, you're in danger of judgment. You say, whoa, wait a minute. You mean God cares about my attitude, my feelings, and what I think about other people? Matthew five. The Sermon on the Mount, Jesus does that over and over again. He says, All right, you've heard you shall not commit adultery, but I say to you, if you look at a woman in your heart and lust after her with your eyes, you've already committed adultery in your heart. And everybody's like, whoa, wait a minute. You see the the righteous standard of God, folks, let's face it, it's different from ours. Isn't it? You know what? Most people in this world they look at other people and they compare themselves and they think that they're okay. The reality is they should compare themselves to the righteous standard of God. In Romans chapter 2, after really hitting hard on people who judge, he then brings in people who have the law. He talks about Jews and the fact that they had the law of Moses. And he also mentions the conscience of the Greek or the Gentile, the rest of us who aren't Hebrews. And he really lets us have it. Folks, I don't Enjoy this. I don't enjoy reading Romans where I get thumped. But this is the word of God. And so here's the standard of God: creation holds us accountable. Our conscience holds us accountable. And the Ten Commandments, it is true, the law of God is there, and we're accountable. to those as well. And by the time you get to the end of chapter 2 and into chapter 3 of Romans, basically Paul, do you know what he's trying to do? He's like a a prosecutor and he's trying to show that every person on this whole planet is actually guilty before God From the sinner who's only done a few sins but still broke the law of God to the Adolf Hitler and Osama bin Laden, the Boko Haram people, from the ones who really sin a lot, but we're all in the same Boat. We are unrighteous. We cannot meet the standard of God. And truthfully, when we think of these things, we are unwilling to admit that we are unrighteous. So that leaves us in a pretty pathetic state. And if that's all the Bible said, we'd be in trouble. We would enjoy sinning for a season Now not everyone is an idolater with a mask, right? You know anybody who bows down to these at home? Probably not. But there are questions There are quite a few who worship pleasure. There are quite a few who worship money. There are quite a few who go months without even thinking about God. But boy, they love money. That would be terrible if that's where God left us. But he didn't. Folks, here's the amazing thing about God. God loves sinners. He loves them. Now, I love my friends. I like being around my friends. Sometimes they annoy me. They say things that irritate me. But I love them, and they love me when I irritate them. But Do I love my enemies? Do I love people? Do you love the people at work who are trying to step on your shoulders to get to the next level up? I mean, let's be honest, I don't love them Those people. And yet the scriptures say in John 3:16, which we probably all know, for God so loved the world, and that is every single person in the world, and it's gonna Be painful to think this, but even the worst of us, even the worst of us, and even the sort of self-righteous ones of us who think we're kind of like Pharisees, he loves all of us Matter of fact, Jesus said he came to seek and to save that which is lost. He didn't come to find the people who thought they were Found. He came to find sinners and to bring them to repentance. He didn't come to find the Pharisees who were self-righteous. You know what Jesus said? He told the Pharisees Parable about two guys in the temple, and the one guy is like prostrate on the ground. He feels terrible about his sins, and he's like beating his chest saying, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. And the other guy standing over here looking at him going, I thank God I'm not like that guy. Who did Jesus come to save? He came to save the guy that's down there, who's so humble to admit that, hey, I might not be Adolf Hitler, but I have sinned. I've done things I shouldn't. I'm under the judgment Of God. That's the kind of person Jesus has come to save. And Jesus, when he told that story, he said, Who went to his house justified? That guy. Now, here's the amazing thing that Romans brings out. God is willing to declare righteous the ungodly. You don't have to do anything You can't earn it. You can't buy it. It's actually a gift. Isn't that amazing? The God of heaven, all the sins you've committed, all the sins you will commit, all the sins you committed, and you didn't even know you committed it, but God's Saul. He's willing to say, I'll forgive you, and I will grant you a righteous standing before me. How is that possible? Well, in The Islam faith, Islamic faith, it's a series of rituals and works. And then God says, I'll let you into heaven if you do certain things. In all other religions, it's sort of a series of Rituals or works or morality. God sees it and says, I'm I'll declare you righteous. Come on in. But in Christianity, it's the exact opposite It. I admit I'm a sinner, and he says, I'll justify you. Come on in. How is that possible? Here's how it's possible. Jesus. Jesus. Jesus came into this world, the perfect Son of God Knowing that he had a mission. Christmas is coming. He was born of a virgin in a manger, in a dump, with the animals. He was poor. He grew up the perfect man. The perfect God man. And Isaiah prophesied hundreds and hundreds of years ago that he would bear our sins. And Peter writes, he who knew no sin would become sin for us. That took place on that cross. On the tree, the Bible calls it that as well. When he was lifted up from the earth and hung there on that cross The sins of the world, all of my sins, all of the Pope's sins, all of the leader of the Mormon churches' sins, all of the local imam's sins Everyone's sins were placed on Christ. And God allowed his only begotten Son, His one unique Son, to die in my Romans 1 says that all of us involved in this mess of the world, we know that the judgment of God is death for sin. When Jesus was on that cross, he took the judgment of God. And at that last moment, what did he say? It is finished. He died on that cross, he completed the work of God, and then he rose from the dead the third day, thus showing that the work was complete by that amazing miracle that took place. Place. I showed you this paper. God isn't fixing this. Folks, God already fixed it He fixed it. But he didn't fix it by government or social programs. He fixes it when a sinner admits they're a sinner, repents. And puts their faith in Jesus. Every time someone comes to Christ and as Jesus described it is born again. They're changed. They're renew they're totally transformed. And God fixes it. When Jesus came to this earth, he called all the wandering sinners back to himself. He calls us to be honest with ourselves, to say, look Look, I look good on the inside, but I ain't good. People who admit that, he looks at us as says, then come to Jesus. Though your sins be red as scarlet, and though they be red like crimson, they can be as white as snow in the sense of purity. Okay, we're not talking color of skin. We're talking purity of heart. He will wash away our sins. He'll establish us in Christ and give us a new life. Have you ever done that? Or are you waiting for someone to sort of convince you to become a Christian, to sort of logically argue you into Christianity? Don't you realize that he who is convinced against his will is of the same opinion still? What about the gospel? What about just accepting the biblical view on things and saying, you know what? I think this matters Makes sense. I believe that. The world is a mess. And the answer is Jesus. There's none righteous, not one. There's no one who understands. And you know what? I I'm Part of that. I need salvation. John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God, and he pointed at Jesus, who takes away the sins. of the world. The good news, folks, the good news that salvation has nothing to do with you going to church, with you giving money, with you being good. It's all about Jesus. Now, having said that, after we get saved, our whole lives change. God gives us his spirit. We start to do good things in the power of the spirit, but we're still sinners who need grace every day.