Good morning. Looks like I'm speaking to the church scattered. But I'm happy to be speaking to the church. Actually gathered. Well, it's good to be back. I hope all of you got a copy of this book. This book happened to have some uh Part of it was because I was here for 20 times back in 2018 speaking through James. And uh Actually, it was 2017 when I was invited to speak at a Methodist campground in Georgia. And I was trying to think about what I could do that wouldn't be too theologically co controversial and Decided I would speak on James. And so last summer I thought it would be good to write a book. I had all, you know, sort of been in process. But last summer I got started and was frustrated. I thought I would uh go through Amazon and follow their format and so on and just didn't work very well. So I went to prayer meeting one night. We were eating dinner at prayer meeting, sitting around a table. I'm expressing my frustration to this young man who's sitting near me and I knew that he was in publishing had worked for some publishing company and was out of a job And he said to me, all of that stuff is zero problem. He said, I've got all the software. He said, I'll do that for you. And then we had a gal at the uh at the church who was interested in graphics and she said, let me do your cover. I want to do your cover. So the book is a series of miracles and God's goodness. And just after the book came out in May, the uh camp meeting that I was scheduled for was canceled. It is actually supposed to be going right now. It was supposed to start on Thursday. So it's very good to be with you. And I thought it would be good to speak on the verse that I skipped when I was here. You know, when I when I came back Back then, I started in verse two. I didn't start in verse one. And uh I don't know if I've ever spoken on one verse, one verse in the Bible. I mean the first verse in any book of the Bible. But I think this verse is an excellent verse to show us the importance of every single statement that God makes in his word. For sure, this verse looks easy to skip. James 1. 1. Doesn't say much more than hi. James, a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. Hi. On the surface, it may not look like much, but there's several unusual parts. For example, why would James choose to address twelve tribes? instead of the saints in Ephesus or Corinth. Does James really mean the twelve tribes? Is he writing to Jewish people only? Is he writing to the Church of Jesus Christ? Remember, this is the New Testament. Almost every book in the New Testament is written to the church. Why twelve tribes Then the word scattered is a little unusual. He's not writing to people in Ephesus or Antioch They're scattered. Is there something special about the location of these readers? Or the lack of a location? Scattered What about people who tribes that aren't scattered? Did he intend to include those tribes? And which James is this? You know, there are four Jameses in the New Testament. So which James is it? Perhaps your answer your response is, who cares? I mean, who cares that we might not know who James is? So what that he wrote to twelve tribes? Christians everywhere read James and get blessed. What difference would it make to know that these original readers were gypsies? And they went to a church entitled Twelve Tribes. And they lived in the town of Scatter. What difference would it make? Well, if the writer was James, the brother of John, son of Zebedee. one of the disciples had traveled with Jesus for three years, then the letter would have to be written early. Because he was arrested and executed by Herod the king in Acts 12, verses 1 and 2. But if it was written by James, the half-brother of Jesus, he wasn't even a believer in his brother back before the crucifixion. So he didn't come to trust his brother, trust Christ as his Savior until shortly before or after the crucifixion. And James, the brother of John, is dead in 44 A. D. James, the brother of Jesus, by 44 A. D. , has only been a Christian for maybe 10 years, 11 years, 12 years. He may be a little too young to write So it may have been written later if it's James, the half-brother of Jesus. And why would the letter be written to a primarily Jewish audience, the twelve tribes, unless there weren't very many Gentiles in the church at that time? And why mention that the readers had been scattered? It would tell us much about their distress And why James said some of the things he said. So I think that these two statements, twelve tribes scattered. Tell us that James is writing to the early church, the very early church of Jesus Christ, that is largely Jewish and largely scattered. So I think it does matter at least a little. And the questions, even over this one verse, can help us get to know what James is doing in his letter and who he aims to help. So, I would like to focus on four items this morning. Which James, number one. Twelve tribes really? Number two. Two? Scattered? Really? Number three. And what is James writing about? Number four, what is James writing about? So which James? Twelve tribes really? Scatter? Really? What's he writing about? So here's my first statement. I say this with all authority. The author of this book was James. How do you go about figuring out which James it was? When you go back through the writers of the New Testament, we know almost all of them. Most were the original disciple band. Matthew, John, Peter, or connected with the original disciple band. Mark was connected with Peter. Luke was connected with Paul. And Paul was the added apostle. So with six men, you cover all the books of the New Testament except three. Hebrews, James, and Jude. We don't know who wrote Hebrews. Okay? At least most people don't. I do. I think Paul wrote Hebrews, but you know, that's false doctrine. And James, the problem with James and Jude is that both James and Jude were the names of half-brothers of Jesus And both James and Jude were disciples of Jesus. And then when you get to the book of Jude, Jude says he's the brother of James. So, which James is it? You have three real possibilities. There is a James who is the father of a disciple. I don't think he counts. The first possibility is James, the son of Alpheus. James, the son of Alpheus. Matthew is also the son of Alpheus. And so they could have been brothers, but we don't know much about James, the son of Alpheus And we don't think about him because we have little information on him, and he doesn't do much talking in the Gospels. The second possibility is James, the stepbrother of Jesus. Jesus had at least four stepbrothers. You see that in Mark chapter 6, where the people in Nazareth When Jesus comes back, the people in Nazareth ask this question, and they say, is this not the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, Joseph, Judas? Jude and Simon. And are not his sisters here with us? So there were at least six other children in Jesus' family. All right. And he Jesus had a half-brother named James and a half-brother named Jude. But John chapter 7, verse 5, John 7, 5 says this. For even his brothers did not believe in him. Even his brothers, even his brothers did not believe in him As if you would expect his brothers to be the first to believe in him. But they did not believe in him But right after Jesus ascended into heaven, this is Acts chapter 1, verses 9 to 11, he ascended into heaven. Verse 13 and 14 talk about the fact that they walk back to Jerusalem, and then Luke lists the people. And says there were 11 disciples, women, Mary, the mother of Jesus, and then says in verse 14, and his brothers. So that statement tells us that a change had taken place from John 7. 5 to Acts 1. 14. His brothers had turned to Christ. Soon after that event, James became a leader in the church. Peter says in Acts 12, verse 17, go tell these things to James and to the brethren. By Acts 15, when the first church council assembled, James made the concluding statement in verses 13 to 21, to which the rest of the council agreed. By Acts 21, James seemed to be the leader in the church. He and Peter were the first apostles that Paul visited in Galatians 1. So most Bible students view this man, this James, the half-brother of Jesus, as the author of the book of James. The third possibility is James, the son of Zebedee, one of the sons of thunder. Sons of Thunder to me means these guys were loud and probably bombastic Maybe their last name should have been Bomberger or something like that, you know, bombastic. Sons of Thunder. I don't think we'd say Lisa daughter of thunder. So perhaps this James may be the author. In fact, I think this James may have been the author. Why would we consider him as a possible author? Well, I have two thoughts here. Number one, he was one of the original twelve, and he was one of the trio. Peter, James, and John, who were the closest friends of Jesus. Why would James not be an author along with Peter and John His brother, this is secondly, his brother authored five New Testament books. The Gospel of John, first and second, third John and Revelation. What about his brother James? Well, the the big strike against this James is that he died too early. He was martyred by Herod in Acts 12, 1 and 2. And that date is pretty well fixed because we know when Herod died. And James died before Herod, probably the same year, A. D. 44. So if James wrote this epistle, it would have to be written early. This would make it make James the first epistle in the New Testament So the funny thing to me is that people reject this change because AD 44 is too early. It's too early. And many of them who reject this James think that James was written in A. D. 45. Well, if AD forty-five, why not AD forty-four? What's the difference in one year, especially when we don't know that much about what went on back at that time? Zane Hodges, actually, one of the uh translators of the New King James Version. Zane Hodges actually believes that James was written in 34 or 35 A. D. He believes Jesus died in 33. James was written in 3435, within two years after Jesus died and rose again. And he thinks the author was James, the brother, half-brother of Jesus. That man had only been a believer for less than three years. How in the world would he be able to write the book? So I want to suggest that the author may be James, the son of Zebedee, and I've got three reasons. Okay? Reason number one: twelve tribes. Twelve tribes. The twelve tribes suggests that Jesus that James wrote to an all-Jewish audience. The clear implication is that James wrote before many Gentiles had trusted Christ. Remember that when the church began on the day of Pentecost in Acts 2, 3,000 people received Christ as their Savior and were baptized. They were all Jewish. They came from 16 or 17 different countries, and Luke emphasizes they're all Jewish or proselytes. By Acts 4, the number had grown to 5,000. Acts 5. 14 says, then multitudes were added to the church. They were all Jewish. As the church grew, persecution grew. Jewish leaders persecuted Jewish brothers who trusted in the Jewish Messiah. It led to the public stoning of a church deacon named Stephen in Acts 7. So from chapters 2 through chapter 7 of Acts. Everybody was Jewish. If you had trusted in Christ, if you were in the church of Jesus Christ, you were Jewish. So how did Gentiles get into the church? It started with the scattering that began with the stoning of Stephen in Acts chapter 8. After his death, a radical Jewish leader named Saul, who had been part of Stephen Stoning, sent out to imprison and execute the rest of the believers and stamp out the church. One of the major effects of Saul's persecution was that the gospel went out to Gentiles. When the persecution started in Acts 8, 1-4, some of the people went down to Samaria. Samaria was sort of mixed Jewish. They had intermingled with People years earlier, people that lived in the neighborhood, they were not considered true Blue Jew. So the Samaritans were looked down on by Jewish people. But some of these half-Jews turned to Christ, and the striking thing to the rest of the Jews who are Christians Was they received the Holy Spirit? God gave the Holy Spirit to half Jewish people. So it was a big deal in Acts chapter 8. You see it in Acts chapter 8 and verse 6 and then verse 17. So the clear evidence that they were genuine members of the church was that they were baptized by the Holy Spirit. Then later on in Acts 8, an Ethiopian eunuch comes to Christ. He was probably a proselyte. Who had come to Jerusalem to worship and was on his way back to Ethiopia, and he came to Christ. Then in Acts 10, Cornelius came to Christ. He was a true blue Gentile. And then in Acts 11, verses 19 to 26, a large group of Gentiles turned to Christ in the neighborhood of Antioch. So let me read Acts 11 verses 19 to 21. If you've got your Bible and we'll turn there. Acts 11, 19 to 21 Because this is a major change. Probably for ten years, maybe not ten, maybe eight or nine years, since the beginning of the church. It's been made mainly Jewish. But now Acts eleven nineteen. Now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch. preaching the word to no one but the Jews only. But some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene who when they came to Antioch, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, those are Greek people. Preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. You'll notice verse 19 says, Most of the people only gave their testimonies to Jewish people. But verse 20 says, some of them didn't know any better and preached the gospel to Greeks. And surprise, a great number who believed turned to the Lord. These were non-Jewish people who turned to Christ. The result was that these scattering refugees became the first missionaries. Not intentionally, but in spite of their discouraging circumstances. You can see how simple it was. People would say to these refugees, why are you in our town? And their answer would be, well, we were kicked out of Jerusalem because of our faith in Jesus Christ. And the question next question would be, what do you mean, your faith in Jesus Christ? Why would your Jewish leaders be so against your faith in Jesus Christ? Well, let me tell you my story. That's really what a testimony is. A testimony is not preaching It's simply telling the story of how you came to Jesus Christ. And so The persecution that came from Saul was God's means of getting the gospel to Gentiles. So some people believe that the title, the Twelve Tribes, is simply a metaphor or a metonymy for the church, that James really means the church. And that may be so, but I don't think so. I think James meant the twelve tribes. And that means that he was writing this letter during that. six or eight year window between the scattering in verse in chapter eight and All kinds of Gentiles coming in to the church, beginning in Acts 11, 21 and 22. Because after that time, James couldn't have said to the twelve tribes scattered. Since I believe that James wrote to the twelve tribes, that statement identifies this book as being written very early. It was the first New Testament book. James, the son of Zebedee, was martyred in Acts 12, and by that time, I think. My guess is that he finished writing the Epistle to James the night before he was arrested and executed. So the first piece of evidence that James wrote it is 12 tribes. Second piece of evidence is scattered. Scattered. The word scattered is the same word we have in Acts 8. And I'm going to read Acts 8, beginning in verse 1. If you'll turn there, please. Acts 8. 1. Now Saul was consenting to his death. At that time a great persecution arose against the church, which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria except the apostles. And devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him. As for Saul, he made havoc of the church. Entering every house, dragging off men and women, committing them to prison. Therefore, those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word Havoc is a strong word. Think of what this experience did for new believers in Jesus Christ. They have turned to Christ for forgiveness and peace. They expected a life of fullness and joy, but instead they have found havoc and great persecution. As a result, thousands of them left Jerusalem and went throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria. They weren't intending to leave their home But that's what they became, refugees. Volunteer missionaries to spread the gospel, even though they didn't intend to. We're talking about people here who have lost their homes, who have lost their jobs, perhaps their land. They're now perhaps temporarily settled somewhere, but life for them has been upset. It isn't the way it used to be. And they've lost their farm or vineyard because they turned to Christ. If they had remained normal, unbelieving Jewish people. They would still be living in the comfort of their homes. Can you imagine the kind of questions they would ask? I thought that Christ promised to meet all our needs. Why are we without? Is this what the Christian life is supposed to be? Are we doing something wrong to receive this kind of treatment? Maybe we didn't do it correctly. Maybe we were wrong in leaving our Jewish heritage. Maybe this is punishment from God. And perhaps the most important question they asked would be something like, how should we respond to this chaos? And what does God want us to do? And when will he get us out of this new normal and back to normal normal so we can live life? That's why James commands in chapter 1, verse 2, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. That's why he commands in James 1. 4. Determined to go through this process fully. That you might get all its benefits. That's why he commands in chapter 1, verse 5, if any of you lack wisdom, ask. That's why he commands in 1. 6, ask in faith. That's why he commands in 1 9: rejoice, glory, boast in your change of status because of your trial. All commands. Anybody remember that message? That's where we started Anybody remember when we started? When did we start? I was working on this yesterday and thought, what was the date? Do you know the date when we started was the 12th? Sunday the 12th. And it was November of twenty seventeen. November of twenty seventeen And that was when we covered six commands in chapter 1, verses 2 through 12. Six commands. Count it all joy, determined to go through it, ask God for wisdom. Ask in faith. Don't think you're going to get anything without faith. And glory in your status change. Those are all connected with. Come to be doers of the word. Not just hearers. Can you imagine those six commands coming to people who are refugees? Who've lost all kinds of things? So the word scattered helps us understand when James wrote this epistle and to whom he wrote it. He's writing to people who are in trouble because they're Christians. If they hadn't turned to Christ, they wouldn't have the problem. The problem is coming because God says they're special. If they weren't so special to God, They may not have been in such trouble. So here they are walking on this sort of edge. Things aren't normal. They don't like it. And God wants it that way. You ever thought about life today under COVID? God wants it this way, so that you can share the gospel, so the gospel will spread. I think one of God's purposes for COVID is so that we have opportunities to introduce people to Jesus Christ. So the first reason I think James, the brother of John, the son of Zebedee, was a right was the writer of this epistle, is the twelve tribes. The second reason is the word scattered. He wrote the book to people who had been suffering persecution under Paul. The third reason is the contents of the letter. The contents of the letter deal with deception. Young believers are getting deceived. You say, where do you get that? Chapter 1, verse 16, James says, do not be deceived. My beloved brethren. Chapter 1, verse 22 says, But come to be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. Chapter 1, verse 26 says, if anyone among you thinks he's religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this one's religion is useless. James has deception on his mind. And I think James, in writing this book, was influenced by two men. Jesus and Judas. Jesus and Judas. You can see the influence of Jesus very clearly because he quotes from the Sermon on the Mount. In chapter 5, he says, let your yes be yes, your no be no. That's a quotation from Matthew 5. Chapter 1, verse 12, he said, This one is blessed. 125, this one shall be blessed, and what he does. That all comes from the Beatitudes in Matthew chapter 5. In James 1, 21 and 22, he says, become doers of the word, not just hearers. That's Matthew 7, the wise man and the foolish man. Who was the wise man? He did what he heard So it's clear that James is quoting and referring to sermons that Jesus gave. What is not so clear, but I think what is in this book is that James was greatly influenced by Judas. That's where the this emphasis on deception comes from. Can you imagine what it was like to be at the Last Supper? And to watch the conversation abruptly change when Jesus announced that one person in the room would betray him. With everyone on pins and needles wondering if he was referring to them, a mysterious interaction took place between Jesus and Judas And after that, Judas left. The eleven disciples did not know why he left. Some thought he went to buy something, some thought he wanted to give something. But three hours later, it all became clear when Judas reappeared as a totally different person. He had sold out to the enemy. A group that had one goal in mind, to arrest and murder Jesus Christ. Think of watching Judas being transformed into a demon. He was a respected disciple That's why the eleven elected him as their treasurer. He was trusted. To think that someone they trusted that much Would sell the very Messiah of Israel and betray him with a kiss was mind-boggling. How could he? Some events in our lives brand us in a way that we never get over. Like 9-11. For those of you that aren't too young. Some of you perhaps can remember where you were when you heard that John Kennedy had been shot. Our son died 15 years ago. 15 years ago, died at the age of 22. You would think that by now we'd get over that tragedy But no. Some things you don't get over. And I doubt the disciples ever got over the shock and pain of Judas' betrayal They probably relived their years with him in light of that act and analyzed all his actions and his statements. They probably could see his slide downward from lying to deceiving To becoming a professional hypocrite, to being able to talk convincingly about what he didn't believe, I'm sure the question that Jesus asked in John chapter 12 took on a different light. John 12, 5, this is when Mary is anointing Jesus with very expensive perfume, and Judas. Bursts out with why wasn't this ointment not sold for 300 denarii and given to the poor Truth was, he couldn't care less about the poor. John's commentary on this statement of Judas, which was written 60 years after the event. John said, he said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. And having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put in it. John 12, 6. But my guess is that when Judas asked, why was this anointment not sold and given to the poor? The disciples back then thought he meant it. And they thought, oh my, he's got a real heart for the poor. Can you imagine that ability to deceive Think about what that would do to James. He was right there He watched it take place. I think it made him much more cautious about his own temptation to lie and to deceive, and much more insightful into those tendencies of others. Perhaps one of the things that motivated him to write was the realization that individuals in the church were going in Judas' direction. Oblivious to the danger of their increasing deception and hypocrisy, I think it was the example of Judas that encouraged James to write Be not deceived, my beloved brethren, in 116, and become doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves In 122. Can you imagine listening to the greatest preacher the world has ever known and going to hell like Judas? Can you imagine walking and talking with Christ, God on earth, and turning away from him? Actually being able to heal and cast out demons and raise the dead as Judas did and go to hell. What happened? Deception. Lying a little bit Acting like you really meant what you were doing. And it's all so easy. People who seriously want to live for Christ can read the Bible, study, talk about it, without it taking root in their hearts. Can you relate? Nobody can relate. Nobody wants to relate. And the more this takes place, the more deceitful and hypocritical we become, the more deceived we become. Like Judas. Judas was the professional deceiver. But he was probably the most deceived man on the planet. When he walked out of the Pharisees' office having sold Jesus for 30 pieces of silver, my guess is. He probably thought he had scored big. With absolutely no concept of the fact that he had just signed his death warrant and he was going to be dead in less than two weeks. Completely deceived. So I think that James was writing with this vision of Judas Picturing what Judas had done and how Judas had responded, and how Judas had played up to Christ and talked a big line. I think you can see it in chapter 2, with the way the usher is talking up the rich. And overlooking the poor. You can see it in 216 with the man who very piously says, be warmed and be filled, and does nothing to help them. You can even see it in 219 with the demons who affirm that God is one and have no interest in turning to him or listening to him. I think you can see Judas in chapter 3 with the tongue. Judas had the ability with his tongue to light fires. Burned down forests. He was the one who could speak truth, apparently, while at the same time there is this bitter envy and jealousy in his heart I think you can see Judas in chapter 4 with the fighting and the warfare. I wouldn't be surprised if when the disciples were having their controversies. Judas was at least a big part of it and may have been the start of it. Do you realize that in Luke chapter 22 At the Last Supper, in verse 24, right before Jesus says, or right as Jesus says, one of you will betray me, the disciples were having a controversy. At the Last Supper, you know what the controversy was? Which of them was greatest? Can you imagine that I think that was Judas. Or it could have very easily been Judas. So can you see this letter, James writing this letter with haunting visions of Judas in each section? The ghost of Judas in every section. My guess is that James was still angry with himself For allowing himself to be taken on a three-year ride of deception by such a demonic disciple. At the same time, he was alarmed to see children of God making decisions that mimicked Judas. More than Jesus. So if this picture is in any way accurate, it suggests that James was writing out of distress and pain. And fear even. His letter wasn't simply a collection of proverbs or aphorisms, as some have suggested, sort of like the proverbs of the New Testament. He wasn't storytelling or classroom education. Rather, it was James doing what he says in the last verse of the book, chapter 5, verse 20. He's turning a sinner from the error of his way, saving a soul from death, covering a multitude of sins. That's why we see urgency in this book in the form of 54 commands in 108 verses. 54 commands. James is saying, do it! Don't just become hearers. Do it. Don't just talk about your faith. Do it. Don't just talk to others about how to live for Christ. Change yourself. Get afflicted, mourn, weep over your sins, cleanse your hands, purify your hearts, you double-minded. Humble yourselves for crying out loud. Weep and howl for the miseries that are headed your way. There's an urgency in this book. It comes out of fear. James realizes that these people are going the same way that Judas did into deception. And James's fear was that when that happened, his readers would be Would end up with souls deceived unto death, like Judas. So if this picture of verse 1 is in any way correct, it leaves us with the following conclusions. A. James was written by the disciple James, the brother of John, one of the sons of Thunder, who died in the year A. D. 44. He was one of Christ's three closest friends, Peter, James, and John. And I wouldn't be surprised if he finished writing the epistle the night before he was arrested. B, James, the brother of Jesus, the half-brother of Jesus, the one normally assigned as a writer, was not a disciple. didn't even believe in his stepbrother during his ministry, according to John 7. And even though he knew, and even though he was affected by Judas watching it from outside, I don't think the Judas effect would would affect him in anywhere near the same way. And it's true that he grew quickly after his conversion and quickly became a leader of the church. But if the letter was written before A. D. 44, I don't think that James was ready. C. The letter was written shortly after the dispersion in Acts 8, Acts 11, 19. When the church was composed of entirely Jewish people, it was written before very many Gentiles had turned to Christ. And one of the benefits of this book is, to me, so many things that James deals with prepare the people for this Gentile invasion. You know, when Gentiles entered the church, that was a totally different issue for Jewish people. You know, just try to think of a potluck dinner in the basement of the church. With true blue Jews there and their kosher food and these Gentiles with their hot dogs and their hamburgers And like the Holy Spirit in the dream said to Peter, arise and eat the unclean food. He was saying to these Jewish people, go eat that Gentile unkosher stuff. That must have been That must have been difficult, you know. We Gentiles think this is good stuff, but So I believe the first verse is very important. It answers some of the key questions about the purpose of the book. So what is James's point? Where is he going in this book? Why did he write? It goes back to the Beatitudes. James wants his readers to be blessed. To be blessed. James realizes the fact that just because a person is in the body of Christ does not mean the blessing of God is automatic. The blessing of God is connected with obedience, is connected with walking in the commands of the Lord. And James wants his readers to understand that God's blessing comes in a different way than the deception that everybody lives in. So I have designed the book, each chapter of the book, to be a contrast between deception and blessing. You'll notice the title is Choices from Deception to Blessing. And I think every section in James deals with deception So, like in James chapter 1, verses 2 to 12, count it all joy when you fall into various trials. What's the deception there? The deception is they think trials are bad things. They want to get rid of them, get away from them. James says, no. This is your doorway to blessing. Verse 12 says, Blessed is the man who is enduring trials. And in 13 to 20, they think temptation is something good. That's the deception. James says, no. These are terrorists in disguise, and so on. So I go all the way through James, all 14 sections there. Contrasting deception with blessing. So the bottom line is do not skip any verses in the Bible Especially James 1-1. God wants to use all of his word in our lives. Let's pray. Father, what a privilege to have in our hands the Word of God that is settled forever in heaven. And I thank you for this little epistle of James. What an amazing composition Written by James through the guidance of the Spirit of God with Omniscience connected to it. Wisdom that comes from on high. Thank you for the privilege of having your truth in our hands. I pray that we might not ignore it, skip over it. Or not obey it. May we become doers of your word. Thank you for your blessing on us. Thank you for the protection you've given us during this COVID season. I pray that you would use us as we go from here as testimonies of your grace in Jesus' name. Amen.