I'd like to lead us in a small devotional. If you have your Bible with you, let's turn to Acts chapter 6. Acts chapter six verses one to seven. Thought it was a appropriate passage as we consider Um selecting two new deacons positions. I'll read it. Now in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplying, there arose a complaint against the Hebrews by the Hellenists, because their widows were neglected in the daily distribution. Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, It is not desirable that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Therefore, brethren, seek out from among you seven men. of good reputation full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. But we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And the same pleased the whole multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Hokorus, Niconor, Timon, Harmonus And Nicholas, a proselyte from Antioch, whom they set before the apostles, and when they had prayed, they laid hands on them. Then the word of God spread, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were obedient to the faith. So just want to talk about today why do we need deacons? Why did the early church felt this uh felt the need to appoint deacons? Why did Luke include this account in the book of Acts? Well, I think there are three reasons for deacons. First, to maintain church unity. As you can see there in verse 1, you see that the number of the church was growing. And not only was it growing in numbers, it was growing in diversity as well. This early church had Hebrew-speaking Jews and Greek-speaking Jews. And somewhere in the mix there were some people who were being overlooked, these widows who were not able to maybe speak up and get what they needed. So why were the deacons needed? Well, first to maintain church unity. They saw this need. And think about it. What would have happened if the apostles ignored this need? Maybe the Greek-speaking Jews would have split off and created a different church. But God had a plan to keep this church together. So the deacons are needed to maintain church unity. Secondly, deacons are needed to promote apostolic ministry. And that's what we see in verses 2 to 6, as you can see. They the twelve the twelve apostles decided that we need to appoint these deacons so that they can concentrate on Um the prayer and the ministry of the word. It's not that the apostles did not see value in taking care of the widows. It's that they haven't called for a special purpose, which was to spend and devote uh time and prayer and teaching God's word. So but if without the deacons, then uh the apostles would have been overburdened. So they get together. It's interesting that they call the whole multitude. This would have been a huge congregational meeting. And then they are able to elect these um these names. We see that these are um very likely, uh these are um Greek-speaking Jews. So The apostles, with God-given wisdom, picked Greek-speaking Jews to take care of Greek-speaking widows who are in need. Thirdly, deacons are needed to spur gospel growth. Luke tells us the result of this decision. In verse 7. The word of God spread, and the number of disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and great many of the priests were obedient to the faith. Like to tell the deacons and those who serve behind the scenes, it may not be so evident that your efforts and your service really helps the growth of the church, but it does. Luke wants to point that out. All that you do behind the scenes, all that you do for the building, all that you do in day-to-day things. It supports the growth of the church. And Luke wanted to make clear that's the case here. So why do we need deacons? We need them to maintain church unity. We need them to promote apostolic ministry of prayer and ministry of the word. And we need them to spur gospel growth. So let's appreciate the deacons we have, deacons we that served us so faithfully, and the deacons we will have in the future. At this time, probably by Stephen Bailey up