In 2011, a man from California named Larry was facing various hardships. His daughter was seriously ill, and his scoliosis was beginning to twist his spine. His construction business was failing. His van and car broke down. Completely. He was a recovering drug addict, but still faced plenty of trouble ahead. But then during these rough times, Larry remembered a man he saw on TV. A televangelist by the name of Todd Koontz. These are his words. I understand the laws that govern ensure Stocks and bonds, and all that is involved with Wall Street, he once said, looking directly into the camera. God has called me as a financial deliverer. He wore a suit, carried a Bible, and urged viewers to give money to him as seeds. If they plant these seeds in faith, the amount will return to them, multiplied. Donors can choose from various types of seeds, including the $500 Favor Seed, the $88 Double Blessing Seed, and the $360 Turnaround Seed. Fast forward about ten years, and the wisdom of Jesus still rings true. You will know them by their fruits. Now Larry lives in a small Alabama town. On the wall of their living room hangs a small-framed Bible verse. Be anxious for nothing. Philippians 4:6. Thankfully, Larry's faith is still intact. He says, Life is not easy, but we're blessed. We have food in the refrigerator, we have two cats that love us. My wife got part-time work in a store and I get disability benefits In Tatkunst, he was convicted of tax fraud and evasion and sentenced to five years in prison. His attorneys took the case all the way up to Supreme Court, but his appeal was denied. Serving his time in Pensacola federal prison camp and scheduled for release. on june third, twenty twenty five. It's sad to see men masquerading as Christian ministers. Stealing money by means of false doctrines. But this has been a problem since Old Testament times. Moses warned against counterfeit prophets in Deuteronomy 13. In New Testament times, Paul struggled against false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. It's still a problem today. And often what drives these despicable televangelists and prosperity gospel preachers Is the love of money. Today's passage has something to say about those religious leaders who hide their idolatry of money. And endanger themselves and their followers. Let's turn to Luke sixteen, fourteen to seventeen. Now the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, also heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves before men But God knows your hearts, for what is highly esteemed among men is an abomination in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were until John. Since that time the kingdom of God has been preached, and everyone is pressing into it. And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one tittle of the law to fail. The challenge of today's passage is not understanding the various separate statements. The real challenge is understanding how they fit together. These things appear disjointed and without flow. What's the unifying theme here? At least verse 14 is connected with the previous passage about idolatry of Mammon and the story of the rich man and Lazarus coming up in verse 19. But in verse fifteen, how do the Pharisees exactly justify themselves before men? And what does that have to do with the loving you know loving money? Verse 16, what do the law of the prophets, John the Baptist, and God's kingdom have to do with all this? Finally, in verse 17, how does the eternality of the law Relate to this discussion. My proposal is that these religious leaders Driven by their avarice, have made other grave errors. One sin leads to another Verse fourteen tells us the fatal diagnosis that lead to all other sin diseases addressed in verses fifteen. 16 and 17. The love of money is the gateway drug that leads us down to worse problems. Greed is the sick root that produces rotten fruit. Paul, an apostle of Christ, a Pharisee himself, puts it in a nutshell. The love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. 1 Timothy 6. 10 So that we can see this passage as a warning against specific dangers of greed. I observed three dangers in particular. Self righteousness that God condemns, verses fourteen to fifteen, two exclusion from God's kingdom, verse sixteen sixteen and three, neglect the God's word that lasts. Verse seventeen First, loving money exposes us to self-righteousness that God condemns. Harry read earlier from Jeremiah 17:5-10: the dramatic contrast between the cursed man who trusts in man and the blessed man who trusts in the Lord. The self-reliant man makes flesh his strength, and his heart departs from the Lord, while the God-reliant man sets the Lord as his hope. A man who trusts in himself deceives himself as he becomes compar comfortably rich, comparatively wealthy. He feels good about himself. God knew that we can't handle prosperity. Moses warned the Israelites about to enter the promised land. This is Deuteronomy 6. So it shall be when the Lord your God brings you into the land of which he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. To give you large and beautiful cities, which you did not build, houses full of all good things, which you did not fill, hewn out wells, which you did not dig, vineyards and olive trees, which you did not plant. When you have eaten and are full, then beware, lest you forget the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. Deuteronomy six, ten-twelve. The same thought is repeated later in chapter eight, eleven to fourteen. When the stomach is filled, and our bank account abounds, the heart is lifted up, and then our mind becomes vacant. Instead of remembering, all that I have needed, his hand had provided, were forgetful. We boast like Nebuchadnezzar Daniel 4. 30. Is not this great Babylon that I have built for a royal dwelling by my mighty power and for the honor of my majesty? Like such great kings, we forget the greatness of God. We become like Herod and believe the flattering lies that come our way. The voice of a God and not of a man. It's a wonder why God doesn't send angels to strike all of us down in our proud moments. Beware of self-righteousness that God condemns. As I said last week, money can change the way You think about you. We may think God blessed me materially, so there's no way He's displeased with me But in this fallen world, good people suffer and bad people prosper Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard once told a parable about thieves who broke into a jewelry store at night. Instead of stealing anything, they merely switched the price tags, putting high-value tickets on custom jewelry and bargain tags on premium gems. That's the world we wake up to every day. That's why God's saints like Job ask: why do the wicked live and become old? Yes, become mighty in power. Like Ashap, we confess, I was envious of the boastful when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Like Habakkuk, we grow impatient with God. Why do you look on those who deal treacherously and hold your tongue when the wicked devours a person more righteous than he? It's important for us to realize that until the day of the Lord, until He sets all things right, the wicked will prosper, and the righteous will suffer. Meditate on this truth, and beware of self-righteousness that condemns. Ask the Lord for humility. If the Lord has blessed you materially, do not deride his holy word and his warnings against idolatry. Count your blessings, but count yourselves unworthy of them. Confess each day. I'm the worst sinner I know. Not think you're better than others. Even if people look up to you, look at yourself as the chief of sinners, as Paul did. Ultimately, the Lord lifts up the humble, and he casts the wicked down to the ground. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will lift you up. Beware of self-righteousness that God condemns. Be humble inside and out. Beware of ostentatious displays of piety. As Jesus warns, religious hypocrites sound the trumpet when they give love to praise standing in the synagogues and on the corners of the streets, and disfigure their faces that they may appear to men to be fasting. The Pharisees were clean vessels outwardly, but inside, full of extortion and self-indulgence. There were whitewashed tombs which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness, hypocrisy and lawlessness. God knows our hearts. He's a surgeon, and his word is a scalpel, a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the mind. Heart. And there is no creature hidden from his sight. But all things are naked and open to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. If you're like me, you understand how depraved your heart is, in its thoughts, intentions, and motives. Even if you're highly esteemed among men, you are an abomination in the sight of God If you believe that your goodness is nothing apart from God, and that we are all like an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are like filthy rags. Come to the Father through Jesus. Jesus, the Son of God, loved the Father, unlike the Pharisees, who loved money. That's why he came to this world to die for sinners, though he's perfect and holy. He humbled himself and became an abomination among men, so that he might be highly esteemed. Father declared through Isaiah in chapter fifty two, thirteen to four. fourteen. Behold, my servant shall deal prudently. He shall be exalted and extalled and be very high. Just as many were astonished at you, so his visage was marred more than any man. And his form more than the sons of men. Jesus went to the cross and shed his blood to sprinkle our hearts from an evil conscience and ratify the new covenant. He died in our place as our substitute, taking on the full wrath of hell we deserve. He then rose from the dead and ascended to heaven, and someday he'll return to judge. Now is the time to repent. Turn away from self-indulgence and self-righteousness. Now we must believe, trust in Lord Jesus Christ alone, and His righteousness. He offers eternal life as a gift, not a works to be earned. Come this hour, this day. You have faith in your heart. God, who knows the heart of all, will acknowledge you and grant you the Holy Spirit. What the Pharisees failed to do, I hope you do today. Though they had the full knowledge of scriptures, they evidently could not discern the signs of times. You could say that they missed the train to God's kingdom because they were preoccupied and headed elsewhere to their own treasure island. They did not seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness, because they were seeking the kingdom of man and self-righteousness. That leads us to the second danger of money, exclusion from God's kingdom. Again, verse sixteen seems to be out of place at first And even on its own, this verse would be one of the more difficult sayings of Jesus that's been studied. But if we do a little digging, we might figure out the sin issue that he's addressing. Thankfully, we can use scriptures to interpret scriptures. We get the full picture when we can piece together three verses: Luke 16:16 in today's passage. Matthew 23, verse 13, and Matthew 11, verse 12. First, let's reread Luke 16. Since John the Baptist came, the kingdom of God has been preached and everyone is pressing into it. So there are crowds of people eager to hear Jesus, his forerunner, and the good news They wanted to enter the kingdom. Simple enough. But now where do the religious leaders stand? And if you turn with me to Matthew 23, verse 13, or you can read it yourself later, it says the following They shut up the kingdom of heaven against men. They neither go in themselves, nor do they allow those who are entering to go in. Basically, they were standing in the way of the people, trying to ransack the kingdom, become gods themselves, reject God's servants like John, and kill the Messiah. These Pharisees are divine dressers who said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance. That's in Matthew 21. So putting Luke 16, 16 and Matthew 23, 13 together, we got on one side people rushing to the kingdom gates. And we got on the other side the religious leaders blocking their paths or leading them astray. They want to direct traffic and seize power. Finally, Matthew 11:12 provides a good summary. And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violence takes it by force. The phrase kingdom of heaven suffers violence is parallel to everyone is pressing into it, back in Luke 16, 16, which is basically saying there's a lot of zeal for heaven. But the violent who take it by force are specifically those religious leaders who try to usurp God's throne and take the place of Christ. They dubbed John the Baptist as John the demon-possessed, and Jesus the Messiah as a glutton and a wine bibber, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Their unbelief led to their exclusion from God's kingdom. Because they rejected John and Jesus. Pharisees were in grave spiritual danger. These so-called religious leaders are excluded from God's kingdom because they rejected God's will. We're told back in Luke 7:30, the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the will of God for themselves, not having been baptized by John the Baptist. They wanted their own will and their own way. Money is the currency to finance their own kingdom. Their love for money goes hand in hand with their love for themselves. Such idolatry is what led to their exclusion from God's kingdom. The sound of coins clinking made them deaf to the law and the prophets and John's preaching. They saw the throngs of people going to Jesus and thought they would lose their business. See how dangerous the love of money can be, it can lead the greedy to be excluded from God's kingdom. Beware if you love money. You may reach a point in your life where missing God's kingdom won't even faze you. That's a fearful point. Surrender now your reign. As we saw earlier in this chapter in Luke. We also use unrighteous mammon to make friends and be faithful stewards. After all, what is money? What is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. Be sure you're not excluded from the kingdom of the Most High. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him. If we let the love of money grip our hearts, we obsess over trinkets that do not last. We lose sight of weighty matters, such as heavenly rewards and divine revelation. We forget that the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. That leads us to the third danger of loving money, neglect of God's word that lasts. Like the previous verse, verse 16, verse 17 must be closely related to the context of verse 14 and the rest of the chapter. The Pharisees and their love of money have led them astray to dead ends and pits. One of those dangers is implied in verse 17. And what seems to underlie verse 17 is a mistaken notion about God's word. It's a mistaken notion that leaders of religion ironically accept it, undermining the very religion they've led. They neglected God's word at last. They needed to hear that every little penny will fail. They needed a reminder that silver and gold do not last. When the day of the Lord comes as a thief in the night, heavens will pass away with an great. Great noise, and the elements will melt with fervent heat. Both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one tittle of the law to fail. Now what is the title? In the Hebrew alphabet, the difference between Dalit, the D letter, and Reish, the R letter, is one small protrusion. A fiddle. The difference between the letters WOW and Nun is also one small stroke. Yet these smallest marks have eternal consequences. What Jesus says here is the foundation for our belief in the inspiration and the inerrancy of Scriptures. The first sentence in our Faith Bible Church statement of faith is as follows: We believe the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, 66 books in all, to be verbally inspired Word of God. inerrant in the original writings, and that they are of supreme and final authority in faith and life. Verbally inspired, as in the words are communicated from God. Inerrant in the original writings, as in without error or mistake in the original Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek. God's word is supreme and final authority in faith and life, because all scripture is given by inspiration of God And is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work. Do not neglect God's word that lasts. Even what we call the Old Testament and within it the law of Moses have relevance for Gentile believers today. Even if we're under grace and not under law, there's a doctrine to be learned. Such as God's holiness and purity. And when the New Testament clearly repeats, expands, or clarifies the command from the Old Testament, we must pay careful attention. Do not neglect God's word that last Jesus taught earlier something similar to Luke sixteen, verse seventeen, during the Sermon on the Mount, in Matthew five, seventeen to twenty. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. For as surely I say to you till heaven and earth pass away. One jot or one title will by no means pass from the law till all is fulfilled. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you, that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. In the rest of Matthew 5, Jesus explains what it means to exceed the righteousness of spribes and the Pharisees. That seems to be a lofty standard to exceed, but simply put, it's about going beyond mere outward appearances. It's not merely pledging empty words of loyalty to God's law. It's about actually following God's will from inside out. It's about going beyond the act to the heart. It's about living for Christ who died for you. It's about fulfilling the law in love and the Spirit-led life. This week I hope your delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law you meditate day and night. Do you really believe that it's easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one tittle of the law to fail? Or do we value more the form of this world that is passing away? Will your quest for wealth, all the hustling and bustling of the busy life? keep you from opening up God's word daily. Are you more concerned about budget numbers than the book of numbers? You care more about reading Bank's statements than Paul's statements. Do not neglect God's word alas. It is through God's eternal word that we are born again, not of a corruptible seed, but incorruptible. The same cannot be said of money and our works. All the works that are done under the sun, all is vanity and grasping for the wind. You'll always feel incomplete, lacking, empty. You cannot buy everlasting peace and joy with wealth. Turn to our gracious God and the promises in the gospel for lasting meaning in your life. I hope you believe the words we're about to sing. Complete indeed, no work of mine, may take, dear Lord, the place of thine. Thy blood had parted boss for me, and I am now complete in thee. Let's pray. Lord, we truly love you above all these things. It's as if we need that kind of confrontation your son gave Peter. Do you really love me more than these? But we look at all the blessings you poured out into our lives: material, blessings, the clothes, the saving accounts, the homes that we own. The cars, all these things. But we want to confess that all these things do not complete us. It leaves us wanting more. The best things in life cannot compare. With being in your presence. To worship you, to be in heaven, to forsake our own kingdom, to be in your kingdom. To forsake our righteousness for the righteousness that comes from your Son. Lord, we delight in your word. Which lasts forever, that gives us life to be regenerate. We thank you and repeat all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.