A pastor named Martin Thielen once told this story in the Leadership Journal. Once upon a time a stone cutter lived all alone. Though he had acquired great skills, he was very poor. He lived in a tiny bamboo hut and wore tattered clothing. One day, as the stonecutter worked with his hammer and chisel upon a huge stone, he heard a crowd gathering along the streets. By their shouts he could tell that the king was coming to visit his humble village. Joining in the procession, the stone cutter gazed in awe as the king, dressed in marvelous silk, was greeted by his subjects. Oh, how I wish I had the power and glory of the king, he thought. He has soldiers at his command. There's no one more powerful. His cry was heard in the heavens, and immediately the humble stone cutter was transformed into a powerful king. He found himself riding on a great horse, waving at the crowds of people who had flocked to see him. This is power, he thought As the summer progressed, however, the new king watched the effects of the heat upon his people. Men and animals became wary, and plants withered under the powerful rays of the sun. And he looked at the sky. The new king realized that the sun was more powerful than any earthly ruler. How I wish I were as powerful as that, he thought. I wish I were the sun. Immediately his wish was granted. The stone cutter relished his new role as the sun. He gloried in the power he felt as he surveyed the kingdoms below. As he sent his bright rays to earth, he watched kings and princes hide under the parasols. He watched as powerful warriors became weak under his gaze. Even the crops in the field were under his command. Then one day a tiny cloud moved over the land, shielding the earth from the sun's bright rays. Seeing that here was something more powerful, he thought, I want very much to be a cloud. Again his wish was granted. Now he blocked the sun's rays and felt important. He gathered all his strength, becoming a gigantic cloud, and began to pour down rain on the earth. Rivers formed where previously there were none, and water flooded the streets of the cities and the farmland. Everything trees, animals, people seemed to be awed by his power. Only the massive rocks were unswayed. Again he had discovered something more powerful. There is nothing, he thought, as powerful as a rock. How I wish I were a huge stone His wish was granted. As a stone, he remained motionless and powerful, unmoved by sun or wind or rain. He felt exempt from all the forces that shaped the existence of those around him. Then one day a man approached carrying a bag. When he stopped, he pulled out a chisel and a hammer and began to chip away at the rock. Realizing that the man with the tools was more powerful than any rock, he cried out, Oh, I want to be a stone cutter Once again the heavens heard his cry, and he became a stone cutter. Once again he lived in a bamboo hut and made his living with hammer and chisel, and he was Content. Now this story is fiction, but there's something very real about the desires of this stone cutter. When we let envy overtake us, we tend to go in circles in life. This anecdote is supposed to help us temper our desires. On one hand, we should not be consumed by our passion for things of the world. Our Lord Jesus said in Mark 8:36. six. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? First John 2, 15-16 Do not love the the the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes. And the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. But the same Bible also tells us to go eat your bread with joy and drink your wine with a merry heart. Ecclesiastes 9, 7. The same Bible commands us in Philippians 4, 6 and 7 to ask God for things while being anxious for nothing. The same Bible warns against doctrines of demons. What are these doctrines of demons? They forbid marriage and food. Created by God to be received with thanksgiving and sanctified with God's word and prayer. That's 1 Timothy 4, 1 to 5. Now if you end up somewhere where they forbid what God does not forbid, the good things of life, and our desire for them, you should get out of it That's demonic legalism. A cinematic artist once said tyranny is the deliberate removal of nuance. We can agree that as as God's word confirms that desire in itself is not bad. The word covet in today's passage, Exodus 20, verse 17 is Khamad in the original language. When understood in isolation, it is a neutral word. In different contexts it could mean bad desires or good des good desires. It all depends on the passage. For example, Psalm nineteen ten. We see the word used to describe the true and righteous judgments of the Lord. That's a good thing. We should desire that. It is used in Psalm 68, 15 to 16. God desires or commands his dwelling up mountain. Then there are various passages that discuss desires out of line with God's will. So in verses like today's passage, the context allows for the translation of the verb into cabbot. So it turns out that we need a more nuanced approach to desires. So studying the Ten Commandments will help us find the biblical approach to having these desires. So let's read. Exodus twenty verse seventeen together. You'll find that passage written out for you in the handout. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant Nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor's. I believe there are three principles we can take from the tenth and final command in this sermon series First, the tenth commandment guards our hearts against sinful desires. Second, we have all revealed our covetousness through hurting, hoarding, worrying. and complaining. Third, in Christ we find contentment and hunger for God's glory. First, the Ten Commandment guards our hearts against sinful desires. Before I explain this point, let's highlight the salient feature of this prohibition. Bob Deppenbaugh, a pastor who writes for Bible. org, notes the following: quote, coveting is somewhat unique among the evils condemned by the commandments. The evils prohibited by the other commandments were such that one could be tried and found guilty of committing a certain act. This act was based upon attitudes, of course, but a society cannot convict people for what they are thinking and feeling. The final commandment is a forbidden feeling, as it were, not a forbidden act. Nonetheless, here we have it, a command that probes deep into the thinking and feelings of individuals. Kevin DeYoung suggests that one way to understand the Tenth Commandment is to see it as the internalization of the Eighth Commandment. The internalization of the eighth commandment, which is the eighth commandment being the law against stealing. Here's what he means: lust is the heart of adultery. Jesus said that. Hatred is the heart of murder. Again we agree. Covetousness is the heart of theft So God reveals through his laws that it's not just about the outward act. He wants all from us, not just outward actions, but also our hearts. Implications are huge. Implications of the Ten Commandments. Justice and order cannot be maintained without this command. Local and national rulers must guard themselves against covetousness. You see that in Exodus 18 and Proverbs 28. Citizens must guard themselves from it to protect their culture, Deuteronomy 7, and their relationship with God. Psalm 119 and Proverbs 12. Apostle Paul took pains to work with his hands and speak the gospel with the heart free from covetousness. See that in Acts 20. Of course, sadly, not every preacher of the gospel in Paul's time and today protected their hearts from envy. Philippians one. Paul sets an example for all believers who must walk in the light and not according to carnal desires. Romans thirteen and First Corinthians three. We cannot tolerate open covetousness within our church walls. First Corinthians five and Ephesians five. But we must pursue love that does not envy. Now bitter envy comes from earthly, sensual, demonic wisdom, as James tells us, not from God's word, which we should be grieved. Craving. Peter warned believers to guard themselves against false prophets and teachers who contradict the truth because of their covetous practices. 2 Peter 2. You and I need to guard ourselves against desires that go out of biblical bounds. I read this week a piece from a pastor entitled Pastoral Covetousness. It's a quick personal meditation on the Ten Commandment. The writer suggested two ways to fight against pastoral covetousness. One, cultivate contentment, that is finding satisfaction in work. Praying for joy, securing my identity in Christ. And I'll talk about contentment more in detail later. But the second one is love fellow pastors and churches. That's one of the most important lessons I learned from my previous church, as the pastors there bless and help congregations in the area and especially their local. leaders. They model for me the practice of interceding for local churches and leaders. Now I aim to model for that for you every week during corporate practice. But even as I was paying for their benefit and your benefit, I'm really benefiting myself As I prayed for these churches and leaders, God in his wisdom was protecting my heart from pastoral covetousness. I think this is the power of prayer. If you ever share the same temptation to covet others, remember this tenth commandment and understand what it guards the heart. Meditate and act on the lyrics of the first hymn we sang today. Count your blessings. Do not look with envy toward your neighbors with green eyes, but close your eyes in prayer for them. Of course, easier said than done. One researcher reveals the challenges the current digital age poses for our mental health and in this area of covetousness. To be clear, social media itself is neither good nor bad. It can be used for good purposes of communication It allows us to stay connected with our family and friends overseas and even begin new relationships from afar. It increases proximity and redefines the concept of neighbor. As people all over the world appear to be within our reach. But that also means we can look at beautiful edited pictures of neighbors all over the world traveling easily. Eating, enjoying life, and right through our smartphones we break the Ten Commandment through covetousness. Better open the Bible app, you know, get off the social media Right. That leads to the second point. We we have all revealed our covetousness by hurting, hoarding, worrying, and complaining. I'm sure we can think of other ways, but those are the four I want to focus on. But before I do, just want to point out that the Bible is filled with examples of covetousness Back in Genesis, Isaac was envied by foreigners as the Lord prospered them materially in chapter 26. Rachel became jealous of her sister Leah, who bore children while she remained barren for some time. Chapter 30. Jacob's sons were envious of Joseph, their gifted brother and favored son of their father. So they ambushed him and sold him into slavery. Chapter 37 Later in the book of Joshua, a man named Achan coveted and stole from the spoils of war, leading the Israelites into trouble. After the Israelites settled into the land and became a nation, they continued to break the Ten Commandments No one is immune from the temptation to covet, not even a godly man like Asaph, who envied the proud and wicked people as they prosper. Psalm seventy three. Even an honest and hardworking man may envy his neighbor. Ecclesiastes four Prophet Jeremiah observed, Because from the least of them, even to the greatest, everyone is given to covetousness. Jeremiah six and eight. God pronounces a curse upon every man. Woe to everyone who covets evil gain for his house. Habakkuk too. In the New Testament Jesus made clear the source of Kabari, the heart. Mark seven. Paul explains that our covetousness comes from a heart that does not acknowledge and glorify God as the Creator, Romans one. Later in Romans, the Ten Commandment is told that it helps us identify covetousness in us, simple violations causing all manner of evil desire. 7. But covetousness is not only a sin of commission, an active sin, it directly leads into a sin of omission. passive sin. When we covet, we fail to love our neighbor as ourselves and we cause them harm. As we see in Romans thirteen, eight to ten, which I read earlier. Now you may think that coveting is a light sin that entails a light judgment, but that's not how God sees it. Coveting is a serious sin which not only casts off the Ten Commandments. Ten commandments, but loops us back to the beginning of the list. That's because coveting others is idolatry against God. As it is a sinful desire that places created things before the Creator. Matthew six and Colossians Those who covet are rightfully condemned alongside the sexually immoral, idolaters, thieves, and the drunkards. That means that we who covet would be denied access to the kingdom of God. It left to our own devices. First Corinthians six and Galatians five. Praise the Lord that the gospel invites us to enter the kingdom as his children. And now we must leave behind envy and covetousness in our former life. Titus 3. The first step to the solution is admitting we have a problem. See if you're engaged in one of one or more of these four symptomatic activities: hurting, hoarding, worrying, and complaining. First, we hurt ourselves and others through coveting. It's easy to see how coveting leads to harming others, but covetousness is also self-destructive, as envy is rottenness to the bones It ruins our relationship with God since our prayer life is tainted with selfish pleasures through coveting. James 4 See what terrible harm we cause. The most deplorable case of covety was when the Jewish leaders unjustly persecuted Jesus and handed him over to be killed Later, Paul would similarly suffer from envious Jews during his ministry in Acts. Chuck Swindle said this about coveting. Quote, We too often love things and use people when we should be using things and loving people. We too often love things and use people when we should be using things and loving people. And that leads to the next symptom: hoarding. Unlike the righteous who gives and does not spare, there is a lazy man who covets all day long. Proverbs 21 Even the industrious man falls into unsatisfactory and vain pursuits, just hoarding away. Ecclesiastes four and five Our Lord Jesus warned against laying up perishable treasures on earth, Matthew 6. He warned that hoarders are not rich toward God as they forget their ephemeral lives are his for the taking. Luke 12 Later Paul told Timothy to command the rich in money to become rich in good works and give to others, storing up rewards for eternity. A third symptom of covetousness is warring. Saints are not immune, as they may envy the prosperity of evildoers and oppressors. See that In Psalms and Proverbs. You may become anxious concerning food, drink, and clothes. Perhaps you're worried about what to wear this morning and what you will eat for lunch. See that in Matthew 6 and Luke 12. The cares of this world hinders us and causes unfruitful living. Matthew 13 and Mark. four. The fourth and final symptom of covetousness is complaining. Out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks Luke six. If we're honest with ourselves, we have expressed envy for others with our bitter words. Perhaps you caught yourself saying things like I wish I could live in that neighborhood. Why can't my husband be like him? Why are my parents so lame? Why can't I have a normal family? Now, while God has certainly provided the ears of our family and friends to put up with our venting, it is far better to go to the Lord in prayer. We already saw various psalms that record honest confessions of envy. And why not go to someone who can do something about it? And hear you, truly understand you. And as we go to find God in prayers and confessions, it is from Him that we find true quenching of desires. And that leads to the third point. In Christ, we find contentment and hunger for God's glory. If you want an entire sermon devoted to the topic of contentment, There is a sermon available online on our website from September 8th. That Sunday, Matthew Conrad delivered a message entitled, Why Can I Be Content? There will be overlaps in what I'm saying on this point and the passages I cite. For those of you who never heard the gospel or simply need a reminder, let me tell you this. What is wonderful about the gospel we believe in? Is that we have both arrival and beginning. As believers, we have both a secure home and an exciting adventure. That's what I mean by both contentment and hunger. They do not contradict. So let me talk about it one at a time. First, contentment. I want you to know that all your longing and searching for fulfillment in everlasting love and eternal security are found in Jesus. Not in singleness, not in reputation, not in friendships, not in marriage, not in children, not in education, not in retirement fund, not in vacations. And here's how. Let's just start with the Old Testament. As much as David complained to God, he knew that the answer to his unrest and salvation comes from the Lord. He penned these words. Truly my soul silently waits for God. From him comes my salvation. Psalm 62, verse 1. And he went to the right place. He went to God. But we should back up a bit. Why is there a need for salvation in the first place? Well, if you paid attention to the current sermon series, I hope you are convinced by now that you are truly a lawbreaker. You have disobeyed God and turned away from him. Today we have focused on covetousness, which is idolatry. And here's what we have done: we have left behind God, who is the source of all joy. And we have settled for lesser things, coveting what C. S. Lewis called mud pies in the slums instead of a holiday at the sea. What God told his people, Israelites, rightly applies to all of us who are discontented with God. Jeremiah 2, 13 My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewn themselves cisterns, broken cisterns That can hold no water. Jesus is the way to return to God, the font of every blessing. He is the Son of God who brings us back to God the Father. That's why he said to a Samaritan woman at the well, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life. John four thirteen to fourteen. Jesus has given himself as the bread of life and the good shepherd. John sixteen He gives rest to weary souls that come to him because he is God. Matthew eleven. We are content in him. But we can only find true contentment because Jesus died on the cross for our sins. He lived a perfect life, being content in the Father's will. He died on the cross as a substitute for sinners, for all our sins, including covetousness expressed in hurting, hoarding, worrying, and complaining. He rose again from the dead and ascended to heaven, and he now invites us to come to Him and find rest from unlawful desires of our hearts. Now, as followers of Christ, our present circumstances are secondary. Whether we are abased or abound, full or hungry in our stomachs. Needy or not, we can do all things through Christ who strengthens us. Philippians 4. We have assurance that through Jesus the Emmanuel, which means God with us, we will not be left or forsaken. Therefore our conduct can be without covetousness, and we think we can be content with what we have. Hebrews thirteen five But just because we shed off covetousness, that doesn't mean we have become robots, devoid of desires. Jesus didn't say to not seek, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Matthew 6. I want to reiterate what I said at the beginning. There are healthy and biblical desires. Consider the desires expressed in Psalm 42, 1 and 2. As the deer pants for the water brooks, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? It is biblical to have God forever as the object of our desires and affections, to enjoy His presence. Many centuries ago, Augustine rightly said, the whole life of a good Christian is a holy desire to see God as he is. More recently, John Piper has popularized the concept of Christian hedonism through that famous axiom: God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him. And we continually seek that satisfaction through teachings of God's Word in our relationship with Christ. Paul endured much anguish and suffering, so that the churches everywhere, even the ones that he hasn't visited yet, may obtain to all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the mystery of the mist uh to the knowledge of the mystery of God. Both of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Colossians 2, 1 to 3 We will never reach the bottom of that endless well of wisdom and knowledge, Jesus Christ Himself, whom we love, whom we worship. I don't know how you can think, possibly think that heaven is boring. Well, we know Jesus is there. And we'll see him face to face The adventure starts now. Again, Paul is exemplary. While on earth, what used to be gained to us, we now count as loss for Christ. All this loss for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus. Again, in him we have the most important matter settled, our righteousness from God by faith alone, no more striving for eternal life. But Paul does not stop there because the gospel is not just about arrival, but it's also a beginning. Not only contentment, but also hunger for heaven. Our purpose for life is, I hope you can say with Paul, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death. If by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. I hope that your hunger will continue as Paul's did. I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. No, our hearts are laid there before your word. You expose in us. But all our desires, the ones that you have ordained to be good, the ones that are outside of your will. And there's no hiding from you that we have sinned before you. We have desired things that we should not desire. Other people, other things. And Lord, we confess them before you. And we're thankful that you did not just make us stoics. You did not strip us of our desires, but reoriented them towards something that truly matters. It's nothing you under the sun. But your son came down from heaven. And Lord, he has revealed his glory to us. And it is for him that we live. But as much as important as our careers are, our jobs are, or our education is, but all these things are rubbish compared to the knowledge of your son. Through him we have eternal life. Through him, we have life now. Not just a ticket to heaven, but a meaningful life in the present. For everything is oriented around your glory, your kingdom. Lord, may we do an inventory of these desires in our hearts. May we confess them before you. May we search this week. Whether we are coveting the things of the world, or do we find contentment in you and hunger for your glory, pray that you will search in us, search in us through your spirit and your word. Pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen