Author J. I. Packer had to say about it, quote, What other gods could we have besides the Lord? Plenty. For Israel, there were the Canaanite Baals, those jolly nature gods whose worship was a rampage of gluttony, drunkenness, and ritual prostitution. For us, there are still the great gods, sex, shekels, and stomach, an unholy trinity constituting one God, self. And the other enslaving trio, pleasure, possessions, and position, whose worship is described as the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life, John, 1 John 2. 16. First of all, the firm and family are also gods for some. Indeed, the list of other gods is endless. For anything that anyone allows to run his life becomes his God, and the claimants for this pro prerogative are legion. In the matter of life's basic loyalty, temptation is a many-headed monster. Rewind back to first century, Paul has something to say as well in First Corinthians. For three chapters, he's been taking his time to address this controversial matter of idolatry. The topic was interesting. Introduced at the beginning of chapter 8 concerning things offered to idols, or to be more specific, the eating of things offered to idols Why is the apostle spending so much time on this? It turns out this is a problem that looks like my son's favorite sea creature, the octopus. No, I mean that this issue has tentacles, right? It touches upon and challenges many facets of the Christian life. Most obviously, idolatry challenges our relationship with God and our knowledge of one God in three persons, from whom, through whom, and for whom are all things. It also tests our relationships with one another. It is hard to love those with weaker consciences, those who still believe in the existence of lesser gods. Idolatry is also relevant in our relationships with the lost. Even if we're willing to become all things to all men, that we might by all means save some. We must not be led astray by their belief in false gods. And that gets us into today's passage. Along with our opportunities for evangelism and discipleship, are the dangers of syncretism. Blending our worship of one God with idolatry. Related to this recently, one of my favorite authors, Kevin DeYoung, gave a good biblical advice about reaching the next generation in five steps. I actually went through this this morning. How do we impress young people or younger people? The first two are not surprising. Grab them with passion, win them with love. But the remaining three may be unexpected. Hold them with holiness, challenge them with truth, and amaze them with God. Paul would likely agree with that. Today we see Paul's own attempt to hold the saints with holiness, challenge them with truth, and amaze them with God. And he does that while still urging them to live passionately and winsomely for Christ. So let's turn now to 1 Corinthians 10, 1 to 13. 1 Corinthians 10. one to thirteen. Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the cloud, all passed through the sky. All were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. All ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ But with most of them God was not well pleased, for their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. Now these things became our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted and do not become idolaters, as for some of them, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. Nor let us commit sexual immorality, as some of them did, and in one day twenty-three thousand fell. Nor let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed by serpents, nor complain, as some of them also complained and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now all these things happen to them as examples, and they were written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the ages have come. Therefore, let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. No temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will also make the way of escape, that you may be able to bear it. Let me first point out some of the structural joints, the grammatically speaking adverbs, moreover, in verse 1, now in verse 6, and therefore in verse 12. That helps us with outlining. But if that sounds a bit mechanical, let me see if I can be a bit more appetizing here. Picture this passage like a juicy burger. Right? I had one last weekend. At its middle, verses six to eleven make up the meat. On both sides, seared onto his lairs are some key phrases and words. Look at these things and examples in verses six and eleven. To complete the image, verses one to five at the beginning and verses twelve to thirteen at the end are like bready buns at the top and at the bottom. As you dig in, there's first a general introduction into Paul's idea. At the bottom, there are some general principles for humility and dependence on God. In the end, you get to taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who trusts in him. Well, I hope you get the point. And speaking of points, I'll share three based on this passage. In a world of temptations and idols, we take the following three precautions. Three precautions. First, know that mere outward loyalty displeases God. Know that mere outward loyalty displeases God. And that's verses one to five. Secondly, take caution from past examples in the Word of God. Take caution from past examples in the Word of God. That's verses six to eleven. Thirdly, be humbly confident in the faithful God. Be humbly confident in the faithful God. That's verses twelve to thirteen. And I'll repeat these points later. But first, know that mere outward loyalty displeases God. Let me briefly discuss the first few words of verse 1. Moreover, simply means, in addition to what's been said. What's been said was that the Corinthians must follow Paul's lead, run and compete for the imperishable crown. That was an everyday contemporary illustration the Greeks could understand. Now, in addition to what's been said, moreover, here's an illustration from the Bible, from history familiar to the Jews. Put them together, the saints must not only finish the race like an athlete bringing glory to the homeland, they must finish the journey like the Israelites entering the promised land. While inspiring and urging them like a coach, Paul's also gentle and affectionate. Brethren, I do not want you to be unaware in other places. He uses these words to reveal matters of itinerary or mysteries of eschatology. In 1 Corinthians, Paul's most concerned about spiritual dangers. And the specific spiritual danger here is mere outward loyalty. Now moving from the middle of verse 1 to the middle of verse 4, note a key repetition. It's not a profound word by itself, it's the adjective all. Count with me as I reread with emphasis. All our fathers were under the cloud, all passed through the sea, all were baptized into Moses, skip to three. All ate the same spiritual food and all drank the same spiritual drink. I'll return to the details in a moment, but now contrast all that all with the beginning of verse 5. But with most of them. God was not well pleased. Paul saying that on the surface, everyone who followed Moses out of Egypt enjoyed the privileges of being part of the Exodus community. Yet in reality, only a few from the first generation made it into the promised land, only two in fact. You know this. Now let me go back to verse one and talk about each of these privileges one by one. All our fathers Establishes a spiritual link between Israel and church, not just Israel and Paul, they were saved by faith in God's promises of Christ, just as we are Their history foreshadow much of what we experience in the present. For example, as we saw back in 1 Corinthians 5, 6-8, they had their Passover and Feast of Unleavened Bread. We have ours. Of course, their journey from the land of slavery to the land of promise was unique, to say the least In Exodus thirteen twenty-one says, The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead the way. Next, when the Egyptian army pursued them and pinned them to the Red Sea, it says in Exodus fourteen twenty one to twenty two, Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea into dry land, and the waters were divided. So the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea on the dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left. That's an amazing scene. Just have to be there. In my mind, until I see him myself, Moses will always look like Charlton Heston. in that old nineteen fifty six film, right? Ten Commandments. And you know, growing up it felt like they had that movie on TV every major holiday of the year Anyways, let's get back to the text. Now it says in verse 2 that all were baptized into Moses. That means the Israelites were identifying themselves with Moses. Baptism and identification go hand in hand. And here Paul's making a deliberate parallel between Moses and Jesus. They trusted Moses just as we trust Jesus. They followed Moses as we follow Jesus. They publicly identify themselves as disciples of Moses. How? They did so by passing under and through the waters of cloud and sea. We identify ourselves as Christ's disciples by passing under and through the waters of baptism, the church ordinance. The parallelism continues in verse 3 and 4. After the traumatic deliverance from their enemies, God provided for their daily needs. The spiritual food refers to the manna that the Lord rained down from heaven. The spiritual drink refers to the water God miraculously provided. In the middle of verse 4, there's this phrase, they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. at least some explanation. There's actually a strange Jewish legend in Paul's time in which the rock mentioned in Exodus 17, 6, the rock in Horab, literally got up and followed Israel. No, Paul's not saying he believes that. He's not saying Christ became rock before he became flesh. That's not what he's saying No, Paul's simply saying the second person of the Trinity was with Israel in wilderness. Christ has a pre-existence. He himself said before Abraham was I am. John says Isaiah saw his glory and spoke of him. God's Son was there during Genesis Creation Week. He was there during the Exodus years. He was the source of Israel's sustenance. He is, as Deuteronomy 32, 4 says, the rock whose work is perfect, whose ways are justice, God of Truth and without injustice, righteous and upright. So Israel's dependence on the pre-existent Christ parallels the Church's dependence on the resurrected Christ Our initiation into discipleship is marked by baptism into Christ's body, symbolized by water baptism. Our continual fellowship with Jesus and his body is symbolized by the Holy Communion. On a day like today, we come to the Lord's table, we partake of the bread and wine as they represent the flesh and blood of Jesus, respectively. As long as participation in these public ordinances Correspond to a private life that pleases God, it's all good. But mere outward loyalty displeases God. And there were a whole lot of Israelites that did not make it into the promised land. I guess the natural question is whether all those who failed to arrive there were unsaved. Well that can't be because Moses was saved. And he didn't make it into the promised land. I don't think that's the main point here. Now, on a side note, the writer of Hebrews does make a point about that. He looks at the wilderness passages Psalm 95 and warns against unbelief, apostasy, falling into eternal condemnation. As for Paul, I believe his chief concern is with those already saved but in danger of losing rewards. And falling under the chastening of the Lord. I based that on passages like 1 Corinthians 3. 14, and as we'll see later, chapter 11, 27 to 34, and even today's passage, 1 Corinthians 3. Verses 6 to 11. So let's take a closer look at those verses. We learn there, this is the second precaution, take caution from past examples in the Word of God. Take caution from past examples in the Word of God So here's some pre uh preliminary notes on verses 6 to 11 to get the big picture. Again, book ending this paragraph are the words these things and examples. In between are not examples to imitate, but examples to avoid. See, in the Bible, there's only one perfect human example, Jesus. With everyone else, you have to discern between the good and the bad. God's perfect word has imperfect people in it. And speaking of God's word, notice how Paul has a high view of scriptures. He leans on his authority, using it to back up his arguments. He says in the middle, verse 7, as it is written. He also explains his relevance for us in verse 11, how even these ancient events are written to admonish us in the present. That's because sin is the same old problem every place and every epoch. The struggle of temptation is real and always relevant. Now Paul's not content with such generalities. He gets specific. Let's go back up to verse 6. From the middle of verse 6 to the end of 10, notice the sentence pattern. A negative command backed by, backed up by a negative example. Principle first, illustration second. Should not, do not, nor follow by as they also, as some of them. The first of five warnings is this, we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. Where we are today, we may have accrued more scientific knowledge, we may have applied it for all of our technological advances, but mankind cannot free itself from is evil desires. The present humanity is just as bad and is getting worse and worse day by day. The next warning in verse seven is against idolatry. Paul takes us back to Exodus 32, citing part of verse 6. In the absence of their leader, the Israelites have molded themselves a golden calf that goes to show, even those who enjoy privileges see great miracles, sit at the foot of the mountain of God Can be misled into terrible idolatry. Fast forward to the Greek pagan culture of Paul's day, there's certainly a danger of idolatry there But we must also be careful today. First and second commandments of the ten still convict us Just as there is a murder of hate, and there's the adultery of the heart, there's an idolatry of the heart, as Ezekiel 14 tells us. I could go on and on here and there could be like a whole preaching series on modern idols, but I'll just say with a few caveats I think Tim Keller wrote a great book on this topic. It's called Counterfeit Gods, The Empty Promises of Money, Sex, and Power, and The Only Hope That Matters. As suggested in the subtitle, Not Far From Idolatry is Sexual Immorality. In verse 8, Paul fast forwards to the book of Numbers. In chapter 25, verses 1 to 2, we're told the Israelites began to commit harlotry with the women of Moab. They invited God's people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people aid and bowed down to their gods. Literally spearheading the Connor attack against this rebellion was a priestly man named Bonnaeus. He turned away God's wrath, but not before a plague claimed thousands of victims. Twenty-three thousand died in one day, and another thousand died afterwards. In First Corinthians ten nine, Paul stays in Numbers, but backtracks to chapter twenty-one. There's this account in Which the soul of the people became very discouraged on the way, and the people spoke against God and against Moses. Why have you brought us out out of Egypt to die in the wilderness, for there is no food and no water? And our soul loaths this worthless bread. So the Lord sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people, and many of the people of Israel died. In John 3, Jesus had more to say about This event and how the Israelites were saved and how the means of their salvation points to the cross, but Paul simply saying here that the Israelites tested God's patience. Finally, there's the fifth warning in 1 Corinthians 10 10. Paul's description of this event could apply to many instances in the wilderness. Kind of sad, isn't it? Like they complain so often we have to ask, which of the myriad of cases are we talking about? Anyways, probably the best of it is number 16. A man named Korah, an influential man named Korah, led a mob and questioned the authority of Moses and Aaron When God consumed the rebels with earth and fire, the congregation still didn't learn their lesson. They continued to complain. They blamed the tragedy on Moses and Aaron. The Lord sent the plague to punish them. As the scriptures interpret scriptures, Paul reveals now that a destroyer, what I mean by that, what he means by that is a powerful angelic being brought on the plague. Maybe it's the same destroyer from the plague of the firstborn against Egypt back in Exodus 12, 23. Now these events are quite remarkable, right? We should really focus on the prohibitions that are remain applicable today. Let me listen quickly in order to not lust after evil things, to not become idolaters, let us not commit sexual immorality. Let us not tempt Christ. Let us not complain. The warnings ring true as clearly as they did back then. We have the same old temptations. Now we to be clear we do live in a special time when it says in verse 11, upon whom the ends of ages have come. It means we belong to the church age. We live in the last days before the promised kingdom arrives. Right at the door. But with such special privileges as recipients of greater and complete revelation, we have a greater duty. To live for God's glory. And I sum that sum up that duty like this: be humbly confident in the faithful God. That's the third precaution I mentioned earlier. Be humbly confident. And the faithful God. This is the third precaution in the world of idolatry. You know, like Psalm 119-11 1 Corinthians 10, 12 to 13 is one of those passages you want to commit to memory. That way, next time you're tempted to sin, you look to God and you look for escape. It's not only a matter of strategic planning against sin, it's also about having the right perspective on self. One commentary notes how verse 12 addresses those who are so self-confident, they think they're immune to temptations. Verse 13 speaks to those who are so despondent, they don't even bother trying to resist temptations. What type are you? Are you the type that tends toward conceit? And so ka verse 12. Consider all the failures of Israel and humble yourself. Let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. Or if you're the type who are discouraged in the spiritual battle, claim the promise of verse 13. It's worth rereading. No temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man. But God is faithful who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will also make the way of escape, that you may be able to bear it. I have two observations about verse 13. I think first it speaks against our tendency to overestimate our temptations. But nothing you'll ever face is so unique to be out of the realm of human experience Secondly, verse 13 also speaks against our tendency to underestimate God. When you're enduring temptations, don't just grit your teeth or tough it out on your own strength. Trust in God. Turn to Him. Trust in Him as He is trustworthy. When we think of God's attribute of faithfulness, we may immediately think of promises of salvation and forgiveness of sins, and rightly so, but the Bible also presents God's faithfulness is this. God keeps us from sins and gets us out of temptations through the way of escape. Now escaping doesn't sound so dramatic, does it? Not as much as confrontation and victory. But the Lord's not interested in making you look cool, right? You don't get to emerge out of every trial as the great hero of the story. Often you just have to run away Is idolatry an issue? Stay clear of temples, right? Corinthians. Remove stumbling blocks. Are you tempted to lust? We already said back in 1 Corinthians 6. 18. Flee from sexual immorality. Do you find yourself grumbling? Avoid those social situations that encourage you to continue. Escape. That's how you are able to bear with temptation. Be wise and test the faith. Be mindful of the escape routes. Note the exit signs in case of firing trials. It's been years since I've been to the movie theaters. But what do they always do before the film begins? They warn and point you to the exit signs in case of fire. And those bright lights, the signs stay on even as the lights dim. You must beware of them at all times, even if they're distracting and annoying. Likewise, we must be mindful of excess and exercise in dark trials of life. We face a lifestyle a lifetime of struggle against sin, right? We gotta keep struggling. We gotta keep fighting. It may seem like we're moving from one escape room to another and there's no end to this game. But praise God, his divine power has given to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. But even with all that are made available to us or for us, we do tragically give into temptations from time to time. Even though we're destined for heaven, we do sometimes fail down here on on the way up to heaven. That's why we're so grateful for the promise of 1 John 1:9. That if we saints confess our sins, God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And the more we meditate on the cost paid for our sins, the more we're motivated to resist temptations. We look to Christ. He is divine, but he is also human. He can sympathize with our weaknesses. He was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. Like Israel, he was led into the wilderness. He felt hunger. Unlike Israel, he resisted Satan. He stood on the word of God. Where we fell, Jesus stood. What we could not resist, he was able to bear it. Perfect in every way. Yet we remember he gave himself so that we might be forgiven of our sins. The Father sent his son to be the unblemished, spotless Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He went to the cross despite all the temptations to run from the cross. He steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. He submitted his will to the Father's will. He went to Calvary. He was nailed and pierced, not because he's done anything wrong. He paid the penalty of sins we committed. Our evil lusts, idolatries, sexual immorality, our grumbling. He endured God's wrath as our substitute Having paid the wages of sin in full, he declared his work finished. He was buried, but rose from the grave on the third day. He gave many proofs of his resurrection. He ascended to heaven. Someday he'll return to judge all mankind. Before it's too late. If you're not right with God, you must return to God. Repent and turn from sin. Trust in Jesus only for salvation. Eternal life is offered to us as a gift, undeserved, unmerited God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Now that we believers are delivered from this present evil age, we anticipate the ages to come, but until the kingdom of God arrives, we walk by faith. We depend on the Lord who knows how to deliver the bhakti out of temptations. Even when we must endure temptation, we are blessed. As James tells us, that's because there's approval in the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to those who love him. So as we begin this week, let's come to the Lord's table. Let's remember how Jesus, God man, overcame his trials to give his body and blood for our redemption. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your word that reminds us. That this struggle has been around since Genesis three. Lord just um We thank you for your the provision of salvation, that the penalty of sin no longer applies to us who are saved, who call upon the name of your son. Jesus Christ. But we're also thankful that you give us all that we need to overcome the power of sin in this life, Lord. Just that we don't have to give in to the flesh. We can battle. We can grow in holiness. And Lord, we're also thankful and we look forward to that day when you remove the presence of sin. Not only in our lives, but this whole world. We look forward to that day and just um And in spite of the disappointments we may feel looking around us, those who sin against us, our own personal sins, we know there's there is an end. There is a happy ending. Only because of the gospel, only because of your son Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen.