So we have passed the halfway mark in our series on the Ten Commandments. So it may be a good time to ponder on a review question. What happens when we forget God's laws as a family, as a church, as an institution, as a nation It's a question that has many answers. It can be answered in many ways. This week I encounter one answer. Epitomized at a chapel service at Union Seminary, a major center of liberal theology, located in New York City. There's a class at the school entitled Extractivism, a ritual liturgical response. During corporate worship, the students confess the harm they've done to students, that they've done to plants, speaking directly in repentance to plants. The following is a string of direct quotes from the official Union Seminary Twitter account explaining their actions. Quote, this is a beautiful ritual. Far too often we see the natural world only as resources to be extracted for our use, not divinely created in their own right, worthy of honor, thanks, and care. What's different, and the source of so much derision, is that they're treating plants as fully created beings, divine creation in its own right, not just something to be consumed Because plants aren't capable of verbal response, does that mean we shouldn't engage with them? End quote Well, how do we begin to untangle the web of unbiblical ideas that led to this chapel service? We do not worship the same God they do. Last time I read the Bible, God burned a bush and killed a plant to communicate with men. Now, of course, we shouldn't recklessly destroy plants. Like, but if we do, any apologist forthcoming should go to the creator of all things, not to the plants Not all forms of life are made equal. Only humans are created in the image of God, and so their lives should be valued and protected. Why should we be apologizing to plants when every day we are harming our fellow men and women? And that's why we have the sixth commandment. We must return to it and understand why it is so important. And there's so much wrapped up in this one verse, Exodus 20, verse 13. thirteenth, you have it there in the bulletin insert along with sermon notes. You shall not murder. I'm done with the scripture reading for today, but there are many other passages I'll be consulting. And looking through. And there are three principles I want to discuss as we survey the scriptures and unpack the significance of the command. First. The sixth commandment protects God's image bearers. Second, we have become murderers by actions and motives Third, Jesus was murdered so that he may be the sacrifice for our sins. First, the sixth commandment protects God's image-bearers. We begin with the foundational verses in both Exodus 20, verse 13, and Deuteronomy 5:17. We only encounter two words, but they are weighty words. The word murder is a good translation of the word in the original language. The commandment is not translated, you shall not kill, but you shall not murder. Murder is killing, but not every killing is murder. For example, most killings that take place in self-defense are not murder. Exodus 22, verses 2 to 3 describes a case where a burglar breaks in the cover of the night. The family does not know who or what has invaded their domain. What the intentions are. So in fear of being murdered, they kill the burglar in pitch black in a struggle without ever seeing the face. The family is not guilty of murder. But let's say the burglar breaks in during the day and then attempts to run away. The family chases the thief, catches him. Now, at this point, they should turn him into the authorities. But instead they torture him repeatedly and kill him. Such severity is punishable. So murder is a specific type of killing, and not all killings are wrong. Some maintain justice. God is not contradicting his own command when he subjugated the entire mankind to death for sin. Physical death is the just consequence of spiritual death that took place the moment Adam and Eve. disobeyed God. Spirit separates from bodies because humans have separated from God. Genesis 3 But while natural death is ordained by God as consequence of sin, premeditated intentional murder of fellow humans is not. There was no provision or refuge for voluntary manslaughter, as we see in Deuteronomy 19. Only God, as the giver of life, has the right to take it Only our just God ought to kill at will, whether through his own hand directly or through the government. Are found in both testaments, including the Genesis Blood, the Red Sea crossing, Acts 5, and 1 Corinthians 11, even within the walls of the church. Much more common in history, however, is the god is God's use of the government to uphold divine justice through capital punishment. In ancient Israel, aside from murder, God instituted the death penalty for other violations of the law. We discussed how idolatry, taking God's name in vain, Sabbath violation, and rebellion against parents are all punishable by death. In the church age, when secular authorities channel God's justice by properly wielding the sword, we are to submit to them as God's servants, as we see in Romans. Romans thirteen. You know, even those employed by the fallible Rom Roman Empire should be respected, as we see in the church. John the Baptist, Jesus, and Peter did not tell Roman soldiers to leave their career behind once they became Christians. After they repented and believed, they kept their law enforcement jobs. As citizens, we must respect fellow humans because each one is God's image bearer. that in Genesis 1 and 5. The sixth commandment protects that image, which is so important that in Genesis God instituted the death penalty for those who would dare to destroy those who bear God's image. Genesis 9. Jesus implores all men and women to dedicate themselves to God as his image bearers, just as a coin bearing the image of Caesar are given to the ruler. We see that in Matthew 22, Mark 12, and Luke 20. Murder robs a person of that sacred opportunity to live for God's glory, to be given to God as his image here. So no matter how hopeless a person may appear to you, we must not take lives into our own our own. hands. We must follow God's will for the length of lives. It is his to shorten or lengthen as he sees fit. Those who bear Christ's name as Christians should never be in public limelight as murderers. Now, up to this point, you probably have little trouble agreeing with me. I've stressed the sanctity of life and the need to protect it. But we must move on to the second point. We have become murderers by actions and motives. Now, this is a somewhat of a controversial point, right? That's why I'll be spending a lot of time on this point And I hope to convince you from scriptures that we have indeed violated the letter and the spirit of the sixth commandment. Now we do not have to go very far in our Bible reading to locate violations. Not too far after the Mankind's fall. The serpent who deceived Adam and Eve worked in the heart of Cain, their son, who murdered his own brother Abel in Genesis 4. What or who motivated Cain? And thankfully, we have all this commentary in the New Testament. The first murderer followed the ways of the devil, who was a murderer from the beginning, as we see in John 8. Cain could not stand the righteousness of Abel. Who exercised faith by offering a better sacrifice to God? Hebrews 11. Soon Cain's vertical disconnect from God led to the horizontal disconnect from his own brother. In 1 John 3, 10-15, we have confirmation that Cain belonged to the wicked one, Satan. He did not practice righteousness or love his brother. What lies beneath his murder was hostility against God and hatred of others. And we're going to talk about that a little bit more later. But such is the way of Cain, followed by unbelievers, both outside and within church walls, as we see in Jude 11. Many others followed in the dark path and committed more deplorable acts. Even as technology advanced in the world rapidly, so did violence. We're still in Genesis 4. We don't get past Genesis 4 without another instance of murder, this time by Cain's descendant Lamech. He murdered a young man for wounding him, right, and bragged about it to his wife or wives, as we see in the latter part of Genesis 4. By the time we get to the days of Noah, we read that the earth was filled with violence. Genesis six As we continue in the Bible, we learn that we can violate the sixth commandment not only through the sins of commission, but also through sins of omission and negligence. Here are some case here are some case examples from the law of Moses. In Exodus twenty one verses twenty eight to twenty nine, Israelites were instructed to execute an ox that gores and kills. a person. But let's say that ox was known to be habitually violent and charged at humans. Furthermore, the owner was simply lazy or unconcerned about the damage his animal could cause. So he refused to lock up the ox or chain him up. If the ox kills a neighbor, its owner must be executed along with the animal. Here's another case. In Deuteronomy 22, verse 16. Moses told his people that as they build houses in the promised land, they must follow some common sense rules. In those days, roofs were were not like our roofs, but level as the top floor of the building. So they had to build parapets. that is, railings or fences around the roof, so that no guest or relative who visits slips and falls from it. The failure to build a parapet is a violation of the sixth commandment through Negligence. Consider how such negligence is tantamount to murder. In our modern days of global progress, peace treaties, detailed laws, animal control, and building codes, you may think that the Sixth Commandment is less of an issue. You may stop and tell me. Pastor Song, have you read the Harvard Professor Steve Pinker? He said the world is getting better day by day. We're not gonna return to the terrible wars of past or the medieval times or the violence in the days of Noah's Flood. Well, only because the world will not be judged by floodwaters again. But the fires are coming. And rightly so. And part of the reason Is that sin of murder is still a major problem today? Kevin DeYoung identifies three modern ways we have intensified or multiplied the violation of the sixth commandments. One, suicide, two, abortion, and three, euthanasia These are not modern inventions, but in recent times they have become relatively more common and subject to public debates. So first, suicide. I personally have not struggled with suicidal thoughts except a few brief, brief episodes as a I had an aunt who killed herself after her daughter died of illness at a Ham Perhaps you know yourself those who are struggling with guilt or worldly sorrow like she did and contempl contemplating ending it all turn Even pastors like the one I mentioned last week in prayer give in to such thoughts. I want to be sensitive to all the circumstances that lead to such tragedies, but I must maintain that suicide is still self-murder, violation of the sixth commandment. Five instances of suicide in the Bible are all in the context of shame, rebellion, and defeat. Judges 9, 1 Samuel 31, 2 Samuel. Daniel 17, 1 Kings 16, Matthew 27. I don't have time to go through them. I used to think that if someone commits suicide, he or she must have been an unbeliever. I've since repented of that idea and cannot defend such position from the scriptures. My conclusion is that while suicide is a terrible, tragic sin, no doubt, it is not the unforgivable sin. Here are some relevant statistics I found from an article, quote. The number of suicides in the United States increased twenty-four four percent from nineteen ninety-nine to twenty fourteen, gaining momentum after two thousand six when the increase each year jumped between one and two percent, according to the census The biggest jump was among adolescent girls and men aged 45 to 64. Some of us men are near or within that dangerous range. Some of us have adolescent granddaughters struggling to fit in this world, facing depression Rejection. Comprise. As an application, if you or someone you know is struggling in despair, please consider getting professional help for yourself for that person. I have asked our church treasurer to designate funds in the 2020 budget for professional counseling services. So members of our church can discreetly seek and have access to local trained Christian counselors. Another way that our society promotes the transgression of the sixth command is through abortion. Again, this practice is not new A key passage in the Old Testament is a case law in Exodus 21, verses 22 to 25. So during A fight between two men, one of them strikes the pregnant wife of the other so that the blow induces a premature birth. But thankfully, no harm or defect is found in the baby The attacker must pay a fine for his attempt to harm the mother and the baby. But let's say there is a birth defect, or in the worst-case scenario The baby is stillborn. Here's what verses 23 to 25 instructs as consequence But if any harm follows, then you shall give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. Hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, strike for strike And if you turn to Deuteronomy 19, 15 to 21, you will see the same exact language used in punishment of adults. And that's the case where false witnesses are seeking harm. So the law of retaliation, Lex Telianus, applies to adult as well as the unborn. That's because both the unborn and the adult are humans created in God's image. One could argue that to kill a child in the womb is the most deplorable act of murder. Here's what John Calvin says in a commentary of that Exodus. In every womb, divine creation takes place. David sings, For you form my inward parts. You cover me in my mother's womb. I will praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are your works, and that my soul knows very well. Psalm 1 39, 13 to 14. Now I know this is a touchy subject, but please know that this is not primarily a political issue, but a moral and philosophical question answered by the Bible. One of the most important questions we could ever ask, what is life and when does it begin? I hope you are convinced of the biblical testimony. Life begins at conception as a zygote. The third topic is one of euthanasia. Just to be clear from the onset, there is a world of difference between the termination of life. and termination of treatment. When a person ends chemotherapy or transplants and opts for palliative care, he or she is not choosing euthanasia I'm condemning a specific attitude, a belligerent attitude against the old, motivated by love of money, idolatry of youth Disrespect of the elderly, measuring of societal value based on works. The Netherlands was the first nation to allow legal assisted suicide, and over time they've seen the voluntary become involuntary. When it becomes an option for you to end your life, insurance companies say, well, we are going to pay for that treatment to extend your life another six months or a year. You can just take these pills and end your life. You become a burden to insurance providers, to the state, and to your family. More and more requests for assisted suicide in the Netherlands are coming from family members, not from the patients themselves. During the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, Dutch physicians refused to obey orders by Nazi troops to let the elderly and terminally ill die. In two thousand one, Holland became the first country to give legal status to doctor-assisted suicide. As Malcolm Muggridge noted, it took only one generation to transform a war crime into an act of compassion. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil. Who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter. I pray that our country does not establish such evil, dark, and bitter laws. But the battle for human dignity, young or old, happy or depressed, is not just civil, but personal. It begins with my mother mother. Ever since she has retired, she has struggled with her sense of worth. And she constantly feels guilt for quote being a burden to me. Of course I tell her you're not a burden. I worry when she stops being active or misses church for extended periods of time because she has too much time to think and at times she goes to dark places in her mind. As a pastor, I encourage members to fight the title culture in this way. If you're healthy, praise the Lord, visit the elderly and the shutdowns. It's not just the job of the pastor. There are brothers and sisters in Christ. I also want to challenge those who are listening to me through this recording as shuttings. You are not a burden. It is a joy to serve you as younger brothers and sisters in Christ. We can arrange to pick you up and bring you to church or fellowship events, even if it's just once a month or a few times a year. By refusing our help, everyone suffers. You miss out on fellowship. We don't benefit from your personality, and I know you have personalities and wisdom. And there is no opportunity to glorify Christ through unity and diversity of generations. Let's enjoy and celebrate life together, not wait for it to end. in isolation. So we took considerable time looking at overt actions that violate the sixth command, and I'm still not done But because there's a way to break the law without lifting a finger. Jesus took seriously not just the outward crime of murder, but also the inward motivation, unrighteous anger, and hatred. Hateful speech. When you angrily call someone you fool, Jesus says you are in danger of hellfire. Matthew five twenty-one to twenty three. And Jesus is going beyond the sixth commandment to the motivation behind it. By our rash words, we do great damage to those who bear God's image. James 3 Anger is such a dangerous, flammable emotion that Jesus says to find it in yourself and others and quench it through reconciliation. Jesus says do it before worship. Paul says do it before the sun goes down. Ephesians four. There's no lasting good in human wrath, as James warns, the wrath of man does not. produce the righteousness of God. James 1. So through sinful actions and motives, words and emotions, we have broken the six commandments. I've often wished that I could hide forever the rage that I had against drivers or angers I had against authorities or hatred I had I had against people who said racist things to me. But I can't, and the judgment is clear. We are all under the just condemnation of God's good law, which speaks against murderers of family and neighbors. First Timothy one. We return to First John three fifteen, where we are told, Whoever hates his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. All of us justly belong in the lake of fire. Second death. Outside of God's dwelling. Revelation 21 and 22. But I will be remiss to tell you only this bad news. Here's the good news. Jesus was murdered so that he may be the sacrifice for our sins. Jesus was murdered by Jewish leaders through unlawful judicial misconduct as we see in Acts 7. One article I read lists twelve violations. I won't list them all. It is clear from the Bible that Judas was bribed to betray Jesus. We learn from Jewish tradition that the Sanhedrin, which is the local Jewish government in Jerusalem, they were not allowed to meet and hold trial overnight. No capital offense could be tried on the eve of Sabbath or festival like Passover, and they violated that too. Just like the way Jezebel manipulated the system to murder Nabid and steal his vineyard for her husband Ahap, the trial of Jesus weeks of injustice. Jesus who committed no sin, spoke no deceit, never reviled or threatened others in retaliation, died on the cross in our place for our sins. First Peter two. He literally took the place of a murderer. The mob that demanded Jesus' death asked of Pilate the ruler released in Jesus' place, an insurrectionist named Barnabas, condemned to crucifixion. We see that from Matthew all the way to Acts. So that's how Jesus hung on the cross with thieves and was numbered with transgressors in Isaiah 53. Verse twelve. But God was not surprised by this turn of events. If you read the entirety of Ma Isaiah fifty three, and I encourage you to read it. you to do that, you will see that the servant of the Lord suffered for a God ordained reason. In fact, it pleased the Lord to bruise him. Why such cruelty? Why does a man who loved others perfectly, loved God perfectly, loved his neighbor perfectly, die the death of a hateful murderer? The answer is that Jesus is God's Son and he died as a substitute to bear iniquities and the sins of many. More specifically, he died on the cross facing the consequences of murder, though sinless, in the place of all those who broke the sixth commandment in both action and motives. On the third day, Jesus rose from the grave, overcoming death. Days later, he ascended to heaven Many days later, and now he offers you eternal life through repentance and faith in him. Repentance, that is, turning away from your sin of murder and all his manifestations. Unrighteous anger, degrading speech, and hatred of others. Faith that is realizing that you can't earn heaven, and confessing that you have no hope of eternal life apart from the finished work of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And what does a life of genuine repentance and faith look like? Now I want to once again give practical ways to move away from the violations of the six commandments. And it's all centered in what Christ has done for us. And I'll quickly mention two. First, it is a light that is growing in forgiveness. The relationship between forgiveness we receive from God and forgiveness we give to others is so closely tied that I believe it is biblical to say that our forgiveness is one of the main proofs of our salvation. We see that in Matthew, Mark, Luke, Ephesians, Colossians. Secondly, we are to love. In direct contradiction to hate that motivates murder, we need to have love govern our relationships. While Cain was the prototype of hateful, evil murder, we have Jesus as our ultimate example. By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. And we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. 1 John 3 16. Ask the Lord this week to help you lay down your life for others, not lay waste the life of others through the Lord. Moses, David, Saul, Lord, these are these are men Who have killed others, Lord. Yet they are in heaven with you. Not because they made up for it. Not because they don't they have done a lot of good things to erase their sin. But Lord, because you forgave them Even though they deserved your wrath. And Lord, we confess that we deserve your wrath. Because in our lifetime Lord, we have failed to love our neighbors. Lord, we have set things behind their backs or straight to their face.