A single woman named Margaret is called before elders and asked whether she was pregnant. She said yes, and claimed the father was a man named John Shedd. The elders tried to work with him and after three years the issue was still unresolved. Eventually the two had to appear before the entire congregation. Just sort of trails off there. In the same year, William and Elizabeth were rebuked by Pastor Witherspoon for Quote, irregular marriage, which was a secret wedding that took place without the blessings and the formal approval of parents and the church. They were fined for their conduct. Then there's the case of a married man, George King, and his servant, another woman named Margaret. Margaret, the servant, accused George of committing adultery with her and fathering her child. George denied the charge, claiming that she was a Loose woman, the elders did not believe George, turned to the Presbytery, who also did not believe in him. After a full decade of back and forth. George finally admitted his infidelity. In every century and culture, Sexual sins have threatened the integrity of congregations. A church historian named Scott Manich dug up church meeting minutes from Geneva, Switzerland, from 1537. Among the pastors there being John Calvin. Manish found over 2,000 disciplinary cases involving marital problems. And over one thousand individuals suspended from church membership for fornication or adultery. Top two offenses subject to discipline by a wide margin were household conflict and sexual sin. Some things never change Fast forward to the 21st century, and I'm willing to bet that the same problems plague and occupy churches, even the ones that strive to follow God's Word. What are we to do? Part of the solution is to return to the Ten Commandments, and specifically to the seventh commandment, you shall not So I want to make three observations about Exodus twenty verse fourteen. You see the passage there. I'm gonna draw from various supporting passages, which is also there. Of course, I can cite every single passage that talks on this topic. But you'll see the three points I want to want to make. First, the seventh commandment protects God's gift of marriage and sex. Second, we have broken the seventh commandment in sexually immoral actions and thoughts. Thirdly, we defend God's design for marriage and sex for the gospel's sake First, the seventh commandment protects God's gift of marriage and sex. Something that we need to understand I'm willing to bet that you have fences for your property, cases for your music instruments. Passwords for your sensitive information. These commandments function in a similar way. We protect God's reputation by refusing to take We protect the dignity of our parents by honoring them. We defend the sanctity of life by halting murder. And for today we value marriage by prohibiting adultery. Like the previous command, we only have two words for the seventh command in the original language, both here in exodus. Exodus 2014 and its parallel in Deuteronomy 5. 18. To see what this commandment protects, we must once again return to the Garden of Eden. Before the fall of mankind, before sin and death enter the universe, before the sixth day of creation came to an end, we have God declaring for the first time that something is not quite right. Moses records how after each creative act in the previous five days, God saw what he had made, that it was good. But in but in a detailed account of day six, God declares in Genesis two, eighteen, it is not good that man should be alone. He himself offers a solution found in that same verse. I will make him a helper comparable to him Now, keep in mind on that day, God had created all kinds of animals of land and sky. And Adam, the first man, asserted his dominance over them by naming them. But among them there was not a single helper comparable to him, that is, sharing in his dignity and having the same nature. Not even the first perfect dog or cat can fill that role. That was when God became the first surgeon. Putting Adam into a deep sleep, taking a rib from his chest, and sealing him back up. He fashioned the rib into a woman, And then God became the first matchmaker, bringing her to the man. And then Adam became the first poet. This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Moses couldn't help but interject with commentary in Genesis. 224. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. The whole rationale for marriage, the start of a new family, comes back to this event. And God designed that women be different from men. That's exactly what the Lord intended. Two different but equally worthy beings, thriving in harmonious hierarchy, existing side by side. There's no need to think that Eve is inferior to Adam because of the title helper. God is often called our helper. You may have heard the famous Matthew Henry quote. If you use his commentary which are free online now. Quote, The woman was made out of made of a rib out of the side of Adam, not made out of his head to rule over Him, nor out of his feet to be trampled upon by him, but out of his side to be equal with him, under his arm to be protected, and near his heart to be beloved. And such beauty in marriage is what we protect. So God intended that man singular and woman singular Singular should share an intimate bond in a monogamous holy matrimony. That's how Paul interprets Genesis two in his pastoral letters as he lists qualifications of godly male leaders in the world. Church, a one-woman man. See that in First Timothy three and Titus one. And even after the entrance of sin in the world, God's intended design for unity and order remains intact. In the marriage. First Corinthians eleven. Now you know what happens? Satan successfully deceived Eve by isolating her from Adam and causing them to depart from the intended order of family leadership. And that's what we see in First Timothy two. Now sin has made the original design a perfect complementary relationship a constant struggle. We have lost our innocence through sinful disconnect from God and disconnect from our spouses. Genesis three. But by God's grace we can strive for it until death do us part. Romans 7. We must also protect God's original intent for sex, which is both a seal of marriage and means of procreation. De Young explains. And I don't know if you thought deeply about the traditional marriage ceremony order, but there are two oaths. The public verbal oath and the private ratification oath. Before witnesses, the bride and the groom vow their love for each other, verbally, but that's not all. There needs to be a ratification to speak Seal and sign the marriage covenant. Now, since sexual consummation must be private, the kiss is to stand in for the ratification of marriage during the service. Sex begins new light in more ways than one, and that's true even in this dark world. God wanted Adam and Eve to be fruitful. Before the fall, and later he wanted Noah and his sons to do the same thing after the fall. Genesis 1 and 9. Procreation takes place through section intercourse which no one denies is good. But many today have disconnected sex from God and children We know from Malachi two, thirteen through fifteen, that the Lord desired unity of marriage to result in godly offspring. Sex and children are both Gifts from the Lord. Psalm one twenty seven. Marriage is meant to be a safe and secure haven where a couple can enjoy intimacy and the family thrives. Corinthians 7, Psalm 128. At home, training for the next generation of progeny takes place. Parents are to teach God's will to their children in the matter of marriage and sex. as we see in Proverbs five and six. For all these reasons we must honor marriage and protect the nuptial bed. Whether we are single, married, with children, without children, or widowed. That's because sin can cloud our perceptions of God God's good gifts. Very soon after God graciously gave us marriage, sex, and family, people have tried to distort them. And that leads to the second point. We have broken the seventh command in sexually immoral actions and thoughts. You will see that there are many violations of the seventh commandment throughout history. Which fall under the broad umbrella term or phrase sexual immorality. And why is that? I turn to a general principle that have served me well. Truly valuable things have many counterfeits. And let's say in early human history for the moment. We know that the first descendants of Adam and Eve technically married their close siblings, which is later condemned as incest, and the laws against marriage of close kin are not revealed until later in Leviticus eighteen and twenty. So a quick question, sort of on the apologetic vein, is why was it allowed in the chapters of Genesis there? And here are some quotes from an article in Christiananswers. net, which is an apologetic resource I've been consulting since I was a teenager. For your science minded people, this might be interesting, but just try to be patient here. Um every person has two sets of genes. There being some hundred thirty thousand pairs that specify how a person is put together and functions. Each person inherits one gene of each pair from each parent. Unfortunately, genes today contain many mistakes because of sin and the curse. And these mistakes show up in a variety of ways. The more distantly related parents are, the more likely it is that they will have different mistakes in their genes. Children inheriting one set of genes from each parent are likely to end up with pairs of genes genes containing a maximum of one bad gene in each pair. The good gene tends to override the bad so that a deformity, a serious one anyway, does not occur. However, the more closely related two people are, the more likely it is that they will have similar mistakes in their genes. Since these have been inherited from the same parents. Therefore, a brother and a sister are more likely to have similar mistakes in their genes. A child of union between such siblings could inherit the same bad gene on the same gene pair from both, resulting in two bad copies of the gene and serial. Adam and Eve did not have accumulated genetic mistakes. When the first two people were created, they were physically perfect. Genesis 19. one thirty one. So their genes were perfect, no mistakes. But when sin entered the world, because of Adam, Genesis three and Romans five, God cursed the world so that the perfect creation then began to degenerate. That is suffer, death, and decay. Romans 8. Over thousands of thousands of years, this degeneration has produced all sorts of genetic mistakes in living things Cain was in the first generation of children ever born. He, as well as his brothers and sisters, would have received virtually no imperfect genes from Adam. Adam or Eve, since the effects of sin and the curse would have been minimal to start with, it takes time for these copying errors to accumulate. In that situation, brother and sister could have married with God's approval without any potential to produce deformed art. By the time of Moses, a few thousand years later, degenerative mistakes would have built up in the human race to such an extent that it was necessary for God to forbid brother, sister, and close relationships Also there were plenty of people on earth by then, so there was no reason for close relations to marry. Now if you're ever called to a trial to ask about in Bible questions, you have at least one good answer here, right? The real sex problem in Genesis 4 is polygamy, which we see Lamech, one of the descendants of Cain, practice in verses 19 to 25. As I said already, God's design for marriage is between one man and one woman. This contentment which his with his design has led to both public and private adulteries. Polygamy would be an example of a public adultery, while I think an affair is a private adultery, usually. Polygamy is usually practiced by men who are pridefully rich as wives become displays of power and status. Yet God anticipated this mystery. Mistake the sin and warn the future kings against this practice in Deuteronomy 17, 17. Do not multiply wives. A modern version of this evil is known as polyamory. The practice and or desire of intimate relationships with more than one partner with the consent of all partners involved. There's a mention of that in the Nashville statement. God does not give consent, they should know, to this kind of adultery More often the seventh commandment is broken in secret through premarital and extramarital sex. Whether it was 2000 BC or 2008. A. D. the Eastern or the Western culture. Adultery is one of the most common vices. In the Old Testament times, we see both the northern and the southern kingdoms beset with adultery. Jeremiah 7, 23, 29, Hosea 4. I believe that Jesus takes adultery so seriously that it allows for, though not necessitates, divorce as a consequence. Matthew five and nineteen. But before that talk, our Lord goes beyond the act of adultery to the heart of adultery. That is the heart that commits adultery through eyes that lustfully gazes at others. A verse that I cited this morning during prayer. Jesus warned against hearts, eyes, and hands that sin against members of the opposite gender. Which persists today, the pornography, exploitation, abuse. And how difficult it is to maintain that childlike innocence embodied in that song. Oh, be careful, little eyes, which These simple lyrics express deep biblical truth. And connections, the eyes, the hands, the heart. If we are caught in sexual sins, the Bible is clear that such violations come from our heart problem with God and His authority. Romans 1, 18 to 32 makes that abundantly clear. We broke the seventh commandment because we broke the first. We violated the heterosexual and homosexual transgressions because we have to first deny God and his goodness, clearly seen in the universe. Incest, homosexuality, bestiality. They may be different, but they're all rooted in a heart that is rebellious against God. In both Old and the New Testament, we are shown and clearly told that God will judge both heterosexual sins and homosexuality, also known as sodomy, like the infamous. So you see passages Genesis nineteen, Judges nineteen, First Corinthians six, Galatians five, first Timothy one, and Jude seven. In the last few decades of the secular Western civilization, we see the links between the Death of God movement, the sexual revolution, and the The LGBTQ plus movement. Acceptance of such philosophies and activisms have revealed deep devotion to the underlying false gods of the culture. Malcolm Mugrich, a British journalist and author I've cited before, wrote, Quote: One of the peculiar sins of the 20th century, which we've developed to a very high level, is the sin of credulity. It has been said that when human beings stop believing God, they believe in nothing. The truth is much worse. They believe in anything. So what do we believe in now? Elsewhere Mulgridge wrote, If God is dead, somebody is going to have to take his place. It will be megalomania or Iraq The drive for power or the drive for pleasure, the clenched fist or the ballast, Hitler or Hugh Hepner. All of us by our desires and our actions have broken the seven commandments. By breaking one of the ten, we are guilty of breaking all. James 2. At this point, we might despair. How can our children and grandchildren and ourselves survive as believers in this world full of temptations? I'll tell you right now, the answer is not complete withdrawal from the world. Paul ruled out that option in First Corinthians five. Rather, Paul instructed the church to discipline those who have fallen into obvious sexuality. Sins. In application, I need to tell church members that if you are sleeping with your boyfriend or girlfriend or cheating on your spouse, please repent. If such sins come to light and known and is known to Other members, we will confront you. Now we're not doing this in hate or spite, but in love and prayer, hoping for your repentance toward God and restoration to us. We love everyone who walks through our doors, but we love God first and most. We want to honor Him and His Word. And that leads to the third and final point of today. Today's discussion, we defend God's design for marriage and sex for the gospel's sake. God's good gifts function like signs and reveal gospel truths. That's all we need to protect marriage and sex. The parallels teach us much. For example, the Lord is jealous and does not tolerate rivals as He alone deserves undivided love. We talked about that in the previous commands and Deuteronomy 6. In the same way, we should not tolerate rivals of our marriage partners. And it's not surprising then that idolatry and sexual immorality often comes together in a sordid package. Consider how a pagan named Balaam taught enemies to seduce Israel to worship a false god. How? By sexual immorality. Remember how even the great wise King Solomon was led to polytheism through his many foreign wives? In contradiction to Deuteronomy seventeen, as we see in First Kings eleven. Since adultery breaks the sacred covenant, which is marriage, is a perfect analogy of our departure from God. Just as a happy marriage is a symbol of a peaceful relationship with God, adultery is a symbol of painful break with God. See that all throughout the Bible. Jeremiah is Ezekiel, Hosea especially. And even in the New Testament in James four. In the church, the strong connection between idolatry and sexual immorality Continues. The Jewish leaders of Jerusalem who knew their Bible well decreed that their younger Gentile brothers must abstain from both idolatry and sexual immorality. fifteen and twenty-one. To almost every church congregation Paul has written in the New Testament, whether it was Rome, Corinth, Galatia, Ephesus. Colossae or Thessalonica, the apostles spoke on Christian sexual ethics. It was that important. So we see that the biblical stance against sexual immorality is consistent throughout. Proper views of marriage and sex are displayed through holy living, which brings glory to God. Those who persist in heterosexual and homosexual sins raise serious doubts in others regarding their salvation. Are they truly united with God the Father, God the Son? And God the Spirit. A true Christian will flee sexual immorality and even associations with it. That's why I'm convinced that Christians Couples should not cohabitate. That is moving together before marriage. We have to flee from sexual immorality. You should not even be named among us. In relation to outsiders, I think believers must also avoid intimate and serious dating relationships with unbelievers. what people call missionary dating. Because they will eventually lead us away from Christ. Tell your children and grandchildren that. In relation to self, they must put to death By crucifixion, the deeds and the passions of the flesh. That's why I'm convinced that those addicted to masturbation and pornography can overcome through repentance, persistent prayer. We did a series on the Thessalonian epistles. First Thessalonians chapter 4, 3 to 8 is a great summary Passage for meditation. I encourage you to just meditate on those words there. It reveals how disorder sex light reveals disorder in relationship with the self. With the neighbor and God. Now, on the positive flip side, a healthy biblically ordered sex life reveals order in relationship with the self, the members of the opposite gender. And God. Ephesians 5:22 to 33 gives us that picture. The husband and the wife united in marriage covenant, just as Christ and the church unite in a new covenant Covenant. The woman in beautiful submission, adorned in incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, the man loving, honoring, sacrificing, and caring for his wife. as he would for his own body. Such intimacy gives us an illustration of the gospel. Spouses, in marriage Marriages are like play actors in the greatest performances of all time. We bear witness to the good news of Jesus Christ through our marriage and support of marriages around us Since biblical marriage, um or just marriage in general, is a grace commonly bestowed to mankind, right? We can pray for and celebrate all monogamous marriages between male and female And female, whether none, one or both are saved. The sta status of salvation does not taint the gift of marriage. We must fight, as the church, unbiblical distortions of marriage within and without. To all, we point to the wondrous mystery of Christ's heavenly union with us. For which earthly marriages serve as signs. Many of you guys have been married for a long time. That could be a connection with your unbelieving neighbors to show them what the true deeper meaning of of marriage is supposed to be. The Bible begins with the wedding, it also ends with the wedding Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Revelation 19. You don't want to miss this event? The Lamb is Jesus. Jesus, unblemished by sexual immorality so rampant in this world, he has never committed adultery in his heart. He took upon himself the sexual sins we We have committed. He took on himself the consequences of eternal punishment in hell at the cross. He rose from the dead and ascended to heaven. To prepare a place for us. For those who have never accepted this love, Jesus offers himself to you. He wants to be our groom, committing himself to you forever, pledging his eternal love to us. Would you give yourself to him as his bride? Even if you have life full of mistakes, life full of sexual sins and terrible thoughts, he will accept you and forgive you. If you come to him in faith, you don't have to earn his love or deserve it. He loves you, though we may have cheated on him and fled from his arms. If you wish to begin this love relationship with Christ, please speak with me or one of the elders here. As a pastor, I want to be that matchmaking father, just as Apostle Paul was in 2 Corinthians. eleven two. For I am jealous for you with godly jealousy, for I have betrothed you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ As believers, though our destiny is certain, we are in sort of an engagement period, waiting for that wedding, when we walk down the aisle to be with Jesus. For now the battle in the present is for purity and fidelity to Christ, shunning sexual immorality, the wicked suitors, if you may recall, the worldliness, the false saviors that attack. Let's make the first lines of our last hymn our prayer for this week. My Jesus, I love thee. I know thou art mine. For thee all the follies of sin are resigned. Let's pray. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to your loving kindness, according to the multitude of your Tender mercies, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. Lord, we know from the progressive revelation of the New Testament that the means of that washing What cleansed us as white as snow is the blood of your Son Jesus Christ. For under that washing is all our simple thoughts and our ways especially toward the opposite gender. Sins against ourselves through sexual immorality. Or sins against the same gender. But Lord, help us realize that. Though we have sinned against others, first and foremost, we have sinned against you. We turned away from you. We have spurned your good design, your authority. The goodness you have revealed clearly in the universe. And we bow down to ourselves, to others, to the things that are created Not to create poor. Lord, we thank you for redeeming us through the blood of your son Jesus. And Lord, help us to defend marriage. Help us to defend your good gift of marriage and sex and family and children. Lord, we know that the society is turning away from that. Rapidly, redefining and devaluing all these things. These good gifts from you. As individuals, as we talk to our neighbors, as a church Lord, may we defend your good gifts and point to the glorious mystery of Christ and the Church that is signified We thank you and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.