Well it's good to be back. I did have a good vacation. It was so good that I caught a cold um at the end, so just excuse me if My voice cracks or sounds muffled. So in the last ten years, uh I've taught some Bible classes at Christian schools, both at the secondary level and beyond. And you would think that it would always be a delight to teach the word. But I've had my share of struggles Let's just say that not all students care about the Bible equally, as much as their math, business, and technology courses, because they're worried about their upcoming careers. For example, some of the high school students I had didn't care much about the required Bible classes because colleges and universities they applied for didn't care either So, a particularly disappointing event was finding out that some of my students at a higher level of education have been found guilty of plagiarism. They were assigned short writing assignments with clear instructions, recommended sources, access to library, and plenty of time to complete them. And I spent a substantial amount of time on the first day of class going over the syllabus and explaining that appropriating someone's words and ideas without proper citation is theft. I told them that if I suspect plagiarism in their works, all I have to do is copy a sentence or two from the paper and paste it on Google, and then I can find the original source very easily. Despite all of the forewarnings, I still have to meet with some students and the academic dean and give a failing grade. Again, this is at a Christian school. Uh teachers, parents, grandparents, and longtime members of this church know a thing or two about such issues. Um inculcating Christian values of hard work and pro respecting property work. even if it's ideas, even if it's on Google. And new challenges arise with each passing year. As you can see, theft can take place with the mere click of a mouse, as well as the sleight of hand. But it's not just the outward act. Just as hands that murder and molest come from hateful and lustful hearts, respectively, hands that steal come from greed in the heart. So it should be no surprise that we have the eighth commandment, which we're looking at today, you shall not steal, alongside the previous commands. Today I wish to speak to you about three principles from the Eighth Commandment. First, the Eighth Commandment protects the God-given rights of possession and property. Freedom. Secondly, we have violated the eight commandment in greed. Thirdly, in love, Jesus gave all of himself to us, so that we may give all to him and others. So you'll find those points in the sir uh in sermon insert there in the bulletin First, the Eighth Commandment protects the God-given rights of possession and freedom. From the earliest era of human history, the assumed biblical view is that each person possesses certain inalienable rights. The right to live, the right to have a family, the right to own property and territory, and the right to innovate ideas. Receive credit for that. These rights belong to every human unless they threaten these rights that belong to others. The eighth commandment is built on all these assumptions. We will see in two weeks how the Ten Commandment reinforces the same idea. All of us have these rights because we are all created in God's commandments. God's image and our Creator gave us dominance over earth. We see that in Genesis 1. The distinguished Old Testament scholar Walter C. Kaiser, Jr. Comments, quote, It was at creation that God the Creator committed the world and its resources to humanity. Genesis 1 twenty eight to twenty nine. It was because the man and the woman were made in the image of God that they were commanded to subdue the created order and to exercise dominion over the whole other As a result, God granted dominion to its first human pair under his law, but he did not grant his sovereignty to them, for God alone is Lord. And the only sovereignty overall. Private property is both a gift and a certain type of power God has entrusted to humanity as Stewards. It was God's intention that mortals should be equipped with this gift and power, and that under God they should exercise dominion over the earth. Such dignity is granted to every human being, and he or she must not be stripped of it through theft Through hard work and diligence, each one must obtain ownership of material goods. So we see these virtues extolled in Proverbs 10, 13, and 14 Everywhere in the Bible. Genesis 23 demonstrates how even before the giving of the law, patriarchs like Abraham, So many things have gone wrong in recent times of our country, our politics. The words that begin the preamble to the Declaration of Independence get this truth, right? You guys should know this, right? Quote, We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are indulged by their creator. With certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And these self-evident truths just uh cited lead right into the justification for the government that's To secure these rights, governments are instituted among men and on on and on. So whether it's ancient Israel, the Roman Empire, or United States There is a God-ordained place for the local and national governments, and they must protect these unalienable rights of possession and liberty. Now even though Americans favor democracy as the best form of government, God has appointed in the past other forms of rule to Punish evil, reward good, and establish justice. And we see that in Romans thirteen. And to do that properly, every ruling body must punish theft. Whether it's the academic dean, whether it's the mayor, whether it's the president. When authorities ruin the fear of God and protect fellow humans, They are like the light of the morning when the sun rises, a morning without clouds, like the tender grass springing out of the earth like clear. That's the picture of a good rule that protects our rights. That's in Second Samuel twenty-three If our authorities forget the Eight Commandment, all of us will be in danger. Stealing disrespects and harms the neighbor, the neighborhood, the town, the county, the state, the nation. By stealing, we cannot love our neighbor as ourselves, and we cannot fulfill the law, as we see again in Romans thirteen. As I said last time, the commands do not mutate Now you may have little trouble accepting these teachings. You may be a law-abiding citizen and you cannot recall a time when you have stolen anything. If you ever use the Ten Commandments in evangelism, you may get past this commandment easily as your prospect readily asserts that he or she has kept this one, surely he has, or surely she has. But if we dig deeper though, we have all violated it. That leads to the second principle. We have violated the eight commandments in greed. Just like there are many breakings of the previous commands, there are many transgressions of the eighth commandment. Kevin DeYoung begins his chapter on this topic by citing a question from a catechism. FBC is not a confessional church, but we do often find help from documents of the past. And here's what the 16th century confession, Heidelberg Catechism, has to say about the violations of the Eighth Commandment. Question 110. There's a lot of questions and answers there. Quote, what does God forbid in the eight commandments? appear legitimate such as inaccurate measurements of weight, size, or volume, fraudulent merchandising, counterfeit money, excessive interest, or any other means forbidden by God. In addition, he forbids all greed and pointless squandering of his gifts. Though centuries old, this explanation of theft is quite relevant today. From a commandment which consists of merely two words in the original, once again we have many violations. The most commonly known violation is obviously causing the loss of property due to stealing or even irresponsible behavior. Beyond in the law, in the beyond the restitution of original value, the violator may be required to pay double the amount. In case of overnight robbery, the thief may pay with The next. I'll name seven more ways to break the Eight Commandment. And some of these are very familiar to us. One, consumer fraud. Two, kidnapping. Three, stealing from the disadvantaged, four, corrupt authorities that favor the powerful, five wage discrimination or employee bullying Six laziness. Seven, improper or lack of giving. So I'll go over them again as I Continue. First, we steal through consumer fraud, and some of us know this as victims. Customers can be victimized by theft of salesmen and saleswomen In ancient Israel, currency and goods were weighed on for payment of transactions, but scales were at times manipulated to benefit the discipline. On a cellar. Such fraudulent activities are abominations to the Lord. And we see this in Leviticus 19, Proverbs 11, 16, 20, Deuteronomy 24. Worse than stealing things from humans, it's stealing humans themselves through kidnapping. Human greed has gone too far in this world, and we see the results. Thieves not only cause the loss of property, but also the loss of human dignity. And we see that the love of money left unchecked damages the self and others in such a terrible way. We see that in First Timothy six. For example, consider chat of slavery. Throughout history, people of power have resorted to stealing fellow humans by killing kidnapping those of other race, the young, the vulnerable, to serve their needs and make a profit. A modern version of this evil is what I prayed against a few weeks ago Human sex trafficking and slavery. The Bible clearly condemns kidnapping as it is an act of stealing and exploding the most precious created things in the world. Exodus twenty one, first Timothy one. You can look at those passages. A subtler way to steal is to take advantage of the disadvantage, those disadvantaged in physical and social stature. That's another way to steal. The law of Moses protected the rights of the disabled, as wretched robbers may place a trap for a blind man to steal his goods. Leviticus nineteen In Exodus 22, we see that general rules of interest and pledges should consider the social status of the person. If poor and destitute, interest should not be charged and basic clothing used as pledges should be returned as soon as possible. It's not that the Bible is against charging interest. Interest. Remember Jesus promoted interest yielding investments in his parables in Matthew twenty five and Luke nineteen. It's just that not all lending shall be profit based, but some done out of generosity. When the situation calls for it. Next we have stealing from corrupt authorities that favor the powerful. Now, before we point our fingers to imbe perfect governments and millionaires who hoard right how we live in a democratic government by definition power belonging to We ought to be grateful for the abundance we have. So I looked this up on a web website, uh something called Global Rich List. If your annual income is twenty thousand dollars, you are among the top three point six five percent richest people in the world by income So we're very much blessed. Yet those who are well fed feed from others, especially in corrupt authorities, as they face And of course we have in 1 Kings 21 the infamous story of King Ahab stealing from Navid's fine stealing Navid's fine Remember that King Ahab wasn't dying of hunger, and he had plenty of other places to choose from. David was bound by loyalty to his family, as the vineyard was an inheritance of his father. So Ahab was soaking when Jezebel came and concocted a plan to have him killed and have the vineyard transferred over to the king. King. The corrupt the local government cater to the greedy king and allow the theft to take place under the radar. And that wouldn't be the last time that such theft took place. Through a corrupt system. Our Lord Jesus Himself suffered under similar injustice as he went to the cross. Through bribes, justice is denied to the poorer and weaker members of our society every day. That's why there are constant warnings against those who do not represent God well in their exercise. See in First Samuel, Second Chronicles, Psalms, Proverbs, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Amos. Now this may not seem as relevant to you because you're not in a political office. But God may place us as a leader above our colleagues or as a manager over employees. And that leads to the next violation. If we fall into greed, we may resort to wage discrimination or employee bullying. We may cheat certain individuals under us or below us by robbing them of their fair wages or the same thing. Respect due to them, Leviticus 19. Paul warns the employers, the masters, to pay their employees fairly and give the respect due to them as fellow humans. James reprimands those who show favoritism to the rich and confronts the rich themselves who abuse their power by not paying their wages to their employees. James 2 and 5. Next, laziness can also lead to theft of time and money belonging to employers and government. And family. I'm sure we at least had one lazy day in our lives. But God takes that very seriously. An employee may feign diligence and hard work only when they're supervised. That is what's called eye service. Ephesians six, Colossians three. By such behavior, the greed ball uh the agreed balance between work put in and the wages put out the earth. Is disturbed. Time and money are stolen from the employer. Not only is the employer offended, God is dishonored. Solution consists of sincerity of heart and reverence for the Lord, our true boss who watches from above. Laziness can also lead to stealing from the government through tax evasion. One year I have to work multiple freelances jobs and kept all my income info in a spreadsheet. Of course I could have done a better job with the records and ended up having to sort through a mass or a mess of numbers But April fifteenth was approaching, so I had to crunch the numbers and did all the work only to see that I owed money to IRS. So So obviously that can be a frustrating experience. But our Lord Jesus paid taxes, though through him all things were created. And he taught others to do the same Paul told believers to render taxes to whom taxes are due. We saw all we see all this in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and Romans. Let's not be lazy in this matter. and steal from the government. And of course, laziness can negatively affect families as well. When I spoke on the fifth commandment, I mentioned the case of a A glutton and a drunkard who wasted his life and dishonored his parents. That was in Deuteronomy 21. By being lazy, the person is failing to render to parents honor due to them. And their name. And of course they're burdening them financially too. Work is a good gift of God given to mankind Before the fall? Doors and thistles, of course, frustrate work, but work itself remains a gift. So failing to take advantage of the gift is bad stewardship. You're squandering the good gifts of God. Paul warned those who stopped working and burden others to provide for them that they should be working themselves, providing for them. We see that in Ephesians, First Thessalonians and Second Thessalonians. Finally, under this Second subpoint, we understand that we steal from God as we improperly give or refrain from giving. Now it's not that God needs Resources, we are told in Psalm fifty that He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. It is for our benefit that we give On the flip side, disobedience in the area of giving is a danger to the self and others. In the book of Joshua, we see a bad example in chapters 6 and 7. There was the heavily fortified city of Jericho, and it fell to Israelites as they followed God's instructions to encircle the city walls for a week. All of the inhabitants were destroyed except Rahab. And her family. And remember, Rahab helped them earlier. God commanded the Israelites to devote all the spoils of war to his sanctuary. But there was a man named Achan who from the The tribe of Judah stole clothes and precious metals from the plunder. And because of his theft, thirty-six soldiers died in an ensuing battle against another city. This was a national crime. And Achan was executed. He stole from God. Why does God require collections of material goods? Goods. It is through giving that God is glorified in his ministry to care for his workers and the needy among the people. See there in Numbers 18, Acts eleven, Romans fifteen. First Corinthians nine and first Timothy five. So it's not just an Old Testament concept, it's also in the New Testament. Givers must give out of compassionate love. John three, and joyful and generous hearts Second Corinthians eight to nine. When done with the right motivation, which the Lord takes seriously, giving blesses the giver Luke six, Acts twenty. Whether it's a tenth, as a general principle, twenty five percent, fifty percent, we rob God, what is due to him when we refrain from giving Uh during a New Testament survey course in my seminary years, I remember one of my professors turning to a whiteboard with a marker and drawing a circle. And he explained that the circle in the many people's minds represents our income and often we think it belongs to us. And we take a small chunk He drew a small circle within the bigger one and an arrow pointing outward to indicate such mindset. But the better way to think, as he drew another circle, is that the big circle is all God's. All that we have belongs to Him. All of our possessions belong to the Lord. That we should then take a small circle out of the big circle, only as much as we need to survive and to meet our daily needs. The rest should be given to further God's kingdom. It was a it was a very simple illustration, but it changed the way I thought. Knowing all this, we need to watch carefully how we give. give improperly because everything belongs to the Lord. Not everyone need in the congregation needs to know what percentage you give to God. During offering time we collect offerings in a display discreet way. Without fanfare for the best owners or shame for the least owners. Pastors and elders here do not know who how who gives much, who gives little, and who gives none. We trust that our Lord knows who gives and how they give, whether it's an entire savings fund or the widows might God knows how much we own and give, so if we give improperly, he may severely discipline us as he did to Ananias and Sapphira. They were a couple that wanted to imitate Barnabas who had just sold land and donated the proceeds to God's worker. But unlike Barnabas, they kept some of the money for themselves, but acted like they were giving it all before others, as in Acts four and five. For their attempted deception of God, Peter, and the Consulate Congregation at Jerusalem, they were instantly struck down. So I tend to think that Ananias and Sapphira were saved. But disciplined by physical death, just like those in Corinth who treated the Holy Communion lightly. Saved or unsaved, God takes seriously proper accounting. All these violations of personal property rights from offerings that belong to the event. to God, to possessions belonging to our neighbors. It stems from greedy and idolatrous preoccupation with wealth. Jesus warned that earthly treasures do not last. Greed darkens our vision of eternal things, and money can become an idol rivaling God Himself. Greed brings us to needless worries that lead us astray. From trust in the Father who provides all things. See this in Matthew six and Luke twelve. As heirs of God's kingdom, we must leave behind thievery, pilfer. our resources, we have the pure example of Jesus, who not only refrained from breaking the eighth commandment, but positively loved others and loved God most of all. That leads to the third point. In love, Jesus gave all of himself to us, so that we may give all to him and others. God's grace is that though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor, that you through his poverty might become rich. You know the American dream is to move up the social class from the poor to rich. And what for? For self-gratification. Quite the opposite in direction, our Lord and God's Son moved down to save us and glorify the Father. The famous hymn by Frank Houghton Expresses at wealth, thou who wast rich beyond all splendor, all for love's sake becameest poor. Thrones for a manger this surrender, sapphire paid courts for stable. floor. Thou who was rich beyond all splendor, all for love's sake becomes poor. He became poor that we became we might become rich. We became like kings as heirs of the next world, as all things are given through Christ. First Corinthians eight. I mean three This promise is secure through the gospel. He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with them also freely give us all things? Romans 8. And the cost of this promise is Jesus' humiliation as servant when he went to the cross. We see that in Philippians 2. He died on the cross to pay the penalty for our sins, our greed, our deaths, all of our violations of God's laws. He died and rose from the dead on the third day and ascended to heaven. He gave his priceless blood and offers eternal work to us, freedom. All that we need to do is to come before Jesus, repent of our sins, accept the gift of eternal life by faith. We can't Earn it, we don't have to. None of our good works, even our great generous works, can buy us favor with God So each month we commemorate the gift of life given through the gospel, through the Holy Communion. God has given us the Lord's Supper so that we will remember that we are recipients of grace. Not self-made men and women. Not by our efforts are we saints. Though we are poor and wretched, though we have stolen what belongs to God and others We are invited to come before the king and join him at his table. We know that if we come by faith, we will not be denied. Like the robber who died alongside Jesus, we'll be with the Lord in heaven. Luke twenty-three. Christ remembers us always, even on the So let us remember Christ always, especially on this day of communion. Let's pray.