Mär maata nii. Well, that's sort of my childhood watching that. every major holiday if I remember correctly. But um why did I bring this up? Well thanks to some recent Bible lessons from Exodus, uh my son's frequently pretending to be Moses at home. If Annette's in the same room, he'd say that she's a pharaoh. Gonna work on that. As for me, I work for the pharaoh that That makes perfect sense, I think. Um anyways that Daniel will bring me a stick and tell me to take it. Meanwhile he has a stick of his own in his hand and he tell me as he drops His stick on the floor, this is the rod of Aaron, which turns into a snake. Then he tells me to drop my stick on the floor. My rod, of course, belongs to one of Pharaoh's magicians, which also turns into a snake. And then Nathaniel will tell me what happens next. Aaron's rod eats up the magician's rod, right? A few minutes later, I see my stick wrapped up in one of my phone chargers. And he g hands it to me and I mean God wins the end, right? So that's how I was reminded this week. That when Moses confronted Pharaoh, it wasn't just the army or the magicians he had to face. Moses confronted worldviews of a powerful kingdom. The prophet stood before its king, believed to be the descendant of the sun god Ra. In their origin stories, it is the sun god who ruled the world and gave life. So then it's no wonder that when God sent the ten plagues to humble Egypt, it culminated with a direct attack on their sun god. The penultimate nine plague brought darkness over Egypt for three days. It was a darkness that is said to be, it can be felt all over the land. Then the tenth and final plague took the firstborn of the Pharaoh. Again, remember the Pharaoh's the manifestation of the Egyptian sun god Ra. The heir is dead, the father was bereaved. This will be the tragedy that breaks the ruler and his bondage over at last over Israel. Most of you know the Exodus account well, but it's key that we make this connection between the first chapter of Genesis and what happens in Exodus. Which is and Genesis is that true origin story compared to the false accounts out there Moses, the deliverer of Israel, is the one who writes about creation, as you know. No doubt, as he wrote down the account, it gave him confidence that Yahweh Elohim, the creator of all things, is on his side. The Egyptians worship the sun god, but he worshiped the God who created the sun. We'll see that today as we continue in our coverage of Creation Week. So as we ended last time at Genesis one thirteen, and we got through the first seventy-two hours of the universe, the majority of those hours were spent clearing space. And making room for life. So our Creator divided life from darkness on day one, Sunday. He made a firmament to divide waters from waters on day two Monday he gathered the waters below into sea so that dry land what might appear on day three. It's a Tuesday. Not until the latter part of day three that light appears on earth. As we move on to the rest of the week, we witness the Lord continuing to fill the space. In space far above, he'll make the sun, the moon, the stars on day four. In space below, he'll create living creatures of sky and sea. On day five. On earth, he'll make creatures of land on day six. As we progress, we get the sense that God not only has his purposes for each individual day, but he's building up to a very good final product. Day six. But before we get there, let's look at days four and five. Four and five. Let's read now Genesis one, fourteen to twenty-three Then God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs and seasons. And for days and years, and let them be for lights in the firmament of the heavens to give light on the earth. And it was so. Then God made two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. He made the stars also. God set them in the firmament of the heavens to give light on the earth and to rule over the day and over the night and to divide the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. So the evening and the morning were the four And God said, let the waters abound with an abundance of living creatures and let birds fly above the earth across the face of the fur. So God created great sea creatures and every living thing that moves, with which the waters abounded according to their kind, and every winged bird according to its kind And God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth. So the evening and the morning were the fifth day. And I stop here because I'm going to talk about day six next time. There's just so much going on on that first Friday. And there's more than enough to observe on Wednesday and Thursday. But in the midst of all this divine creative activity, there are some constants. For example, God speaks at least Once each day. And each day closes with a formulaic summary. So the evening and the morning were blank day, first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth. But besides these constants, there are variables that make each day unique. Day one is obviously full of unprecedented events. Day two got us talking about the firmament, better translated, I think, as the expanse. Day three had us thinking about plant life on dry land. Now as we focus on days four and five, we're trying to pinpoint what makes these days unique. It won't help to be general. Let's should try to be specific. It's not enough to say there's light on day four. Light already existed from day one. Not enough to say there are organisms on day five. Organisms already existed from day three. But as you read more carefully, You'll see that the lights of day four have a specific location and a unique purpose. The location is the expanse or the firmament. Their purpose is to give light on the earth, to rule over the day and the night. to divide the light from the darkness. As for day five, you'll see that light created that day differs from vegetations of day three. While both vegetation and living creatures are declared good, reproduced according to their kinds, only these living creatures can move, swim, fly, and roam freely. Biblically speaking, only living creatures have life in them, in their blood, so they're superior to herbs they eat for food. Only they receive God's blessing and the command to be fruitful, multiply, and fill. So with these differences in mind, I have two lessons about our Creator, the God of light and life. God gives light on earth and favors his brightness. That's verses fourteen to nineteen. And then two, God blesses life on earth and desires his fullness. That's 20 to 23. But first, God gives light on earth and favors its Brightness. I imagine the universe as a stage where there's theater and drama, right? At first there are these big floodlights, I imagine, that cover large area and illuminate the space uniformly. But say we want to direct audience focus to a particular spot. Then we might install smaller spotlights that shine at specific locations on the stage. I think that's kind of an illustration of what's going on here. On days 1 to 3, God used some unique source of light that to divide the 24-hour span into darkness and light. That's like the floodlight. As we move from day three to day four, God creates lights as spotlights to illuminate and warm up the earth. So day four begins with God speaking as He did other days. We read his words in verse fourteen. Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs and seasons. seasons and for days and years. And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heavens to give light on the earth. As we know, these lights above are the sun, the moon, and the stars. While we're not given all the technicalities, we're informed of their purpose. Their main function relates to the measure of time and location. Now the lights of day four, like the lights of days one, two, three, continue the division day from night, evening from morning. But these luminaries do a lot more. As signs they help with direction. We know that the sun rises east and sunsets west. The North Star guides our navigation. And as the moon revolves around the sun and the earth around the sun, we have we have month months, seasons, and years. They are important for farmers working, geese migrating, horses breeding, bears hibernating, and ants storing up for the winter. In addition to time marking, these lights are life-giving. The Lord did not place them haphazardly but carefully. If the sun was placed too close to us, we'd obviously burn up. If the moon was placed too close to us, I looked this up, we'd have large tides, floods, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions everywhere. But of course, our wise creator considered all these things. Not by some coincidence, things are where they are. You can see that he has special care and concern for life on this planet. He intended these lights to give light on the earth. I also want you to note though how Creator Elohim favors light and its brightness. Yes, I mean that God is, I can say, biased towards light. See, the universe does not operate in a 50-50 dualism between light and dark. Even during night, when it seems darkness should rule, what does it say? It says at the end of verse 16, God made a lesser light to rule the night. Talk about the moon. Sure, the moon does not rec compare to the glory of the sun, but it still has quote unquote authority during its evening watch. But there's not in the night times something like pitch black darkness, something that the Egyptians suffered during that plague. The stars also play a role in the night, but pretty as they are and numerous as they may be, they seem to play a secondary role to the moon. They're sort of mentioned in passing at the end of verse 16. Just by the way, the grammar is there. But they do have some share in authority, as we see in Psalm 136, 7 to 9. God has ordained the start for rules Uh stars for rule, and as he did with the moon, as we see in Psalm 8. 3. He knows their great number and each one intimately by name, as we see in Psalm 147, verse 4. Isaiah forty twenty-six. So to sum up day four, we see that it's unique. Not because light was created as day four I mean day one. Uh day four is unique because now the sun, the moon, and the stars meet the long-term needs of those on Earth A4 is also unique because the Lord wants the light to have dominion constantly, even during night. Creator Elohim saw all this as good. So again, we learn here that God gives light on earth and favors his brightness. This foundational idea anticipates greater truths to come. What the Lord did with the light the first week, creating it and favoring it, has lasting implications. For one, the goodness of life points to the goodness of God. As light often symbolizes purity and darkness symbolizes evil, we're taught concerning divine perfection and human sin. Respectfully. So for example, we're told in figure of speech in 1 John 1. 5, God is light and in him is no darkness at all. And that's true of each of the three persons of the Trinity. It says in James 1, 17 to 18 that God the Father brought us forth by the word of truth. He is the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. It is said of God the Son in John 1:3-4. The word became flesh. All things were made through him, and without him nothing was made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of man. Revelations 4, 4 to 5. God the Spirit is depicted as lamps of fire before God's throne, seven of them to symbolize his perfection. So we get that our triune God is favorably depicted as the God of light. Now what about us? Well, as much as we like to think we're enlightened by education, rise to be luminaries in society, or have the inner light to calm us in trouble. Right. The Bible is brutally honest about our condition. That is a dark condition. Apart from grace, we're we are darkness, right? Even equated with the night. Or darkness inside out. Because our perception of God and His creation is distorted, our eyes are like bad broken lamps. So the light that's within us is great darkness, as Jesus said. It gets worse. We're literally dim-witted when it comes to God. The Lord God of Israel has given the sun, the moon. The stars, all the hosts of heaven, to all the peoples under the whole heaven as a heritage. Yet people everywhere lift their eyes to heaven and feel driven to worship them and serve them Instead of fearing God, we're dismayed at the signs of heaven, so in our idolatry we become futile in our thoughts. Our foolish hearts were darkened. Blinded by sin. We do not know or understand justice or fairness. We stray from the upright paths. We walk about in darkness under Satan's power. Because of our sin, we're destined for hell. We are darkness, there's darkness in us, so we're justly thrown out into outer darkness where there will be weakness. And gnashing of teeth. What hope is there for us? Is there, as they say, a light at the end of the tunnel? Well, yes, to borrow the words of Peter, the apostle, there's a prophetic word that's confirmed in the good news of Jesus. And we will do well to heed it as a light that shines in a dark place. This is where we go from the bad news of our sin to the good news of redemption. As I said earlier, in Jesus' life, and that life was the light of men. Came as a light into the world, so whoever believes in him should not abide in darkness. But instead of celebrating this light, rejoicing in Christ, we who are darkness did not comprehend it. This is the condemnation that the light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. And so we as sinful humanity did the worst thing imaginable. We try to extinguish the light of God, to snuff him out. The people rejected Jesus, as you know, persecuted him to death. As he was crucified, darkness came over all the land for three hours. It was as if the sun could not stand to watch its creator. die He could not help but protest, give it sign of disapproval. But all this suffering and pain had a purpose. Jesus died in our place to pay the penalty. of sins we should pay to satisfy the wrath of God. Having paid the price in full, he breathed his last. He was buried in the grave. But as we like to sing here, a little bit later in Easter, on the third day, Christ rose a victor from the dark domain. He presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen by disciples for forty days. Then he descended, uh then he ascended to heaven to sit at the Father's right hand. Someday he will return to judge all mankind. At the end of the age, sinners will be punished forever, but the righteous and wise saints will shine as the sun and the stars in the kingdom. And the way to be righteous, get right with God, is by repentance and faith. Repent, that is, turn from sin and renounce self-righteousness, turn to Jesus, trust in Him only for eternal life. Entrance into heaven is a gift. You cannot earn it or deserve it. God saves you by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And now for those of us who are granted salvation, we can be grateful and shine the light of Jesus. We're more like the moon than the sun in this respect, right? Like the moon, we do not generate our own light. It is Christ who gives us light. It is the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. Because God is working in us. We can shine in this dark world through good works, holy living, and godly speech. This is how we saints glorify our Creator and Redeemer, the God of light. So that's what I want to urge you for believers to keep on believing. Right. Or maybe non Christians to start believing. So now let's go on to the next day. We observe how God not only lights up the world, but he also creates living creatures to fill the earth. Like day four, day five begins with Creator Elohim. Speaking here his words again from verse twenty, let the waters abound with an abundance of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the face of the firmament of the heavens. But that's not all God has to say. Note how he blesses them and speaks again later in verse 22. Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the sea. And let birds multiply on the earth. From all this we learn that God blesses life on earth and desires his fullness. I'll repeat what I said earlier about how day five differs from day three, while both vegetations and living creatures are good, and day three They reproduce, only animals can move, swim, fly, and roam freely. Biblically speaking, only these living creatures have life in them and are superior to herbs they eat for food Food. Only living creatures receive God's blessing and the command to be fruitful, multiply, and fill the world. So it appears they possess some sort of consciousness, though I use that term kind of loosely. Admittedly, there are many unknowns, but the scriptures do give us more details. Life was created on day five and six. They're called Nefeshkaya. That's translated as living creatures or living thing. It also says down in Genesis one thirty that in these creatures is Nefeshkayah. They possess life life that is in the blood, like I said, and have the breath of life in their flesh. That's how the creatures of sea, sky, and land are fundamentally different from grass, earth, and trees. I think uh the font there is broken, but the English font is fine. We humans share in that distinction, but we're even more special. We're uniquely God's image bearers. As you'll see later, he breathes, God breathes life, the breath of life into man, and as a result, we man became a living being. Again, Nefesh Kaya. Let's get back to day five. We see that water creatures and flying creatures were created by God. We're talking everything ranging from the tiny zooplankton, a few micrometers. To the blue whale more than 100 meters long. The gray sea creatures of Genesis 121 could be large mammals like whales, but they might also be reptilian. Okay. The sea uh the word for sea creatures is taninim. Right? Tanin in singular, right? Translated as serpents elsewhere, like Exodus seven, which I mentioned at the beginning. So we might be talking about some large snake-like creature like a great crocodile. I don't know. No, or we might be talking about gigantic sea dinosaurs now extinct, like the pleasure. I don't know how to say these dinosaur names. Should I ask Or it could be all of the above. We're not sure exactly what these creatures were, but they're very big. And what is certain is that God created them all for his glory And then in the skies we have great diversity there as well, right? We immediately think of birds a variety of sizes. I'm not a big bird watching person, but you know, they are beautiful, right? We think of the big birds like the wandering albatross. Apparently their wingspan can be over eleven feet. Or obviously we know about the hummingbirds, just a couple of inches in size. Did a lot of uh looking up animals this week. But all these living creatures, right, whether they swim or fly, reproduce according to their kind. They share this power of reproduction with grass, herbs, and the trees You see that key phrase according to their kind or its kind and days Three, five, and six. The word for kind best approximates I think to the genus or genera in plural. I think species will be too specific. But within a genus there's potential for adaptation, change change and variety of species over time. For example, among the fish there's this something called Carassius, a genus, and that includes like the goldfish and Some species of carps, right? And among the birds there's the name says it all, falconiforms with falcons, hawks, eagles, and vultures. They seem to be in a group of genes. On land there are canine, canines, I think you guys should note that there's dogs and wolves, Pantera with lions and tigers, these big cats, right? There's both unity and diversity by God's design, and we see This beauty in all forms of life. It's only the living creatures, Nepheshkaiah, who received this blessed command to multiply. So we learn here in day five that God blesses life on earth and desires his fullness. That lesson will continue into day six. Let's stop today with some applications. I'll just end with two. Of course, as we study different views on how life began, we must accept that biblical creationism is incompatible with the theory of evolution. I think I said in a previous sermon, we don't make it a test of fellowship. if you believe in evolution, but I do encourage you to read the Bible carefully. I mentioned how these creatures of sea and sky reproduce according to their kinds With this, we acknowledge that there are adaptations and variations within the genus and the species. But to say that entirely new kinds of organisms arise given enough amount of time, you know, millions and billions of years. That's not warranted in the scriptures. We grant that microevolution is compatible with the Bible, but what's called a m macroevolution does not seem warranted. Warranted in the scriptures. Here's another problem, a little bit more simple to explain. Evolutionists would say that birds came from dinosaurs, but it's clear that birds were created first. So we need to consider carefully how the biblical account of creation does not align with the evolutionary order and timing. Those are Just some few examples to consider. There's a second application, and I'll end with this: God's rule. Over the great sea creatures shall inspire us to worship him who created them. But an easy application, you know, worship God, right? So I was reflecting on the other day about that great classic, Herman Melville's Moby Dick. The key character in it is Captain Ahab. He's obsessed with vengeance against the white whale that scarred and maimed him. He's described as a quote, grand, ungodly, godlike man. He seems to be larger than life. He submits to no authority. Tragically, it's his blind ambition that leads him to to destruction and ruin, he, his ship, and most of his crew pay the ultimate price. Sorry for the spoiler, but the book has been around for a while, so Captain Ahab is fictional, but very relatable, I would say. Many today displaying his indomitable human spirit, wanting to conquer the world. Subdue nature itself. Deny nature. But instead of such desire for dominance, we'd be better off humbling ourselves before our Creator. A great whale can make short work of humans, even great ships. How much more will we fe shall we fear the one who created the great whales and the sea creatures? When you get a chance, meditate on Job 41. See how God Almighty can toy with sea creatures like the Leviathan He can catch the monster on a hook like a fish, peel off his scales and serve it on a plate. He reminded Joven versus 10 through 11 of chapter 41. No one is so fierce that he would dare stir him up. Who then is able to stand against me? Who has preceded me that I should pay him? Everything under heaven is mine. We don't need to go through what Joe went through to realize to arrive at the same conclusion. God, the Creator, is worthy of our worship. Great and powerful. With that in mind, let's end our time together with this song. It begins like this: Praise to the Lord, be Almighty, the King of Creation. It ends like this. All that has life and breath come now with praises before him. Let the young man sound from his people again. Gladly forever adore him. So we thank you that you are the creator of all things. Lord, that you are the God of light. You're the Father of light. You sent your Son to be the light. Your Spirit illuminates our hearts so that we We can understand the gospel, understand your word. And Lord, you also called us to be light. Called us to talk about the light that you give through the good news of Jesus. Christ. So we pray that as we live each and every day, with every breath we take, that we would glorify you, that you will give us chance to go to every creature, every part of creation. in this world to share the gospel, to be a light, to love, and to do all these things that you called us to do Lord, we we are thankful that you've given us this privilege to rule over creation, rule over created things, only through your Son Jesus Christ that you You put man above all these other creatures. We thank you that we can only have this through your Son Jesus Christ, the second Adam. Just thank you, and in Christ's name we pray. Amen.