Well good morning and I bring you greetings from Baltimore Bible Church where I have the privilege of uh serving as pastor and uh very uh grateful to to be here. Uh I want to give a personal uh word of thanks to Pastor Sung Cho to the leader. leadership here as well as the the congregation uh for having me and uh was encouraged by the uh the testimony uh that we uh heard this morning as well. So congratulations uh uh Peyton on uh becoming a part of this uh local assembly, a part of this church. And uh you definitely want to share with uh your group uh at UMBC about the Roots and Reformation Conference. It's one of the things that we're really hoping uh and one of the reasons that we're having the conference at a university at a local university is we're hoping to encourage uh some of the the local university students about the importance of uh missions, about evangelism, uh the importance of becoming uh part of a local church and uh uh being a vibrant member of uh local churches. So uh definitely uh grateful uh for the opportunity to to share that opportunity with uh with you as well. The Roots and Reformation Conference. It's about uh really celebrating uh the recovery of the the gospel and uh the centrality of the Word of God in many African churches. I had an opportunity to visit there uh a couple years ago and uh really see a great work that the Lord is is doing uh to to really uh bring the uh the scriptures uh to the to the forefront of of a lot of ministries there and they're even uh starting uh to send out missionaries themselves, uh you know, some of these churches there that have really uh recovered the the biblical uh gospel and uh the truth of the word of God. So we're excited to share that with you as well as to uh uh really promote the ongoing work of the word uh in the local church and in So really invite you to consider uh coming uh to be with us uh for the Roots and Reformation Conference. Uh we're we're grateful uh to share that with you If you would, take your Bibles and open up to the book of Luke, Luke chapter 10, and I will say one more word of introduction. This is my mother over here, by the way, just for those of you that that might want to know who's sitting with me, but uh my mother's uh here with me today. Uh but if you would uh take your Bibles and open up to the book of Luke, Luke chapter 10. And uh we're going to take a look at one of the best known and one of the most beloved stories in all of Scripture. Uh this is a story that's simple, uh, it's memorable, it's convicting. and the truth that it teaches is profound and this is the story of the Good Samaritan. Uh numerous hospitals have been named after this story, the Good Samaritan. Various missions, organizations have taken their name from the story of the Good Samaritan. And when society wants to speak about somebody who demonstrates an extraordinary selflessness, extraordinary kindness, they refer to that person as a good Samaritan. And whether people read their Bibles or not, most people are familiar with that title, Good Samaritan, and most people could retell the story to some degree. I mean we we all know the story, right? There's a poor guy who falls among thieves, he's left for dead, and the people that you would most expect to help him don't, and then the person you would least expect to help him does. And uh this is often what Jesus Jesus did. He had a surprising twist in the stories that he told, and one of the common techniques that Jesus used was this element of surprise. unexpected twist that uh the audience didn't see coming that would send the audience back home reeling, you know, can you believe it? Can you believe that story, how it turned out, and uh really left a lasting impression on those who heard and really leaves an impression on those of us who hear today as well. And there's so many lessons that we could walk away from from the story of the Good Samaritan. We can be convicted by the compassion that's the Samaritan uh offered, you know, uh to this uh uh person who was on the road, we can be convicted by that. Uh we also see that sin is not just what we do. but it's also what we fail to do. Those who pass by, you know, this one who was left on the road, that's a sin as well. Uh we see the hypocrisy of false religion, religious people failing to care for need, and uh we're also challenged to imitate the love that we see demonstrated in this illustration. And the list could go on, all the things that we could learn from the story. But if these are the only lessons That we walk away from with this story of the Good Samaritan, I think that we've missed the entire point of the story. That's not why Jesus told this parable If if all we learn is that, you know, like a good neighbor, we should be there, we've missed the main point that Jesus was trying to communicate. What I want to show you from this text is that none of us are good enough to be considered a good Samaritan. In fact, Being a good Samaritan wasn't the main point that Jesus was trying to make, and it's not why he brought up the story. It wasn't the point. And just to show you that, let's turn our attention to Luke chapter 10. and allow the story itself and the context of the story to make this point for us. Luke chapter 10, I'll start at verse 25 It says, And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? He said to him, What is written in the law? What is your reading of it? So he answered and said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have answered rightly. Do this, and you will live. But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Then Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves. Thieves, who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. Likewise a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked at the first time. And passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an end, and took care of him. On the next day when he departed, He took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him, and whatever more ye spend, when I come again I will repay you. So, which of these three do you think was a neighbor to him who fell among the thieves? And he said, He who showed mercy on him. And Jesus said to him, Go and do likewise. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord. We're uh grateful uh for your word. Uh we pray that you would open it up uh to us, help us to understand the things that are written in it. And Father, I pray that you would be glorified and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people in Jesus' name. We pray. Amen. I think what's often overlooked in this story of the Good Samaritan is what started the story in the first place. Look back at verse 25 again. It says, and behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? That's the main concern. The main concern is about what? It's about eternal life. That's the main question. That's the concern that Jesus is trying to address this lawyer, puts him to the test, and says, how can I inherit eternal life? And there's no more important question that could ever be asked. And the reason why there's no more important that could ever be asked is because we're all going to die one day. And we need to know what's going to come after that point. What happens after I die? This is the most important question. We're all going back to the dust. In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 19, it says, For you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Moses, the author of Psalm 90, uses the same metaphor that we're going back to the dust, you man. Turn back into dust and say, you turn man back into dust and say, return, O children of men. We're all going back to the dust. James says we're like a vapor that rises and disappears. We all have a time limit, an expiration date. There's coming a terminus point, just like the steam that rises from the cup or the pot. You rise for a little while and then it vanishes. It's gone. We're like the dust that returns to the earth. We're like the grass that withers and fades. So the most important question is, well, what am I going to do to prepare for after that point? I know I'm going to die, but I know I have to die physically, but do I have to die eternally? It's the main question. Job asked the question in Job 14, 14, if a man dies, will he live again? I mean, Lord, is this it? If a man dies, is he going to live again? Ecclesiastes chapter 3. God has made everything appropriate in its time, and he has set eternity in the heart of every man. Everybody deep down within himself knows that there's got to be more than this, and I don't want to die. This life that I've been been given It's a gift. I don't want this to end. There's something within us that says, I don't want this to end. I don't want to die. And this lawyer asked Jesus this question about eternal life. It Eternal life was not just a promise of the New Testament, it's a promise of the Old Testament. As far back as Genesis 5, we find in the cycle of uh they live, they begat, they died, you know, this kind of consistent cycle of those going back to the dust. That you have one who's contained in Genesis chapter 5 who actually bypasses death, Enoch walked with God, and he was not for God took him. Like, hey, somebody escaped this. You know, is is there a way out of this? So this is the question. Elijah goes up by a whirlwind to heaven in 2 Kings chapter 2. Daniel speaks about those who uh will come back from the earth and rise again. So there's this question about eternal life. Even throughout the Psalms, and so many times throughout the Psalms, it speaks about eternal life. Sometimes we pass over it, we skip over it. But like in Psalm 23, surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord. How long? Forever. Even the the psalmist, even David is speaking about eternal life dwelling in the house of the Lord forever. So when this lawyer approaches Jesus with this concern about eternal life, uh it wouldn't just be a New Testament concern. This is an Old Testament concern. You know, he was one who studied the law of God and One of the main questions that the scribes, the Pharisees would argue about, even with the Sadducees, they'd argue about the resurrection. They'd argue about eternal life. They wanted to know something about what comes after this. So we have this lawyer who comes to Jesus and he asks the question about eternal life. And when we think about a lawyer, we think about somebody who's an expert in criminal law, judicial law. you know, the other forms of law. But when the Bible speaks about a lawyer, it speaks about somebody who's an expert in the divine law. This is the person who's an expert in the Old Testament scriptures. Another name for the lawyers were scribes. There were professional students of the Word of God, teachers of the Word of God. Whenever you had a question about anything, you'd go to these guys because they'd read the Bible backwards and forwards, literally. They'd count the letters up, you know, within the the books. What's the middle letter? What's the uh how how many letters does this book have? I mean that's the kind of detail uh to which they would study the the word of God. So if you had a question about what does the word of God mean, you'd go to a lawyer. You go to a scribe, but now you have the scribe or the lawyer coming to Jesus. Because I don't even know the answer to this question. So he's coming to Jesus with this. He knew a lot. He was well respected in society, but he still had a question about his eternity. And I wonder how many people that describes today. You know, you may know a lot about the Bible, you may be well respected, but there still might be that nagging question in the back of your mind, if I die, am I going to make it? Do I know that I have etern And he asked him and really testing him, you know what I'm saying. What shall I do to inherit eternal life? Testing Jesus, thoroughly examining Jesus about this. By the time we get to this point in the Gospel of Luke. Jesus has spent roughly three years teaching in the synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom. He's encountered scribes and Pharisees numerous times, even astonished people as a child by asking and answering questions. Remember that? Back in Luke chapter 2. On another occasion, he met with Nicodemus, another leader of the Jews, and Jesus spoke to him by night. He came to Jesus and really had the same question on his mind You know, John chapter 3, Rabbi, we know that you've come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these things, these signs that you do, unless God is with them. And Jesus basically asks, answers the question that he didn't ask. It's like, hey, you know, you're talking about me being a rabbi and nobody doing these works. What you really came here to talk about is eternal life. That's really what you want to know about. And Jesus answers and says, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot be born. not see the kingdom of God. That's really what you want to talk about. You want to talk about eternal life. Because many people had that question. What's going on with eternal life? And if you're looking for an outline, uh we're going to kind of walk through through this, uh two questions, an answer, and a command, okay? Two questions, an answer, and a command. And this kind of cycle repeats twice, but uh you have you have the first question. What shall I do to inherit eternal life? How can I gain it? And that question is followed up by the second question. And it's the question that Jesus asked in response to his question, which is often how Jesus answered questions. I'll answer a question with the question. What is written in the law? What is your reading of it? So typical for Jesus. And really, it's just a great tool for evangelism as well. If you ask enough questions, you allow the other person to see the inconsistency. in their own logic, you know, like when somebody comes to you and says, there are no absolutes. And you want to say, like, are you sure about that? Are you absolutely sure that there are no absolutes, right? That's inconsistent, you know, because that's an absolute statement. Or like when somebody says, you know, you shouldn't judge me. So you're judging me, telling me that I shouldn't be judging you, right? It's inconsistent. You know, so so many times like asking questions like kind of gets back to the truth and judging Jesus would often answer a question with a question. And that's what Jesus does here. Hey, you're a lawyer, you're a scribe. You know, how does how does the law read to you? You know, let's see if you can think about this consistently. And here you have the answer, verse 27. It says, so he answered and said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. According to the Pharisees, the law of God contained 613 separate laws. They broke that down into 250. 48 positive commands, 365 negative commands. Basically, you had a negative command for every day of the year. And it was well known throughout the rabbinic you know kind of tradition that there were heavy laws, there were light laws, you know, there were laws that were more foundational to other laws. So basically what he's giving him is like these are the most foundational laws that that we've been able to discern. Most foundational laws, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Love your neighbor as yourself. And you know what? He was right. They were right If you really love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, you'll obey all the other laws regarding your relationship to God, right? And if I really love my neighbor as myself, I will obey all the other laws relating to my neighbor. So if I can really love the Lord with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. and I can really love my neighbor as myself, I would have fulfilled all the laws. Because if you love God, you won't place any other God before Him. If you love God, you won't make yourself an idol. If you love God, you won't take his name in vain. If you love God, you'll set aside time to worship him, to honor him, to obey him. If you love your neighbor, you won't murder. You won't commit adultery, you won't steal from him, you won't covet what belongs to him. He'll fulfill all the other laws if you can obey those too. So love for God, love for neighbor, the most foundational laws to all the rest of the scriptures. And this is actually the same way way that Jesus answered the question in Matthew chapter 22 when he was asked the question, what's the greatest commandment? So love for God, love for neighbor, most foundational commandments to all the other And basically he says if you can nail these down, you've got them covered. And the scribe arrived at the right answer regarding the law of God. Jesus affirms his answer. Hey, you've answered correctly. And then he leaves them with the command. And this is where he gets stuck. Verse 28. He said to him, You've answered rightly, do this and you will live. Do it and you'll live. That's actually a quotation from Leviticus 18 and verse 5. You shall keep my statutes, my judgments, by which a man may live if he does them. If you can obey the law of God, you'll live. Similar way in Ezekiel chapter 20, verse 11, I gave them my statutes, informed them of my ordinances, by which if a man observes them, he will live. Do this, and you'll live. And it's an impenetrable command. You can't get past it. You can't get beyond it, under it, over it, through it. It's impenetrable. Do this and you'll live. If this is what the lawyer is looking for, he's looking for the way to heaven, Jesus says, Well, if you can do this, you're on the right path. But here's the problem with that: you can't actually do that. Right? Who here can say I have loved the Lord my God with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength? Every day, all day? No. Who here can say I've always loved my neighbor as myself perfectly? No! It's like a person you run out to something run into somebody out here walking down the street, you see a backpack on them, and you just ask them, like, hey, where are you going? He says, Well, I'm I'm hiking to Honolulu. It's like, okay, well, um, you know, and he's like, I'm I'm looking at my GPS. My GPS says it's 4,843 miles to the to the west. And you might say, you know what? Your GPS is exactly right. If you're able to hike 4,830 43 miles to the west, you'll make it to Honolulu. But when you get to the edge of California, you might want to grab a wetsuit. Because you can't hike it there. You got to go through water to get there. Your GPS might be correct. It's pointing you in the right direction, but you can't actually do that And this is like the law of God. The law of God is presented to us. Like, do this and you'll live, but what does it teach us? I can't do that I need another way. Romans chapter 7, verse 12 says the law is holy, the commandment is holy, it's righteous, it's good Romans 7. 14 says we know that the law is spiritual spiritual, but what's the problem? I'm a flesh sold into bondage to sin. It's mission impossible. I can't obey the law of God perfectly. I don't have the ability to do all that the law of God says. But that's the path of works righteousness. Works righteousness. The Bible says in James 2 and verse 10, whoever keeps the whole law and stumbles in one point. He's guilty of all of it. Like you you break any portion of this. I've told people this illustration is like if I took a rack, you know, threw it through one of your windows and over here, how much of that window would I have to replace? All of it? You know, I don't have to, hey, I just only chip that piece on the corner. I just, no, you gotta replace all of it. The window's broken. The law of God comes as a whole. You break any portion of that, you've broken all of it. You can't say that you've obeyed the law of God perfectly, and the law of God comes with a curse. If I break the law of God, it demands a punishment from God. Galatians 3. 10, as many as are of the works of the law are under A curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. It's an impenetrable command. But instead of this lawyer saying, Lord, have mercy on me, you know, beating his breasts, Well, have mercy on me, the sinner. There's no way that I could possibly obey all the law of God, love the Lord perfectly, love my neighbor perfectly. There's no possible way that I could do that. What does he do? He asks another question. And who is my neighbor? It's just like the the the the person who's trying to hike the Honolulu saying, well, where can I grab that wetsuit from? You know, I'm gonna try to swim it. It's like, are you kidding me? So now you're going to ask who's the neighbor instead of saying like Lord where's another way? No, he he's he's seeing if he can actually make it across the Pacific. This man has no idea how short his arms are, how weak his legs are, how deep the ocean of God's law is. He has no idea he's going to try to swim the Honolulu. What can I do? Who is my neighbor? Just point him out and let me see if I can take care of this. He should have been smitten by the law of God, but instead he wants to try to justify himself. Prove himself innocent that I can actually do it. This is what he's trying to do. Wishing to justify himself is what verse 29 says. He's trying to declare himself innocent. And he totally jumps over the command to love the Lord his God with all you know his heart, soul, mind, and strength. It's like, well, I think I can get that one down. Just show me who my neighbors are, and I I'll see if I can take care of that one. Most imperceptive question. But we we're gonna get another question from Jesus in the the Question actually comes later on in verse thirty seven. But first, before he gets to the question, he tells them a story. And this is again where we kind of start missing the point that Jesus is actually driving it because we look at the story and say, oh, what a great story. I think I can do that and live. And that's not the point of the story. Jesus is pointing the story out to show that you can't do this and live. That that this is an impossible standard. I remember a number of years ago I went on a a missions trip, a short-term missions trip to Louisiana. for uh the Hurricane Katrina to offer some relief to victims there. And we worked in this one kind of missions organization that had some Roman Catholic volunteers. there and while I was there we were like stuffing boxes and you know trying to help people out and uh while I was there you know helping out uh just struck up a conversation uh with this uh one gentleman who was there and uh I asked him a question I said you know uh do you believe That you're going to heaven. And he said, he said, yeah, I do believe that I'm going to heaven. You know, I I I think I can make it. I said, well, how do you think you're going to get to heaven? He says, well, I think it's by doing what I'm doing right now. You know, stuffing boxes, sending it out, trying to help, you know, people. He says, you know, basically, and this is what he told me, I'm trying to be a good Samaritan. And I had the opportunity to share this story with them to say, you're not good enough to be a good Samaritan. Like the point of this passage is to show that we're not able to make it this way. That we need Jesus. That the law is too stringent for us. We're not going to be able to fulfill this. And that's the point of the story. So let's take a look at the story. Verse 30. It says, Then Jesus answered and said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, who stripped him of his clothing, wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. The journey from Jericho Jerusalem to Jericho was a common trip. It was a dangerous trip. Jerusalem was the center of worship. Three times a year, Jewish males were required to appear before the Lord, their pilgrim festivals. So it wasn't hard to imagine a Jewish traveler on the road coming home from worship. Back to to Jericho. It was it was a common trip, but it was also a dangerous trip. There was a descent down from Jerusalem to Jericho, about 3,000 feet above sea level to more than a thousand feet below sea level. You know, so it's a lot of twists and turns and you know, going up and down. Seventeen mile hike through the the desolate area, the desert. There's a lot of caves where bandits could hide out and uh I've actually uh been to that same stretch of road between Jerusalem and Jericho, and there was nothing out there. I actually remember when we were driving out there in this bus, it was actually the only time while I was there in Israel that I was fearful at all. because like the the driver took great delight in taking these corners super quick, you know, and there's nothing but a sheer drop on the other end. I'm like, hold on, what is what is he doing to us? You know? I'm gonna die out here as a a bad Samaritan, you know. It's like I'm gonna drop out here. But there's many places where robbers could could hide out. Robbers would take what they wanted by force. And this is what happens. You know, this guy's left half dead, stripped, naked, everything's gone. And now by chance, verse 31 says, a certain priest came down that road, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Again, it wouldn't have been uncommon for priests to be on this road. No less than twelve thousand priests and Levites lived in Jericho. They would have gone back and forth here. Uh the sacrificial system made it uh required them to kind of take this trip, so Uh uh they would have been on this road as well. Uh they represented the people before God, served as mediators between the people and their God, and carried the burdens of the people before their God. And here is one person that he would have represented. possibly before God. As a priest. He might have just offered a sacrifice for this man because why else would he be in Jerusalem? So here you have a priest who represented the people before God, and what does he do? He passes by on the other side, purposefully avoids him. And there's all kinds of reasons that commentators come up with for why he passed by. You know, maybe he's worried about being ceremonially defiled. You know, if the guy's dead, you know, dead people are unclean. I don't want to touch a dead body. Maybe there's people who are out still out here still trying to attack, and you know, maybe I'm next. I don't want to get too close to where the attack happened. Or or maybe he thought, you know, hey, maybe he's getting what he deserves. I don't know. This might be the judgment of God. I mean, commentators come up with all kinds of things, but for whatever the reason was, all we can say is that it wasn't loving. It's not loving. I mean, if you were on the side of the road half dead, would you want somebody to come and help you out? I mean, that's the point. He's not loving. And especially from somebody that you believe represented you before the Lord. It's like coming home from church, and you know, Pastor Cho sees you on the side of the road and half dead is just like, hey, be warm, be filled, and he drives off on the other side. It's like, what's going on with this pastor? Right? So he passes by. But here comes somebody else who can help. Verse 32. Says likewise a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked and passed by on the other side. Priests were those who represented. Of the people before God and Levites were their assistants. They took care of the temple, they took care of the furniture of worship, the implements used for worship, and the support of Israel actually paid for the Levites to serve. So this is the guy that's paying your salary that's laying here on the side of the road. This would be like one of the deacons passing you by, leaving you for dead. And again, all sorts of reasons are given why they win it help, but again, the bottom line is it's not loving. It's not loving And then along the same road there comes a Samaritan. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was. And before we go any further, if you were a Jewish person listening to this and you heard that, and now here comes the Samaritan. What you're thinking immediately in your mind is, well, here he comes to finish them off. Because the Samaritans were enemies of the people of God. You're you're not thinking this guy's coming to help. It's like, hey, this guy's already run into bad luck. He's already on the side of the road. He's half dead. And now here comes the Samaritan so he can be fully dead. I mean that's what you're you're thinking. The Samaritans were despised by the Jewish people. They were descended from a mixture of the Jewish people left behind in the northern tribes conquered by Syria back in 722 BC. The Jews who were not deported mixed with these conquered peoples. of Babylon and became another group. Samaritans developed their own system of worship that was against the Lord, established their own places of worship. And then listen to this. In 6 A. D. , A group of Samaritans desecrated the temple by spreading human bones within the temple, according to history. So here you have just in recent history, the Samaritans desecrated the temple in Jerusalem, and this would have been on the minds of the people who heard the story. I mean, 6 A. D. is not far from when Jesus. Jesus is telling this story. I mean we're only talking about, you know, possibly 30 years or less, right? So it's like they remember, like these are the guys that came in to desecrate our place of worship. And here he comes on the side of the road. That's it for this guy, you know, so long for our friend. They would have never expected what was being said. If if if uh if you wanted to put somebody down, you know what you'd call them back in this time? You'd call them either demon possessed or a Samaritan. That's what you call them. I mean that's how despise these people were. But instead of the Samaritan passing him by, again in verse 33 it says, He came upon him, and he had compassion for him. He saw him and he had compassion. That word for compassion is the Greek word splanklon. It's uh the the the word that's used for the inside, the bowels, the guts, you know, like when you see roadkill and you know, the guts are laying on the side of the road. That's spike mine. They would use that term to talk about like the the the the insides kind of turning around. You ever feel like like when you uh See somebody that's in trouble, it's like your stomach turns, you know, for them. Like, like that's the kind of you know description that this is. Like this guy saw, you know, this person on the side of the road, the Samaritan, and his stomach just turned inside of him. him because of his compassion, he's reaching out in compassion and pity towards this man. So he came up to him, he went to him, verse thirty four, bandaged his wounds. Where are you going to get bandage from? Bandages from out in the the desert Desolate, desolate place, uh you're not going to find a store, you're going to rip your own clothing to make bandages. Pouring oil, the the oil would have come from its own supply, obviously, you're not going anywhere to buy oil. You know, this is the oil that I was going to use, but now I'm using it for him. To soothe the bruised wound. He pours wine on it. Wine would have been a disinfectant. You know, let's try to clean this up. And he put him on his own beast. You know, this might have been the beast that he was riding on. It's like basically you sit in my seat, you ride, I'll walk. And then he brought him to an end so that the end could take care of him. Look at verse 35. It says So he went. in verse 34. It says, So he went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and he set him on his own animal, brought him to an end, and took care of him. And then on the next day when he departed he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him and whatever more ye spend, when I come again I will repay you. A denarius would have been a full day's wages. two denarii would have been enough to pay for um according to estimates about one to two months stay in an inn. It's two full days of wages that he's giving over to this inn. And he says, and whatever more you spend, when I return, I'll pay you. Basically it's like I'm leaving you with my credit card. Whatever he needs, just charge it. And don't forget, this is for an enemy. This is like a Hamas finding a wounded Israeli and personally paying for his care out of his own pocket. And this is just the background that leads to the question. Verse 36. And this is what Jesus is driving to. Verse 36. So which of these three do you think was the neighbor to him who fell among the thieves? Who's the neighbor? There's the answer. Verse 37. And he said to him, He who showed mercy on him. That's the answer. There's two the two questions. There's the answer. And then you have another command. Like I said, it's repeated. The command. Then Jesus said to him, go and do likewise. Basically the same question or the same conclusion that Jesus came to. to you at the beginning. It's repeated. Basically it's like the, you know, how does the law read to you? Which which one of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor? And this is the kind of assistance that we might give to a friend, but to an enemy? I mean, this is the kind of neighbor that we're talking about. So a neighbor in this context is not just, you know, somebody who you're close to. It's just anybody who has a need. Anybody who has a need, even an enemy, do I treat my enemies in the way that I would want to be treated myself? Are those the people that I show mercy to I mean we haven't done this for for friends, much less enemies. It's an impossible standard. But here he says, if you're trying to swim to Honolulu, you're trying to get to heaven based on your own good works, this is the kind of thing that you have to do You know, this is what I'm talking about. You need to keep the whole law. And if you're guilty in any point, you're guilty of all of it. And the only answer is You know, the the only conclusion that you can reach is like Lord I I I can't do this. Like he's kind of pushing him into this corner that he can't get out of. And and he has to answer. It's the Samaritan who who showed mercy to him. It's consistent. But again, like Lord, I can't do this. Jesus says to them, go and do the same. Go and do likewise. And then that's the end of the story. That's the end of the story. That's the end of the encounter. There's a little book by a guy named Walter Chantry in his book, Today's Gospel Authentic or Synth. He says, aren't you a little disappointed to see Jesus handling this tender soul so roughly? How could our Lord use such obviously poor tactics with the sinner? He allowed the fish to get away. Didn't he know how to lead a soul to himself? Here you have a guy who wants to know about eternal life, and the first thing you talk about is the law of God. That's what he does. Tell him a story about an impossible standard that he can't possibly match, and then you tell him do this and you'll live. It's like telling the guy who wants to go to Hawaii, you know, let me tell you where you can get your weapon. You can't inherit eternal life based on obedience. But here's the thing: this guy wasn't ready for it because he's still trying to get there on his own. He's still trying to justify himself. He's not yet ready to admit that I'm a sinner who's in need of a savior. So Jesus pushes them into a corner with the law of God and basically says, stay in that corner until you figure it out Stay in that corner until you realize that you can't make it on your own. You're going to stay over here until you recognize that the law of God is too high, it's too holy, and that you're a sinner who's in desperate need of a savior. You're going to stay over there. Do this, and you'll live. Romans chapter 3, verse 19 and 20 says, Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be closed. You know what the law does? The law convicts us. The law shows us that we have no excuse. The law shows us that we have no way out. But you know what else the law is meant for? And just flip over to Galatians chapter 3. real quick and I'll leave you with this one. But in Galatians chapter 3, you know what else else the law is supposed to do? Verse 24. Therefore, the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ. So that we may be justified not by our works, but that we might be justified by what? By faith. The law was to convict him of his sin, and the law was to lead him to the Savior. That Jesus is the only one who's ever walked this earth. Who always loved the Lord God with all of his heart, soul, mind, and strength. Jesus was the only one. Jesus was the only one who loved his neighbor as himself. Jesus was the one who even loved his enemies. Even on the cross, what does Jesus say? Father, forgive them. The same guys that are ending me to the cross, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Jesus was the only one who fit the example that we have here of the Good Samaritan. He was the only one who obeyed all the law of God. And Jesus obeyed the law of God so that we wouldn't have to become Because we cannot. And the law leads us to Christ so that we might be justified by faith. There's only one way to salvation, and it's not through lawkeeping. It's not through being a good Samaritan. It's through trusting in Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone. our salvation. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh this time that we've had together. Uh Father, I pray that you would use your word to instruct us and uh to challenge us. And uh Father that uh we would be able to Um appoint people to the Savior. The law of God shows us our sin. It shows us how holy and righteous our God is. It also points us to Jesus Christ. Who is the only one who could live a perfect life in our place? He made him, you made your son, Jesus Christ, the one who knew no sin, the only perfect one, to be sin on our behalf. So that we might become the righteousness of God in him. It's only through connecting to Jesus Christ that we find life. It's only through connecting to Jesus Christ that we're justified. We're declared innocent in your sight. And Father, we're grateful that we have a Savior. who's done what we cannot do ourselves. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen.