If you met Dwight L. Moody as a teenager, you will not believe he became the great evangelist as We know him today. His father died when he was only four. His widowed mother was left with nine children. They faced poverty. White only finished fifth grade. and left home at age 17. He went to work with his shoemaker uncle in Boston on condition that he regularly attend church and Sunday school. Why couldn't he even read the Bible coherently? And he'd skip over words. It was a project to say the least. But his Sunday school teacher, Edward Kimball, didn't give up on him. Mr. Kimball did not restrict his ministry to the classroom, he cared for The young men, he taught and made personal visits to them. Though he was used to such visitations, he was nervous about visiting Moody. But he fought up His doubts went and met him at his workplace. Here's Kimball's recollection from that day, quote, I went up to him and put my hand on his shoulder. Then I made My plea. I feel it was really a very weak one. I simply told him of Christ's love for him and the love Christ wanted in return That was all there was to it. All there was of it. It seemed that the young man was just ready for the light that then broke upon him. For there at once in the back of that shoe store in Boston, the future great evangelist gave himself and his life to Christ. As I said last week, the quote from Peter Adam, a church's gospel ministry should be pulpit-centered, but not pulpit restricted. As we began Titus 2, chapter 2 of Titus, we learned how older saints like Edward Kimball, our Bible To the church. And we see what happens when elderly brothers invest in the lives of younger men, bringing them the message of grace and hope. How many Kimballs are behind? God only knows the everlasting impact believers can make on succeeding generations. But that impact is not for us to measure and Forecast. Our job is to be faithful to our duty. Knowing the church age and history may not end with us in our lifetime. Let's continue Likewise, exhort the young men to be sober-minded, in all things showing yourself to be a pattern of good works, in doctrine showing integrity, reverence, To be well pleasing in all things, not answering back, not pilfering, but showing all good fidelity that they may adore the doctrine of God our Savior in all things. Before I explain the many details of the text, I want to show you a repeated grammatical feature that binds together today's passage with last week's passage. There's a Greek conjunction henna translated as that, so that, in order that, the conjunction henna in Indicates purpose, aim, target, end. It's found four times total in Titus 2, 1 through 10, in verses 4, 5, 8, and 10. Three times it stands at the end of line. I'll show them to you now on this slide. And I'm highlighting this grammatical feature to make this point and ask this very practical question. Question. Do you know your purpose? Imagine you're a young stay-at-home mom. You're cleaning, washing, vacuuming, picking up toys day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year. Children do not appreciate you, your husband takes you for granted, there's temptation to despair and be discouraged. But you with the regular Encouragement from older sisters in Christ. Remember your purpose and why you do what you do. Verse 5 says that the word of God may not be blasphemed. Here's another example. Say you're a missionary. You work tirelessly training up indigenous young men to be future elders of a church plant. You take heed to yourself and your doctrine, as it says in First Timothy four sixteen. You're active in the community with many eyes on you as the obvious foreigner. You don't plagiarize sermons, even if you are so busy. Years pass by with only a handful of conversions and baptism and growth in the church. There's temptation to give up, cheat, compromise for the sake of expediency. There's pressure. But you with the regular encouragement from your home church, remember your purpose and why you do what you do. Verse 18 Stable but dull, nine to five job. Your boss lacks confidence and everyone knows it. Many employees are complainers and lazy The work culture is bad. There's the temptation to conform to this work culture. But there are a few fellow Christian co-workers there with you. You gather you guys gather for prayer and maybe even a Bible study regularly. You with regular mutual encouragement from them. Remember your purpose Why you do what you do. Verse ten says that you may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all things In all the places we go, and in all that we do, we must remember our purpose. We must also remind each other of our purposes We do that as we turn to the younger men and the bond service in Titus 2, 6 through 10, in their youth and career. Like the senior saints, they too have a higher purpose. Just as the elderly are mostly Motivated to defend the word of God, young men must silence the critics of God, also bond servants must adorn the doctrines of God. I'll make two points In the sermon, and the two points are the two purposes of sound doctrine in our devotional and pre uh professional life. First, exemplify morality and thought, word, and deed to be above religion. Reproach six through eight. Secondly, encourage humility and devotion at work to bolster our witness. That's nine through ten First, exemplify morality in thought, word, and deed to be above reproach. Verse 6 begins with the same sentence pattern we saw in three. You find the parallel adverb likewise there as in here. Older women are taught just as Older men were taught. We saw how younger men benefit, I'm sorry, younger women benefit from older women in verses four to five. Now there's attention paid to younger men in verse six. Idris must exhort these younger brothers to be sober-minded. This quality is a key trait of the Godly. In the gospels the verb to be sober minded is used to describe you recall that man Jesus freed from spiritual bondage after a leaving Legion of demons left them and entered the pigs. Pretty crazy incident. It says he was in right mind or sober minded Here in Titus, Paul's not saying you need a miraculous exorcism or deliverance to be of right mind or sound mind. Sober-mindedness is a lot less dramatic. To be sober-minded means one does not think of himself more highly than he ought to think. Get that from Romans twelve three. He's discreet. He's not beside himself or overwhelmed by emotions. Temperate. He's serious about weighty matters such as his prayer life. It should not surprise us that mature elders are expected to be so Soberminded. But younger brothers need that too, right? They need to be sober-minded. We all need a good head on our shoulders. Question is how? Well go on to verse 7. It's clear how. In all things showing yourself to be a pattern of good works. Paul saying showing yourself to be a pattern is the way to train younger men to be sober-minded. That makes sense. As Titus is closer to the age of these men, to be taken seriously by them, his words need reinforcement through model behavior. So when it comes to discipleship, pastors like myself are on constant surveillance. We're on call, whether we like it or not. So it's going to take more than me talking to you once a week for 30 minutes. minutes up here at the pulpit. You come out on Wednesday evenings, you'll see a less formal side of me. I just realized some of you have never seen me without Regardless, informal or formal, in here or out there, I have to exemplify morality and thought and deed by means of good will Okay, so we have thought indeed what what about word? It's there in the second part of verse seven after after the semicolon, there's the pastors, exemplary speech in doctrine showing integrity, reverence, incorruptibility, beyond thought and deed when it comes to words Now we're talking literally. The pastor's doctrine or teaching must be sound doctrine. We saw it earlier. Remember in 1-9, Paul wanted elders to be able by Sound doctrine, both to exhort and convict those who contradict. And then in 2. 1, Paul 1 and Titus speak the things which are proper for sound doctrine. Now here in 2. 7 We see that this doctrine produces integrity, reverence, incorruptibility. We'll define these three qualities in a moment But let me be honest with you for a few minutes. When I first heard the word doctrine many years ago, and even to this day, when I hear the word. I can't help but think of big theological dictionaries and terminologies. We got the ology words, hamartiology, study of sin, sotoriology, study of salvation Salvation, ecclesiology, study of the church. Here are some isms: Calvinism and Arminianism, Supralefsarianism and Improlefsarianism. Lastly, how about some T I O N words, right? Propitiation, expiation, justification, imputation, progressive sanctification, entire sanctification, super caliphragistic, expialidocious, you know, like just Okay, so listen as someone who deeply enjoys theological studies and is a lifelong student, I'm all forgetting terms Terms and definitions right. We are, after all, a people of the word. If we're not defining proper keywords right properly key words and not using the same word in the same way, we can't carry on a coherent and cogent conversation. I was talking with a Roman Catholic neighbor and we talked about how You know, Protestants and Roman Catholics, they use the same words, but it's very different the way they use it. In fact, a expert evangelical author on the topic of Roman Catholicism, wrote a book entitled, it's really good title. Same words, different worlds. Gotta get the terms right. You need to set down and understand the rules of the game. This is called prolay gominon. The first step you can't skip. But once you got the meanings in order, remember why we're taking time to study all these details. I believe in good theology, not only because it's the truth, because it definitely is the truth, good theology is truth that promotes goodness and morality That's the end goal that makes all the pages of reading and writing worth it. But before we open So thick and heavy books and tones. It's key that we grasp the beginning of sound doctrine. It starts with the basics, the ABCs of theology, the gospel. Yes This is what Paul had in mind when he said, He and the other apostles deliver to us first of all that which they also Deliver a receipt. The gospel is the foundation and center of sound doctrine. And the gospel is the good news that begins with the bad news The bad news is that we're sinners. We were made in the image of the Almighty Creator King. But we rebelled against him. Now left to ourselves, we are helpless. Morally speaking, we don't have sound minds because ours are carnal in enmity against God. In our graceless state, we do not and cannot We broke the divine laws, lusting, lying, and blaspheming his name. That's why we deserve God's holy wrath, separation from him forever We're in hell. But the Lord in His kindness, loving kindness, did not leave us in our sinful state and pitiful state. God the Father Send his son Jesus. He's both God and man in one person. He embodies everything that is sound in doctrine and speech. In everything, he was obedient as man, showing Integrity, reverence, and incorruptibility. For mankind did not receive or believe in the works of Jesus or his words. They refused to accept them as the anointed Savior, the Messiah. the Christ. They rejected him, they betrayed him, they led him away to be crucified. But Christ's suffering was As part of God's plan to save mankind. At the cross, Jesus bled and died in our place. There he paid the penalty of our sin. He satisfied the just wrath of God against us as our substitute. Having completed his work perfectly, he breeded his last. He was buried. But on the third day Jesus rose from the dead. He presented Himself alive after his suffering by many infallible truths. He was seen by his followers for forty days. He spoke of things pertaining to the kingdom of God. After he had spoken to them, he was received up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God the Father. Someday he'll return to judge the world. Now, this good news demands a response. We must repent. Turn from sin and self, turn to Jesus, only trust in his finished work on the cross. There's nothing you can do to add to it. Heaven is a gift, not earned or deserved. God saves us by grace alone, through faith alone. alone in Christ alone. And once we understand the gospel and receive it genuinely, we bear fruit over time. We grow in the The grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ were shaped doctrinally, we increase in good works. As we mature, we exemplify morality and thought, word, and deed. Back to the Titus 2. 7, we see what specifically sound doctrine produces in us: integrity, reverence, and incorruptibility. Now let's go through each one of these one by one. One. First, integrity is not only a rare trait, it's a rare word in the original language, occurring just once in the New Testament. It literally means non-corruption. Similar to Incorruptibility, the third word in the list. In other contexts, it's resistance to physical bodily decay after death. Here we're talking about resistance to Moral decay. Titus must have integrity in that sense in a decadent world. Next, there's reverence In other contexts, reverence describes one's attitude under those in power. It says in First Timothy, as Christians remember in their prayers, kings and all who are in authority. They lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and reverence. So we find in godly men respect first for divine authority, and secondly for human authority Thirdly, there's incorruptibility. It's often found in the context of in-time judgment and the future kingdom. It's even translated as immortality in some passages. But in Ephesians 6:24, Paul uses this word to mean sincerity. Sincerity is a good translation. Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ. Sincerity. Amen. So altogether, Titus, while showing himself to be a role model and while teaching sound doctrine, he must emphasize integrity, reverence and incorruptibility, he must show himself to be an example of that. He must push his students towards that. Basically, Paul's saying that sound doctrine is not only focused on good content, we must present good character traits. Don't just prepare notes. Handouts and PowerPoint for your class or small group. Not only get yourself clean, polished, and ready to go, exemplify morality, you at the head of the table or at the front of the room is the biggest Object lesson in your presentation. Ask yourself, can my hearers see in me a pattern of good works? Can they discern in me integrity, reverence, and incorruptibility? Moving on to verse 8, it's not only the saints that see you and hear you. Look at the purpose clause at the second half of the verse after the first comma, that one who is an opponent may be ashamed, having nothing evil to say of you. Here's an illustration. If you're playing pickup basketball or maybe any other sports, right? Your family members and your church members might Go easy on you. But we won't improve that way. I remember growing up a professional basketball player named Kevin Johnson while practicing he pretend he was being guarded by the best defensive player he knew. That shaped into be a you know better uh player and reach his full potential. This is similar to how we reach our potential morally speaking. If your biggest critics rum much through your room or Scroll through your search history, will they find something, some damning evidence against you? Or rather, on a more positive note, when your haters plot against you Will they be frustrated like the rivals of Daniel? Will they say of you as they said of him, we shall not find any charge against this man unless we find it against him concerning the law of his God When your accusers look at you, will they be like the Sanhedrin who condemned Stephen? They looked steadfastly at him and saw his face as the But this is one purpose of sound doctrine exemplify morality in thought, word, But there's another purpose. This time the one watching over our behavior and speech are not those for us or Those against us in verses nine to ten, we consider those above us. Also, we see Titus and Pastors not only have the Duty to equip saints of all ages, they must equip saints of all economic backgrounds. That includes bond servants in the congregation. That leads to the second purpose of Here's some tidbits on slavery of ancient Roman Empire. According to one estimate, in Italy alone there were one to one point five million people enslaved. That's about fifteen to twenty-five percent of the population, one out of every four to seven people. Most were non-citizen foreigners, prisoners of war, those sold into slavery, and those born into slavery. Some voluntarily became slaves and others had opportunity to purchase their freedom later. There was chattel slavery too, but it was not based on skin color or race, as is the case in American history. The Titus could not avoid interacting with bondservants. Even in Crete, even in his congregation. Paul tells them to exhort them to exhibit five qualities The first is the most fundamental, obedience to their own masters. Just as women in marriages must submit to their own husbands, men under employment must submit to their own supervisors. Secondly, servants must be well pleasing in all things. FYI, most other translations, connect that phrase in all things to the previous quality so that They must be obedient and all things. But regardless, I think obedience is focused on the action of the bondservant while well pleasing is focused on the reaction Of the master. Those who work must not only work for a paycheck or out of a sense of duty. Try to put a smile on the face of those we serve. The next two qualities tell us what bondservants must not do. Thirdly, they must not answer back. Back means speaking against someone, denying, contradicting, accusing, or being contrary to them. Of course, one can respectfully disagree or share diverse opinions. A wise person in authority will take those into account, but we'd cross the line if we mouth daubing, give our boss the lip. Moving on to verse 10, being submissive also means nothing. Not pilfering. This word is used to describe Ananias in Acts five two to three. He kept back part of the proceeds from a recent Sale. Whether it's for charity or profit, God knows the ledgers and the balance sheets. He knows what belongs to him. What belongs to to the business. He knows every penny misappropriated for selfish reasons. He knows every minute, pilfering of time, wasted in idleness. That's why, fifthly and lastly, the godly bondservant shows all good fidelity. This reminds me of Jesus' parable of the talents. I know the lazy and wicked servant who did nothing with the one talent gets all the attention. But we need to be like the other two, the boringly consistent workers. Who got the job done with what's been entrusted to them? The Lord told them both, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your Lord. So Paul's encouraging humility and devotion at work with these five qualities entitled Message is similar to Colossians three, twenty two to twenty four. Bondservants obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with eye service as men. Men pleasers, but in sincerity of heart, fearing God. And whatever you do, and do it heartily as to the Lord, and not to men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance. For you serve Also as Peter says in first Peter two eighteen servants, be submissive to your masters with all fear, not only to the gentle of good and gentle, but Also to the harsh. Paul ends verse ten with an opportunity. When you show up to work tomorrow or Later this week, you have a chance to do something great. That's not just some motivational poster content. It's true, it's in the Bible. Specifically it says bond servants and their obedience, their attitude. their performance can adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all things. This word adorn is used to describe the orderly and need House, the decorated monuments of heroes, the splendor of the Jerusalem temple, and even the new Jerusalem prepared as a bride adorned for her husband, precious Stones on the wall foundations, red jasper, blue sapphire, chalcedony, green emerald, and on and on It's also used to describe godly and holy women who adorn themselves in subtle yet sublime ways, with a gentle and quiet spirit and good works. That's closer to what we have here with the Christian bondservants. They get to dress up what's already beautiful, the gospel and the doctrines of our God. And it becomes a beautiful cycle. Gospel preaching leads to gospel living. Gospel living promotes gospel preaching. Gospel preaching leads to gospel living. Sound doctrine transforms us as we believe in the good news and we're transformed by it. Then as we go out into the world, our changed lives reinforce The message we bring to the lost. Now, as people are drawn to us in the truth, then we inquire, and Lord willing, some will be saved through our message. That's how gospel living promotes gospel preaching, and the cycle continues. That's one of the two purposes. Purposes of sound doctrine from today's passage, encourage humility and devotion at work to bolster our witness. The other one from earlier is Now let me make two points and offer two applications before we end. Concerning the younger men, I want to double-click on that word sober-minded Already defined it as being discreet, temperate, and serious, is an internal trait that comes from God working in us. It's a sound state of mind achieved through sound doctrine that's instilled and applied. The older saints, we need to be modeling sober-mindedness to the younger generation. generation to the practice of spiritual disciplines. No longer just like I need to grow spiritually, so I need to do my quiet time Read the Bible and pray? Am I modeling it for others? If not, there's always something going on. There's always some force or some people trying to disciple our children or those younger than us. Related to this, Danton Haidt, who I mentioned a few weeks ago, is a university professor and authority Again, it's on my to read list. I decided to look a little bit into it though, maybe just the introductory parts. I already know, even before I read this book, that my childhood's going to be vastly different than my sons and daughters daughters, more so than it was between you know differences between mine and my parents and my grandparents. That's because of the ubiquity of internet Now the book explains in detail, and I love it when books state clearly their purpose. Oh sorry, it's up there. My central claim in this book is that these two trends, over protection in the real world and under protection in the virtual world, are the major reasons why trend Children born after 1995 became the anxious generation. The two big mistakes we made: overprotecting children in the real world where they need to be to learn from vast amounts of direct experience and under protecting them online where they are particularly vulnerable during puberty. One more quote. Gen Z became the first generation in history to go through puberty with a portal in their pockets that called them away from the people nearby and into an alternative universe that was exciting. Addictive, unstable, and as I will show, unsuitable for children and adolescents. Thankfully, Heist's not the only expert to point out unlimited access to smartphones as a source of mental instability among youth. But it's sad that inordinate amount of ink had to be spilled by non-Christians before Christians realized it. Overexposure to internet is one major Reason why so many of our young men are not sober minded. us older Christians to set an example, disciple our children and grandchildren, just even younger brothers, with sound doctrine from the word, right? Within real Relationships, read good books together, pattern good works in person, get them off the phone Encourage participation and meaningful connections with real human beings. Exemplify the importance of Hebrews ten, twenty-four-to-twenty-five And let us consider one another in order to stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, by exhorting one another, and so much the more as One more application and this one's brief and less complex. It has to do with obedience at work, right? Ask yourself, how are you doing in your relationship with your employer? Can they rely on you? Are you late on deadlines? You let things fall through the cracks. Does your manager have to be your secretary? Send your reminders to do what you're already supposed to be doing? Can your boss count on you to show up on time, finish your work on time, and just be that boring, faithful, drama free guy or Well these are questions you should ask as you go home. Enjoy the rest of the day. Watch some football. Get ready for tomorrow, I guess, right? It's another work week. Going to close with prayer as usual before we sing our final song. But before I do take about sixty seconds to think about just Your work environment and your bosses. Or students, think about your professors and your teachers. Even pray for them now that you might adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all things, do your conduct. Let's go to the Lord So we thank you That you teach us, you revealed yourself through your word, your son, who became flesh, great teacher, and your spirit teach us us, illuminates us. Give us sound doctrine to your word. And we're thankful that for many of us we have so much access Lord, the Bible is at our fingertips, it's on our shelves, and we can devote chunks of it to memory and we can study it and we can read secondary literature on our Bible. We have great teachers and programs and online radio personalities and pastors who expound your word. We are truly privileged in that sense. We're also thankful that it transforms us or it makes a difference. What we do as our spiritual discipline, whether it's first thing in the morning or right before we sleep That we learn your word and study and apply it. It makes a difference how we live. How we live in in midst of a crooked and wicked generation as young people in our twenties, thirties and forties. It makes a difference as we go to work in our nines to fives. Or it makes a difference in our career, in our relationships, and everything we do. Or we pray that You would equip us as we go to our separate ways tomorrow, whether it's work, school, home, wherever we may go. Help us to adorn doctrine. Pray that the sound doctrine would transform us from within. Pray that we would live our lives for your glory. Thank you. Christ's name we pray. Amen