Last week we looked at some really some of the message here about John the Baptist, and I don't know how much of it you remember. But we had a prediction here of what John the Baptist would be like. What kind of a man was he going to be? And the angel gave a summary of what was going to happen to him. Uh what he would sort of a summary of who he was and what he was going to do. And we learned from the facts that were given that he was going to be a peculiar person. Now that doesn't mean Now I'm using that word not to mean weird, like he's gonna have a mohawk, but on the other hand he was peculiar, and we know this later, because he did wear camel skin and eat locusts and Perhaps that was a little unusual for that day, but when I use the word peculiar, I mean he's unlike most other Old Testament prophets. He's filled with the Spirit from the mother's womb, even before he was born, filled with the Spirit. He was also going to be a sanctified or set apart kind of a person because he was a Nazirite. And Nazarites took an oath, and here's someone who's a lifelong Nazarite. And so we saw from the Old Testament that one of the essential ideas of being a Nazarite was separation from certain things and closeness to the Lord. Separation from in order to be close to, not just one or the other, but both. So he was he was a sanctified, set apart individual. A a peculiar, kind of special individual, unlike most Old Testament prophets. He was a choice person because in the eyes of the Lord he was going to be great. Now you're in my estimation of someone. We might think one man is greater than another or one woman is greater than another, but what does it mean when the Bible says that God looks at someone and that person is great in his eyes? Isn't that amazing? And so we looked at a passage from Ezekiel and we saw three men named Noah, Job, and Daniel. And God says to Ezekiel, Even if these men were here, their righteousness would only save them, and I wouldn't listen to their prayer to save the people. God is able to use those three men, those three choice men, as examples. so superlative that even if they were here, they would be ineffective in in delivering the people from disaster. What this could mean is that John the Baptist, an Old Testament prophet, was of the same stature as a Noah, a Job, or a Daniel. He was not one of the minor prophets. Now having said that, they were not minor in the sense that their ministries were unimportant or vague or colloquial, just that there were some men and God looked at them and said, here is someone who is great in my eyes. Do you remember this from last week? Now we also saw that when it came to John the Baptist's message, it was a message that would turn people. It would turn their hearts. And so the hearts of children are turned to fathers and fathers to children and the foolish to the wise. And all of this message that produced the turning in people's hearts was prep work. You know what prep work is? How many of you ever done some painting? Anyone? In your house? A lot of us have. What would you think if I decided to paint an old barn that had been in the fields of northern Maryland? It was gray, it had mold on the walls outside. It had dirt, it had some of those bee you know those bees that like chew up dirt, spit it out, and make nests of it. You ever seen those? They like little tubes, tube, dirt tubes. Anybody seen those? Yeah, you've seen those? All over the barn. And I come along and say, hey, we're going to paint this barn. And so I go up to that and I try not to get stung and I just take my paint and All over the mold, all over the wood, all over the bees' nests, you know, the everything, leaves that are stuck on there. I just paint right over. That's that's not effective because there was no prep work. The prep work is you go in and you remove the leaves and you scrape off those bee nest things and you you do the prep work and then the painter can come in and paint effectively. John the Baptist was someone who did prep work for the Lord. Now what we have this morning is we have the words of his father. It's just It's just amazing how God uses families, how God uses Zacharias. Look at Luke chapter 1, verse 67. And the reason I'm doing this, I'm kind of stringing together all these facts about John the Baptist. And then, Lord willing, next week we'll look at Luke chapter 2, if we have time. This is quite a passage this morning. So what happened? Well, Elizabeth gives birth to John. That's what's happening in verses 57. down to 66. Maybe we should catch up a little bit there, and then we'll see his dad's reaction to this and his prophecy. Let's pick it up at verse 57. It says, Now Elizabeth's full time came for her to be delivered, and she brought forth a son. When her neighbors and relatives heard how the Lord had grown, had shown great mercy to her, they rejoiced with her. Now so it was on the eighth day that they came to circumcise the child, and they would have called him by the name of his father Zacharias. And his mother answered and said, No. He shall be called John. But they said to her, There's no one among your relatives who is called by this name. So they made signs to his father. That's kind of rude, but they did. They made signs to his father what what he would have him called. And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote saying, His name is John. And they all marveled. Immediately his mouth was opened and his tongue loosed, and he spoke praising God. Then fear came on all who dwelt around them. Not but not terror like I'm running away from a giant disaster because I'm afraid I'm going to get killed. Wonder They marveled and they feared. It was the goosebumps kind of of fear and a reaction that's happening here. Fear came on all who dwelt around them, and all these sayings were discussed throughout all the hill country of Judea. And all those who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, What kind of child will this be? And the hand of the Lord was with them, with him And so then Luke in verses 67 down to 79 lets us know what Zacharias said, what his praise was. His praise, if you look at these verses here, is about Israel and the deliverance of Israel from their enemies. If you look down at the verse, Verses 68, 69, and 70, you see that he says, Blessed is the God of Israel. He's visited his people, redeem them. and raised up a horn of salvation. So you kind of have these words. There's a visitation, there's a redemption that's coming, there's salvation that's been raised. And this comes at the end of verse 69 and 70 from the house of his servant David. And this is in keeping with what the prophet said in the Old Testament, verse 70. And this is what's going to happen, verses 71, 72, and 73. And this is what's going to happen, verse 74, to us, and how we're going to respond. And then in verse 76, we get to John. So we have this praise about the coming Christ first. What he's going to be like, and really it's a praise to the Lord as the one who is sending the Christ or Jesus Up to this point, we have hints about the Messiah. We know that his name is Jesus. Now it's not stated explicitly in Luke, but it is in Matthew that the name Jesus, you know, for he will save his people from their sins. The name Jesus means Savior. We also have here hints in Luke that in verse 33 of chapter 1 that he's going to be someone who has a kingdom. And this kingdom, verse 30 33, it's everlasting. And his kingdom there will be no end. I'm sorry, this is all verse 33. This is chapter 1, verse 33. He'll reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. So there's this individual, call his name Jesus, Savior. And he's going to be a king, and he's going to have an everlasting kingdom. But it's here in Zecharias' prophecy that we learn so much more about Jesus. Mary, in her song of praise. She speaks primarily in terms of pride and humility. Here is this young woman, a nobody. She's of the house of David, and now God has chosen her. He's lifted up the humble. And so that's kind of the theme of the things that she's saying. So what is Zachariah saying? All right, so let's hang on now, and I'll try to put in some illustrations here to not make it just one long You know, uninterrupted thing. Look at verses 68, 69, and 70. First there is this, Blessedness ascribed to the Lord God of Israel because he visited and redeemed his people and raised up a horn of salvation for us. Now, this word visitation, what does this mean? Well, in the Old Testament, there were many times when the Lord visited his people Now, this visitation does not necessarily imply God Himself, capital G, the Lord Jehovah coming physically down to the earth, or physically would be a bad word, but bringing his presence to the earth. Sort of in a pre-incarnate pre-incarnation, although we believe that did happen, for example, when Abram talked to the angels about Sodom and Gomorrah. Do you recall that incident? We believe that also could have happened when Jacob was wrestling with that individual who was probably the pre-incarnate Christ, and the individual touched his hip and moved it out of socket. But this is probably primarily referring to all these times when God just sent prophets and sent word that he was on the move. That something was going to happen. He was visiting his people. He was coming down into their world. Now, this whole concept is amazing because there is this country, this Israel. And they are getting up in their routine. Every day there are fields to be planted. There are services to have. at the at the tabernacle or in time when the temple was made or in time after they came back and rebuilt the t the temple after Solomon's temple was destroyed. There's sort of a routine to life And Zacharias is saying, Ah, now you've visited us after this long period in history. Folks, we have revealed to us in the Bible a God who is constantly On the move, acting independently of us, who has an agenda that he is going to fulfill. Sometimes people like Zacharias and Mary and Elizabeth, they could begin to think that there is there is just sort of this routine and I'm forgotten by God. Or God is the the gumball machine in the sky and I have to put my money in and He's going to just sort of supply my needs. And he kind of exists. You know what can happen sometimes? Christians can look at him as just someone who exists to supply. Exists to supply. Give us this day our daily bread. Is that a good prayer? It is. That's a good prayer. But God is not just someone who gives to supply. It says, thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. The God of the Bible had an agenda, and in the Old Testament, it often included visitations from him and his prophets. And here, Zacharias is saying, I praise you because you have now visited your people. And this visitation, look at your Bibles. He has visited and redeemed his people. Now what could that mean? I want to ask you to turn to Isaiah chapter 1 for this. Turn to Isaiah chapter 1. We know that God made a covenant with Abram, that he would be the father of many nations. And God made a covenant with the Israelites And he required of them obedience. In Deuteronomy, we have stated, a blessing and a cursing set before them, a decision. How did they handle this? How did the Israelites respond over the years, over the centuries? Isaiah 1, verse 4. Alas, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers, children who are corrupters. They have forgotten the Lord. They have provoked to anger the Holy One of Israel. They have turned away backward How bad is it, Isaiah? Well, look at verse 5. Why should you be stricken again? You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick and the whole heart faints. From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and putrefying sores. They have not been closed or bound up or soothed with ointment Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire, strangers devour your land in your presence. This is one of many descriptions throughout Jeremiah and Isaiah and Ezekiel and the minor prophets. That describe a people who are beyond hope. In essence, a failed Country, a a a a country of failures. They were not able to do what they were supposed to do. In Romans, Paul puts it this way: they sought righteousness through the law. They sought to establish their whole righteousness through the law and not by faith. And so they failed in doing this. And so what we have here is a country that God is going to illustrate with someone like Gomer. Remember I made reference to her earlier? The story in Hosea is one of the saddest and yet most amazing stories in the Bible, just like the prodigal son, but in the Old Testament, in a marriage relationship I won't ask you to turn there, but I'll ask you to remember just the basic facts of that story. First, there is this holy man, and when I say holy, I don't mean he's A guru who sits on a mountaintop, but he is someone whose faith is in Jehovah the Lord, and he is a prophet of the Lord. And his lifestyle shows that reality. And God says, Go marry this individual. And so in obedience, he goes and he marries her. And during the course of their relationship, he sees that she's not where she should be. There are those moments when suspicions begin to arise into his heart as to what she's doing and where she's going. And he finds out that she is unfaithful to him. And so there are confrontations, and there is in her a complete lack of repentance. Maybe words that, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but she goes right back to it To the point where there are entire nights where she's gone. And then she leaves Hosea. And she's gone. And she becomes so poor that Hosea, when he sees her around town, if I could put it this way, he notices how hungry she is, he notices how destitute she is. And so he buys food and he sends it to her. But she takes the food and she takes it back to her illicit lover and she gives it to him And together he they eat. Imagine a faithful husband, and there's his adulterous wife, and he's giving to her this food to help her to survive, and she shares it with this other man, this fool who stolen his wife. And then, you know how the, I told you how the story ends. She ages, she loses the grace of her youthful beauty, and she becomes undesirable to all. And because she's not able to support herself, she ends up in a place of servitude and slavery and rejection. That is where Israel was at the close of the Old Testament. It wasn't that Israel had some possibility of restoration. Israel was in need of redemption. Israel could not help itself. It was a need of visitation, of salvation, from outside of itself. God, the Lord, had to send someone to do something. And isn't that just like you and me? Have you been able to save yourself? Is there anything about your own inherent ability and goodness that can deal with the guilt you feel for your sin? Have you found, apart from Jesus Christ, any way? To have your sins washed away, to be restored, and have joy. No, there is no hope outside of Jesus. Not for the New Testament Christian, of course. And also not for Israel, because it was Jesus who was sent. It was the Redeemer, and he came. And so if you go back to Luke chapter 1, there is this praise from this Father. Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, Luke 1, verse 68. He has visited and redeemed his people. There's a coming redemption, although he speaks of it in a past tense. And he's raised up a horn, and this is the idea of God taking the initiative to conspicuously do something in a way that cannot be resisted. This verse 70, as I mentioned, was already spoken of by the holy prophets. Someone in the Old Testament, someone was predicted to come. Think of some of the prophecies. Moses, someone like me will come one day, and he's going to help in this situation. Isaiah, this servant is going to come, and he's going to be struck But he's going to serve the Lord. And then you have Jesus, and he picks up the Old Testament scroll and he says, I come to preach good tidings. Good news to restore sight to the blind. And he makes he he uses the Old Testament in predicting himself. It was something they were looking forward to. The mouth of the holy prophets had spoken. Since the world began, there was this anticipation that something was going to happen. Now in verses 71 to 73, there is a definite nationalistic kind of feel to these expressions. Because you have Israel who will be saved from their enemies, from the hand of all who hate us. Who are Israel's enemies? Well, under the Old Testament, and in this situation, we would often say the Romans Because the Romans had conquered the Holy Land. In the Old Testament, the enemies of Israel were those who literally attacked them, the Canaanites. And all those people that surrounded them, the Philistines, you remember those, those were enemies. And they were such an enemy that in the Psalms you have dozens and dozens and dozens of references. To enemies and salvation from enemies. And David was always fighting. He was a king of war, even as Solomon established his kingdom on the conquests of David. And so there was this understanding that Israel was a land that was opposed. That the entire, if I could put it this way, the project of Israel, the experiment of Israel, it wasn't an experiment, but the purpose of Israel. This whole idea of a theocracy under the one true living God, that there were these enemies out there and they wanted its destruction. And so Zacharias is saying, now, now we'll be saved from our enemies, from the hand of those who hate us. And this salvation, what you see in verses 71 and 72 is it is not earned. It is a salvation that is mercy promised to our fathers. It is salvation, verse 72, that is the result of a holy covenant sworn to Abraham. The Israelites failed in their covenant. We're going all the way back to the covenant with Abraham that God had, that he would be the father of many nations. And so verse 74, deliverance from the hand of our enemies. And then there's a switch. Now try to follow along a little bit with this. Try to keep it in your mind. First, there is this praise that the God of Israel has visited, redeemed, and raised up a horn of salvation. Then there's this understanding that there's going to be that salvation partially means salvation from the opposition of enemies that are out there who hate us. But once there's this deliverance, what are the people going to be like? Are they going to go back to Isaiah 1? You know the description of Isaiah 1? Do you know what that really was? God chastened his people, Israel, to the point where any further chastening would have been ineffective. I had a friend once who had a strong-willed son. He was a really big boy, really tall for his age. And she disciplined him and disciplined him, and he refused to obey. At the age of two, he would look her in the eyes and just go like this. He had a backbone of steel and rebellion and he just there was nothing she could do. Timeouts, no cookies. Yes, we still believe in gracious and kind corporal punishment, which would be spankings, but not child abuse. But anything she did was ineffective. Chastening, ineffective. That's what God was saying in Isaiah chapter 1. The people had gotten to the point where there was nothing left for him to do. He pulled out all the stops, he chastened his people, and they still rejected him. Now, when John the Baptist comes, the Messiah comes, and the Messiah saves Israel from their enemies, are we going to go back to Standard operating procedures? Are we going to go back to the way things were in the Old Testament? I mean, is that what we really want to just return to Isaiah chapter 1? Because that's where we're headed. If all Jesus Christ does is save Israel from their physical enemies, it's not enough. Now when you think of your life, if all that happened when you got saved was that you got money And cars, financial stability, and health. But your heart remained unchanged. Would that be enough? Would that be the kind of salvation you want? It's not the way God intended to do it with Israel either. And so we have this praise of further things that are going to happen. Look down at verse 75. In holiness and righteousness. I'm sorry, let's pick it up at the end of verse 74. It picked up the verb there. Might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our lives Now this is remarkable. This is completely different than any other prophet. The one who's going to come It's not just going to deliver a message, and the people will be saved from the Canaanites, the Philistines, and the Romans. This prophet who comes will do something, some kind of a change where the people are actually going to do it They are actually going to serve in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of their lives. Something is going to change here because Jeremiah couldn't do it. Isaiah couldn't do it. All they did is come and indict the people for their sins and get killed, sawn in half, run away to the mountains. The prophet couldn't change the hearts of the people, but this one, something is happening. Something is is different from this savior who's coming. Look at your Bible. And then when he transitions into talking about John the Baptist here, verse 76, and you, child, John the Baptist, you're going to be called the prophet of the highest. And you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins. Now we're getting into the heart of it. There is salvation, and there's this idea of sins that must be remitted. Now, I talked early in the service about Romans and this idea of by one man's disobedience, sin came into the world. And that's a serious issue, right? We're living in a world at war right now, surely. Whether it's Homegrown terrorism, where someone takes a bomb in a truck and blows up a government building, or foreign terrorism where individuals infiltrate our country and try to kill us. Whether it's famine, where people at this very moment are starving in the South Sudan or Ethiopia, everywhere we look. There are issues and there are sins. And this certainly was the case in Israel at the time of the birth of John the Baptist. Sin has entered the world. And this Savior, he is someone who is going to be able to deal with that. And so John is going to give the knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins. What does this mean? Well, later on we find out, and you probably already know this. That John the Baptist was John the Baptist. Now his baptism is different from what we do because we baptize in the name of Jesus In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, whereas his was a baptism of what's called repentance. On the one hand, there's a Savior that's coming But what if the people say, who cares? Have you ever given the gospel to someone and you realize that they don't think they need it? That everything's okay in their world? Why? Oh, the gospel? A free gift of salvation? Salvation? What's that? Why do I need that? I'm fine. And so John the Baptist is going to come and give sort of the knowledge, the necessity, the knowledge of the necessity of salvation. He's this hard-hitting preacher who says, Repent, brood of vipers. We're all sinners in need of salvation. He's going to, folks, if I could put it this way, John the Baptist. Magnified sin. He put a focus on it, not exaggerating it He clarified it and arrested people's attention to focus on the reality of it. Sometimes we don't see things that are right in front of our face. I had a mentor once who was telling a story in a building project, and he said that they were remodeling the offices at his church, and this gentleman was a pastor. And he said they came in, knocked down the walls, remodeled everything, and they left a big pile of trash in the front hallway. And he, at the beginning, he said, hey, there's this big pile of trash. We need to get rid of this. But the weeks went by and the trash never moved and the trash never moved. And before long, he didn't even see it. He just kind of walked by this big pile of trash and went to his office to do his work. And someone came to him and said, hey, when are we going to remove that big pile of trash? And he was like, what pile of trash? That pile of trash. And that's what John the Baptist did. He's saying, hey, look at this pile of sin. We have issues here. We're in need. He's going in and doing the prep work of the necessity of repentance to show them of the necessity of salvation by the remission of their sins. Through the ten look at verse 78. Through the tender mercy of our God, with which the dayspring from on high has visited us to give light. He's shining light on that pile so that those who sit in dark excuse me in darkness and the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. Zacharias was praising God that he had come. And Zecharias Was prophesying that his son would prepare the way. And so verse 80: the child grew and became strong in spirit and was in the deserts till the day of his manifestation. to Israel. Now we're about to do the Lord's table. Let me give you two quick applicable applications on this. Number one People have to be lost before they can be saved. Pretty basic, right? John the Baptist had to prepare the way. Okay, look at it this way. Here's this statement: John the Baptist will prepare the way for Jesus And here's this action, baptism of repentance, courageous preaching against sin, brood of vipers, bring forth fruit, meet for repentance And then there's this statement: look, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Follow the progression. Pile of sin. Sin, issue here. The necessity of repentance. The one who takes away the sin. Maybe you're here this morning and you've lived your life and you have never one time thought that you had an issue with sin. Maybe you've put yourself in a different category. There's all these people, and then there's me over here. John the Baptist would not give you an out. He would not give me an out The scriptures say all have sinned. As a matter of fact, these these this these statements about from Isaiah one about sin are very similar to Romans three when it talks about how there's no one righteous. No not one. We've all, and then Isaiah 53, we've all gone astray like sheep. We've just all turned to our own way. There's this repetition of all have sinned and no one is righteous. That means that everyone in this room is a sinner. And folks, it works this way: if you don't place yourself in the category of sinner, you are not allowed to place yourself in the category of saved. Because what do you need to be saved from? Well, I'm, you know, I need to be saved from, I don't know, I guess being sort of not the greatest guy sometimes. Maybe saved from my my bad attitude I have sometimes, but you know, nobody's perfect. Yeah, nobody's perfect, and and that's sin, and then there's there's God's justice that comes down on sinners. His just wrath, Romans 1, his decree that the wages of sin is death. And so if you're here this morning and you think you're saved, but you never came to this place where you realized you were lost. I question you, are you really saved? Now sometimes when preachers say this, there's someone in the congregation that has a very sensitive conscience. And you're always talking yourself out of your salvation because you're so aware of your sin, and that's not the person I'm talking to. I'm talking to the person who's been asleep, who's never had their conscience awakened, who's just sort of gone through the Christian experience and never made it personal. That's the person who could be here today, who's never been lost, and so you've never been found. It's a wonderful thing to cry out to God. It's a wonderful thing to say, I'm done. I can't do this. I'm a sinner. It's a wonderful thing to finally say, somebody help me. And to know from the scriptures that that somebody is Jesus. There is no greater thing in the world to just be honest with yourself and God And I think every Christian in this room would say that that's true. Out of humility comes strength.