Well I hope you had a chance to spend some time with your family and friends last few days. You know, among them are probably those who need special care and very much look forward to this time of the year. The elderly. And are we taking care of them? And if you belong to the category of elderly, are you taking care of yourself? Are you being taken care of? One Harvard student gathered the results of over 70 studies of relationship between purpose and age. Quote, the sense of purpose in life tends to peak during late adolescence, young adulthood, and then actually begins to decline throughout middle adulthood. And dropped sharply through late adulthood. End quote. The author continues, now I'm paraphrasing, by the age of fifty-five, many have already reached the pinnacle of their career. accomplish the meaningful role of parenting, and it may be too late to start another long journey Buffers that lessen the precipitous decline of purpose include continued employment, marriage, frequent contact with family, and volunteering. Now these are good suggestions, but they're just that suggestions and they're just buffers. We need more lasting purposes. And we turn to the Bible for that. We open up our Bibles and see how God has used saints of old age Like Abraham, Jacob, and Moses. See how left out Isaac because he called it quits years before his death and he caused a lot of family problems because of that An opposite positive example of fruitful living is found in today's passage, Zacharias and Elizabeth. Let's read Luke 1. 57-80 together. You'll find the passage in the bulletin insert. Otherwise, turn with me to Luke 1. 57-80 in your Bibles. Luke one, fifty-seven to eighty, finishing off this chapter Now Elizabeth's full time came for her to be delivered, and she brought forth a son. When her neighbors and relatives heard how the Lord has shown great mercy to her, they rejoiced with her. So it was on the eighth day that they came to circumcise the child, and they would have called him by the name of his father Zacharias. His mother answered and said, No, he shall be called John. But they said to her, There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name. So they made signs to his father what he would have him called. And he asked for a writing tablet and wrote, saying, His name is John. So they all marveled. Immediately his mouth was open and his tongue loosed, and he spoke, praising God. Then fear came on all who dwelt around them, and all these things were discussed throughout all the hill country of Judea. And all those who heard them kept them in their hearts, saying, What kind of child would this be? And the hand of the Lord was with him. Now as Father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, who have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us To perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham. To grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before Him, all the days of our life. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the highest. For you will go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercies of our God, with which the dayspring from on high has visited us, to give light to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. So the child grew and became strong in spirit and was in the deserts till the day of his manifestation to Israel. I believe there are three principles as you see from this passage. First, God uses our obedience to fulfill his purposes. Verses 57 to 66 That's drawn from Zacharias and Elizabeth. Second, God empowers our speech to speak his promises. Verses 67 to 75. That's drawn from Zacharias. Third, God appoints our ministry to prepare his ways. Verses 76 to 80. That's drawn from the life of John the Baptist. First, God uses our obedience to fulfill his purposes. In verse 57, we finally have the birth of John the Baptist. The New King James Version and the King James Version do not provide a good translation of that first phrase, I don't think. It's not that Elizabeth is delivered. New America Standard Bible says it better. Now the time hath come for Elizabeth to give birth. Verse 58 is a fulfillment of verses 13 and 14. May maybe we can turn back there. Said in verse thirteen and fourteen as Gabriel was speaking to Zacharias in the temple. Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your prayer is heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John, and you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth. This is coming true. God has done something spectacular, making the old and barren rejoice because of his bountiful mercy. But God also uses the ordinary things, our ordinary obedience, as we see in verses 60-66. The opportunity for obedience came on the eighth day when John would be circumcised and named, according to tradition and the law. It has been many months since Gabriel instructed Zacharias concerning the name of their son. The old priest must have previously transmitted this divine revelation of the child's name, John, to Elizabeth by writing. That's why we see the mother speaking out in objection against neighbors and relatives who thought to name the child after their father, Zacharias. She wanted her newborn son to be named John, but they tried to dissuade her as no one in the family had that name. In verse 62, the relatives and neighbors turn to their father, turn to the father. In a bit of a humorous note, they make signals to him as if he's deaf, but he's not deaf. He's just mute. Maybe he rolled his eyes, but afterwards, definitely Zacharias settles the debate by writing on a tablet. His name is John, to the amazement of the spectators. It was at this moment that the old priest would be granted speech once again to praise God, and we will see what he has to say in the next point. But for now we are told the reaction of all who dwelt around them and people in all the hill country of Judea They not only asked what kind of child would this be, but kept in their hearts the story of John and his parents, Zechariah's encounter with Gabriel in the temple. Elizabeth's pregnancy in spite of her barrenness and old age, and the confirmation of John's name God's work in John's life was not only anticipated in the mouths of the people, but guaranteed as the hand of the Lord was with them. Now the meaning of that phrase, the hand of the Lord was with them, can be better understood if we turn to Acts 11, 19 to 21. Let's go there. The other book by Luke, the book of Acts, eleven, nineteen to twenty-one There we see the earliest Jewish Christians scattering away from Jerusalem after the martyrdom of Stephen. So we go there. Acts 11, 19 to 21. Now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Stephen travelled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to no one but the Jews only. But some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the Lord Jesus And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. The hand of the Lord was with them. As you can see, preachers from Cyprus and Cyrene did not convict and convert Greeks from Antioch by their own hand. It was by the hand of the Lord that a great number believed and turned to the Lord. In the same way, a great number will repent and turn to Jesus through John's ministry of baptism. Not because of his personality or charm, but by the hand of the Lord. He will be an instrument in God's hand for the message of repentance. In preparation for the one who baptizes with the Spirit and fire. From inside his mother's womb to infancy to adulthood, John will be empowered to live for God. We'll get to speak of John a little bit more in the third point, so let's get back to his parents. I've said in a previous sermon that Zacharias and Elizabeth were embodiments of the principle found in verses five to ten of this chapter. Be faithful to the old ordinary works of the Lord. In the passage here that mentions them for the last time in the Bible, we see them doing just that. At the critical moment, they remember the words of Gabriel, spoken months before, and obeyed his command. You shall call his name John. God uses our obedience to fulfill his purposes. In the days, months, and years to come, there will be many critical junctures in John's life beyond the circumcision and naming Right. And then Zacharias and Elizabeth will have to be obedient in those parts as well. The first cross, the first walks, the first falls, the first words, first many things. Zacharias and Elizabeth do not get to play grandparents, but they have to play parents. They get John 24, 7. Not for one afternoon per week or during the holidays. They have become freshmen in parenting in their senior years. Following God faithfully and obediently means getting out of our comfort zones. Now you may not get pregnant like Elizabeth at old age, but until the Lord calls us home or he returns, we have much obeying to do. There's much purpose in our lives because of that. And that's what's exciting about following the Lord. Even as we wind down our careers or face an empty nest. There's this constant principle until the moment we breed our last on earth. God uses our obedience to fulfill his purposes. You may have a law in your life, and then all of a sudden, through one instance of obedience after another, the pace suddenly picks up I hope I pray the same thing for our church. Many of us have not seen a full building here at Faith Bible Church in a long time. But who knows what will happen? Our job here and now is to be faithful and obedient. You know, let's start with the little things. One obedience at a time. Let's sing better. Let's pray more fervently. Read the scriptures more frequently. Preach and teach the Bible more effectively. Let's be more hospitable to outsiders and be kinder to each other. Let's obey the word and fulfill his purposes to be a great commissioned church. And that leads to the second principle for today. God empowers our speech to speak his promises. Zacharias has been silent for about forty weeks and eight days. What thoughts and meditations floated around his head we can only infer from what he says in verses 67 to 79. Now before we get to the details, there are some broad parallels between Mary's praise and Zacharias's praise. Just as the the Virgin's song is traditionally called Magnificat, the first word in the Latin translation, Zacharias's blessing is called Benedictus, which is a word meaning blessed in Latin, and it too stands at the very beginning. I said last week that Mary's speech can be divided into two parts, with the first emphasizing individual grace upon herself and second emphasizing the corporate grace upon Israel There are two parts to Zacharias's praise as well. The first part, verses 68-75, is directed to God Himself, while the second one, verses 76-79, to John his son. Like his son John from the womb, verse fifteen, and his wife Elizabeth during her meeting with Mary, verse forty-one. Zacharias is filled with the Holy Spirit in verse 67. Unlike John, Zacharias used his mouth to express his excitement. Unlike Elizabeth, he would engage in foretelling, not just fortelling, of Mary's blessed faith. Do not miss the significance of the word prophesied there. What the priest is about to say has great implications for the future. Now I'm gonna divide this part into even three three subparts here. Verses 68 to 71 is focused on the Messiah. On the promises of the Messiah, the Christ, the coming anointed Savior, Jesus Himself. Verses 72 through 73 reaches back to the promises made to the patriarchs, all the way back to the forefather of faith, Abraham. Verses 74 and 75 relates the promises made to the saints, first and foremost to Israel, but soon extending to Gentiles. So the Messiah, the patriarchs, and the saints. Verse 68 picks up from verse 63 and tells us the reason for speaking good words, which means which is right. Good words about Lord God of Israel. God has acted in history. The one who is the great creator of the universe has concerns for the affairs of lonely men. This is grace. What a grace. He has redeemed his people that is made purchase for them. Individuals and individuals that make up the nation of Israel cannot be purchased with money. Listen to the psalmist in Psalm forty nine, six to nine. Let's go there. Psalm forty nine, six to nine. Those who trust in their wealth and boast in the multitude of their riches, none of them can by any means redeem his brother. Nor give to God a ransom for him. For the redemption of their souls is costly, and it shall cease forever that he should continue to live eternally and not see the pit. The cost of that purchase, purchase for the soul, will be the blood of Jesus, which secures eternal redemption from slavery to sin. Hebrews 9, 11 to 12. Now all this talk of redemption in the Bible means that we need to be redeemed, brought back, to be freed from sin. We have all sinned in our lives, by thought, word, or deed, by choosing our will and refusing to do God's will. The price of our sin is eternal death, punishment in hell forever. As we saw in Psalm 49, no wealth or riches can purchase redemption for our souls. But then Jesus came. We celebrate the Christmas season because one day about 2,000 years ago, God the Son came down as a human He lived a perfect life and offered it at the cross as a substitute to take our place where we should have been. The broken body and the shed blood of Jesus is the redemption price for the forgiveness of our sins and eternal life. But that's not the end of the story. Jesus rose from the dead, and because his payment was accepted by God, he ascended to heaven. And now we await his return. The redemption Jesus has accomplished is now offered to us as a gift. Now we can pay for our sins on our own with our souls under the pain of God's wrath. Or we can accept Jesus' payment for our sins. He has received the full brunt of God's wrath at the crucifixion. You cannot earn the salvation. We can only receive it by grace through faith alone, apart from any works of our own. If you haven't, would you ask Jesus to save you from sin and hell? The price has been paid already. You only need to ask and receive eternal life. If you do, know that Jesus will be the horn of salvation for you, just as he is for this house of David God has planned deliverance through Jesus, the horn of salvation from eternity past, though he did not reveal that plan until later, through the mouth of his holy prophets. As we see frequently in the book of Daniel and the book of Revelation, horn is a repeated and apt symbol for kings. Just as a horn of an animal is used to protect and guard against approaching predators and hunters, a descendant of David, the royal line, will protect and guard Israel from the Both the Israelite saints and the Gentile saints will per face persecution, but we have eternal security to Jesus the King, the horn of our salvation. The promise of Jesus for salvation and protection goes all the way back to the book of Genesis. We see in verses 72 and 73 That God has not forgotten his holy covenant made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. We break covenants all the time, whether it's our marriage covenant or the church membership covenant. But God is not like us. He will fulfill his will through the obedience of Jesus. His son. And that divine will has far-reaching consequences as we read in verse 74. Zacharias knows those who trust in Jesus will be ultimately delivered from the hand of their enemies. And the redeemed are not only saved from peril, but saved for a purpose in life, which goes back to what I said at the beginning. It's not just justification, but Sanctification. You read at the verse in the verse 74 and 70 and into 75 that we God's people are saved so that we might serve them without fear. In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life. God did not save us so that we may serve ourselves, but to serve him. As I prayed this morning. Not to live apart from him, but before him. Not in sin and evil, but in holiness and righteousness. Not only on Sundays, but all the days of our life. And this is what we preach and teach. God's promises were given to the saints in the Old Testament, fulfilled in Jesus Christ, and applied to us in New Testament for Christians. Like Zacharias, we ought to move from silence to proclamation, from contemplation to confession. But such speech cannot be done in our own strength. We need the filling of the Holy Spirit to proclaim the gospel promises to the unsaved and the lost. God empowers our speech to speak his promises. We have the prophetic example of Zacharias, and we will soon have the example of his son John too. And that leads to the third point taken from John's destiny. God appoints our ministry to prepare his ways. Zacharias turns to his infant son and addresses him directly. John will be the prophet of the highest as he goes before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways. The Lord here refers to Jesus Christ Himself, the second person in the Trinity. John could not give salvation to his people, but he could give knowledge of salvation to them by pointing to Jesus. The remission of their sins does not come through the water baptism of John, but through the tender mercies of our God. The imagery here is very warm. The God's tender mercies come with Jesus like the warmth of the sun after a dark cold night. The Messiah's advent is as Malachi puts it in chapter 4 verse 2. The Son of righteousness shall arise with healing in his wings. Like a watchman longing for the morning, the prophet of the highest looks for the day spring from on high. We sang about that in the second verse of Ocome Emmanuel. John would be the last watchman on duty, and the first to see the rays of dawn with his own eyes. Jesus is the blessed Lord God of Israel who has visited his people and his light shines brightly. We also read Isaiah 9 this morning. As Jesus begins his ministry in Capernaum as an adult, Matthew records the fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah 9. 2 in chapter 4, verse 16. I'll just read it for you. Again, the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and upon those who sat in the region and shadow of death, light has dawned In the next chapter of Luke, we will see how Jesus starts out as an infant, just as we see John do the same here. We're giving a quick summary as we close of John's development toward maturation. We already saw earlier that the Lord's hand was upon him. So naturally he grew and became strong in spirit. He would be hidden away in the desert for his training to be the Forerunner of the Messiah. And here's the final application for us. Just as God has appointed John's ministry to prepare for Jesus' first coming, He has appointed the Ministry of Faith Bible Church to prepare for Jesus' second coming. We like John cannot give salvation or light of salvation ourselves. We must point to Christ our Savior the days from. You know, the Faith Bible Church has occupied this location for many decades, and I pray that we go on for many more. I hope we can reach the century mark in about forty years. Unless of course Jesus returns before then, then I have no problem. As for us individuals, whether we are old like Zacharias and Elizabeth, or young and up and coming like John the Baptist, let us be obedient to God's word. Lord, we thank you for the gift of life. As we close this calendar year, we're reminded again, just all the blessings you've poured out upon us. Whether it's family, whether it's uh friends, whether it's home, whether it's a job, or whether it's education. Lord, we're thankful for all the bountiful blessings you pour out upon us. But Lord, we thank you most of all for your Son Jesus Christ. And the purpose that He has given us for living. And that purpose is everlasting, to seek your kingdom first and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to us. Lord, we pray that as we go in this last month of the year, may we recalibrate, may we reassess what we're living for. No, whether we are at the twilight of our careers or at just at the beginning, whether we are just getting life started or coming to a close. We pray that you would equip us, help us to see that there's much to be done, there's much to obey, much promises to meditate on, much to speak. As much preparation as we await the return of your son. We thank you for your word and we pray all these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.