Please uh be seated. Turn now to the sermon text this morning from Matthew 1, verse 25 Five verses. And probably recently you may have heard uh this this text read in connection with the birth of Jesus and certainly it's appropriate to read it then but let me do let me remind you This text is like every other text of Scripture. It is divinely inspired, and therefore it is profitable for your spiritual well. So follow along with me. Matthew chapter 1, the first 25 verses. The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Judah and his brothers. Judah begat Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram. Ram begot Aminadab, and Aminodab begot Nashan. And Noshan begat Salman, and Salman begot Boaz by Rahab, Boaz begat Obed by Ruth, Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begot David. David the king begat Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon begot Rehoboam. Rehoboam begot Abijah. And Abijah begot Asa. Asa begot Jehosaphat. Jehoshaphat begot Joram. And Joram begot Uzziah. Uzziah begot Jotham. Jotham begot Ahaz. Ahaz begot Hezekiah. Hezekiah begot Manasseh. Manasseh begot Ammon. And Amon begot Josiah. Josiah begot Jakoniah and his brothers About the time they were carried away to Babylon. And after they were brought to Babylon, Jakaniah begot Shealtial, and Shealtial begot Zerubbabel Zerobabel begot Abihud, and Abihud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor. Azor begot Zadek. Zadek begot Akim And Akim begot Elihud. Elihud begot Eliezer, Eliasar begat Matin, Matin begot Jacob, Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary. Of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. All the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations. From David until the captivity in Babylon are fourteen generations, and from the captivity in Babylon until the Christ are fourteen generations. And the birth of Jesus was as follows. After his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make a public example, make excuse me, make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in the dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary, your wife For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, and she will bring forth a Son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying Behold, the virgin, who shall be with child and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife And he did not know her until she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called his name Jesus. Let us pray. Oh Father, we are insufficient To plumb the depths of your word, all of its many wonders, its truths. It's reflection of your being, your character Your redemptive plan for men. Help us, O Lord God, to proclaim your word and to hear it. Lord, may your spirit move our hearts and our souls to rejoice, to be thankful. Thankful that Almighty God has chosen to give us this word and all of His Word. We ask these things humbly in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, a genealogy A genealogy that begins the first book of the New Testament. Most Christians, when you read through genealogies, think that they are boring. Admit it. They're boring. And you you wonder, because they are boring, you wonder, why are they in God's Word? And again, of course, we need to remember that they are divinely inspired, first and foremost. God inspired Matthew To put this genealogy here for the benefit of all who would read it in the future. Even though we might look at this genealogy today and think it's somewhat boring when we read all these names, these funny names. There are lots of people today who are fascinated by tracing out their ancestry, their family trees. And they're fascinated by discovering things in those family trees that they didn't know about. If those human genealogies people are fascinated, it begs the question, why are we bored sometimes when we hear the genealogy of Jesus Christ? Paula has a cousin Previously unknown to her. He had been rigorously researching his ancestry and discovered her in his ancestry and got in touch with her He thinks, and this is a question that's still open, he thinks he has proven that he, and maybe Paula also has native American and has a Native American ancestor. Now, this guy, his name is David This guy has gotten really into that. He has uh designed his own regalia. He regularly goes to Powell's and dances the night away. Not so much Paula yet. But Many others have embarked on a similar journey in search of their ancestors, and they found surprises in their family trees. A heretofore unknown famous actor, or maybe a great inventor, or an infamous thief who spent Time in the federal penitentiary. These are some of the things that human genealogies reveal. And I think that if we had the time and looked through this genealogy in depth, we would find a number of interesting things. That would surprise us. We don't have time to look at all of them today. And I'll say from the beginning The title is somewhat um it could be changed a little bit. I I'm not definitely sure there's 42 men here. I'm sure that there's five women. And I'm sure that there's one other. But the 42 men might be plus or minus a couple of two, a couple of a couple of individuals. But Matthew does begin his divinely inspired gospel with this genealogy, the family tree of our Lord Jesus Christ. And as we look at this family tree, his human ancestry is much like people's ancestry today. There are some great men and women in this family tree. There are also some of humanity's worst. people. What accounts for this frank, open, honest, airing of Christ's family's dirty laundry, so to speak. And just as important as that matter is Does it matter? Does the genealogy matter? Is it important? And I hope that we'll see some answers to that question today There's another amazing thing about this genealogy. In fact This genealogy of the Lord Jesus Christ among the biblical genealogies which you have. You have another one in Luke, and you have several in the book of Numbers, and several in Genesis. But this genealogy is unique, almost unique in the Bible. Can you guess what it is that's unique about this genealogy Who wants to take a guess? Try. That of course is unique. That's that's true. That's true. But among the ancestors, what's unique? Yes, it has women. It has women. It includes women. In fact, five of them. Why? Why are they here? Again, we'll hope to answer those questions for you as time progresses. A couple of comments first about genealogies in general before we look at this more specifically. All the people included in this genealogy are not mythological people. They are real human beings. They are historically verified individuals, not just from their names in the Bible, although that's one source, but then there are other sources from history. uh that would verify, for example, that David was a king of Israel. All of these people, not only are they historical, but they all are part of the great redemptive promise that God gave to his people as early as Genesis 3, where he said, the seed of the world Woman shall triumph over the seed of the serpent They are all players, good and bad, in God's great covenant promise, I will be your God, and you will be my people. Some of these individuals we hardly know at all. We know almost nothing about them. An example, verse 4, a minadab. Tell me where else you can find a minadab in the Bible. Not known. Not mentioned. And others are very well known. Some we think of as good people. Abraham and David. Others are among the most wicked sinners in the Bible If what we read about Manasseh doesn't strike you, doesn't make you chilled at what that man did before the Lord opened his mouth Mind and heart. The genealogy of the Lord Jesus Christ is a living testimony That God is sovereign in human history. Your God is working in time. He is working in human history to accomplish his purposes, including the redemption of his people. History is not moving in accordance with some vague force. History moves at God's beckon command. Your Savior is the Alpha and the Omega of all history The Old Testament. Something else about this passage that's interesting and important is that the Old Testament is relevant to you. It's not a book, even though it was written thousands of years ago, to a group of people that we have trouble identifying with in terms of their culture They d we don't have any trouble at all identifying with them as humans At the very least, this genealogy Tells you that God has worked in every epoch of history to overcome the stain of sin that is upon all of his people And thereby God has kept his word to redeem all sinners who believe in him. Him. This genealogy helps you unmask God's amazingly wonderful plan of redemption. The genealogy is at the beginning of the gospel because you see the genealogy is good news. It's part of the good news. The good news which will culminate in the birth of Death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And you see, that is at the heart of the good news and the gospel. Redemption's story starts Here. And notice in in verse one, it starts abruptly Verse 1, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. I think most Christians would be hard-pressed to find better human beings than Abraham and David. Many of the snapshots of the Bible dealing with these men show them to be men of great virtue. However, a few other portraits show them to be men capable of any evil. Abraham, remember, lied twice about Sarah being his wife David impregnated a pregnant woman and then murdered her husband to try to cover it up. The present their presence in this list testifies that even though they violated God's law God chose to bless these two men with the profound blessings of his saving grace. For example, from Abraham comes the seed of eternal life, Christ the Savior of the world, in whom all the nations will Come to be blessed. And from David comes a descendant who will rule and reign over God's kingdom forever. All the others included in this list Some nondescript, others well-known kings and rulers of empires, some good, some evil. And I'll pick on Manasseh. He may be the worst of all. He is so wicked that he sacrificed two of him sons. To the pagan God. Murdered them. All forty-two of these men And maybe I'll say something controversial here, and I recognize I can't prove it. But all 42 of these men. Are probably among those who are saved by grace. What a testimony that is to God's saving grace to sinners. Grace that would be displayed in the ministry of Jesus. But what should we say about the five women I recognize this as a summary. But in some ways you might ask yourself the question, are they better than the men? Well, hardly. Tamar, verse three disguised herself as a temple harlot to seduce Judah so she could have a son. Rahab who is known as Rahab, but also Rahab the harlot, as we first come to know her in Jericho. She feared God. God enabled her to repent, and she would be engrafted into the redemptive hope as one of God's redeemed people. She happened to bear a son whose name was Boaz. It'd be interesting if they name the book of Ruth Boaz and Ruth, because he is such an amazingly good character in that book. But Boaz comes from Rahab. And in the book he marries Ruth and raises up living seed. That seed Is a man named Obed, father of Jesse, the father of David. Ruth was a Moabitus, which meant at one point in her life she was an unbelieving pagan. Who worship foreign gods, who, through the ministry of her mother-in-law, and through difficult circumstances Came to know the Lord and to worship him. Then there's Bathsheba She who begat Solomon, or David who begat Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah. Notice David is mentioned Solomon is mentioned, Uriah is mentioned, but Bathsheba doesn't get any mention. I find that curious. But She was an adulteress, and she was complicit in King David's murder of her husband, Uriah. And finally, there's Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ. A nobody from the backborder town of Nazareth, from which nothing good can come off. We don't know much about Mary. We hardly know anything. We know a little bit about Mary's pregnancy. We know how it happened. We know commentary about it, but think about Mary carrying that baby for nine months. Think about what that what happened what was going on in the community. My imagination may be running wild. But I suspect Mary, during those nine months, had to endure the sneers, the mockery, and the gossip about her being impregnated by the whole Holy Spirit before she was betrothed to her husband. Yes. This line Where you look in this line, when you scratch the people hard enough, you see it's a testimony to man's depravity. There's none good, no not one. But it's from this lie, you see. It's from this line of humanity that Jesus comes. And though the the the depravity of man is here, so too is the great man Grace of God that overcomes such depravity. Forty-two men, give or take a few, five women And one. All of humanity is overwhelmed by sin and rebellion against God. Some sins were subtle, some sins hidden. Others open and deliberate defiance against God. And yet, they're all here Over and over again, testifying to man's wicked nature and his need of redemption. And it's a redemption that God will effect in the one who comes. Jesus. the Christ. He who is born of a virgin. So no corrupt nature, no corrupt human nature passes to him. It's not imputed to him. He who comes as Emmanuel, God with us, verse 21. He who comes as the Son of God. Jesus, who saves his people from their sins, verse 23. The 42 and the 5, myriads of other sinners, will turn to Christ Only by God-given faith. Only by God's grace will they repent and believe, trusting in God with us, trusting in Jesus the Savior, who saved us. Saves us from our sins. My beloved brothers and sisters, you who believe in Jesus Christ, this list includes you. You, whom God by His grace in Christ has captured your hearts. Your once wicked hearts. It includes you because, like the believers here and all other believers Christ's family is written into the Lamb's Book of Life. Our Lord's genealogy, therefore. Is an elegant death declaration, an elegant and an eloquent declaration Regarding redemption. That declaration is simply this: with man, no hope But with God all hope. Worship The God, you worship the God who does all things well. He has come to save sinners. Christ's death and resurrection saves you from your sins So that you might live, live, live free to serve Him forever. I exhort you, repent and believe And rejoice at the wonder of God's grace to sinners in Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, we pray for the outpouring of your Holy Spirit. Lord, to apply the words of the Spirit To the hearts of your people. And those things, O Lord, which are said amiss or wrong, O Lord, we pray the Spirit would not allow to dwell upon our hearts. But always, Lord, that you might enable us to think more about your the wonder of your saving plan in Jesus' name. And to give you the grace and the glory that you so deserve. God help us to worship you as we should. In Jesus' name. Amen. Before we say the Lord's Prayer, let us join together in the saying of the Lord's Prayer, as Jesus taught us to say. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. As I said before This morning I have the great privilege to once again celebrate the Lord's Supper with you as God's people. And uh because you see, as it as it is this supper reminds us What our Savior did, what he has accomplished in this redemptive work