If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Psalms, tonight we'll be reading Psalm 67. I think you'll find that on page five hundred and sixty nine of your Pew Bibles. Psalm sixty seven. Let's give attention to the very word of God. To the choir master with stringed instruments, a psalm, a song. May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us. That your way may be known on the earth, your saving power among all nations. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. But the nations be glad and sing for joy. For you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. The earth has yielded its increase. God, our God, shall bless us. God shall bless us. Let all the ends of the earth fear him. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. You pray with me. Father and our God, we come before you as weak, as frail, as finite sinners, saved by grace. And yet, Father, we know we need your help. We need your guidance. We need your spirit tonight. We pray that you'd open your word to us, that you would speak through your servant. That I would decrease, that Christ would increase. Father, help us. Help us to know more of you, to know more of Christ. This evening by and through this psalm. Guide and direct our hearts. Apply your word to our hearts tonight. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Why do you worship? Why did you come tonight? If you ever ask yourself that question, do you ever wonder why Cain and Abel brought offerings to the Lord? Why? As we read through scriptures, we we find that Abel brought his offering because he trusted the Lord. We also know that Cain didn't bring his offering for that reason because he didn't trust the Lord. So why do you worship? The psalm tonight, I think, will help us answer that question. We don't know who the author was. We don't know the context in which this was written, but we do know that it was written to be sung, a psalm, a song. It's given to the choir master who was to put it to use with stringed instruments. The word praise is included in this psalm four times. It references nations and peoples. It's certainly not singular. It's clearly a collective song to be used, likely in corporate worship. If you were to sum this psalm up tonight, I'd sum it up this way: that the plea for worship is answered by God at the cross. The plea for worship is answered by God at the cross. We'll see that tonight in three points First the request, secondly the reality, and finally the result As we go through this psalm tonight, I want you to be asking yourself that question, why why do I worship? Well first the request. Psalm is seemingly full of requests. Look at verse 1. May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us Seems to be a call by the psalmist to God to allow to permit To facilitate worship. For God's face to shine upon his people is certainly that idea of entering into worship with the triune God as he from a human perspective looks down upon us and allows us to see him, to see his glory and to see his his beauty Make your face to shine upon us, and that's certainly His grace and blessing. We see the reason for that plea as we examine our own hearts. We should be able to see the reason for that plea. First, the grace is undeserved. And so we see that this is a request. It's not a demand. No one can demand grace. If that were so, it wouldn't be grace, because grace is what some have Termed undeserved favor. So we can't demand it. It's a request, it's a plea to God to have grace upon us. Knowing that God has no obligation to bless either. He has no obligation to allow his face to be seen if you could actually see the face of God. We know that he doesn't have one. For his face to shine upon the people. He has no obligation to allow that. He's been offended. He's been sinned against. We have sinned against him. God would be just to send all of us to hell. And so he has no obligation. Except for Jesus Christ. And so we see this plea is founded in Christ, isn't it? We also know that men, women, children, in our estate in Adam, in our Adamic corruption, we have no desire to worship. So you see, that's part of this plea. May God be gracious to us, bless us, make his face to shine upon us, that we would have a desire to come before you and worship. We have no desire to commune with God in Adam. Indeed, that's exactly what Adam did for us. He gave us His sin-inclined nature, which runs from God, isn't that what he and Eve did when they sinned against him? No desire to to be with God, no desire to enter into worship or communion with God indeed is John puts it, men loved darkness rather than the light. And so there we see the reason for the plea. Grace is grace. It can't be demanded. God has no obligation to bless, and we in our Adamic corruption have no desire to worship. But we also know that God has answered this plea. A desire for communion, for worship, has been placed in the hearts of his people. That's first and foremost. That's how he is answered. The psalmist could not have written this psalm unless God had done that supernatural work. Listen to the song. May you be gracious to us. Bless us. Make your face to shine upon us. That your way may be known. Let the peoples praise you. Let all the peoples praise you. God had worked in the heart of the inspired psalmist here that he would desire this and that the congregation was singing this. Would also desire this. God has answered the plea by working in the hearts of his people that they would sing this All because of Christ. All because of what Jesus has done. Do you plead with God this way? Do you plead with God to allow you to worship Him? To enable you to worship Him? The world doesn't. Our neighbors don't. The ungodly man does not. But what about you? You're here tonight in this place. You've come to worship God. Do you plead with God to enable you? Or do you take it for granted? Did you come tonight casually, just knowing that God would allow you to enter into his throne room? through the Lord Jesus Christ, by the work of the Spirit. Do you take that for granted? Or maybe even you see worship as a burden at times Those in Nehemiah's day did. They were waiting for the Lord's day to be over, for the for the Sabbath to be over so they could get back to selling and buying. That was down their hearts. That was their desire. He had to lock the doors. He had to lock the gates so that the Sabbath would be protected. When will the Lord's day be over? I've got so much to do. Homework. Things at work. Things in the house If we're honest with ourselves tonight, we take worship for granted. The ability to worship. The opportunities given for worship. I think our prayer needs to be that, God, would you deal with our hearts mercifully, gently, as we've taken worship for granted. We've not pled with you. And sometimes we even treat it as a burden, not as a privilege and a joy. Our prayer should be that God would help us to more and more appreciate and value time with Him. That's where our problem lies. We don't realize this gift, the the great privilege that worship is. We don't remember the cost paid to enable us to come here tonight It wasn't free. I think our hearts tell us that what we do here is just it's free. There's no cost to it. But the greatest cost was paid so that you could come here tonight. The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was required. There's absolutely no way that you could come here and actually worship the triune God without the blood of Christ. Jesus had to die. in your place. He had to be nailed to the cross in your place. He had to suffer the eternal wrath of his father in your place. He had to have his blood shed, spilled out, completely. for you, so that you could come tonight. None of us appreciate worship as we should. If we did, if we did, we'd be pleading with God, allow us to come today. Saturday night we'd be in our prayer closets and praying, God, allow us to come to worship tomorrow. Please. We love you. This is our greatest time of the week, the greatest hour of the week we can spend in communion with you because of what Jesus did. Help us not to be lukewarm toward worship. Help us, Lord. And when we pray for ourselves, we should be praying for one another. Help my brothers, help my sisters. to long for worship, to desire to be in the congregation coming before you in communion with you first and then with each other. We shouldn't pray that way often. That's the plea. That's the request. Psalmist is pleading for that in this psalm. And it should be a great example to us to participate in that same plea. But here's the reality, point number two. Verses one through five here, for the most part, with the exception of a portion of verse 4, are mostly written as requests in the English versions that we have. May God be gracious. Let the peoples praise you. 64 verse 4b stands out, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon the earth. Which is no longer a request, but a reality. And then if you were to jump down to the end of verse 6 and verse 7, God shall bless us. God shall bless us. It's a promise. It's no longer written as a request. It's no longer written as a is a plea. But it's written as a reality That God shall do this. He will bless the people. He will judge the peoples with equity. He will guide the nations upon the earth. That's the reality. But he will do it. The reality is that God has enabled you If you're trusting in Jesus tonight to worship, He's answered the plea, whether it's coming from you or it's coming from Jesus Christ, He's answered the plea for worship at the cross. You see, without the cross, there's absolutely no possibility of coming tonight. Without Jesus' bloodshed, without his death on the cross, without his resurrection from the dead. There's no way for you to come. That's the reality that He has. And so you can come by and through Jesus. But here's where I want to spend my time tonight with the result. My third point. And there are at least four, and I think you could probably dig up more if you studied this psalm. What's the result? What is the result of the plea? What is the result of the reality? Well first, that God makes known his way of salvation That's the first thing mentioned. It comes from God's face shining upon his people. Verse 2, that your way may be known on the earth, your saving power among all nations. We don't want to miss this. We don't want to skip over this. Because all the results of the shining of the face of God come to this that your way may be known on the earth Who's that? He's not speaking about the dust of the earth. He's not speaking of mountains or lakes or rivers. He's not speaking about the material things here. He's speaking of people. Earth should be taken in the context of all the peoples and the nations. And the idea here is not merely Israel. This would be a shock to the Jews if I were to say that at the time that this was written. What do you mean The Jews are the people of God. You've got to have the blood of Abraham flowing through you in order to enter into worship. And that's not what the psalmist is saying. That's not his plea. That's not the reality. Plea here is that your way may be known upon the earth, your saving power among all nations. Not merely Israel. All who have the desire to worship, laid up in their hearts, all who have had that supernatural heart surgery. All those from every tongue, tribe, nation, and people who God has chosen from before time began. That's the idea. That your way may be known on the earth. You're saving power among all nations. That's the way of God. We see that the Psalmist connects the way of God to his salvation. They go together. This psalmist written uh poetically. And so each verse is is got two clauses and and they help us understand the idea. And the idea here is that the way of God is his saving power. Among all nations, God's salvation. As God shines his face Upon the nations, he is making known on the earth the power of the resurrection. It's power of salvation. We can think of types of salvations. We can think of military victories as salvation. As Jonathan brings about a great victory in Israel, it's spoken of by the people as deliverance or salvation. We can think of military victories in our lifetimes, deliveries, or, in a sense, salvations for those who won the war. You can also think of false spiritual salvations of men, which are so common today. Many believe that they can save themselves or they don't even need to be saved because they're just good people. But here the psalmist is writing of a different kind of salvation. He's writing of God's salvation. That your way may be known on the earth, your saving power among all nations. God's Salvation. All other salvations are false and fleeting. He writes, the psalmist writes of that one true salvation. And so as the light of the face of God shines upon his people, then by the work of his spirit, he is making known the way of salvation by and through his ministers, his ambassadors, his heralds. who speak of the gospel of Christ. Salvation belongs exclusively to the Lord. It's clearly set forth and emphasized throughout Scripture. As Jacob was prophesying to his sons, he tells them, for your salvation I wait, O Lord, and the psalmist. In Psalm 119, we read much of salvation. I hope for your salvation, O Lord. I long for your salvation, O Lord Psalm 25, lead me in your truth, teach me, for you are the God of my salvation, for you I wait all the day. Salvation belongs to the Lord exclusively. And that's what the psalmist here writes of. God's salvation is a life-everlasting salvation. It flows out of his eternal, his everlasting love for his children. For God so loved the world. And so as God opens up his face, so to speak, from our perspective, he turns his face toward his children and he allows his nature to be seen. His goodness shines forth. And it's his salvation that's on display in all of his glory first. You see, it must be For without the salvation of God, there would be no way to see Him. Think of that What is it that Jesus told Nicodemus, as Nicodemus approaches him as a good teacher? I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Unless one is first saved, unless one first has that heart change happen, that new heart given in place of a stony heart, there's no way for anyone to look upon God There's no way to see his face. There would be no opportunity, no door open for worship, unless God made his way known first. The salvation of God is that which opens the door. Think of Christ. God's salvation is Christ. In a sense, it's just that simple. It's not that God's salvation is merely through Christ. But that Christ is God's salvation. Indeed, he said, I am the resurrection. He is the door. And so as God causes his face, his nature to shine upon his people, the first result is that the salvation of God Or Jesus Christ Himself, the person in his work, is being made known and experienced. Meaning applied to the broken hearts of the children of God, which is then that door being opened. such that worship may commence. Think of God's appearance before Moses. I'm trying to over-emphasize this point so we get it and grasp it. Think of Moses asking to see the glory of God. Think of God's passing by Moses as he places him in the cleft of the rock And as God allows Moses to see his back, what was it that Moses saw or heard? He heard the way of God. The Lord God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in loving kindness and truth who keeps loving kindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin. That's what he heard. That's what he saw. He forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin. Moses first saw the salvation of God as he passes by. That's the foundation of worship, of praise. And that's first. Second, God makes known his righteous judgment, doesn't he? Look at verse 4. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy. You judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. I think this is really the centerpiece of this psalm. Everything kind of points to verse 4 and to these. Lines in verse four. You judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon the earth. This significance here, it's sandwiched In between verses three and five, obviously, where we read, let the peoples praise you, let all the peoples praise you. It's it's a duplicate, but it sandwiches in verse for, making it the centerpiece, the culmination of this song and psalm. And so there's singing for joy. Why? Because God judges the peoples with equity. That's curious Here we have the Israelites in worship singing this song of worship, beginning the verse by calling the nations to be glad and sing for joy. Why? Because God, as he allows his face to shine upon his people, he is showing them he judges the peoples with equity, with righteous judgment This statement would be a terror for some. Think upon that. The God of the universe, the God of creation. The God who has called us to live in a particular way and who knows when we don't will judge every single person, all nations, all peoples. Are subject to the judgment of God. And so this would be a statement of terror for all those who would not and will not heed the word of God. And yet The psalmist is calling for the nations to be glad and sing for joy because God will judge the peoples. He will judge with perfect, full, comprehensive righteousness, with true equity And it's to be sung with joy because all the unrighteousness that the people of God experience in this life, in this world, will be set right by God. Because God judges the motives, He judges the intents, the hearts, He knows, He searches the inmost thoughts of men, and so He judges the equity. He will judge from his holy throne. And all will come before him. And each one will receive exactly that which each one is due. And the only way in which the people of God can rejoice in this truth is to be in Christ. Judgment alongside gladness and joy can only go together as one knows God's salvation in Jesus. Then they do come together So much so that the judgment of God and righteousness is a cause for worshipful praise. It's a cause for singing joyfully. Knowing that if you're in Christ, if you trust in Him alone for your very soul, if you believe that the Lord Jesus Christ was sent to save you from the wrath of the eternal wrath of God which is poured out for your sins, and that he has indeed suffered this wrath, And as a result, you've been washed clean in the blood of Christ. And that Jesus rose on the third day from the dead and now sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty and will come. Come in his glory for you. Then there's much joy. In knowing and believing in the righteous judgment of God. And you also know that the wicked will suffer For their deeds of oppression, for their persecution, for their hatred of God and their rebellious thoughts and words and deeds which were calculated to bring shame upon Jesus, and you know that these who refuse to bend the knee to Christ will also come to judgment. And that in righteousness God's name will be upheld and Christ will be exalted Therefore, if you're here tonight, or if you're watching on the stream or listening on the recording, and you're not in Christ, the call is to Is to plead with Christ, to change your heart Knowing that you're headed for the righteous judgment of God, call out to Christ tonight. That He would cleanse you. And He would make you white as snow. That this coming judgment would actually fall upon him and not upon you. Cry out to Christ. Even now, there is time. He's a forgiving God. If you trust in Jesus. But don't overlook the second part of this verse. That God will guide the nations. See, that's where your hope lies, brothers and sisters. Yes, there'll be judgment with equity, but God guides the nations. What does he mean? Is that no one can come to Jesus Christ unless the Father who sent him draws him See, God will guide each and every one of his chosen people to Jesus. Yes He judges inequity, but he also draws every single child that he's chosen to himself. There's your hope. It's not dependent upon you. You don't have to be smart. You don't have to be intelligent. You just have to be drawn to Jesus by and to the Father. And he will guide the nations Third. The third result is he makes us to see his goodness, doesn't he? Look at verse 6. The earth has yielded its increase. God, our God, shall bless. Isn't that right that God allows you to see his goodness? And and here in this psalm, it's the fact that the earth produces all that God calls it to produce so that you will be sustained. It's a recognition that you can actually see the goodness of God. We see it in his creation all over, but here it's very specific. The earth has yielded its increase. His love is so great that he provides for his people. It's happened. The Lord has done it. This is set in the past 10th. The earth has yielded increase. You can know that God is a powerful God because as you look out upon the creation, you can see that it speaks of his power, of his loving kindness, of his goodness. It's yielded its increase. This is God's way that He provides. He's the creator. He's the Maker. Everything comes from His hand And so you know that he pr as he provides the material blessings, he will also provide the spiritual blessings. He has the power to do it and he will do it. And that's why this this verse is connected in that way. The earth has yielded its increase. Our God shall bless us spiritually. His saving power will accomplish all that he desires. The fourth result is bringing us to a reverential fear. That's how this psalm ends. Verse 7. God shall bless us, let all the ends of the earth fear him. The psalm starts with a plea, with a request. That God be gracious and bless his people. Let us see your face. Shine your face upon us. And now the psalmist goes further. That all the ends of the earth may fear him. In this context, coming to a reverential fear of God as a result of the blessings received. Knowing that the salvation of God, knowing of his righteous judgment, knowing of his provision of continuous daily bread, knowing of these blessings, blessing upon blessing. then that leads to a reverential fear. God who is able and willing to deliver his people From their wretched, sinful ways and the guilt of their sin will, in his almighty power, judge nations, all peoples in righteousness giving out to each one what they deserved and has caused and continues to cause his creation to produce that abundance of food, delivering daily bread to the people of the earth. And he brings them, each and every one of his children, to fear him It's part of trusting in God, isn't it? It's the foundation of trusting in our Savior, the fear of God, the beginning of knowledge. So why do you worship? This psalm is all about worship. Let the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. It's a repetition of it. There's a request. There's a plea for it. There's a realization of the reality that that it's comes to pass at the cross, but why do you worship There are many answers to that question. I think we can we can at least identify five of them. First, because it's our duty. We saw that. We saw that in Genesis 1 and 2. It's our duty to worship the triune God. He's made all things. He is our creator. He has made us. to worship him. That's the second point. Yes, it's our duty. It's the culmination of creation, but he's made us in his image. to have communion with him, to have fellowship with him. That's why we've been given life. That's why we've been given a soul. That's why we're mortal creatures. That's our reason for being What's the chief end of man? To glorify God. You could put worship in there. We're made to worship him. Thirdly, it's pleasing to God. He delights in his worship. For the Lord takes pleasure in his people. How is that? He takes pleasure in communion with his people. Let them praise his name with dancing. Let them sing praises to him with timbrel and lyre. For the Lord takes pleasure in his people. That's Psalm 149. It's pleasing to God. Remember, as Noah exits the ark, what does he do first? He offers a burnt offering, and it was pleasing to God. He takes pleasure in his worship. Fourthly Because Jesus died for me. Isn't that why you worship? Yes, because it's a duty. Yes, because you're made to worship. Yes, because it's pleasing to God. But it's also because Jesus died for you. And you want to bring him that thanks and praise that you can only do in this corporate setting. Because he died for you. But fifth A significant part of your answer should be because it's a blessing. The psalmist writes that, Psalm 84, I would rather stand at the threshold of the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. What a joy it is when they said, let us go to the house of God and worship. It's good for you. It is the greatest blessing that we can even think of. Remember, remember Isaiah 58. Oh As Isaiah the Prophet writes, If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight. And the holy day of the Lord honorable, if you honor it not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall take delight in the Lord, and I will make you right on the heights of the earth. And feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father. The mouth of the Lord has spoken. Challenge you to find a greater blessing, this side of glory. And what Isaiah identifies here as worship. Worship is for your benefit. It's your blessing. God doesn't need your worship. You do. And this is perhaps the pinnacle, the culmination of our ability to enjoy God. Corporate worship. Those are five. But there's actually one more Why do you worship? And I'd suggest that this psalm tells us that we should want to share this with others. That's one reason why we come. Because we ultimately want to share this experience with others. This psalm is all about singing to others of the beauty and the joy of knowing God, of communing with Him and worship. It is an evangelistic psalm Let all the peoples praise you. Now we know that the only ones that are going to actually praise God are those that Those whom he is saving, those whom he has chosen, the elect. But who are they? I don't know And so we come and we experience the blessing of worship and now we take that experience out and we say, Lord, let your face shine upon others. That they may see the blessing of worship and be brought in and truly worship you in spirit and truth. We want to share this with others. And the question is, do you want to share it with others tonight? I'm hoping that your answer is yes. Then the answer, the question is, well what can you do? What can we do? The answer is we can pray. We can pray that God would use this church to be a light of Christ, to reach the lost. That we might share with them the blessing of worship, to reach those who have a false perception of worship. To pray that we would be a people who would plead with God for his grace and blessing to be poured out on those who live around us. That we would pray for his face to shine upon them as well as upon us. That this would be his way of making known upon the earth his salvation through us. Indeed, I think this psalm is a is a call to us, to be those who pray for this, that he set it upon our hearts. to call others into this glorious blessing of worship. Yes, the plea for worship is answered by God at the cross of Jesus Christ. Cain and Abel came and brought offerings for different much different reasons. The we. We've been blessed by the God who has caused his face to shine upon us even tonight, even this very hour. We know the way of salvation. That we know of his goodness, that we know of his promises, we know that he has brought all this to pass. At the cross of Calvary through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for this psalm. We thank you for this call to worship. We thank you for this plea. Father, help us never to take worship as a commonplace event. Help us never to think that we're owed this opportunity. We're owed this privilege. Oh Father, help us to be those who plea with you. Saturday night that you would allow us to come to this place and enter into that blessed time of worship with you, that communion, that fellowship. Which took the blood of Christ to purchase this opportunity, this open door. And so we thank you and praise you. for the ability to worship you. And we pray, Lord God, that we take this summer, we take this out into the streets, into the byways, that that, Father, our joy that we experienced tonight would be shared with our neighbors, with our friends. that we would tell them what Christ has done and to come and experience what we experience week in and week out, your blessing upon us. We thank you, we praise you, and we ask even now, Lord God, that if Jesus doesn't return this week, that you'd bring us back to this place. That you'd open the door once again, that we could see your face shining upon us. Oh, we praise you. We ask this. We plead with you for this. And we thank you in Christ. For all of this, for blessed worship. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.