Continue to remain standing. Turn to Hebrews chapter 11. And we begin reading at verse 30, and we'll read through verse 40. Although the sermon text will be just based on 30 and 31. Hear now the word of the Lord. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they were encircled for seven days. By faith the harlot, Rahab, did not perish with those who did not believe, when she had received the spies with peace. What more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephtha. Also of David and Samuel and the prophets, who through faith subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises Stop the mouths of lions, quench the violence of fire, escape the edge of the sword. Out of weakness were made strong. Became valiant in battle, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead raised to life again. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Still others had trials of mockings and scourgings, yes, of chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn in two Were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheep skins and goat skins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. Of whom the earth was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and mountains, in dens and caves of the earth All these, having obtained a good testimony through faith, did not receive the promise, as God having provided something better for us That they should not be made perfect apart from us. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Well we have been working our way slowly through Hebrews chapter 11, and today's verses tell us about a people. Whose faith in God's word helped rescue a remnant of God's people from a city that was destined to destruction. The people who did these things, namely the Hebrews, had just experienced the tremendous delivery from slavery. And they witnessed the death of all their oppressors by the hand of God in the Red Sea. Certainly they were at a high point at that point in their life. But this this is 40 years later. Because you remember, at the very moment where they had seen God at work in their lives and taking care of them and delivering them from the Red Sea experience and destroying Pharaoh in that sea, Israel became afraid to go into the promised land. There were giants there, you see. And only Caleb and Joshua urged Israel to go in, and Israel refused. And because of that refusal, they wandered in the desert for forty years. Till all that generation was gone, except for Caleb and Joshua But now it's a different story. Fast forward the 40 years. Israel has now crossed Into the promised land. They've come into the land of the Canaanites, the land that God had promised He was going to give them. And five miles up the road from the Jordan River sits Jericho. The great fortress, Jericho. Moses is no longer their leader. The one who they had so often relied upon for strength The one who actually interceded on their behalf when they went horribly astray. The one who even turned God's wrath away from his own people. Moses is gone. In Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 49, if you want, you can read about what happened to Moses. But in short, he went up on Mount Nebo, as God commanded him, a place in Moab, and he looked toward the northwest, and there he saw the promised land. He saw it, but he didn't enter it. For God had said he couldn't. There are reasons why you can read about it if you're interested interested. And there on Mount Debo, Moses dies, and Joshua is leading the people. And so they come in their journey, a journey that's going to involve the entire conquest of Canaan, the promised land. The utter destruction of many of the people there. Not all, they failed to do it completely. But there is sits in their way this city called Jericho, this fortress, this prosperous city, inhabited by the Canaanite people. that they're about to dispossess, who are about to be dispossessed. Now, to understand what kind of fortress Jericho was, You need to imagine, if you could, you need to imagine a wedding cake that has several layers. The first layer is called, in archaeological terms, the tail. And the Tell is a relatively small mountains or hill spread out over a larger distance, and it contains the ruins of all the people who had settled on that site in the past. It could be wide It could be high, not very, I mean they didn't go build somewhere else. They just built right on top of where the city used to be, other cities had used to be So it's not real high, but how high it is, nobody tells, or I wasn't able to find that out. So that's kind of the first layer The second layer is a fifteen foot high stone wall A 15-foot-high stone wall. And atop that stone wall was the third layer. You know how those cakes kind of They get kind of smaller as they they they get uh to the top. Well now we're at the top. And at the top there was a uh a freestanding brick wall that was made out of mud that had been baked, um six foot wide and ten to twelve feet high. And this went all the way around Jericho. You do some rough calculations and math, you're probably talking of a building or a or a wall around the city altogether totaling, I'd say somewhere between thirty and forty feet. Now, according to modern day uh weapons of war, that would not be such a great obstacle to breach, but in those days, I'm sure, this presented great, a great obstacle for Israel Now God conveyed unto Joshua and unto the people. Well, he went first to Joshua. He conveyed his strategy. For an assault on Jericho. God's strategy was not man's. God's strategy was quite simple. And you can read about it. I mean, in many ways, when you read about it, it's funny. But this is God's word, and this was God's way of doing things. And you can read about it in Joshua chapter 6. Beginning in verse 2. If you want to turn there, you can follow along. The Lord said to Joshua, see, I've given into thine hand Jericho. the king thereof and all the mighty men. You shall circle the city. You shall circle the city All the men of war, then go about the city once. This you shall do six days. So for six days, the whole camp of Israel, the men of war, go around the city one time. Okay? The priests shall bear before the procession the ark Of the covenant and seven trumpets of ramshorns. You get in the picture. The men of valor The Ark of the Covenant carried by the priests with seven trumpets of ram's horns. And the seventh day you shall encircle the city Seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets And when it comes to pass that when they make a long blast on the ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of it, All the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall ascend up every man straight before him. So you you see the strategy. Six days, men of valor, priests Horns. Six days go around blowing the horn Seventh day. Go around it not once, but seven times with the seven same group. And then there's one loud blast, and all the people shout. And God says, it will fall, and you will ascend into the city. Now, of course, there's more to the instruction It tells us that Joshua then went and told the priests what they're to do, the trumpeters, the people. And it says in the verse 15: It came to pass on the seventh day that they rose early, about the dawn of the day, they circled the city, and the In the same manner, seven times, only on that day they compassed the city seven times. And on the seventh time, when the priests blew the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, Shout, for the Lord has given to you the city. And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein to the Lord. The city will be accursed to the Lord. The whole city, all that is therein shall be accursed to the Lord. Only Rahab The harlot shall live. Verse 17. She and all that are with her in her house Because she hid the messengers that we sent. And you In any way, keep yourself from the accursed thing. In other words, nobody takes any of the spoils of Jericho. Make the camp of Israel, uh excuse me, if you do, you'll make the camp of Israel a curse and you'll trouble it. All the silver, gold, the vessels of brass and irons are to be consecrated unto the Lord, and they shall come into the treasury of the Lord. So the people shouted when the priests blew the trumpets, and it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout that the wall fell down flat. So that the people went, notice, went up into the city. Up into the city. Every man straight before him, and they took the city, and he utterly destroyed all that was in the city. Every man and woman, young and old, ox and sheep. et cetera with the edge of the sword. Well, certainly as we think about this and we We uh we hear what's going on here. We see some things that need to be uh looked at a little more carefully. Number one Obviously this was God's doing. Nevertheless, there were, it does say in verse 30 It does say by faith the walls of Jericho fell down. Doesn't say whose faith, but we're left to Say that the the likely individuals involved are is Joshua. And many of the people apparently who followed this This um this uh strategy of the Lord. I mean I mean if you hear this strategy in your own mind, in your own natural mind, is this something you're gonna embrace? But God's ways are higher than our ways. The God is present with his people also. I hope you didn't miss that point. He's present in the Ark of the Covenant. God with us. God is the one who is leading his people. It's almost as if he is the divine warrior here. um leading his people into battle and going with them into battle He fights for his people and he protects them. What a wonderful thing that is to think about. about. We don't have we don't have cities like Jericho here today, but in many ways uh They're not much different. Cities today are not much different from Jericho in the sense of their vice. And God's people are constantly involved and connected with the cities of this world. And their jobs and their businesses, the influence that's exerted just on our thinking, just on our general overall well-being But it's a good thing to know that the divine warrior is on our side. And that he will fight for us. So Joshua and all Israel followed God's instructions to the T. They didn't fail in anything they were asked to do. The walls of Jericho fell down. And the God of the covenant promises to Abraham Blessed Israel. And they destroyed the people of Jericho because they were not on the side of the Ark of the Covenant. They were not believers. They were covenant breakers, not covenant keepers. This once proud mighty fortress, it it it really was the key to being able to take the land. The whole, it's the biggest city in the whole western part of Canaan. Can't leave that in a r in the rear They destroyed it. This once proud, mighty fortress, rich and powerful. supposedly unassailable. I mean, you know, 30-foot, 30, 40-foot high wall is not easy to get to. It crumbles by God's plan. Simple plan. Circle the city. Priests blowing the trumpets God with his people and people shall be. Jericho, covenantally cursed, of Almighty God, falls. And it is utter ruin and destruction. No one is spared. Nothing is spared. All is put to the sword In the Old Testament, Zechariah 4, verse 6, the prophet Zechariah says to Zerubbabel, the high priest. A reminder for us all, not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord, are things accomplished? And Jesus reminds us of the true power of faith when he says If you have faith as the size of a grain of mustard, you shall say to this mountain, remove. And be placed yonder, and it shall move, and nothing shall be impossible for you. With the devastation and ruin of Jericho, death is everywhere. And in that scenario, in that situation, God causes Joshua to remember one woman And you read about it twice. Joshua said to the two men that had spied out the country, Go into the harlot's house and bring out the woman and all that are therein. And in verse 17, Joshua says, as he gives instructions, the city shall be accursed, everything in it, and all that are in To the Lord, only Rahab the harlot shall live. She and all who are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers we sent. You talk about God knowing who are his? You talk about God not forgetting? Those who seek to live for him. You talk about an amazing situation in which a harlot is spared It's an interesting thing, is it not, when you look in the Old Testament, how often Rahab is not just singularly named, but she's termed Rahab the harlot. It's almost as if like it's her last name. Like you might go to take your car to Joe the mechanic. Well, this is Grehab the Harlot. There's an emphasis there on the past for this woman. And I just, you know, I hope you are as overcome by Thanksgiving That it's not what we were before we came to know God, that God knows us. But it's what we are in him by faith. Before the fall, you see, of Jericho, Rahab received two of the Israeli spies, or Hebrew spies. And she protected them from the king of Jericho, who wanted to know their whereabouts. But before she did all that, she was having a conversation with the spies, and she said, For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea before you. Joshua 2, verse 10. What you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were on the other side of the Jordans, Sion and Og, whom you utterly destroyed. As soon as we had heard these things, our heart smelted. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. And then she says this. For the Lord your God, he is God, in heaven above and in earth beneath. Now therefore I pray you, swear unto me by the Lord, that says I have showed you kindness, but you will show kindness unto me. And to my father's house. You will save alive my father, my mother, my sisters, my brothers, and all they have, and deliver our eyes, our lives from death. You see. Hear what she said? Deliver our lives from death. Four chapters before it occurs, she knows that Jericho's under a death sentence She knows that God's through going to use the Hebrews to completely destroy that city. How does she know? By faith. Where did she get the faith? By God. From God gave her that knowledge. It didn't come from her reading the signs It didn't come from her wisdom or her intelligence. It didn't come because she And some sort of she was able to consult some sort of wizard or medium. God gave her that information. And she acted on what God did. She believed. Only God, you see. Can change, can make the radical change in a sinner's heart. One from prostitute to believer. That's wonderful. See, God not only can save harlots and harlots and does save harlots. But he saves liars and thieves, drug addicts, murderers, and the worst sinners of all. It's all by grace. All people can become new people by faith in Christ. Rahab exits Jericho. And she just didn't go off into the world to wander around. She went with the Hebrews. She went with the Hebrews and she lived there. And she lived with their God. And he lived with her As Joshua chapter 6, verse 25 says, Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her father's house, and all that was in it. She dwelled in the land of Israel. Because she hid the messengers which Joshua sent out to Jericho. But if you think the story of Jericho ends there, it really doesn't. There are more pieces to this this individual, this person. God, you see, is working out his great promise to Abraham through her, that in all the nations of the earth the world will be All the nations of the world would be blessed. Rahab, a former pagan, a harlot, is among the first fruit of God's redemptive harvest. Of the nations. She is among the Gentiles who will be blessed by Abraham's seed called Jesus. Even more. And this is beyond amazing. God honors Rahab. By including her in the bloodline of her own Savior Matthew chapter 1, verse 5. Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab. Boaz begat Obed, Obed begat Ruth, Obed begat Jesse, Jesse begat David. And down in verse 16. We read, Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, who was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Rahab's faith in Jesus, her Savior, brings justification by her to her. She is righteous now in God's sight. And she's being made new in the sight of her Savior and her God. She is declared righteous, covered by Christ's shed blood. James 2. 25 talks about Her justification, as we read earlier, was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers and sent them out another way. It is all of grace. We just sang. Grace, grace. God's grace, grace that can cover and cleanse within Grace, grace, God's grace. Grace that is greater than all my sin. What about you? What's the nature of your faith this morning Are you trusting in the in your works and the power of your works? Are you trusting in the works of men? Or are you trusting in the mighty works and works Words of God. Rahab trusted in the mighty works and words of God first And then she lived in such a way that was consistent with that trust. The answer to the question, what is the nature of your faith? You're the one who can get the only one who can get that But I ask you, I ask you, to search your hearts. What are you trusting in for eternal life Let us pray. Most merciful God, our Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for you who were able to bring life out of death. We thank you, Lord, that in your infinite mercy, you have enabled many to experience that transformation from death to life By faith in Christ Jesus. Lord, we extol you, we honor you, we praise you, and we thank you. Lord, give us faith. As only you can give us faith, true saving faith, faith that Embraces your Son Jesus Christ as the only Savior and Lord for our lives. May we walk in his ways for his glory and praise. Not for our own benefit, not for our own salvation, but for To honor and praise your name. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen.