Turn in your Bibles to the book of John and to the first chapter. We begin reading At John chapter one, verse nineteen, and continuing on uh through verse uh thirty-four. This uh This section of God's Word is recorded as the as the part of the early ministry of John the Baptist. as he was uh uh preparing uh the way for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh let us now hear uh God's word Now this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him. Who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. Then they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. Then they said to him, Who are you? That we may give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord. As the prophet Isaiah said Now those who were sent from the Pharisees, now those who were sent were from the Pharisees. And they asked him, saying Why then do you baptize if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet? John answered them, saying, I baptized with water, but there stands one among you whom you do not know It is he who, coming after me, is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I am not worthy to loose. These things were done in Bethabora, beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. The next day, John saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold! The Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me. I did not know him. But that he should be revealed to Israel. Therefore I came baptizing with water. And John bore witness, saying, I saw the spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and he remained upon him. I did not know him. But he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, Upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining on him. This is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and testified that testified that this is the Son of God. Thus far ends the reading of God's most wonderful word. Let us pray. Father, as we come to look at the word here, we pray for the enlightenment of your spirit. We pray, O Father, for Him to work powerfully among us, to speak words of truth, to do so in a way that It's clear and compelling and a blessing to the hearts of your people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All scripture is given in the context. The context for John's work is uh the pr all the all the Old Testament, the prophe the prophecies regarding the coming of the Lord. And as well the uh the the the instructions that we read in the Old Testament regarding the atoning work of uh of of the the animal sacrifices in the past. When you look at verse 29, and I'm going to focus really on verse 29, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. When you look at that, that is a brief statement of what the gospel of Jesus Christ is. These words from John reveal Jesus as the one who atones for sin. They also tell us God's intent behind the atonement of Christ. And furthermore, they reveal the extent of the atonement of Christ. In other words, John 129 tells us. Who Christ is, why Christ died, and for whom did Christ die I'm well aware this morning that the message that I bring focuses on matters about which there is some controversy within the church. And the controversy focuses on the matter of for whom did Christ shed his precious blood? It is not my desire to exacerbate that controversy But I am compelled to declare to you what I believe John is saying here in chapter 1 verse 29. I'm compelled to talk to you today about what is the substitutionary atonement of Jesus Christ. That is an atonement he made for your sins. My prayer is that you will be able to see When we're finished, that Christ's atonement is depicted in the scriptures as a definite atonement. Sometimes referred to as a particular atonement, and sometimes referred to as a limited atonement. And I don't want this just to be a theological exercise. I want you to understand Why this limited atonement is important to you personally Why this definite atonement of Christ for your sins matters to you specifically this morning and every day of your life. There's one lady at Stanton when I preach and walk around who hates it, but I can't preach without walking around. She comes up to me and says, Stand still, you know. But anyway, she doesn't know me well. You might ask yourself, why should I take the chance of possibly upsetting some of you this morning with what I am going to say? You could just, Pastor Taylor, ignore this doctrine of limited atonement or definite or particular atonement. You could ignore it With the rest of the five points of Calvinism that are entrenched in Reformed tradition and creeds. Why spend the time focusing on this heavy issue? Especially when some Christians find it to be so offensive. You might wonder, Pastor Taylor, why can't you just preach a sermon that makes me feel good? There are three reasons why I can't do that. One The doctrine of definite atonement or limited atonement is what the Bible consistently teaches. Two Correctly understanding definite atonement or limited atonement profoundly impacts how you walk as a Christian And three, particular atonement gives God all the glory for salvation. And exalts God while humbling man Now before we look at this in much more detail, I want to bring you To that day, in the wilderness where John the Baptist is baptizing. And a delegation of people have come out, religious leaders from Jerusalem, come out to the wilderness where John is doing this ministry and want to know what he's doing. I want to take you there. Included in the audience of John this morning. Were priests, Levites, Pharisees from Jerusalem. And we find, as we read, that's revealed in verse 19 But in verse 24 and 25 we find that they were sent there on a mission from the Jewish leaders Pharisees in particular, perhaps also the high priest himself, was involved in this inquiry of John. Now you notice they're asking questions. Verse 21, John, are you Elijah? Now it's important because you remember Elijah, the Old Testament prophet, one of the great prophets of the scripture, as one of the few men who was taken into heaven without dying. And the Jews expected that before the Messiah came, Elijah would return. So when they asked John, are you Elijah? They're asking, are you the Messiah? And John responds, No, verse twenty-one. Then they ask, Are you the prophet? That also has a reference point in the Old Testament. In uh Deuteronomy seventeen and eighteen God talks about sending the prophet, not just a prophet, but the prophet to Israel also before the Messiah comes. John refers, John answers, are you the prophet? Verse 21, no, I am not Elijah, and I'm not the prophet. Who is the Messiah? So they asked a third time, Who are you? Who are you, John? What are you doing out here in the middle of nowhere baptizing people? And John answers with verse 23. And he quotes from Scripture, Isaiah chapter 40, a part of Isaiah chapter 40, verse 3. He says, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness And what is he crying? Prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. What an amazing Prediction that is. What an amazing prophecy that God would have Isaiah record that statement About a prophet in the desert preparing God's way. Of all places. Why not Go to Jerusalem and prepare God's way. But why go out in the desert, out in the wilderness, where nobody's out there and baptize people? Well, it only confirms the fact of God's word. That that that be that when Isaiah proclaimed this uh seven da seven hundred years before it happened, God again is into the details of things. And if the the the Hebrews uh who heard John say this, uh they should start thinking in their minds, um, you know Something's going on here. Something's going on here that jives with the scriptures. Something's being fulfilled in our very midst. Of course, the hardness of their hearts. was great and it wouldn't allow them to see to see what John was talking about For all they thought John was just a kook. Just a kook who knew some scripture. But that isn't all that John is. In fact, he's none of that. He's far more than that. He is the one who prepares the way for the Lord. The spiritual way. He's the one preparing hearts to see that they need repentance for sin. The baptism that he's administering is with water for cleansing. But John will go on to say in verse 25 and 26 that uh When there is one coming, there is one who stands among you, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. And that's what he's coming to do. Now I've taken a little bit of time to tell you about the audience of John. This morning. It's crucial to the interpretation of this text It's crucial that you understand this audience, that you recognize this audience Because it's to this audience of Jews steeped in religious tradition but also steeped in the law and in the sacrifices of God, that John makes his proclamation. Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. It wasn't to a large group of people. It wasn't to a mixed race of people. It wasn't to a bunch of Gentiles. It was to the Jews, the covenant people of God, who understood full well What the sacrificial system of God was all about. They lived under it for centuries since Moses gave them the law. And the Teachings regarding the sacrifices, like we read in Leviticus, for example, this morning. Don't ignore this detail. Sorry, Joan, God's in the details again. Don't ignore this detail of the audience. It was an exclusively Jewish audience. There may have been a few others around, but primarily the Jews were John's target. They had a long history of being the covenant of people, the covenant people of God, and they were quite aware that they are God's people living under the Levitic the Levitical law and the Levitical sacrifices. The law and the sacrifices were given by Moses, by God, through Moses to them, and nobody else. This law and sacrificial system was not given to the Egyptians, not given to the Syrians. Not given to the Canaanites, not given to the Babylonians, the Persians, the Medes, or any other people group. And so, whenever animal sacrifices were made, such as the atonement on the day of atonement, the payment for sin Those payments for sin were exclusively for Old Testament Israel. They were the ones benefiting from the high priest's labors. And I am forced to conclude. That fact means the fact that they were the sacrifices were made exclusively for Old Testament Israel means that in the Old Testament All these sacrifices, all the atonements, the atonement on the Day of Atonement included, all of those. Was a definite atonement. In other words, the atonement was for the Jews and not for the rest of the people of the world. Now, we also must understand and factor into this understanding. That all the spotless firstborn lambs and other animal sacrifices, that all of those sacrifices, with their shedding of blood Affirms one biblical truth, that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 22. The annual one-time sacrifice on the Day of Atonement, known in Jewish uh religion as Yom Kippur. You've probably heard that. The blood of the sacrificial lamb and goat that was sprinkled by the high priest on the mercy seat in the temple, in the Holy of Holies. Symbolizes the appeasing and taking away God's wrath for his people's sins. What people? The Old Testament Jews. The second animal that was involved in the sacrifice. Remember, there were two, as Leviticus 16 talks about. The scapegoat. The high priest was to place his hands on the goat's head And with that, he was symbolically conveying the sins of the people onto the scapegoat's head. The scapegoat was released into the wilderness to run away from Israel, symbolizing The removal of Israel's sin. Israel's sin. Israel's sin. As far as East is from West. Nevertheless, no matter how many Old Testament sacrifices were offered, no matter how many scapegoats were released until the wilderness. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 1 through 4 declares that the law, having only a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very image of the things, Can never, with the same sacrifices which they offer continually year after year, make those who approach perfect. For then they would have ceased to be offered. But the worshippers, once purified, would have had no more consciousness of sin. But in their sacrifices, there is a reminder of sin every year. But it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. Do you do you under you understand what's going on here? In the Old Testament economy, in the Old Testament sacrifices, God was having Israel, the high priest, perform these sacrifices. Those sacrifices were reminding the people that they are sinners. But those sacrifices did not have the power to cleanse the conscience. They did not have from sin, to take away guilt. They did not have the ability To um to make them perfect before God. But they were pointers To a great lamb that was coming, who would be able, through his blood, to take away their sins. To cleanse their consciences from sin and guilt, to turn away the wrath of God upon them forever. They were pointing to that day and to that man who was coming. Isn't it amazing that when you look back into the Old Testament, you can see how God is instructing his people all along about the salvation that's coming in Christ, how it all hangs together. I I admit, I admit it's somewhat That time's boring to look at this old the Old Testament situation and to read all these practices and to think about them. And we just want to skip over them and get to the good stuff. Well, my friends, the good stuff is there too. It's there too. And if you just take the time to think about it and look at it, you'll see it. I'm not a prophet. I'm not a visionary. I have studied a little bit, but that's all it takes, just a little bit of study. Jesus, point is. Jesus is in the Old Testament too, in the law and the Psalms and the prophets, as he told those two disciples on the road to Emmaus after his resurrection. Both of those lambs, the lamb that or the goat that was sacrificed, the blood was sacrificed and sacrificed. And put on the altar in the Holy of Holies and the Scapegoat, both of those Foreshadow an atonement of a better land. Both of those were atonements for a definite number of people. The Old Testament, people of God. However, again, as Hebrews 10 puts it, they weren't enough. It's not possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. They weren't enough, but they put the people In the mindset of understanding that they needed more than just the ritual sacrifice of animals. How many of them got to understand that? I don't know. When you look at the ministry of Jesus Christ, Uh you know, he had a lot of opposition from the Old Testament people who did not understand, but there were some There were some whom God enabled to see the truth and to believe. And we say, praise God, because it's the same God who enables you to see. Any part of the gospel having any benefit to you. Okay. The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Jesus, the intent I said it reveals Jesus as God's sacrifice. Now it reveals the intent. What was Jesus soon to do? As John puts it, he's to take away the sin of the world. Now, that word take away in the Greek means to forcibly grab on to something and hold it. Now that's an interesting vision, visual effect, isn't it? Jesus is forcibly grabbing the Lamb of God is forcibly grabbing on to the sins of his people and holding on to it, holding it on to himself, you see, identifying with the sins of his people. Christ shed blood will do what the blood of bulls and goats could never do. And that is because Jesus is not simply the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, but he is God. In the flesh with us. The tabernacle, the holy of holies, has moved from the building To the people, and soon to the people's hearts Because that's where God dwells in you, if you're a believer in Jesus Christ. Did our Lord Jesus come to die to make the salvation of his people possible? Now I'm getting into controversy. Did he come to make the salvation of his people possible? Who says yes? No. Thank you. Nobody raised their hands. Maybe you're afraid. He came to make the salvation of his people certain, not possible. Because you see, if you say possible, what happens? You have the final say as to whether you're going to believe or not You are the determiner as to whether you accept. I don't even like to use that word. Accept Jesus as your Savior and Lord. I know it's used, and I know it. I just don't like the terminology because I believe that what the scripture says is that No one can come to Jesus unless the Father who sent him draws me John 6, verse 44. And so Jesus made sure that everybody understood that point. He said it again, 21 verses later, John 6, verse 65. Therefore I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more. That is a isn't that an interesting statement? When the disciples were con some of the disciples were confronted with the fact That you can only come to Christ if God draws you. That you cannot make a decision for Christ. That you cannot accept Christ. That you cannot believe unless God draws you to him It says some of his disciples didn't want to be with Jesus anymore. They didn't like that. How about you? Do you like it? Well, you got the you got to see You've got to understand. If you say salvation is because of what you have done, that you have made a decision, that you have come to believe in Jesus, if you say that I'm going to ask you this question. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 and in verse 5 both say that you are dead in your transgressions and sin. How can dead people choose life is my question How can dead people who manifest their sin in rebellion against Jesus in a multitude of ways, how can they at one point make a decision to believe? As it works out, people may think they're making the decision in true salvation. But in reality, God was in the background drawing everyone who knows Jesus to himself. It takes God's sovereign power to break through our hard hearts. And overcome our rebellion against him. And so it is that Christ has come to make salvation certain for his people, to shed his blood, so that they might be drawn Those whom God has chosen from before the foundation of the world, who we call the elect, people from every race, tribe, and tongue. God is the one who is saving those people, not they themselves. Well, why does John say, and here we're coming to the last point Why does John say Christ has come to take away the sin of the world? Pastor Taylor, if you're right If you are correct in saying that the Old Testament sacrificial system was a definite atonement for Israel, The New Testament sacrifice of Jesus Christ is a definite atonement for his elect. I don't care what you call them, the elect of God. If you're right, then why does John say here, Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world? Is it how do because you see, as we read that we as we read that word And particularly the word world. As we read that world, we are conditioned automatically to think everybody. World means everybody. Everyone. Jesus comes to take away the sin of everyone. And all everyone has to do is To accept him, to repent, which I've already said, the Bible doesn't support that view. So why does John say it? What does he mean Is John wrong? The Bible wrong? Well, at this point in this message, I'm indebted To uh a Reverend Doctor um Stephen Larson, who's from the Ligonier Institute And a study that he did on limit limited atonement. And he said some things that I should know, but I didn't know. And I want to share them with you. Would you be surprised if I told you that The Greek word cosmos, which is used there for world, that John happens to use that 75 times in the book of John. That's a lot of times, right? The crucial thing is not how many times it's used. But in the ways it's used. It is used in ten different ways in the book of John. It is exegetically and biblically dishonest To assume and to conclude that when John uses the word world, cosmos, that he means all people Ten, John uses the word ten different ways in his got in his gospel. Let me share some of these. And if any of you Would like uh to have this for future reference, I put some printouts on the back table. Again, I'm indebted not to myself and my studies on this, but to Reverend Larson. For example, in John twelve, verse seven nineteen John uses the word world in this fashion. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves You see that you are accomplishing nothing. Look, the whole world is going after him. How are they using the word world there? Well, it can't mean it certainly cannot mean everybody in the whole world It means everybody within their orbit of contact. The whole world. Perhaps for them they were thinking all the Jewish nation. He's using world in a limiting way. Other places, of course, he uses it to reference the physical earth. John 13, verse 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that the hour had come, that he should depart from this world to the Father. Depart from this world to the Father. Having loved his own, who were in the world, he loved them to the end. Two different uses of the word world. One with a limiting factor and one with a reference to the physical earth. Loved his people who were in the world, but it was time for Jesus to depart from the world. He uses it to refer to the elect people of God, and he uses it to refer to the non-elect people of God. John 17, 7. through nine. I don't have time to read all of these. I'll let you read them and let you draw your own conclusions. But the point is When Jesus uses the word, excuse me, when John uses the word world here, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Is he not referring to God's elect people from every nation, tribe, and tongue? Is he not referring to the great promises that God made to Abraham, that in your seed all the people of the world should be blessed? Seed being a reference to Jesus. In Jesus, all the people of the world be blessed. Is he not referring To the few Gentiles in the Old Testament that we know came to saving faith. Ruth, Rahab, Naaman, and others that were not mentioned. You see, they're all part of God's covenant promises that people from every nation, tribe, and tongue would come to know Jesus. But world would include then Jew and Gentile. Now you can just imagine when these uh Pharisees heard the word world and thought that, well, that must mean Gentiles too. That must mean Jews and Gentiles. You can imagine they had some problem with that. And they manifested those kinds of problems without throughout the New Testament. And of course, even the disciples had a little bit of problem with this issue of the Gentiles coming to saving faith. But that's who I think the extent of the atonement is to all those from every race, tribe, and tongue, the elect of God, Jew and Gentile. who come to believe by God's drawing, come to believe in Abraham's seed, the Christ. So why deliver this message to you this morning? Many answers. Perhaps so that you can be Christians who love the Reformed faith? Yes, that's a valid goal. Or so you can be in line with biblical teaching and Westminster Confession teaching? Yes. That's a good goal. Yes, so you can be good OPCers? Yeah, that's a good goal But there's so much more. The definite atonement of Christ means that when Jesus went to Calvary and shed His precious blood, he had definite people in mind Definite people's names in mind when he prays for their sins and when he makes Atonement. His cry, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? is a cry. For you, and a cry for your sins being paid If you believe in Christ's death and resurrection, Christ has you in mind. When he pays with his blood at Calvary. He dies with your names on his heart. is mine. That is powerful. And my brothers and sisters, that is infinitely humbling. And that is the knowledge that forms the devotion forms the basis for your devotion. And Your love in Christ, love of Christ. For your desire to willingly serve your Redeemer more fully and more completely. To God be the glory. Amen