Amen. Please remain standing in honor of God's Word and turn in your Bibles, your copies of God's Word, to John chapter 14. I'll be preaching this morning on verses 1 to 14, but for context, I'll begin reading in chapter 13, verse 31. This is God's word. Give it now your full attention. John chapter 13, verse 31 When he had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him at once. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, Where I am going, you cannot come. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples. if you have love for one another. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus answered him, Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but you will follow afterward. Peter said to him, Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times. Let not your hearts be troubled Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do. And greater works than these will he do. Because I am going to the Father. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Since the reading of God's word, you may be seated. Let's pray and ask his blessing now on the preaching. Please pray with me. Father in heaven, we come before you and say with the psalmist in Psalm 115: Not to us, Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory. Help us this morning to see you clearly in your word. Help us to fix our eyes upon Christ. Lord, work in our hearts by your Spirit. Revive our hearts. Lord, we pray for those who do not know you that you would raise them to new life. Help them to hear your word this morning. Give them the ears to hear, that they might respond and believe and repent and turn from sin to the only one who can save us from our sins, to Jesus Christ. Help us this morning, we pray. Well, I don't know how many of you have read this book. It's been a little while since I've read this book, but there is a book written by Rosaria Butterfield called The Gospel Comes with a House It was a good book. I read it a number of years ago, and in that book she talks about if you're a Christian, if you believed uh on Christ, if you've b believed the gospel, uh that you should be hospitable. It should pour out into the rest of your life. You should it comes with a house key she's talking about to your neighbors You invite them and their problems into your life and you point them to who you have turned to to receive help, to Jesus Christ. That's what we're to do. Well, we can do that because we have been given a house key to heaven. Did you know that you have a house key to heaven? Can you guess what the key is? From this passage this morning. It's Christ. That's right. It's Jesus. It's not what the house key is, it's who the house key is Jesus Christ is our key to heaven. He is the only way. He is the only truth, the only life. No man comes to the Father but by him. And that's what we're looking at this morning in this Text, this uh I know I have not been preaching through John with you. I have been at my other church, uh but we're preaching through John and it As we come to this section, this is where Jesus is now giving words of instruction. It's called the farewell discourses. It's words of goodbye because he came to give his life for his people. He is going to the cross to die. That is the mission he came to do. And everyone is having trouble understanding that. Why is that what he came to do? To lay down his life that he might take it up again. And he has ended his public ministry, and now he's with his disciples, and even Judas has departed. At Jesus' own word, Jesus told him, What you are about to do, do quickly. Uh even Judas, who uh that Satan entered him, uh he could not even go without a word from Christ because Christ is in control. He is God, fully God and fully man. He is going to lay down his life. No one's going to take it from him by force, even though people have tried over and over again in John people Take up stones. They the crowds get angry. They want to to get him, to arrest him. They can't do it. Not until Jesus is ready. till the time is right to lay down his life as a sacrifice for his people. And this this passage is a passage of comfort. There there are a number of passages of comfort in Scripture, but This is one of them. I don't know if this is one that you think of, but Jesus has just told his disciples some very troubling things that someone is going to betray him. One who is among them. It's Judas. Who's going to betray him? But then we come to Peter. Even Peter, this loyal disciple, is going to deny Christ three times. That's a betrayal as well. These people are faithless. Always, again and again in Scripture, God's people are said to be faithless. We are not faithful often, but God is faithful. We sin against God, but we turn back to the Lord. We repent of our sin and we turn to Christ Jesus. He is the one we are to turn to. And he gives now these words of comfort. To his disciples and to us. Let's look at these words of comfort. We'll look at this in three points, and I've got all peas for you this morning. So mind your Ps, not your Q's, but your P's this morning. They are a a potent prophecy, a personalized roadmap. and presence, power, and prayer. A potent prophecy, a personalized roadmap, and presence, power and prayer. Those are our Peace to mind for this morning. So let's look at this. First, the potent prophecy, verse 14. John sa uh Jesus says, let not your hearts be troubled Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. We're reminded in Scripture of uh something to know about a prophet uh is you know a prophet is true by whether their prophecies come true, right? There are a lot of these Uh end time prophets a lot of times, you know, and they will make prophecies about when Jesus is going to come, even though the Bible says we don't know the day or the hour. Well they know And they'll say, We know. But then oftentimes uh it's happened over and over again, they're wrong. They missed the wrong the c the date comes and goes and Jesus has not yet come back So, how do you know a prophet is true? It's whether his word comes true, and a number of prophecies Jesus has made are already coming true. He told the disciples before it happened that someone was going to betray him, Judas, and John comments on it and says, He betrayed him. That happened. Jesus is a true prophet, and here Jesus makes another prophecy that has not fully come true Jesus is going to prepare a place for us, and he says, if he goes to prepare a place for us, here's the promise and the prophecy. I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. That is a promise from the Lord. That should that's comfort. That's the hope of heaven. That's the hope that we have as Christians, as believers. It's a hope in a resurrection at the last day that it's coming. Jesus Christ is not going to tarry forever. He will come again. He is saving all of his people, all of his sheep. He says he loses none. Of all who the Father has given him. He's gathering them to himself in all the world. He's not going to lose a single one. And when he is done, he is going to come again. To take us to be with him. These were troubled disciples. They they're characterized by fear. They are terrified. They're scared cats They are trembling in their boots, we like to say in Texas. They are scared and You know, it's crazy to think about the change that happens in the disciples. If you read through the book of Acts, this change that you see these courageous men, these bold men, that they The disciples are many of them going to lay down their life. Remember, church tradition says that Peter was crucified upside down so that he was not crucified in the same way as his Lord. The same Peter who denied Jesus three times, who is too scared to be even associated with Jesus, even in front of someone who is of no importance at all, just this servant who doesn't doesn't even matter He couldn't even say, yes, I'm even associated with that man. He's my Lord. He's my God. That's the same Peter who is going to give his life later? What happened? What changed him? The resurrection happened. Resurrection life from Christ Jesus. The helper, we're not going to get to it this week, but in the next section, Jesus is going to talk about the Holy Spirit that He's going to send. to help his people. He's he's not leaving them for good. In in scripture there's a number of times when someone is dying and they're passing on the baton. They Uh you might think of uh Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, these these great uh fathers of the faith. They're passing on and they give blessings and curses to their children and they they give them. You might think of Moses and Joshua, the passing of the baton to the next leader. Well, Jesus is doing that, but He's laying down his life, but he's not leaving them. He is going, remember, he will never leave us or forsake us. He is giving us his presence forever till he comes again, but now he's reigning in heaven. He's with us there before God's throne room in heaven, seated on his throne, ruling and reigning in our hearts, in our lives. He's with us. But the disciples, they're not wholly getting this. But this is a great comfort to not, when you're troubled, when you're worried. You have a promised place in heaven with God for eternity. What are the things in this life that give you hope, that make you breathe that sigh of relief, that make you think, okay, I'm gonna be alright? Is it your money? You think, oh, I look at that bank account? Whew, okay, there's something there. I'm gonna be alright. That retirement, the 401k, everyone talks about getting that there. You gotta have that. Is it your family? Is it your house? Okay, I'm protected. I'm safe in this house. I've got my defenses. No one can get in, right? What's what's the wrong with all these things is it's in this world thieves can always break in and steal Uh moth can rust and destroy. Our treasure is not safe here in this world. If you are putting your heart in the things of this world, It's not safe. We're to have our treasure in heaven. Jesus Christ is our treasure And our hearts should be with him in heaven. Ephesians 2 says we've been seated with him there. We've been blessed with him in with all spiritual blessings in the heavenly places, every spiritual blessing. We have those in Christ, and we are united to him. That is a potent promise that Jesus gives to us. He will come again. We don't know the day or the hour, but we're to be ready. Could be tomorrow, could be today, it could be a thousand years. We do not know the day or the hour. But we are called as Christians to always be ready for his return, to be sharing the gospel because he is going to get all of his sheep. And amazingly, he uses people like us in our weakness to do that, just to tell people, hey, I'm a Christian. Do you know that? Do you know where I have found peace and security for my life? This hope of heaven that I have? It's in Jesus. Well, let's look at the second point here, the personalized roadmap. How do you get to heaven? How do you get there? That's something people ask uh I was talking with a Muslim uh that I uh is at a local um Turkish bakery and coffee shop in Manassas, and I was talking with him and asked him uh how how to You you know, how do you think you get to heaven? And he said, Well, it's just up to God to forgive. I guess. I you know, I hope I get there. I I try to be good, I try to do good things. Uh I hope God lets me in when I get to heaven. Well, let's look at what Jesus says. Here is the key. Here's the road map. The disciples say, we don't know where you're going and how to get there. How do you get there? This is what Jesus says. Jesus said to him I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me How do you get there? Here's a question. How many ways are there to get to heaven, right? What does this say? Does it how many ways are here? No one comes to the Father but by the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one way. There's one hope. To this hope of heaven. He is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the only way. He's the truth and the life. He is God incarnate. He is the great I Am, that same God who showed Himself to Moses, who hid him in the cleft of the rock. Who is the great I am, who passed by. Remember, Moses says, Show me your glory. The disciples are asking the same thing. They're saying, Lord, show us the Father. It's enough for us. It's Moses' request. Show us The glory of God, we want to see it. Remember, John 118 says that no one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side. He has made him known. Who's that? The Word who is with God and was God. God incarnate, Jesus Christ is fully God. And the disciples saw his glory, the glory of God in the person and work of Jesus Christ. They saw it. They're telling you about it here. This is God speaking with his people in the Lord Jesus Christ. The one who is going to lay down his life, but not that he would remain dead, that he might take it up again and raise up into heaven. And he says, if I do that I will come again and take you to be with myself. He will do it. That is amazing. So now we know how to get here. Well let's look at this final promise from the Lord. Finally, Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father. It's enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father that is in me? And the Father is in me that This is a a remarkable truth, brothers and sisters. This is something to come at with fear and trembling. This is not something to blase faire Talk about the Trinity. This is speaking about our holy, holy, holy God, who is one God in three persons. We don't worship three gods. We worship one God. But he's revealed himself in three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And sometimes people I I engage with a lot of people in in cults in this area. uh Mormons, uh Muslims, Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh-day Adventists, I don't know about y'all, but it seems like they're everywhere around here. And sometimes they'll say to me, you know that the word Trinity is not in the Bible Well that's true. The word Trinity is not in the Bible. It's a word that the church has come up with to talk about what is revealed right here. They are trying to carefully talk about this truth. That Jesus says, Jesus as a flesh and blood man that these disciples could touch, he just washed their feet. He did the most menial task and remember he he tells us that we're a servant is not greater than his master. That's how we're to behave with one another. We're to serve one another in that self-sacrificial way. That's The Lord of Glory serving his people. That's that's an amazing thing. But this is our God, and these are deep truths about who our God is. How he has revealed himself to us. These words that Jesus speaks, he He cannot tell a lie. You know that there's that saying about George Washington, he cut down the cherry tree and he said, I cannot tell a lie, cut down the cherry tree Well, it's not really true. George Washington probably told lots of lies in his life. But Jesus never told a lie. He is God. He is the one who you can take every word that he says to the bank. He's the truth. He's the life. He has life in himself that he had with the Father before the world was set on its foundation. He had it there. And he can give it to us. He alone can reveal the Father to us because He comprehensively knew him from eternity past. That's how he can tell us about it. And Jesus says, the words that I say to you, I don't speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe in me, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. How many people do you know are are raising the dead? Have you seen someone do that? No. Uh there are the the faith healing ministries that where people go around and do healings and things. Well how come they don't go to the cancer wards and heal those people who are have cancer or or why don't they go to the graveyards and raise people up out of the dead? That's what Jesus did. He did that with Lazarus. He raised him out of the tomb after he had been dead four days He was dead dead, all the way dead, not just a little dead. He was all the way dead and The Lord Jesus rose him from the dead. He has life in himself. He can give it to us. He's the way. This brings us to the third and final point. Here you go, if I'm getting a little long. presence, power, and prayer. Verse 12. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes in me will also do the works that I do. And greater works than these will he do. Because I am going to the Father, whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Brothers and sisters, that is an incredible promise from Christ. It's hard, I told I I preached this to my other churches, I'll say it to you as well, it's hard for me to believe this promise from Jesus. Jesus doesn't qualify this here. He says, if you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. How how can that be? There and remember there are other places in Scripture that do qualify these things. Of course we God will do only his holy will. We're to pray thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. But this is this is the last will and testament of Jesus before he goes to his heavenly ministry. He's ending his ministry on earth. with his disciples and he and they are scared and they're worried. How will we do this work of church planting? How are we gonna be the pillar and foundation to to go out to spread the gospel to not just Judea but to Samaria to the ends of the earth. How twelve guys, eleven, they're going to lose Judas How are these men going to do that? That is too great a task for them. And I This is something that's encouraging to me as a church planter because it can it can be hard. It can be the going can get rough. It it is not always sure that the church plan is going to work out. It can fail, humanly speaking. But Jesus Christ in the Great Commission, he tells us to go out, to make disciples, to go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. We're to do that and we're to be making disciples. And one thing is, I'm here before you this morning as a disciple who was made in a church plant that actually failed in Texas, humanly speaking. It failed. It didn't make. We didn't make it. We didn't become an established church. We didn't particularize. We closed it down But I was made a disciple. The Lord worked in my life, and now here I am church planting as a pastor. That's amazing. This is a promise from the Lord Jesus. We serve a God who answers prayer and He says that we will do these works, the works that Jesus did, greater works than these will we do. How? He says, because I am going to the Father. Jesus Christ is going to raise from the dead and He He gives us resurrection life. We're not to do things in our own power and our own ability, we're to work in the power of Christ. The strength of Christ in us, that Galatians 2. 20 promise, it's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. That's the promise. We are to pray in Christ's name, and as He sits on His throne in heaven, remember all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. He possesses it. He holds it. He is ruling and reigning over all things. And if you ask that one, the king Overall creation, anything, you have the ear of the king. He can actually answer those requests. He has the ability to answer your prayers. It's a faithful woman that I I grew up with knowing back in Texas. She was the mom of one of my best friends that I went to seminary with. And she was a faithful Christian. She still is. She was diagnosed with cancer twelve years ago, and the doctors told her, you only have probably a year to live, you're not going to make it. Uh well her and saints prayed to the Lord and here she is twelve years later. She she has been in and out of remission a lot. She's had new cancer. Recently she had new cancer that was on the her pancreas And the doctor said, we don't know if we're going to be uh able to operate on this, it might have spread in there. We we don't know if we'll be able to take it out And we prayed and she she has a blog where she she tells everyone these things and updates them and people in the church pray throughout the whole church. And this surgery, they were able to get all of this cancer there. It's not all the issues are not done, but the doctors were able to get all of it. It wasn't as bad as they thought. The Lord answered prayer. We serve a God who answers prayer. It maybe it needs to be said. I don't I don't feel like uh I guess I'm gonna say it so maybe it needs to be said. I don't think this is asking God for cars and toys and things like that. If you ask him those things, he's just gonna give them to you. No, I don't I don't think that's what this is talking about. This is talking about In the work that we're to be doing for the Lord, how we're to be living our lives, serving the church, living for God, in that work, anything we ask in the name of Christ that we need. He'll give it to us. He is a God of mercy. He's merciful and gracious. And he is a God who is about his glory. We sang it in Psalm 115. Not to us, not to us, but to your name be the glory, Lord. Jesus is doing this that the Father may be glorified in Jesus. Jesus is glorifying his Father, and His Father is glorified in Him. Romans 8. 32 says this. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? There are a number of benefits to being a Christian. There are a number of benefits to salvation. You have benefits of justification, adoption, sanctification, we're glorification. We're going to receive resurrection bodies at the last day. We're going to go to be with he with the Lord in heaven for eternity. In the place that He has prepared for us, we are going to look at Jesus with sinless eyes. He's the only one who can deal with our sin and save us from our sin. But the treasure is Christ. He is the most priceless treasure. God has given you himself in his son. You have Jesus. And in him he's given us all things. What an amazing blessing. What an amazing God we serve. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for Your mercy upon sinners like us, Lord. We are all sinners here today. We have all sinned against you, a holy God, and there is only one way. To be reconciled with you. There is only one way to be safe from the judgment to come, and it's only if your judgment has been meted out in full in Christ Jesus for us. For our particular sins. Lord, you paid it all. For those of us in Christ Jesus, there's no more judgment to come because it has all been fully poured out upon the Lord Jesus Christ. What an amazing love you have for us, Lord. Fill us with joy and thankfulness because of the love that you have for us. It's in Christ Jesus' name we pray. Amen.