Our New Testament reading tonight comes from the letter to the church at Rome. We're in chapter 16, getting very close to the end. And I'll be reading, beginning at verse 1 and going through verse 16 tonight. Let's give attention to God's word once again. I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant of the church at Chentreia. That you may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints, and help her in whatever she may need from you. For she has been a patron of many and of myself as well. Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who risk their necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks as well. Greet also the church and their house. Greet my loved Epennetus, who was the first convert to Christ in Asia. Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you Greet Andronicus and Junior, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners. They are well known to the apostles, and they were in Christ before me. Greet Amplietus, my beloved in the Lord. Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Stachis. Greet Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulos. Greet my kinsman, Herodian. Greet those in the Lord who belong to the family of Narcissius. Read those workers in the Lord, Triphania and Triphosa. Greet the beloved Persis, who has worked hard in the Lord. Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, also his mother, who has been a mother to me as well. Greet Asyncritus. Phlejan, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them, greet Philogius, Julia, Neresus, Neras, and her sister. and Olympus and all the saints who are with them greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you As far as the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Father in heaven, as we come to this passage of Scripture, it might be tempting for us to Skim or s even skip over it. From a human perspective, it might seem insignificant or unimportant. Father, but help us. Convict us that all of your word is significant. That all of your word, Father, teaches us and draws us ever closer to Christ. That all of your word is life and light. And so help us tonight, Father, to give attention to your word. Lay it up in our hearts tonight. Prick our hearts tonight. And show us your way. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As some of you know, before Grace Ann and I came here, we spent about three years ministering to refugees. And we learned much as we ministered to those from foreign lands, particularly those from the Middle East and Afghanistan. They taught us hospitality. In other words, they taught us how to be welcoming. And it wasn't just one individual or one family, it was throughout their community, whether they be from Syria or Afghanistan. Our experience was nearly always the same. In their broken English, they would say, you're welcome. That meant come, come in, have a seat, sit down, have some tea, stay, be in our home. You're welcome. Tonight, we have a passage before us that speaks of that, of being welcomed. Recently I heard A preacher described Romans, the letter to the church at Rome, as the closest thing that Scripture contains or has to a systematic theology. Not really sure whether that's a good thing or not. But Paul does give us the great truths of the Christian faith. That all sinners are worthy of eternal death. There is no one righteous, not even one. That one is justified by faith in Christ by grace alone. Paul has certainly opened up the great doctrines of Christian faith in this letter. He's answered all the objections that were laid upon him. To these great truths, salvation by faith in Christ alone. And then he's applied these great truths to those who would read his gospel, to those who would receive his gospel. To present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God The doctrine that Paul proclaimed was complete. The practical theology that Paul then took to apply to the hearts of those who had received the doctrine. was now finished. And last time we were here, we talked about the fact that Paul was projecting his missionary work once again and asking that the church would help support him in that work. And now Now, Paul begins his conclusion, asking the church to greet his friends in the Lord Jesus Christ. Tonight, I want us to see that knowing the righteousness of Christ, the church Should be welcoming, grateful, knowing, and zealous, knowing the righteousness of Christ. The church should be welcoming, grateful, knowing, and zealous. Those are our four points tonight: a welcoming community, a grateful community, a knowing community, and a zealous community. As we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you to see that this is much more than mere greetings As if this is a systematic theology, Paul is now digging into what the church should look like, what the church should be. And so let's jump into it ourselves. First, a welcoming community. This entire passage seems to be about being welcomed The sense in which these first sixteen verses are all about the church being a welcoming community. He uses the word greet. At least sixteen times in these sixteen verses. It's a clear focus of this particular passage, of these verses. And if we were to open up a Greek lexicon, we'd see that that word in the Greek means to draw to oneself, to greet, to welcome, to salute. Salutation. Interesting that they would write about this word to draw to one's self. That's what this greeting is apparently all about, to draw to self As Christ has drawn us to himself. That's our call. And that's what Paul was laying upon the readers, upon us tonight. And he was has already noted in his prior writings to the church at Rome to be welcoming. In chapter 14 he did, as for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him And then again in chapter 15, he wrote, Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. This teaching has been given. expressly and somewhat repetitively by Paul, and now he was asking the church in Rome to put that teaching into practice. Look at verse 1. I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant of the church at Chantria. That you may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints. Think of that word commend for a moment. Means he approves of Phoebe. He knows Phoebe. He's able to give her a letter, so to speak, because she goes to this church in Rome and he's asking those in the church at Rome to receive her because he knows Phoebe, welcome her. He represents her as Webster's 1828 tells us It represents her as being worthy of notice, of regard, or of kindness. Paul's providing a reference. He's giving his approval of Phoebe. And then he's asking the church to welcome this one. Welcome her in the Lord. Welcome her in a way that's worthy of the saints. What does that mean? What is a welcome worthy of the saints mean? Well, first that Phoebe was known by Paul. And they knew Paul. Paul was giving them the gospel. He had given them the gospel. He was a man of God. He was an apostle. He was inspired by God. So they knew Paul, and now he is vouching for Phoebe, and he tells them that she's a servant. She's been serving the church. She's been laboring in the church. This is part of who she is. And she's a patron, a supporter of many. She's putting her finances behind this person and that person. Seeing that the things that she's been given are being used for the proclamation of the gospel. But most importantly, Phoebe belonged to the Lord Jesus Christ. A servant of the church at Chentria. And thus a member of the church. And if a member she was baptized into the Lord Jesus Christ, and if baptized, she belonged to Jesus. She was one of the sheep. Indeed, Jesus Christ had purchased Phoebe with his blood. And so Phoebe was valuable in the sight of God, loved by God, purchased by Christ. Are you beginning to see this is why he's asking them to welcome her in the Lord? In that way that's worthy of the saints. And not merely a welcome, not merely a handshake, not even an embrace or a holy kiss. Here's the second part. Help her in whatever she may need from you. Welcome her. She's there to do work. Help her in her work. She's going to need things and And if you want to see the gospel continue to be proclaimed, if you want to see the church continue to grow, here's a laborer in the church. I'm not sure exactly what she was doing, but he's calling the whole church to help her. And wherever she may need help. Welcoming or greeting is a sign of a healthy church. A Christ exalting church, a God loving church, a spirit abiding church. There is nothing so encouraging as a church that welcomes strangers, visitors, believers from other places. Isn't that what Jesus Christ did? As he's gathering his disciples, what does he do? You say, well, he didn't have a house. No. But Jesus Christ welcomed them. He went to Matthew's home. He said he ate with sinners and tax collectors. He welcomed them. He drew them in. Wherever he went, he was drawing crowds welcoming, proclaiming the truth. A loving welcome. That's a sign of a true church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our second point, a grateful community. Paul and the churches give thanks in particular in verse 4 with regard to Prisca and Aquila. Fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who risk their necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks as well. Where does this Thanksgiving come from? You're going to say immediately, well, it's because Prisca and Aquila risked their necks for Paul's life. There is an immediate ground for the thanksgiving from the labors of Prisca and Aquila They labored, they served Paul to the extent that they were risking their own lives. That's the immediate basis for thanks. It comes uh comes from the way in which the Lord worked in their hearts. Hearts of Prisca and Aquila, which allowed them then to labor and help Paul. But ultimately, the thanks must be founded and was founded in the Lord Jesus Christ. Ultimately, the thanks are founded in the atoning sacrifice Of the Lord Jesus Christ. And ultimately the thanks must be founded in the righteousness of Christ. For that's the foundation of the church. The person and the work of Jesus was the basis for Prisca and Aquila to suffer for Paul. Well, see that connection. Because ultimately that's where our thanks comes from, to help Paul in such a way that risked their own lives. The fact that Jesus not only risked, but gave his life, provided the motivation, the impetus for these two to risk their lives for a brother in the Lord. So Paul gives thanks. The whole church gives thanks Isn't that what we do as we look around us and we see our brothers and sisters and how they're laboring and working for the Lord Jesus Christ? And that raises up a Sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving for Christ. Because we know that as they labor, they are laboring because of what Christ has done within their hearts. And so another mark of the church is the thanksgiving that flows from our hearts because of how we see the Lord Jesus Christ working in the hearts of our brothers and sisters. A grateful community, ultimately grateful for what Jesus has done and how he's continuing to work in the hearts of the people of God. But also a knowing community, point number three. This may be the centerpiece of these sixteen verses. Paul knows all of these that he mentions. If I counted correctly, there are 26 individuals that he names. This letter is unique in the number of greetings that Paul asks the church to give. Twenty-six individuals And then a mother, a sister, two families, a church in the house of Prisca and Aquila The church at Chentria, all the saints with Philogius and Julia and Narius and Olympus, all the saints. Greet all of them And then all of the churches of Christ send their greetings to the church in Rome. You might think, well, you know, that's not such a big deal. I have a hundred friends on Facebook. But there's a difference. A difference from merely knowing names and places to knowing people intimately. Consider Phoebe. Paul was able to commend her to the church only because he knew her. He knew her as a servant. He knew her as a patron. He knew Phoebe as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. He knew her well enough that he could commend her to the church in Rome. His name stood behind Phoebe because he knew her. Consider Prisca and Aquila. Now you may think I'm mispronouncing that name as I thought initially as I looked at this. Uh but they are tied back to Acts chapter eighteen where the name is not Priscilla but Priscilla And Paul knew them in Corinth. Aquila was a Jew, a native of Pontus. He came from Italy with his wife, Priscilla. They were tent makers. And Paul was able to stay with them and labor with them. He knew them. He knew the church and their home. He was intimately acquainted with Priscilla or Priscilla and Aquila. He knew them as friends. He knew what they had done for him. He knew that he had received such great help from them that they placed their lives in danger for him. Consider Epanaeus and Epennatus verse five Greet my beloved Epennetus, who was the first convert to Christ in Asia. Asia was a big place then, and now. Yet, because Paul was the missionary to this land, he knew. He knew the first convert. He spent time there and knew when the Lord had brought one to himself. And so he knew this one intimately that he had come to know and to love and to serve the Lord Jesus Christ, the first convert. Consider Andronicus and Junior verse 7. Kinsmen. He refers to them as kinsmen and fellow prisoners. He knew that all the apostles knew them, and he knew that they were in Christ before he was in Christ. Paul certainly knew that they suffered in prison for the Lord Jesus Christ. He may even have spent time with them in the same prison. I don't know. This is not that clear. But he knew them so well that he was able to testify to their conversion. He was able to testify that they suffered for Jesus, wrongfully imprisoned as he was. He knew them intimately. You're getting the idea with the Community of the church is a knowing community. Paul knew them. He knew those people that he wrote of. And he assumed that the brothers and sisters who were in the church at Rome were also known by the church. Now they probably didn't have pews back then, and so we're not envisioning these these twenty-six individuals sitting at the back and the people in the church at Rome sitting up front, and they just didn't no, they knew them. So well that Paul can identify them by name and he's saying, Greet them. I know them. You know them. Please greet them for me. Mentioning each one by name and some by group, and we can assume that the church knew them. They were well known, such that each canon would be greeted. As the letter was received, consider the joy as it was circulated. Oh, Paul mentioned my name. He wants the church to be. I want you to greet these people in my name. Because I know you know them. Knowing that they were one community in Christ, known by one another. Think of the Lord Jesus Christ and how intimately He knows you. God knows every single hair upon your head, He knows your thoughts before you speak them. He knitted you together in the womb of your mother. And the Lord Jesus Christ knows you. So intimately, so well, that he would go to the cross for you What does it take for us to be an intimate, a knowing community, to know others like Paul knew others, to know churches like Paul knew churches? It takes time, brothers and sisters. We have to spend time together. We're not divine We're human, made in the image of God. We have to spend time together. Yes, in church, but also outside of the church. We lead busy lives. We have little time for anything other than what we are doing now. But think of Paul. Think of how busy Paul was. He was given a wonderful, a great task of spreading the gospel. He had places to go, people to see. more people that needed to be converted through the work of the Spirit, but he was the one who was carrying about the gospel. He wanted to go to Spain, but he had to go to Jerusalem first Planting churches here and there and keeping up with them, writing to them. He had much to do. He was very busy. But he had time to know these brothers and sisters in Christ. And he knew that it was significant. He knew that it was a great part of his work as he's sitting in the prison writing to those in Philippi. He's wondering whether he's going to die, whether he could go to be with Christ or not. He said, It's more important for me to remain here for your sake. He knew he had to spend more time with them. But now think of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was busy. He was given the greatest work to do. His father sent him to go to the cross ultimately. But Jesus had time. Before he went to the cross, he had time to love his disciples to the end. He had time to wash their feet. He knew them so intimately that he would wash their feet Brothers and sisters, we the church, we need to find time We need to spend time with our brothers and sisters in order to know them intimately So that we can pray for them and with them. So that we can become that knowing church Church of the Lord Jesus Christ that knows one another intimately And then we need to labor together. That brings us to our fourth point, a zealous community. Also in this passage we see much zeal demonstrated by those that Paul mentions. Certainly in Prisca and Aquila we see Zeal, don't we, who risk their necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks as well. They risked their necks for my life. These that Paul knew so well, these that Paul worked with as tent makers, he stayed with them. They risk their necks for his life. That is zealous service. That's a zealous community. Fellow workers, zealous for the church. But it wasn't limited to these two. It wasn't limited to Priscilla and Aquila or Priscilla and Aquila. We see in verse 6, greet Mary. This is the only thing Paul says about Mary, who worked hard for you. Verse 12. Greet the beloved Persis who has worked hard in the Lord. That could be translated, worked hard or worked much, worked for you, worked for the Lord Jesus Christ. We're seeing a pattern here within these 16 verses. Phoebe, a servant of the church, Andronicus and Junior, fellow prisoners for Christ. Urbanus, a fellow worker in Christ. Triphania and Triphosa workers in the Lord clearly more than a few Indeed, a community of believers working at times side by side, sometimes apart, but working in the vineyards where the Lord had placed them or took them. This passage is full, full of particular names of those who were zealous believers working for the advancement of the gospel. We don't know exactly how But the impression is clear. These were faithful ones who were laboring to see Christ exalted and glorified to see the good news spread. They sought to do the will of their Father. In a very real sense, imitating the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul has already written of zeal in this letter, letter to the Church at Rome, as he wrote about his community, Jews He wrote this in chapter 10 at verse 1. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness. Zeal. Zeal without knowledge is truly no zeal for the church at all. Zeal must be combined with knowledge, knowledge of the righteousness of God, knowledge of Christ's righteousness, submitting yourself to God's righteousness, then zeal in that context is that zeal which then advances the church Which pleases God, which exalts the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus was zealous for the house of his Father. Indeed, the psalmist of Psalm 69 writes, Her zeal for your house has consumed me. The disciples remember this psalm As Jesus was ultimately crucified, as he was buried, ultimately as he rose from the dead. His disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. And John includes that in the passage where Jesus is cleansing the temple. The disciples didn't know it at that time when Jesus was overturning the tables of the money changers, of those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons within the temple. And as he takes out whips of cords and drove them out of the temple with the sheep and with the oxen and pours out the coins of the money changers and overturns their tables and he tells them, Take these things away, do not make my father's house a house of trade, for he knew and it was a house of prayer The disciples also remember that zeal for your house will consume me. And and why I think that that remembrance doesn't come to their minds Until the Lord Jesus Christ was crucified and risen is because of what Christ ultimately does on the cross. Isn't that where Christ's zeal is clearly shown? Isn't that where he indeed, from a human perspective, was consumed in his zeal? After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said, I thirst. A jar of sour wine stood there. They put a sponge full of the sour wine on the hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. And when he had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. Jesus was consumed by zeal. He bowed his head and he gave up his spirit. Brothers and sisters, we're called to be a zealous community. Called to be zealous for Christ, zealous for us, who was zealous for his father's house, so much so that it consumed him. The question for us tonight is, are we consumed by Christ? So much so that we would be that holy kiss Look at verse sixteen. Greet one another with a holy kiss I think, well, that really means that physical embrace, doesn't it? In a sense, yes, but in another sense Greeting one another with a holy kiss is the church being a welcoming church, it's being a grateful church, it's being a knowing church, and it is being a zealous church, showing forth all of these attributes so all can see So that as one enters the body of Christ, he or she experiences and feels and sees and is embraced by all of these attributes. In a sense, it becomes that holy kiss. These attributes become that which sets the church apart from false churches. It sets the church apart from secular or non-spiritual communities. It certainly sets the church apart from the government and even from blood relatives. These are the attributes which this church and every true church needs to strive to attain. Yes, brothers and sisters, knowing the righteousness of Christ, the church should be welcoming, grateful, knowing, and zealous. We learned a lot through our refugee friends. Taught us how to be welcoming from a human perspective. But only the church can be that which welcomes in the righteousness of Christ. Christ. Amen. You pray with me. Father in heaven We are weak, we're frail, we need to repent. As we know that we are not all of these things now We ask, Lord God, that you'd help us by your Spirit to be that church which welcomes, to be that church which is grateful which shines forth that gratefulness would be a church that knows, it sets aside time to to know our brothers and sisters, to be that church which is zealous. Zealous for your house. to be consumed by zeal for your house. Help us, Father. We need the Spirit. Work powerfully in us, individually and then collectively as the body of Christ. And we ask these things in Jesus' strong name. Amen.