In uh the midst of uh conversations, uh thinking about uh the current uh series of crises that we face in our world, uh situation at the southern border, uh international relations with all kinds of different people. Uh Strife in the cities of our country. My wife and I read this in our meditation from the Daily Light. I don't know if you're familiar with the Daily Light, but it's a set of readings from Scripture And this particular meditation was this collection of verses. Oh my God, my soul is cast down within me. You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength Cast your burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain you. He has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, neither has he hidden his face from him. But when he cried to God he heard. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Take no thought for your life, what you shall eat, or what you shall drink, nor even for your body what you shall put on. Behold the birds of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap Nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not much better than they? Be not faithless, but believing. Lo, I am with you always. Do you know this game? You're right. You have to go like that. Good. For those of you who don't know, Chinga is a game where the object is to take out one little piece and put it on the top. And then the next person comes along and they take another piece and they put it on the top and so it goes back and forth until somebody happens, right? This is a metaphor for this time in which we live. So for so many people in our world, life looks like a giant Jenga game. How many people feel that in the midst of all the stuff that's going on, it's just a great big cosmic game of Jenga? And that somebody, sometime, is going to pull the wrong piece out, and everything is going to Fall. Fall down. Um like the you don't really suppose to put it on the top one, you you're supposed to put it on the same one. Oh, on the same one? Like this? Like on like that? Yeah, and Oh oh to the side, I see. Okay. Like that. All right. But you know, even though we might think That our world is a giant game of Jenga. We as Christians need to remember that we don't need to fear this kind of thing. Because we know that we have a holy, good, and awesome Heavenly Father who firmly holds the whole thing. Right in his hands. How did I do that? Life is not a Jenga game, because God has it in his control. The Apostle Paul on his second missionary journey planted a church in the city of Philippi. He wrote a letter to that body of believers. It's a letter that has stood the s stood the test of time over now more than 2,000 years. The letter has some very specific purposes, as Paul repeatedly exhorts the Philippian Christians and us Challenging us to live in a manner worthy of the calling that we have received in God's grace Understanding that this letter is written to Christian people. They are encouraged in Philippians to live in harmony with one another. To live consistently according to the purity of the gospel that we have received, and thus to live striving toward that goal. of the purpose of God in our own holiness. Paul says that to do that begins with resting and relying upon the finished and sufficient work of the Lord Jesus Christ. We talked about that this morning. Where is our confidence? It's in the work of Jesus. His righteousness in the present and future salvation that this surely brings. And so the people that Paul wrote to in Philippi were saints. They were believers In whom God had begun a good work, with the assurance that he, by his grace, would continue it until the day of Jesus Christ. Now the wonderful thing is that all those exhortations to the Philippian believers are set for us in the context of real life and everyday living. It's not some abstract idea, philosophical idea. This is set right in the middle of the way we live. Of the whole letter I've chosen Just a few verses for our consideration this evening. And they're in the fourth chapter. You're probably familiar with them. But in chapter 4, Paul, beginning at verse 4, says this. Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say again, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers. Whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable. If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things, what you have heard and received and heard and seen in me. Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us as we look at this passage this evening. Our Father, thank you for your word. We thank you that it's not abstract. that it's uh some uh philosophical idea that we need to bend our minds, but that your word comes to us in the midst of our own lives. And uh And that it speaks to us of your grace and your mercy and your strength and power and your care for us as the God who sovereignly, perfectly rules over all things Hear our prayer tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, these verses are probably familiar to most of you. I as I studied and uh meditated on these things, uh the one thing that popped out to me as I read them was the emphasis on uh In other words, uh as you read it, you might have seen those all inclusive words scattered uh through the passage. Always, everyone anything, everything, all, over and over again. Now in the previous chapters uh Paul has used the method of contrast. to make his point. Those who put confidence in the flesh as opposed to those who put confidence in the Spirit's work. The idea of loss versus gain. I count all things but loss compared to the gain of what I receive in Christ. He talks about the evil workers, as opposed to those who are faithful citizens of a heavenly kingdom. Uh and he uses that method of contrasting things. Now he changes his method in this chapter, and now he's going to build uh one step upon another in order to make a very similar point. Now, as he does this, he's going to imply some of the negative things, the things that are part of our natural bent as human beings. uh into a single uh uh uh uh you know and uh speak of grace uh toward a single end and that is peace Peace in everyone always about everything. That's pretty hard, right? Peace about peace in everyone always about everything. Everything that's happening in the life of the believer. Let me suggest to you three R's, not reading, writing, arithmetic, but rather rejoice, relax, and rest. Those three th those three things come to mind as we read this text. First is rejoice. There's uh my wife and I had the privilege of visiting Scotland a few years ago, and in the city of Edinburgh there's a road. that uh runs from uh the castle of Edinburgh down uh what's called the Royal Mile, and at the end of that Royal Mile There's a castle, and the castle is called the Castle of Holyrood. And at the time when we were there, this was the uh secondary palace for the Queen of England. Now I don't know if Charles uses it or not, but uh she did. And tradition has it that when the monarch, when the when the queen was at Holyrood House, that they would clear all of the uh I I won't say the riffraff, all of the tourists uh from the grounds of the castle, and they would raise a flag over the castle. And the flag indicated that the monarch, the queen, is in residence, right? That as an introduction. When my wife was teaching school, she had a banner floating across the wall in her classroom. And the banner read, Joy is the banner That is flown from the citadel of my heart when the king is in residence. Joy is the banner that flows over the citadel of my heart when the king is in residence. Now the fact is that you and I can look around this room and see faces of people. We know of others in the congregation. Who are going through some pretty difficult, hard times. We already talked about that in our prayer time. All of us, at one level or another are uh dealing with all kinds of things. Uh I was in a store. Or where was I? I it doesn't remember. I was probably at Lowe's. Uh and uh And there was somebody wearing a mask. And just uh seeing a someone marry wearing a mask, I thought Should I be wearing a mask? Is it coming back? Are we gonna have to go through this again? There's an election cycle coming out. Oh no, what's gonna happen uh with our society and this uh uh another virus? Well, it's that kind of thing. But there are others. Concerns of life are here. Someone might have just lost some. You just lost someone in your congregation to death. That's a sad thing. It's a suffering thing. that we go through. Others are sick with serious illness. Maybe there's unemployment or financial troubles of some kind. We have troubles in our marriages. Uh our children wander away from the faith. Our grandchildren. I can't list them all. But we're all facing some sort of storm. Several years ago I preached a sermon entitled, Everybody's Dealing with Something. You know, every one of us is dealing with something. Doesn't it seem a little bit naive for Paul to write to Philippians and to us in the Bible? And especially to put it in the form of a command. This isn't a suggestion, this is a command. Rejoice! Rejoice always. Oh, you didn't hear me? I said, rejoice. Rejoice. One might tend to think it's unreasonable, except that it's repeated in so many other places in the Bible. James says Count it all joy, my brothers, when you fall into trials of various kinds. Matthew 5. Rejoice when people persecute you. For my name's sake. In fact, the whole concept of Christian rejoicing is couched all the way back in the book of Leviticus, in chapter 23, when uh God established this feast. It was at the time of the harvest. Well, at the time of the harvest in an agrarian society, everybody's happy. All the grain has been put in. Look how rich we're going to be. We've just had this wonderful harvest And at that point in time, that time of the year, God says, all right, people of Israel, here's what I want you to do. I want you to go out of your houses. I want you to go in the fields, and I want you to build lean to's, just shacks. And for seven days you're going to live in those shacks. And then he says. And you're to rejoice. To rejoice while you're living in the lean tos. You shall rejoice before the Lord your God seven days and celebrate these seven days as a feast. to the Lord. Well, okay. That's easy for Moses to say. This is easy for Paul to say But I mentioned some of the natural and negative things that are implied here. What makes you sad? The sadness of just the things that are going on, but internally, the sadness of the guilt of my own sin. Just contemplating some of the things that I have done in my own life. Maybe you've done in your life. Maybe even this week. That's horrifying. Suffering. The suffering of other believers, friends, people in North Korea, or in Yemen, or you know how many places around the world? Maybe the presence of death. That even saddened Jesus, didn't it? In the face of death, Jesus wept. But the thing you learn from Scripture is that it's not circumstances that determine the condition of the heart or the emotions or the decisions of the will. In fact, if you consider what Paul writes here in Philippians, it's our thinking, it's the way we think that informs the emotions and the choices that we make. Looking back in chapter 2, you say, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who humbled himself In chapter 3, he says, I consider, I think about the fact that everything that I own is a loss compared to the knowledge of Jesus Christ. And that's the key here in this passage when Paul says, rejoice. Sinclair Ferguson makes this comment. We think the command to rejoice always to be unusual, even impossible, because we have sometimes been misled into thinking of joy, just as we tend to think of love as primarily a matter of feelings, of spontaneous emotions. These perspectives of the heart, by definition, cannot be commanded. They simply happen. But that's a distortion of the Bible's teaching. You see, joy, real, abiding joy can be cultivated in our lives independent of circumstances. That's why Paul adds in this phrase, in the Lord. Rejoice in the Lord. In Leviticus, Moses said, rejoice before the Lord your God. How do you rejoice always? Well, you take an active mental account. Of the things that should command your conscience, your consciousness. Take an active mental account of the things that you should be thinking about. In other words, I am saved. I'm saved. I have been redeemed from a life of sin in order to truly glorify God and to enjoy Him. That's my chief end, right? My Savior once wore a crown of thorns on his head, but now he wears an eternal crown of glory as the one who rules over the entire universe. For my good. Think about that. He was here and He's coming again, right? I have loved ones. I have friends. I have a new family of members of the body of Christ. The gospel is still the very best news that we can offer to the world in which we live and spread abroad. And you know what? When that word, when that gospel is spread, people come to Jesus. People come to Jesus. I have freedom to go to the throne of grace in my time of need, to gain forgiveness when I'm guilty, wisdom when I'm stupid. Strength when I'm weak, and comfort when I'm afraid, and joy when naturally I would be sad The bottom line is, I live in the palm of the hand of the God who holds everything for me. Where does that notion end? Some of you will identify with this, some maybe not. Where does it end? I have the joy, joy, joy, joy. Down in my heart. Where? Down in my heart. Where? Down in my heart. I have the joy of the Lord in my heart to stay. And so number one, rejoice. Secondly, verse 5 says, relax. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. This is an interesting Greek word. It's translated reasonableness. uh because we don't have a single word that corresponds to it. One commentator combines the following forbearance genealogy, kindliness, gentleness, considerateness, charitableness, mildness, and generosity of spirit Let that be known about you, right? Another commentator indicates that the principle here is not pressing the technicalities of justice and equality to a minute point. That's a good reminder for Orthodox Presbyterians, by the way. Let your reasonableness be known to all. What's the natural and negative thing implied? What do we say about people who are all bundled up with unnecessary concern and impatience? They're uptight, they're high strung. Well, Paul says in the vernacular, chill, dude. Chill. Que pasa, if you will, right? That's I think that's Spanish, right? Be cool. Relax. Why? Why can Paul say that? Well, because the Lord is near. The Lord is near. And that could be meant in two ways. First, the New Testament points to the fact that after the death The resurrection and the ascension of Jesus, since the coming of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, the very next major thing that's going to happen in the history of the world is the return of Jesus. That's the next big thing. that's going to happen. And that could come at any time. It could come before we finish our service tonight. From that perspective, the Lord is always near. And every believer can live in the daily expectation that Jesus is coming. But there's also the truth that we know from Scripture that the Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. Psalm 34. The Lord is near to all that call upon him to all a call upon him in truth. Psalm 145. The old spiritual says it this way You can't hurry, my God No, no, you just gotta wait. You gotta trust him and give him time, no matter how long it takes. He's a God, you can't hurry. But he'll be there. Oh, don't you worry. He may not come when you want him, but he's right on time. Relax. And extend the hand of help to others, even in the face of pressure. And then the third R is rest in verse 6. Where Paul says, don't be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. That's a strange word. Relax. Or I mean rest. Well it's not really strange because what is worry? Worry's a machine. It's a machine Where he consumes energy, the energy of life, the energy of the mind, of the emotions, by manufacturing all the possibilities of what might go happen Might what what might happen next? Several years ago, this is a really old illustration, but I can't think of a better one. I had a friend who Some of you again, some of you will identify with this. Bought one of those new Texas instrument calculators. Remember those, some of you And uh uh and uh you could program this thing to do things. And one of them one of the women in my church uh bought one of these and uh I a uh I went to visit her one day and she had her little Texas instrument plugged in uh and sitting on the desk by her in her kitchen And the red numbers were just flashing. Just like this, going, going, going, going. I said, Barbara, what are you doing? She said, uh, I've programmed it to find all of the prime numbers. I said, why? She said, because it'll do that. It'll do that. Here she is, wearing out her batteries and her computer. For what? Nothing significant. And that's what worry does. It consumes vast amounts of energy For really no good purpose. The practice of worry, of anxiety is consumed with non-essential details of what might go wrong Or what might be the right thing to do if you want to cover every single detail of life and manage it? Worry is that major addiction in life that's no less draining. of the resources of human beings than gambling or drugs or any other of the bad addictions. Now you need to observe here that Paul presents to us a biblical pattern in this way to achieve these three R's. Rejoice, relax, and rest. And it's all inclusive. What does he say? It's not inactivity, it's not just lay back and wait for it to happen. What does he say? He says, pray. Prayer. Prayer as a frame of mind. With the humble response of gratitude. In thankfulness that God listens to our petitions about all things What does he say? In everything by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known to God One author said we need to recognize that we're suspended between the past, the present, and the future. You've probably heard it from preachers, the already and the not yet. There's some wonderful things already, but there's also some things not yet. That prayerful perspective, you see, implies both the gratitude and the submission. humbly to the purposes of God and His rule. And so if joy is the flag that flies over the citadel of our hearts when the king is in residence, then prayer is the sentinel Prayer is the guard on the wall of that citadel. And that's the very word that Paul uses in verse seven. He says, But the peace of God Which surpasses all understanding, guard your hearts and your minds in Jesus Christ. Prayer is the one thing that brings the peace of God and lays your heart to rest. Now, Paul has two other things that I want to just mention in closing. Even as we try to go to prayer. The one is you have to feed your brain. Feed your brain. That's verse eight, right? Finally, brothers, whatever is true, honorable, just, pure, lovely, commendable, excellent, anything worthy of praise, think about these things. Feed your brain. All of our human minds will always set themselves on something to focus on, something to think about. And it's normal and natural for us to think about the negatives, the possibilities, then all the worries and so forth. Now let me stop here and tell you that this this isn't Zig Ziegler. This isn't uh Robert Schuler. This isn't Joel Osteen. This is the Apostle Paul talking under the inspiration of the script of the Spirit in the Bible. And so we dare not ignore it With respect to the sanctification of our own lives. Take the challenge. I'm not going to go through all these this week, but let me give you a challenge. Take these things. And one by one make a list, if you will, in your quiet time, in your devotions, to write down examples of things that you can think about that are true, honorable, just pure, and so forth. And feed your mind on that basis. You might have to look a couple of those words up in the dictionary. That's okay. But train your mind with meaningful, positive, praiseworthy thoughts. So this is something that we all have to do. I have to do it constantly myself. I have a faithful wife who reminds me of that But then Paul adds an additional element. He says, Finally, finally. Find a model. Verse eight. The peace of God which surpasses understanding. Will guard your heart. Find a model. I'm sorry, it's verse nine. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. You can find someone you know, someone you trust. This is the very reason why we recommend good books Of saints of the past to read. You can be encouraged by the lives of brothers and sisters who've gone before you. Read the classics, Pilgrim's Progress. Book of Fox's Book of Martyrs, Knowing God, Holiness by J. C. Rile and others. Paul leaves us with this benediction. And the peace of God will be with you. Peace of mind, peace of heart, peace of life. All to his glory. The last words of Jesus to his disciples in John 13 through 16, you remember, he says, I leave my peace with you. My peace I give you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Not as the world. Jeremiah tells us that The main problem with people is that they make cisterns for themselves that don't hold any water. But here's the peace of God. That allows for rejoicing, relaxing, and resting. Fear not, little flock. I am with you always, even to the end of the world. May we know this peace that passes understanding. In our lost and panicked world, may we be examples of that peace in the lives of others. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, thank you for your word again. We rejoice that you have given it to us to encourage our hearts and stimulate us. Toward rejoicing and relaxing and rest and peace that comforts every aspect of life. We thank you for that assurance. Be with us as we meditate on these things tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen.