Well now we come to the reading of God's Word from the book of Acts, chapter 2, Acts chapter 2, verses 14 to 24. We have recently seen, as of you know, last week's passage, we saw how the Spirit was given from heaven. That he came upon the disciples of Jesus Christ who were gathered together, about 120 of them gathered together in one place. We saw that there was an event that happened that was somewhat chaotic, you know, multiple languages being spoken. Multiple people hearing those multiple languages, you know, something like 10 to 15 languages probably listed in that in that uh list of verses. Um, a crowd that was amazed by what they were hearing, but then also Another group who were mocking what was taking place. And you can sort of understand why they might mock what was taking place. It was a little bit of a chaotic happening. It was hard to understand what was going on, and they mocked in verse thirteen, saying that those who were engaging this were basically drunk. They were full of wine. They had had too much to drink. Well now that's where our passage picks up in verse 14 of this same chapter. We see how Peter, the disciple of Peter the Apostle, responds to that claim of Um it being a matter of too much wine. You know, what is this event that has taken place? You know, it suddenly happened. It happened very suddenly. It came upon t came upon them very suddenly. Well, how does Peter respond and how does he explain what has happened? Well in Acts chapter 2, verse 14 to 24, we get the beginnings of his response to this event. So listen to God's word, Acts chapter 2, verses 14 through 24. Again, right after the others who mocked had said that it was a matter of drunkenness and too much wine, what do we see in God's word? Acts 2. 14. But Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice and said to them, Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and heed my words. For these are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. And it shall come to pass in the last days, says God, that I will pour out of my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions Your old men shall dream dreams, and on my men servants and on my maidservants I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they shall prophesy. I will show wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath, blood and fire and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood. before the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. And it shall come to pass that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you. By miracles, wonders, and signs which God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves also know. Him being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by lawless hands, have crucified, and put to death, whom God raised up. Having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be held by it. Thus far the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it and to his preaching in our midst this day. Now in the section just before this, you can understand the reaction that some of the people had, can't you, when they thought that these people were perhaps drunk? When they thought that perhaps they had been full of too much wine, what would you have seen? What would you have heard if you had been there? Again, multiple languages being spoken all at the same time. A large group of people, about 120 disciples, we're told. You would have heard these 120 people speaking different languages. You would have also heard other people on the outside of that responding to what they are hearing, amazed at what they are hearing. Something like 10 to 15 different languages being heard. Expressions of wonder and amazement, perhaps bewilderment. What is happening? How is this happening? What are we seeing? How is it possible that men from Galilee are speaking languages that, you know, men from this one certain l uh region are speaking languages that come from many regions From all over the earth, and yet there in one gathering all at the same time. Why are they all talking all at the very same time when there's a meeting or an assembly that is orderly Isn't there usually only one person talking at a time, one speaker at a time? And then privileges of speech are usually transferred in an orderly way. And what's taking place here in this section, again in chapter 2, just before this, multiple people speaking, something like 120 people speaking all at the same time. Lots of different people outside of the of uh where they are listening and hearing multiple different things all at the same time When you get a sense for what's going on, it's really not surprising that we see the reaction we do, like in verse 13 of our text, where there are these others who are described as mocking and who say they're full of new wine. Again, what's taking place in this gathering, what it sounds like is taking place in this gathering, sounds something like craziness, sounds like cacophony, chaos, possibly drunkenness. Who else talks in this fashion? Who else engages in such action? If you look at it through ordinary human senses, if you look at it through a reasonable frame of mind, and apply just a little bit of skepticism It would be easy to see how they would come to that conclusion. This is just a matter of silliness, craziness, drunkenness. This is a matter of impaired judgment. This is strange, out-of-control behavior. This is what it looks like to the ordinary eye. And again, we can understand, can't we? We can understand if we'd been there, if we'd seen and heard the things that they have seen and heard. We too might have easily thought that. We too might have easily thought that that's what was taking place. But what looks like drunkenness What perhaps sounds like drunkenness, what perhaps sounds like mass craze and frenzy is not drunkenness. But what does Peter tell us? Peter tells us it's something else entirely. And he tells us in verse 14: this is not drunkenness. No, this is only the third hour of the day. You know, that's something like 9 a. m. in the morning. That's not the hour when people get drunk. This incident that's taking place, it's not a matter of too much drinking going on. What is actually taking place in this incident? Again, this incident that looks something like crazed drunkenness, at least to the skeptical, mocking observer. This event is not drunkenness. This is fulfillment of divine prophecy. This is God doing something This is God doing something he had promised to do. This is something God is doing, that he had planned to do in order to bring about his purpose and his kingdom. And that's shown by the fact that Peter quotes this prophecy from the prophet Joel. Now he's quoting words that are especially from Joel chapter 2, verse 28 through 32. It's there in verses 17 through 21, and this is the explanation of what is happening. So again, this incident seems perhaps like public craziness, public frenzy, public drunkenness. No This is a prophecy coming to pass. This is God doing something amazing. Now what is God doing? And what does the prophecy of Joel do to shed light upon what God was doing? Well, notice some of the words of Joel. You know, Joel's prophecy has something to do, you know, again in verse 17 to 21 of our text, with the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God being poured out upon all flesh. Now notice the wide diversity of people that the Spirit has poured out upon, because this is part of the emphasis of those words in Joel. a diverse array of different people upon whom the Spirit has poured out all flesh, emphasizing broadness, diversity, sons and daughters, in verse 17 of our text. Young men and old men, manservants and maidservants. Again, that emphasis on all flesh, all flesh. There is a a wideness to the pouring out of the spirit that has taken place. Again, we're reminded of those words in Numbers 11, in that passage that we saw, where Moses had such a desire that would that all people, all the people of God, had the Spirit poured out upon them Putting it on seventy elders was not enough for Moses, no, if only all the people of God had the Spirit poured out upon them. Now why did Moses think that? And what was Moses' motivation in wanting the Spirit onto all the people of God? Well he was dealing with the people of God grumbling, and his mindset surely was that If only all of the people of God had the Spirit resting upon them, like these seventy elders and like him, it would change their mindset. It would change their perspective towards the things they were grumbling about. Surely that's why Moses had the desire. He had the desire that that way, you know, if all God's people had the Spirit poured upon them They wouldn't be grumbling anymore about their lack of meat in the wilderness, and they would not be such a burden upon Moses. Those six hundred thousand plus people who were grumbling against Moses, who had a problem with his leadership, and yet Um, you know, it wasn't on him ultimately to lead the people. It was on the Lord. And yet we see his desire, it is a good desire, the spirit coming upon all God's people. It's good because then they would no longer grumble. Well, centuries after that, centuries after that incident happened, Moses expresses the desire that the Spirit would rest upon all God's people. Centuries after that, the prophet Joel announces that God will do it. God will do it. He will pour out his spirit on, he says, all flesh, speaking of God's people, your sons and your daughters. Again, not just on the one prophet Moses, not just on the seventy elders among Israel, not just on the occasional judge who shows up once in a while when the Spirit comes to rest upon them Not just upon the prophets, whom we assume had the spirit, much in the same way Moses did. Not just upon the kings and the priests, who at least symbolically had the spirit by means of anointing with oil or by means of consecration. That was at least a symbolic demonstration of them receiving the Spirit, whether or not the Spirit actually came upon them. In some cases he did. And yet again we see the Spirit announced. This is the desire of Moses. It is the announcement of the prophet Joel And it is the reality in Acts chapter 2. The Spirit comes upon all the people of God All flesh. Now, in this context, it's that about 120 disciples and others who are there in the presence of the apostles who are there on the day of Pentecost gathered together. The Spirit has come, this miraculous speech event of multiple languages being spoken, this is the fulfillment of Moses' desire. Moses wanted the Spirit to come upon all God's people, and here, at the day of Pentecost, it has happened. And it has happened in fulfillment. of what Joel has said. Now again, um what this points to is it points to many kinds of people. So sons and daughters, men servants, maidservants. Young men, old men, diversity of people among God's people, lots of God's people, all of God's people, the breadth of God's people. But what will they do? They will be able to speak and to do things which ordinarily only prophets can speak and do. They will prophesy in verse 17. They will see visions in verse 17. They will dream dreams and they will prophesy in verse 18. They will speak the things that they have seen But they will be given the the ability to speak things that God ordinarily gives only to prophets. And now here the Spirit comes upon them. They speak the works of God. They testify to the risen Christ. They have seen Christ raised from the dead. They have witnessed that which there is to speak about, that which there is to prophesy about, the resurrection. of the Lord Jesus Christ. And here it has happened in our midst. It has happened in the book of Acts. It has put happened here in Acts chapter two. God's people receive the Spirit, and God's people are able to speak as they are given utterance of the Spirit So here's what we're to understand. No, this is not an episode in in public drunkenness. No, this is not an uh an episode in widespread frenzy or craziness. This is God accomplishing something important. Something he said he would do. He is given the Spirit, and He is giving the Spirit so that God's people have the Spirit, so that they are enabled to give witness to the Lord Jesus Christ Now another important aspect of what God is doing here in our text is to remember that this giving of the Spirit is also a sign of the end. It's also a sign of the end, the fact that the Spirit is poured out. Notice, again, the prophecy in Joel, especially in verse nineteen. You know, we hear about day or we hear about signs in the earth, signs that point to the end of the world. The sun being turned into darkness, the moon into blood. We read about the coming of the great and awesome day of the Lord. And back in verse 17, we read that this pouring out of the Spirit would take place when? In the last days, says God. So the pouring out of the spirit is a preparation for the end. The pouring out of the spirit is a warning sign that the end is at hand. That the end could come to pass at any given moment once this has happened. Once the Spirit has come, the great and awesome day of the Lord is at hand. And once the Spirit has come, it is especially important that you heed the warning of verse 21, that you be prepared to call on the name of the Lord to receive the salvation of that dreaded Coming day. So this is another thing that we're shown. Now, again, the fact that the Spirit's ministry is ongoing today, the fact that the Spirit continues to spread the witness of Jesus Christ to the ends of the earth. Is an ongoing sign to all of us and to the whole world around that these are the last days, that the great and awesome day of the Lord is at hand. And it presses upon us the importance of calling on the name of the Lord and receiving the salvation which He has prepared and provided for all who call upon Him in the name. So again, here's what this prophecy points to. Peter points us to the prophecy. Peter shows us that the Spirit has come, has come to rest upon the Church of Jesus Christ. Peter shows us that the Spirit coming to the church has also come as a sign of the end, and it is therefore a warning of the end that is to come. Now again, what else is God doing though? What else is God doing with this event of pouring out his spirit? So one thing he's doing is, as we've sort of already noted, is to He's he's we're seeing that in the New Testament church and in the era of the New Covenant, that the Spirit comes to rest on more than just the leaders of God's people. You know, we hope and we pray for and we desire leaders who are equipped by God's Spirit, leaders on whom God's Spirit rests. But also in the New Covenant Church, God gives his spirit to the whole body. We read of that later instruction in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Paul writes these um instructions in 1 Corinthians twelve about how the whole body of the church has gifts that are given by the Spirit. And those gifts are given so that the whole church is able to build up itself. So again, we understand that in the New Covenant Church the Spirit gives gifts to many. The Spirit gives gifts to all who belong to Jesus Christ within the orbit of his church. Young and old. Sons and daughters, males, females, young and old, all have something to contribute to the body of Christ. We ought to take heed of this. We ought to be aware that we have the Spirit if we are in Christ. If we're in Christ, we have something to give, something to contribute to the building up of the body of Christ. And in building up the body of Christ by that something that we have to contribute, we are contributing to the witness-bearing purpose of the church. church. As the church is built up, the church continues to strengthen its message and speaks its message about Jesus Christ. Well that church needs to be built up, and that that uh act of bearing witness needs to be supported and engaged in by all of us. We all have the spirit. And we all have the Spirit if we are in Christ. And we all have something to give, and therefore ought to use the gifts and the graces that we receive of the Spirit for one another For one another within the church, for the benefit of the church, also for the benefit of the church's mission to spread that gospel to the ends of the earth. So again, we are shown this by the act of the Spirit coming. One other thing we're shown, though. The fact that the Spirit coming Is confirming or is fulfillment of divine prophecy also provides confirmation that Jesus is the Christ. After all, when does this happen? Notice, it's the day of Pentecost, it's something like, it's fifty days after the Passover, Jesus Christ was put to death on the eve of the Passover. So some 50 days after that man was put to death on a cross publicly, here comes the Spirit, and Peter tells us this was God's plan. That's no accident. The fact that the Spirit comes, again, 50 days after the Lord Jesus Christ is put to death, this shows a connection in the plan of God between those two events. Just as on the Old Testament calendar of feasts, just as the Passover feast was to lead eventually to the Feast of Weeks or the Pentecost, So also the death of Jesus Christ leads to the pouring out of the Spirit upon the people of God The fact that this has happened in such close proximity to the death of Jesus Christ is confirmation that this Jesus is the Christ. And also has been raised from the dead, and also has ascended on high. You see the moment when this event takes place Jesus is no longer physically, locally present upon the earth. No. Where is he now? He's gone up into heaven. Yes, he's been raised from the dead. But the multitudes of the crowds, they can't see him. They don't see him raised from the dead. How are they going to believe? Well, here is confirmation. The Spirit having come points to the fact that it's Jesus who is at the center of God's plan. And the Spirit having come shows us that this Jesus, yes, already attested to men. By God, by means of things in verse 22, miracles, wonders, and signs that were done in your midst. Nonetheless, you, he says to Israel, have put him to death. He was put to death by lawless hands. He was crucified, put to death. Yet, Peter says, the Spirit coming confirms to us that This crucifixion did not happen apart from the will of God, apart from the plan of God. Not only is that true, but the one who was crucified also was released from death and raised above death, resurrected. So again, the prophecy of Joel that Peter points to. It shows us that this death was not merely the act of men. It shows us that this was all part of the plan. The plan was all leading somewhere. It all started with his death. You know it had started earlier than that, but it starts with his death, but his death leads to his resurrection. His resurrection leads to his ascension. Its ascension leads to the Spirit sending word of his death and resurrection to the ends of the earth. So again, here is the purpose of this um this uh text. This text is showing us Confirmation that God's plan is being fulfilled. God's plan is fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ, but that plan in the Lord Jesus Christ carries over into a plan to have the Spirit rest upon his whole church. Now, how are we to understand our response to this passage? How are we to understand our response to this passage? This passage shows us, it shows us that the end of days is at hand. It shows us that there's a great and awesome and dreadful day that is ready to come at any moment. Because the Spirit has come. And because the Spirit is present. Because the Spirit is still at work in our world today spreading news of Jesus Christ. This is a sign. That the great awesome day of the Lord is at hand. It's a warning to us that we take hold of the salvation that He offers. Well, there is still time. You know, the promise remains whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now we know that calling on the name of the Lord is calling on the name of Jesus Christ. Again we'll read in Acts chapter four verse twelve. Nor is there salvation in any other. For there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must We say what is the name we must call upon? We must call upon the name of Jesus Christ. Because in God's plan, Jesus Christ going to the cross was an act of overturning the power of sin, bearing the curse of sin, bearing the curse of our sin, the penalty that was due to us. Bearing the curse of the law in our place in place of all who put their trust in him, we must call upon his name And he's the one who brings the last days, but he's also the one who brings salvation upon the last day, and salvation in light of that dread coming day of judgment. So again, it's uh put before us in this text, if Jesus really is the Christ, we need to come to him. It's through him that we receive salvation. In him, there's plenty of salvation. In him, there is all the salvation that we need if we simply come to him and receive it from him. Yet at the same time that we're warned, we're also shown part of our mission as a church. Part of our mission as the church of God's people, those who have been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ. If you receive Christ, you also receive his Spirit. And that means you have a part to play. You have gifts to use. You have a part to play in bearing witness to the Lord Jesus Christ. You have a part to play. In the working together of his church in the mission that he has left to us. We who have been saved have been blessed with an amazing salvation. Yet not s not so that that blessing should remain just ours and ours alone, so that we should also use it, so that we should also engage those on the outside and bring to them the news. Of the same good news that we've received. Again, the Spirit comes to us. The Spirit is upon us if we are in Christ. It is upon each of us, all of us, if we are truly God's people, not just on the leaders of the church. Every part of the church, every person who truly belongs to the church has a share in the spirit and has a role to play. Has a role to play in the overall witness. And the overall mission and the overall testimony of the Church of Jesus Christ. Again, that message comes to the gospel. It comes to the good news. Of what God has done in Christ for all those who put their trust in Him. Yes, that message comes with a warning. There's a warning that if you don't take heed, and if you don't lay hold of the one who is the Savior. There's a warning that you have nothing to expect but that coming dreaded day of judgment that Peter alludes to in the prophecy from Joel. There's a day of judgment that is coming. But again, the message is that we ought to lay hold of Christ. So let's lay hold of Christ. Let's also, as he lays hold of us, be used by him in the spread of that message. For it's his Spirit who accomplishes this in us. And again, as we participate in us, it is not our harvest that we are gathering, it is not our work. That accomplishes these things, it's his work. It's what Christ has won by his death and resurrection, and it's what his spirit gathers in the power that he gives. So let's therefore remember who we are in light of what God has done for us in Christ. Let's continue to press on in the calling that is ours. Continue to do so, believing in him, trusting in him for our salvation, but also trusting him in our usefulness to his kingdom. Let's continue in these things until the day when he comes to bring us to himself again. Amen. Let's pray. Oh, Father, we rejoice in you, and we rejoice in the Son of God. We rejoice, O God, that you have delivered us from this present evil age through Jesus Christ. We rejoice that salvation is available in His name and in His name alone Thank you that we are covered by that name. Thank you that it is a sufficient salvation that's been provided, one that truly delivers us. Thank you that we receive it from you. Thank you that you also pour out upon us your Holy Spirit. You also give to us gifts, gifts to be used. Father, strengthen us in our use of these gifts. Help us to use these gifts For the glory of your name and for the good of your people, and also for the good of the spread of the news of Jesus Christ. We pray that you would be honored in us, that you would make your glory known to the ends of the earth through us We ask all these things in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen. Let's now continue to pray, asking God for the meeting of our needs as His people. Well, Father, we are a gathering of people who are weak. We are a gathering of people who are needy. We are a gathering of people who have nothing really except that we are known by you and loved by you and cared for by you, and in this way we come to you as children. We come as children before a Father, asking you to hear our desires, our needs, asking you to meet us, asking you to provide and supply what we need. Father, be with your people in the midst of many ongoing health struggles. Many of us with particular struggles, some chronic and ongoing, others um specifically arising, we pray that you uh meet the needs of your people, that you provide avenues of healing and recovery where that is available. in w the ways that are pleasing to you, whether it be supernatural healing or whether it be through pursuing remedies in more natural ways. We know that you are the God who heals, and we know that all life is from you. We ask you to bless us and to grant to us our needs. in these areas. Father, be also with your people as we seek to fulfill the callings you place before us. Father sometimes simply staying in the challenge of doing what is in front of us is difficult. Yet it is you who is faithful. We pray that you uphold us, that you sustain us, that you supply for us strength and faithfulness by which to serve you and to serve you well and to bring honor to your name. Father, we pray for your church. We ask that you would bless her with great love for one another, with great uh unity in Christ, that you would bless her with Um, that which she needs to continue to press on in you. Father, we pray for those who are uh being persecuted across the world. We think of some of the churches in China. We think of the ways that um It seems like there is some some official persecution taking place of them or difficulty laid laid in front of them. We pray that you grant them perseverance and courage in the face of suffering and boldness. To hold fast to you even when it's difficult and seems to be a scary prospect Father, would you also grow us in the midst of our congregation in our own sanctification, each of us? Give to us hearts that desire more and more to please you sincerely. with greater and greater sincerity, give us hearts that are more sincerely set against sin and and are more ready to turn from it and to flee from it more quickly. Father, grant to us sanctification as a body. Grant to us wholeness and healing and unity in our midst. Grant that these things would be true through the work of Jesus Christ. That there would be mutual love that continues to flow through your body, and that your body truly would build up one another. We pray that you would accomplish these things in us. Father, we also ask that you would bless those who are in positions of elected leadership in our country and in our In our midst. We pray for wisdom and justice where these things are lacking. We pray that it would please you to restrain wickedness where these things abound. Father, you u set leaders in a in a place for a reason, and only you know the reason, but we know you are able to accomplish good things. We pray that you would see to it that justice is done for those who are made in your image, that the lives of those made in your image would be protected and preserved. Father, today we ask for your grace to sustain us. Give us hearts that are ready to cry out to you. After the pattern of that prayer which our Lord Jesus taught us to pray, and help us to say that prayer today as we say. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.