Please remain standing. Turn now to the scripture text today from the book of Hebrews, chapter 8, 7 through, verses 7 through 12. Hebrews chapter eight, verses seven through twelve Hear now the word of the Lord. For if the first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second. Because finding fault with them, he said, Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. Because they did not continue in my covenant, and I disregarded them, said the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their mind And write them on their hearts. And I will be their God. And they will be my people. None of them shall teach his neighbor, none his brother, saying, know the Lord. Where they shall know me, from the least to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness. And their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more, in that he says, a new covenant He has made the first obsolete. Now what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away. Thus far as the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. I'd like to speak with you today about a new and better covenant You might remember the last time I preached, I know it's been a couple of weeks. It's hard to go back when that happens. and and to remember. But I I do want to say something about what I said the last time from the study on Hebrews chapter eight, verses three through six. I made a point that the author is transitioning his focus from the discussion about the high priesthood. to the discussion now of the about the covenant that God has made. And I talked about lenses. He's seen things Through different lenses, the lens of the high priesthood and the lens of the covenant. And I made a mistake when I said that the author takes off his lens of the priesthood and puts on his lens of the covenant. The mistake is in the word takes off. And you can believe it or not, the author under divine inspiration is now looking at things through both lenses and many other lenses. It's not that he's abandoned one and now picked up another. Even though he does have an emphasis, he's emphasized the lens of the high priesthood. And now he's going to emphasize the lens of the covenant, but you should not see them as in opposition or as not working simultaneously. Because they are. And they're interconnected. Having said all that, um today The author is sharing with us the divine plan of God, focusing on God's covenant. The focus is on God's covenant. And it's even more than that. It's narrowly focused on the covenant that God made with Moses and the people of God. A covenant which is going to undergo in this section considerable comparison and contrast to the new covenant that God is bringing. To his people in Christ. A new covenant that he promised in Jeremiah 31, of all things. To a wicked people, but in accordance with God's eternal plan, their wickedness would not impede The fulfillment of his covenant promises, the oath which God has sworn to his people. In the text, the author has previously said that Christ is the mediator of this better covenant. Verse 6 of chapter 8. He has also said in chapter 7, verse 22, that Christ is the guarantee of the better covenant. And now in Hebrews chapter 8, verses 8 through 12, there are six more times that the author uses the Greek word for covenant. It's in it's it's it's almost in every verse in this section. That word, if you'd like to know it, is pronounced DFAK. And this leads us to a preliminary conclusion that this concept of covenant is going to be an important focus. of the author for and it's important to you So, having said that, I think it's important that we have a relatively clear concept of covenant. In particular, a relatively clear concept of what a biblical covenant is This is a subject that really has fascinated me over for a long period of time, the covenant. And that's evidently fascinated many other people because there have been a multitude of dissertations on the view of what is a biblical, what are the biblical covenants It seems, though, that in among all those dissertations, it is very difficult to give a one-sentence definition of a biblical covenant. It seems to elude human ability. One definition, for example, that you probably heard Is that the covenant is an agreement between God and men? An agreement between God and men. Brothers and sisters, disavow yourself of that thought. That is wrong The covenant that God has made with man in the Bible are not agreements hashed out by two equal negotiators. God, you see, in the covenant, in the biblical covenants, dictates the terms of his covenant. And the other party, us, accepts. It's the way it is You're not going to change it. Nobody is. The covenant surely reflects the biblical truth that God is Lord. And we are his servants The covenant is an establishment by God's initiative. Of a relationship between two parties, himself and his people I think there is a better one-sentence definition of the covenant that has helped me to understand more clearly what a biblical covenant is. That definition actually surfaced in a class I took at seminary with Dr. O. Palmer Robertson Some of you may know that name. He used to be the pastor at Wallace, but he was also a seminary professor at several reformed seminaries, including Westminster. Dr. Robertson recorded his definition in a book called Christ and the Covenant. It's a good book. It's well worth your reading. You want more information on this subject. With Dr. Robertson, the sentence that he came up with, I think, has helped me understand very clearly what a biblical covenant is. Here's the definition. It's a bond in blood, sovereignly administered A bond in blood sovereignly administered. What does that mean? How is that reflective of the biblical covenants? Well, first of all, let's look at these words. Blood The agreements, you see, were sealed. Agreements, excuse me, the covenant, you see. There I caught myself. The covenant was sealed with the sacrifice of animals often. That was done because it was a visual reminder to the parties involved of what would happen if one party or the other failed to live up to the covenant terms You understand that? That's why that's why in that amazing piece in Genesis 15. The presence of God is pictured as a torch moving through the sacrificial pieces of the animals. That were displayed when God once again reiterated his covenant with Abraham. Sovereignly administered. Once again, God is the one who is bestowing blessings upon his servant. But man, in return, is called or obligated to be faithful. To the terms of the covenant. In terms of the Mosaic covenant, it was in terms of being faithful to the Word of God, to the law, to the Ten Commandments. God gives the covenant terms, but what is exclusively and uniquely different about the biblical covenants. My friends Ultimately, God takes the punishment for covenant breaking on himself. God himself becomes the blood sacrifice for man's failure to be obedient. And to be faithful unto God. And we know that incident to be the work of Jesus. The God, the glorious God man, who becomes the one who stands in our place To receive the divine punishment for our disobedience to God's covenant. Which is all the more amazing when we consider that Jesus alone, alone Is the only one who loves the law of God so much that he only is the one who is delighted to do all the words of the commands perfectly. In our text, the author interacts now and contrasts the Mosaic covenant Which has its connection to the covenant plan, the covenants of God He contrasts now mostly that covenant of Moses with what he calls the better covenant or the new covenant. And he says, he writes in verses 7 through 9, for if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second. For he finds fault with them when he says, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord. He who finds fault is the Lord. When declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel, with the house of Judah, God has found fault with what was then The Jews and the covenant made with Israel. But then he goes on to say, it's not like the covenant that I made with their fathers. On the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of Egypt, for they did not continue in my covenant And I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord. The new covenant is not like the Mosaic covenant. It's not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. The fault in the Mosaic covenant, God uses that word, it wasn't faultless. The fault needs to be identified. And it is in verse 9. For they did not continue in my covenant. They rebelled. The house of Israel, the house of Judah They, Israel, were disobedient, and their history is one of the rejection of God's law, which was given to Moses on Mount Sinai. How did they reject God? They refused to love God. They refused to serve God. And they did not love their neighbor. The law of Moses expressly stated that the covenant blessing for man is contingent upon one little word. That word is if. Deuteronomy chapter 5, verse 29, which is right after the giving of the Ten Commandments in Deuteronomy. We read this. Oh, that there were such a heart in them, that they would fear me and keep my commandments always, that it might be well with them See that? The linkage between the fear of God and keeping the commandments is what will bring wellness to God's people. Okay. You can also look, I'm not going to do it right now, but you can also check 1 Kings chapter 9, verse 6. To talk about the disobedience of God's people. As Hebrews chapter 8, verses 9 says, Because of their disobedience, I showed no concern for them. declares the Lord. I had in other translations read, I had no regard for them. This is a little bit puzzling in some ways, but I think I understand it. From the ultimate perspective. Let me share you what I share with you what I mean. The covenant the Lord, in this covenant The Lord exacts punishment upon his special people because they refuse to give up their love of other gods. They refused to love other gods. I mean, God. They loved other gods instead. And that sin was complicated by the fact that even though God warned them to repent of this action through many prophets, they still refused. You could say Israel spit in God's face. And the Bible does say they went a whoring after other gods. In express disobedience of the covenant, I am the Lord your God I am the one who have brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the land of slavery and bondage. You shall have no other gods before me And you know the history of God's people. They went a whoring after other gods, violating the terms of the covenant, and God brought, and this is important God brought temporal judgment upon the house of Israel and the house of Judah. The most in the Old Testament, the most compelling examples of that temporal judgment is the destruction of the northern kingdom Israel in 722 by the Assyrians, whom God used. to bring judgment upon his people because of their sin. And then followed up by the destruction of Jerusalem in five eighty three BC, when Nebuchadnezzar marched through and destroyed everything and took the people captive into Babylonia. I said that that's the most prominent display of God's judgment in the Old Testament, but my friends, it's not the only one. There were periodic Temporal and less severe judgments inflicted by God against Israel because of the same problem. Look at the book of Judges. Look at that book. What is that book? Except a recounting of covenantal disobedience. On the part of God's people. That's one way to look at the book. But if you only look at it that way, you miss something. It's not simply their covenantal disobedience that's on display and the judgment that came as they were oppressed. for a period of time by the foreign leaders. It was also a manifestation of the redemptive power of God As he sent fourteen judges in four hundred years to redeem his people from their sin and to turn them away. What a testimony to mercy. What a hope for us. When now Jesus Christ, the ultimate judge, has come. See the fault in the first covenant, and it wasn't the first, but The fault in the Mosaic covenant, let's put it that way. You all surely remember that there was a Noaiic covenant and an Abrahamic covenant which preceded these But the fault, and I'll I will talk about that. Told you this was going to be long The false in the first covenant was never due to God's failure to bless his people. He fulfilled his promises even while they rejected him. He blessed them often with milk and honey, and even the blessing of his presence with them. Often when Israel returned to rebelling against him, God did not fail at any promise he made to Israel under the Mosaic Covenant. As I already said. In fact, in the book of Judges, he sent 14 different deliverers. That word judge can also be translated deliverer. To woo the people back to the worship of God. But you know also in the book of Judges, which is I believe an amazing book. But you also notice that one of the problems with that wooing, one of the problems was that very shortly after deliverance, the people started going astray. And they started erecting other idols, other gods, bowing down and worshiping them. And so God Tolerates it for a while, sends people to them, prophets to speak, repent, but they don't listen. And so temporal judgment comes, then a deliverer comes, and we start the process all over again. We start the process over, all over again, because of two things. There is no way, first of all, to deal With the sin in man's heart in such a way that it removes that sin as far as east is from west. It fails because the human judges, no matter how good they were, and how good they much good they did Had the same problem as the priests of Israel. They died. And when they died, for the most part, their good influences went with them. And it was playtime for the children. The people of Israel remember this, they vowed. At Sinai, that when Moses came and presented the tablets, Exodus 24, verse 23, The people answered with one voice, all the words which the Lord hath said, we will do. How good we are Long on words, short of performance. And that's who we are. Now obviously I can't leave here. What is so special about this new covenant Verse 8 begins to speak about it, and then the other verses in this text, or right outside this verse, add to it Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant. Notice, please notice something. There is an ongoing pattern of the use of covenants in the scriptures God does not abandon this reality in the life of his people simply because they messed up. But he does, he does, as the new covenant comes, he makes a couple of promises. That were not there before in terms of what God said he would do. He did say, he did allude to the fact That these will be my special people, that I will be their God, and they will be my people. Certainly When they abandoned God and refused to bow and refused him and bowed down to other gods, they weren't being his people. But I would also say that even though the new covenant was not displayed in all of its fullest glory, In the Old Testament, God made the promise, nevertheless. And I will say this Just because it wasn't said in the covenants specifically, the earlier covenants. People did get the message. They got the message that because God is sovereign and He provides all things, to his people that that that places an obligation upon God's people. Now they weren't all perfect In fulfilling their commands. But they had in fulfilling God's commands. But they had a heart for God. So much so that when you remember when Elijah was no Who is it? Elijah, I think it is. I'm sorry, I'm doing this off off I'm trying to remember. But I think you'll remember the the story. When he is at a low point in his life, and he is running from Jezebel, and everybody else is against him. He's in a cave somewhere. And he cries out, Oh Lord God, am I the only one? And the Lord mercifully revealed to him. There were still 7,000 In Israel that hadn't bowed the knee to Baal, the false God. So I'm just saying Even though many went astray, the covenant, whether it's Mosaic or Abrahamic, or the new covenant that's promised. It does have within it the germ idea that God wants us to be his special people. And that does call for some action. But let's look at this new covenant, the specifics of it. What's new about it? I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Now, I do want you, and I will make a comment about Who this covenant is made, who are the going to be the recipients of this covenant? What does he mean by the house of Israel and the house of Judah, for example? This is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. Listen. I will put my laws into their minds and write them on their hearts. I will be their God. Do you hear that echo? I will be their God. They will be my people. They shall not teach each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me from the least of them to the greatest, for I will be merciful to their iniquities, and I will remember their sins. no more. I will put my laws into their minds and write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. In one way that's not exactly new. The law of God is written on all men's hearts, as Romans 2 reminds us. But This idea of I will be their God, they will be my people, first promised to Abraham in Genesis chapter 17, verse 7. I'll establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee, in the generations for an everlasting covenant to be a God unto thee and to thy seed after thee. We see it also reflected in Moses' statements after the giving of the Ten Commandments in Exodus 29, verse 45. I will dwell among the children of Israel, I will be their God, and they shall know that I am. the Lord, excuse me, I will dwell among children, and they shall know that I am the Lord their God. I will put my laws into their minds and write it on their hearts This is at the heart of the superiority of the new covenant that God is promising to Jerusalem. Or delivered to us by Jeremiah, Jeremiah 31. This is found there. It's a promise by a prophet. The superiority is seen in a multitude of different ways. First, They will all know the Lord. Emphasis on the word all. They will all know the word of the Lord, since God will teach us. Here's a unique and wonderful promise that God will teach us. And you ask, how does God teach us Do you not remember that God has given us a special teacher? One who is described as he who will lead and guide us into all truth. And that teacher God identifies in John chapter 14, 15, and 16. But in John 16, particularly When he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will lead you into all truth. And interestingly enough, he also helps us to live our lives in such a way that we keep God's laws. Maybe not Perfectly, but he does help us. Another superiority of the new covenant. I will be merciful to their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. This is the covenant God, the one who has made a promise previously. And if you don't do this, I will be merciful to you. I'll remember your sins. And I will bring vengeance. I will judge and I will destroy you. And I will take away the land that I've promised and give it to someone else. How does God fulfill those promises? I will be merciful. I will remember sin no more. Here, my friends, is the heart of the gospel revealed in the covenant, the new covenant. The answer to how God does that is in Jesus Christ. Through the blood of Christ. Remember, Jesus says at the initiation of the Lord's Supper, this Cup is the cup of the new covenant in my blood without the shedding of blood. There can be no remission of sins. There can be no propitiation. In the presence of God of our sins. Redemption is accomplished at the cross and your sin In faith with Christ is removed from you as far as East is from West. Glory The wonderful way in which the New Testament covenant promises are fulfilled. Listen, listen, I will be your God. I will be your God. Is that just. . Is that just words? Or has God done that? My friends, think about Matthew chapter 1. When the angel came and spoke to Joseph and Mary, said Call his name Jesus. Call his name Emmanuel, which is interpreted as God with you. If I don't know, if that isn't, I will be your God. I don't know what is. I will be your God, personal. You know him. He's with you. He's with you through his spirit. He was with you with Jesus. He's with you now in his spirit You are the temple of the living God. Another way in which these promises have been fulfilled in Christ You will be my people. You will be my people. You! You! You will be my people! God's people! I will make it so. And I will never go back on that promise. For I can't go back. To do so would be to turn away from the blood of Jesus, my beloved. And consequently, when he says, You will be my people, the Apostle Peter picked up on that thought and made a very stunning statement in 1 Peter 2, verse 9. He said, you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, holy nation. He was speaking to the church, a peculiar people That you should show forth the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his life, which in time past you were not a people. But now you are the people of God. And then he goes on, he said, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. How does that happen? Through faith. God-given faith in Jesus Christ You will be my people. I will put my laws in their minds and hearts. God creates you in Christ a new creature with a new heart. At a new body. That he is constantly nourishing with the truth through the Holy Spirit's indwelling. Sanctify them in thy word. Thy word is truth. Who sanctifies? Who applies the benefits of Christ's work to our hearts? The Holy Spirit He will put my laws in their minds and hearts. He will create us new creatures so that we might be so that we might be obedient. Yeah, we fail. But you know, at a point in time in your life as sanctification progresses, You begin also to the to uh to uh have the mind of Christ on the matter of sin. You begin more and more to hate it. And you begin more and more to say, oh how love I thy law. It is my meditation all the day You're not going to make it perfect here, but in glory, you will. You will be perfect. Imagine that. Perfect people who love the Lord God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength. Mansion. They will know also God One of the other parts of the wonder of this new superior covenant, God says they will all know me. How will they all know me? Because Jesus has revealed God to us. John chapter 1, verse, I think it's 14. Actually, I remember from Greek class it says that uh um I remember from Greek class, but don't remember the Bible. That's awful, isn't it? Uh Well I'm going to go back because now I want to make sure I I share this with you. John chapter 1 But it's the thought that as Jesus came, he came and explained God to us. It's in John 1 somewhere. But the actual word for explain in Greek is exegeted. Jesus exegeted God to us. And I'm very sorry, I can't remember where it is. No, it's in John 1. Maybe one of you will find it. Is it a Ghostly? Huh? No, it's exeges. Exegesis is the is a Greek word. Yeah, I don't know. Okay, well let me just I'm almost done. Jesus, uh they will all know me in Christ. Remember the story when the disciples are asking Jesus? Jesus says to them in John 14 I'm going away and I'm going to my father and they respond, Lord, we don't know the way. And Jesus responds in John 14, verse 9, Have I been so long with you, and yet you do not know me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father. How do you say, Show me the Father? Do you see that? God says they will all know me. Jesus says, if you've seen me, you've seen the Father. And of course, he says, a superiority is seen, and I will remember their sin no more. I will remember their sin no more. I will remember their covenant breaking no more. Because Christ has come as a superior sacrifice for sin. Once again, Hebrews 10, 10, and following. Not the blood of bulls and goats that saves, but the blood of the Son of God. Now, who is this house of Israel, to whom the promise of a new covenant is made? My friends, it is not exclusively the nation of Israel, but it really is the Israel of faith. How do I know that? Galatians 3 says it. Know that, know then, that it is those of faith who are the sons of Israel, the sons of Abraham. Who were Abraham's sons? Well, in one sense, the physical nation of Israel But that's not who this promise is made to, primarily. It's made to those who have faith The scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles. It's some Gentiles. Luckily, it's you and me. And most of us are Gentiles. It's the Gentile, not luckily, but excuse me for that. Providentially, by God's will, by God's eternal will, before the foundation of the world, it's you. Who would justify the Gentiles by faith preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you all the nations shall be blessed. Can the gospel in some way be at odds with the new covenant promise? If you try to restrict that to the house of Israel as if it's some promise to a nation exclusively? That isn't what the scriptures teach about Jesus who brings the new covenant, about Jesus who is the mediator of the new covenant, about Jesus who is the guarantee of the new covenant. If you believe in Jesus, you are a true son of Abraham or daughter. And in one sense, you're a true Israelite. As well. Those who are of faith are blessed, along with Abraham, the man of faith. As you can see, I've spoken a long time. I can go on. I cannot exhaust this theme. You can't either. It's interwoven in the pages of Scripture. You can't understand all of the Bible. If you don't have an understanding of covenant, biblical covenant. So I say to you, God has brought a new and better covenant. And the Word of God says, the old has been made obsolete. Brothers and sisters, I cannot but shout. Thank God Almighty. Amen Let us pray. Oh God, thank you for your word, which is a lamp and a light unto our path. Lord help us to get a clearer understanding of your sovereign eternal plan being the basis For your entering, one of the the basis for your entering into covenant with your people That all of this covenant was not a response by God to the reactions of his people. But as is the case in so much of Revelation, God introduces a concept in its germinal state, provides a few things about it, and then begins To reveal more and more to his people about the implications, for example, of his covenant. And about the promises, and about himself as he will fulfill it, and even give glimpses of how he will fulfill it And what he will do to make it certain that we will be God's people No more, no more will God say to any of the faithful in Christ, you are lo ami. You are not my people, as he did in the days of Hosea. But we are the people of God. Because of Jesus. Glory be to him. Amen. Amen.