If you turn your copies of God's word now to Joshua We've got six chapters tonight. I will not be reading all six. I'm just going to read a sample. Be reading, or at least preaching, uh, verse chapters 14 through 19, but tonight I'm going to read chapter 17. It's not because the other chapters are unimportant. It's because we just don't have enough time for me to read six chapters tonight. Let's give attention to the Word of God, chapter 17 of Joshua. Then allotment was made to the people of Manasseh, for he was the firstborn of Joseph. To Makir, the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, were allotted Gilead and Bashan, because he was a man of war. And allotments were made to the rest of the people of Manasseh by their clans, Abizer, Helik, Esrael, Shechem, Hefer, and Shemeda. These were the male descendants of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, by their clans. Now Zelopháad, the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Makir, son of Manasseh, had no sons, but only daughters And these are the names of his daughters, Mahalah, Noah, Hoglah, Milkah, and Tirzah. They approached Eliezer the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun and the leaders. And said, The Lord commanded Moses to give us an inheritance along with our brothers. So according to the mouth of the Lord he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father. Thus there fell to Manasseh ten portions, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is on the other side of the Jordan, because the daughters of Manasseh received an inheritance along with his sons The land of Gilead was allotted to the rest of the people of Manasseh. The territory of Manasseh reached from Asher to Mikmatha, which is east of Shechem And the boundary goes along southward to the inhabitants of Antapua. The land of Tepuah belonged to Manasseh, but the town of Tepua on the boundary of Manasseh belonged to the people of Ephraim. Then the boundary went down to the brook Canna. These cities to the south of the brook, among the cities of Manasseh, belong to Ephraim. Then the boundary of Manasseh goes on the north side of the brook and ends at the sea. the land to the south being Ephraim's, and that to the north being Manasseh's, with the sea forming its boundary. On the north Asher is reached, and on the east Issachar. Also in Issachar and in its Asher and in Asher, Manasseh had Bethshin and its villages And Iblim and its villages, and the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, and the inhabitants of Endor and its villages and the inhabitants of Tanakh and its villages, and the inhabitants of Megido and its villages. The third is Nephath. Yet the people of Manasseh could not take possession of those cities, but the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land. Now when the people of Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but did not utterly drive them out. Then the people of Joseph spoke to Joshua, saying, Why have you given me but one lot and one portion as an inheritance? Although I am a numerous people, since all along the Lord has blessed me And Joshua said to them, If you are a numerous people, go up by yourselves to the forest, and there clear ground for yourselves in the land of the Parasites and the Rephium, since the hill country of Ephraim is too narrow for you The people of Joseph said the hill country is not enough for us. Yet all the Canaanites who dwell in the plain of chariots of iron, both those in Bethsheen and its villages, and those in the valley of Jezreel. And Joshua said to the house of Joseph to Ephraim and Manasseh, You are a numerous people and have great power. You shall not have one allotment only. But the hill country shall be yours, for though it is a forest you shall clear it and possess it to its furthest borders, for you shall drive out the Canaanites, though they have chariots of iron, and though they are strong Thus far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come now to a very long section of Scripture. We come to the division of land, division of the promised land. We ask, Lord God, that now you would help us, guide us. All these names are unfamiliar to us, these boundaries, these cities, these villages, these lines. And yet, Lord God, we know that this is significant for us. And so we ask that you'd help us tonight by your Spirit. Guide us into understanding. Guide us as to how we would apply this passage to our hearts. Work powerfully in us tonight by your Spirit. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Where is your dwelling place? Where is your home? As Jesus was gathering disciples As he was speaking to a crowd, he had people come to him as recorded by Matthew. One scribe told him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. And his response to this teacher was, Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Jesus was not saying that he did not have a home. He was merely stating that his home was not on and of the earth. Indeed, Jesus' home was and is with his Father. That's exactly what we read tonight in John Chapter 14, let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. Jesus knew The house of God. And then he told them, if it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? Even now, our Savior, the one who is in the Father, and the Father who is in him, is preparing a place. For all those who trust in him. In a sense, that brings us to our text this evening. In Joshua. As we've been studying through Joshua, we've seen much. The 40 years of wilderness wilderness wandering is over. God's presence has been made known to the people of God as he's brought them in across the Jordan As the manna has stopped falling, as the Passover was celebrated As Jericho was defeated in a supernatural victory after Joshua met the commander of the Lord's army. The battles have been numerous, and with the exception of the first battle at AI. There have been resounding victories. Wars have been fought and wars have been won. We have a whole chapter and a half set apart just to describe the kingdoms conquered and the kings defeated. And now we get to these six chapters, wherein the promised land, or at least the promised land on the west side of the Jordan, is now divided up amongst the nine and a half tribes. The the land on the east side of the Jordan already having been divided up now the land on the west side of the Jordan It's divided up between the nine and a half tribes residing there. We might sum up the teaching here and seek to open up four separate doctrines this way. That every child of God will dwell with him in glory forever. Every child of God will dwell with him in glory forever. We'll break that up into four points. First, heaven is a place of promise. Secondly, heaven is a place of particulars. Thirdly, heaven is a place of peace, and finally, heaven is a place of perfection. As we go through this passage tonight, and we're going to try to cover all six chapters very generally. But as we go through it, I want you to be asking yourself, where is my home? Where is my dwelling place? Well, first, heaven is a place of promise. You might think that this account, these six chapters, would be the beginning of the description of the promised. land. It is finely described with many, many particulars. It is occupied, it has become the possession of the people of God. But In all actuality, the account of land begins with creation, doesn't it? It begins with what we confessed even this evening. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. See, the garden was that dwelling place of man with God. The first dwelling place of man with God. Well, how do we know that? Well Adam and Eve heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden after they sinned against him. They knew what it sounded like. He was dwelling with Adam and Eve prior to their sin. And the tree of life. Tree of life was in the garden representing God Himself. And so we know it was a place of dwelling with God on the face of the earth. And the account of the promised land actually continues with the covenant, doesn't it? Abram is promised. He must promise that your offspring I will give this land, the land on which he was sojourning, the land that he sojourned in after he separated from Lot. As the Lord told them, for all the land that you see, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. All the land of Canaan was the description in Genesis 17. And these promises didn't stop with Abram or Abraham. They were repeated for Isaac and for Jacob. God not only promises a people that he will provide a people for himself. He promises a place for his people to dwell. But not just any place, not just any land. He promises a place for his people to dwell with him. Did you notice that every time we see a promise of God, the covenant promise, it involves people and it involves land and it involves himself. Thus connecting his people to a particular land where he would dwell with them. That's always been the promise. That's always been the covenant. Leviticus 26, I will make my dwelling among you. I will walk among you. I will be your God. Ezekiel 37: My dwelling place shall be with them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. My sanctuary will be in their midst forever. And then we can stretch it all the way to the end, can't we, in Revelation 21. Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. Until these six chapters. Set forth the place of promise, the promised land, a temporary dwelling place of the people of God with their God. And I say it's temporary, because it's only a picture, isn't it? For the people of God needed a mediator to truly dwell. with the Holy God. And so these six chapters describing the promised land Or describing a temporary dwelling place, but always pointing to that eternal dwelling place with the living God. Heaven is truly a place of promise. And these six chapters just further that promise that glory is coming. And that the people of God will inherit it and dwell with their God forever. That brings us to our second point that heaven is a place of particulars And you'd see that if we were to read all six chapters tonight, very specifically described as Hard to miss the fact that the land is divided between nine and a half tribes and each tribe receives a very specific geographic location within the promised land. Certainly they're all together as one people of God, but the land is divided up to their particular and very specific geographic locations according to tribe and and tribe sizes Attention is given, specific attention is given to the boundaries designated and identified by Joshua, their leader, who is appointed by God to this position of dividing the land. We just looked at chapter 14. It begins by telling us that Hebron was given to Caleb. And then chapter 15. If we were to have read the first 12 verses there, we would read the word boundary 18 times God is very specific in telling the people of Judah what their boundaries were, where they would reside. A dwelling place for Judah. Just as the final place Just as heaven itself is very uniquely and particularly described Jesus told his disciples, as we read tonight, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. Well, he didn't describe it there in John's chap, John chapter 14, but then we go to Revelation 21 and we see a description. of glory, which is extremely particular and unique. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain and showed me the holy city of Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God. Its radiance, like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal. It had a great high wall, twelve gates, twelve angels, the names of twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed. It had twelve foundations, the twelve names of the apostles of the Lamb were on them. The city lies four square, its length the same as its width. And he measured the city with the rod, twelve thousand stadia. Its length and width and height are equal. He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement. The wall was built of jasper. The city was pure gold like glass. The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. Jasper, sapphire, agate, emerald, onyx, chrysalite, beryl, topaz. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls. There is no temple in the city, for his temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And there is no need of sun or moon to shine, for the glory of God gives it light. And its lamp is the Lamb, and nothing unclean will ever enter it, but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. You see the similarity between the description that we have in Joshua 14 through 19 and now the particularity that we end with in Revelation 21 describing Describing the particular place that you'll dwell with God, with Jesus Christ, with the Spirit, forever. The Lord God wants you to know where you're going, where your true eternal dwelling place will be. That brings us to our third point. That heaven is a place of peace. Well, the Israelites had peace at this point, at least temporary peace. As we read in in chapter 17, there were more wars to come. But not in Joshua's day. Joshua was done fighting. Joshua was done leading the battles. And so there was relative peace, so much so that they were able to occupy the land, not all of it. But they had peace. That's what the scriptures tell us. In Joshua 11, we read, and the land had rest from war. And so we might be asking ourselves the question, how is this? How is that possible? As we think of a home as a As a place of rest. We have to ask, how did this come about, that there was rest at this particular point in time, so much rest that the land could be divided and occupied? How did they come to rest in these various places, as Joshua doles them out? How did they come to these various places of rest? And the answer is only by the sovereign power and goodness of the Lord, isn't it? He is the one who guided them to this place. He's the one who actually selected this particular land, this promised land, and brought his people into it. Those are the descriptions we have, even before the first battle was fought, as the waters of the Jordan are separated. It was the Lord God who did that. And it was His presence being made known to the people of God as they passed through with the walls of water on either side, just like they passed through the Red Sea. And then, as the commander of the Lord's army appears to Joshua, we know that he is the one who will lead the battle That pre-incarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ standing with a sword drawn in his hand before Joshua, and Joshua asking him that question, Are you for us or for our adversaries? And he said, No I am the commander of the army, the Lord. Now I have come. You see, it was all the Lord. It was all the Lord Jesus Christ, the Israelites being guided 40 years in the wilderness by the Lord Jesus to this place, this place being given to Abram. Although he never possessed it, he lived upon it. This place, chosen specifically by God amongst all the land of the earth, this one place, this one land, divided amongst the people given by God. As he fought the battles. This is how they were able to come to rest in it. Because it was all of God as he sends his son to lead his people into it. Isn't that what Jesus Christ does? Doesn't He lead you into that place of rest? How significant it is for you to have a home. And as you think of home, what what comes to mind most of us I guess would Have not experienced homelessness, a significant issue and problem in this country. But if the Lord has blessed you with a home, what is it that you think of as you think of your home? Some of you are probably envisioning the external appearance now of your dwelling place, whether it be an apartment, a townhome, whether you live with your parents or your spouse or by yourself. You probably brought up an image of the exterior, maybe the front door. But I want you to consider not the exterior. I want you to think of the interior. And not the interior of your home, but the interior of your soul How does your home make you feel? Or how do you feel within your home? As we consider our experiencing uh experiences, I would think that many of us would consider a home to be a place of rest and provision. A place where you have your meals and enjoy fellowship with family and others. A place where you can rest well, sleep well without being disturbed, a place of peace and hopefully of comfort. See, that's what the Lord was providing to the Israelites. As the land was divided up, as each one had a particular place to be, as the occupants of the land were driven out, for the most part. As each tribe was given a particular place to call home, a particular place characterized by rest and peace. An abundant land flowing with milk and honey throughout. Each had their particular place to call home, given to them by God through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So let's focus on that place of rest. Again, remember for Joshua the battles were over. There were more to come, but there is that sense of peace and rest now. Here, as we read to these six chapters, this land being divided up amongst the nine and a half tribes. All given to them by the Lord. And that brings us to a question, doesn't it? Can rest be found in anything that is not from God through Jesus Christ If the Israelites were to have gone anywhere other than the promised land, would they have found rest? If they had returned to Egypt, as many of them wanted to do, as they were wandering through the wilderness, would they have found rest? The answer is no This is a pretty broad question, but it's a pretty important question for us tonight to wrestle with this evening. Can you rest in anything that is not from the Lord? The Apostle Paul writes, for whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. So it seems that the answer to that question be it's really not possible to rest in anything that is not from the Lord. But if you answered yes, yes, it's possible to rest in something that's not from the Lord, friend, you have a deep foundational problem. Pray that your heart will be changed for what you're saying is that you can actually rest in your sin Sin is not from the Lord. And if you can rest in your sin, then you're headed to hell and damnation. The Lord will not receive you into glory if you are resting in your sin. But then as you think about this question in a positive light, is there anything from the Lord that you cannot rest in? The answer is no. Everything from the Lord can and should be rested in. That should cause our thoughts to turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. How can you rest in anything other than Christ? You see, outside of Christ there is only war with God. A holy God, and we are sinners. And those who don't go together. We are at battle with God. And so there's no true rest outside of Christ, but in Christ, the one who has reconciled sinners to the holy, holy, holy God, there is peace and rest. Outside of Christ there's war. Inside of Christ, there is peace and rest with God Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 5. 1 or Romans 5. 11. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. It's in this context that we need to see the peace of the promised land. If you're in Christ, you can rest anywhere. In any home, in any place that the Lord sets you. You see, you might think that the Israelites were able to rest in the land because it was filled with milk and honey. And that was a great blessing. The abundance of land was a great blessing as they moved in and were able to reap what was not sown by them. But in reality, the Israelites were not able to rest because of the abundant land. But they were able to rest and have peace because the Lord had been victorious for them. Do you see the parallel? It was the Lord who fought the battles. It was the Lord who brought the war to an end. And it's the Lord Jesus Christ who brings the war to an end for you tonight. He'd fought their battles and defeated their enemies. That's exactly what Jesus Christ does. He's defeated your enemy, Satan. And he continues to break you free from your bondage to sin. So you're able to rest in your homes. Because Jesus Christ has given you rest. Not because your refrigerators are filled with good food, all of which is from the Lord, but you're able to truly rest, spiritually rest. from your sins because of Jesus Christ. Yes, heaven heaven is a place of peace. And then finally, heaven is a place of perfection. In Joshua chapter 15, which we didn't read. We read this at verse 16. And Caleb said, Whoever strikes carrieth Sephiroth and captures it to him I will give Akshah, my daughter, as wife. And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, captured it and he gave him Ekshah, his daughter as a wife. And when she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field, and she got off her donkey, and Caleb said to her, What do you want? And she said to him, Give me a blessing, since you have given me the land of The Negev, give me also springs of water, and he gave her the upper springs and the lower springs. It was a place of perfection. For Aksha. Everything she wanted. Everything she needed. A husband. A field. Land. Springs of water, upper and lower, a dwelling place of perfection for Aksha That's what the Garden of Eden was. Dwelling with God, the whole idea, the concept, the truth behind the promised land. It was the second garden, wasn't it? The promised land was to be, in a sense, the replacement garden, the second garden, you see. Man was created to be with God, and that's what we see in Genesis 1, 2, and 3, up until their sin. That eternal plan, that purpose from man was to dwell with God. This is certainly linked inextricably to man dwelling with God to worship him. So that's what the garden was. A place made perfectly good by God Himself that man would be blessed and dwelling in paradise, meaning in the presence of God. And so as Adam and Eve defiled that place, they needed a new place to go. And so that's that second garden, the second Edom. A promised land. It was to be that place of rest and peace because of God's presence with his people, God's dwelling with his people. And we see Jerusalem becomes that center of the promised land, the place where the temple was constructed, the house of God, the dwelling place of God in the midst of his people. A place where the people of God could dwell with God. As the covenant describes, and I will be their God. I will dwell among the people of Israel and I will be their God. I will walk among you and will be your God, and you shall be my people. How reassuring it must have been to those who receive this book at first to either know that this promise would be fulfilled or if they had in fact occupied the land when they were reading this for the first time to look back. Upon the living God and give thanks that his promise, his promise of this land and his dwelling with them was fulfilled. And so now as we look forward, you have a promise this evening, don't you? Not that you will return to this particular geography described here in these six chapters. No, we'll be given a new heaven and a new earth, as we've seen and even read in Revelation 21. The holy city, that new Jerusalem coming down from heaven, from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband As we think of that, we think of Jesus even now preparing a place. A place for you. Those are the words that he used and he gave to his disciples, but he was speaking to every single person who trusts in him. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself that where I am you may be also. A particular place, a place of glory, a place of God's very home, his dwelling place. It's God's house that you've been promised The most magnificent and wonderful and awesome place to dwell. There was a television show on Oh, quite some time ago, the lifestyles of the rich and famous and they would they would highlight a particular house, a dwelling place of those who had lots of money. And I'm sure that those who watched it would, in a sense, drool over it and want to be in that place, but that is nothing. In comparison to the house of God. It's beyond our ability actually to imagine Even as we read of the glory of the first temple of Jerusalem, even as we read in Revelation 21 of the description of the new heavens and the new earth. God's house will be so magnificent and beyond our imagination because He dwells there. You see, that's the promise. As God condescends to us in Revelation 21 and seeks to describe his dwelling place and the place that Jesus is preparing for each of us. In a sense, it it falls so short. Adam and Eve had that perfect, magnificent, opulent, luxurious home in the Garden of Eden because they dwelt with the living God. And since the fall, every dwelling place has fallen short. Yet God has been planning and preparing, in a sense, the permanent replacement for the Garden of Eden. Since the fall, God has been planning and preparing that place that he would dwell with his redeemed people. That's the promise. And that's the covenant in a very simple way. See, we have it described here in six chapters. But the very simple way of describing the covenant is that he has prepared and is preparing a place to dwell with his redeemed people forever. So how can we describe the dwelling place of God with his people? You could look at the garden and God saw that everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. That would be a description. The dwelling place of God with his people We could turn to Isaiah in chapter 11, and the wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and lion and the fattened calf together, and the little child shall lead them. The cow and bear shall graze, and their young shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. The nursing child shall play over the whole of the cobra, and the wean child shall put his hand on the adder's den They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. That description of those beasts of the field living together in harmony, the child being able to play. Over the whole of the cobra. It's just a picture. But a picture that the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord See, that's eternal life, isn't it? Knowing God, knowing his son. A place where there are no more tears. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain. The former things have passed away. Those who dwell there will be blessed beyond imagination. Blessed are those who wash their robes so that they may have the right to the tree of life and that they may enter the city by the gates. And the light of God, the light of the Lord Jesus Christ, the radiance, the splendor, the majesty. Be constantly beaming upon you as you dwell there. I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord, the God Almighty, and the Lamb, and the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it. But the glory of the Lord. The glory of God gives it light. And its lamp is the lamb. You see the perfection of glory If you do, if you do tonight, you're actually seeing the perfection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because that's what it will be to live in glory, to live in the radiance, the righteousness, the purity. The love of Christ, that is the dwelling place of God with his people. That's what these chapters are trying to describe to us. And that's the promise that you have. If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus tonight, that is the promise. Perfection in dwelling with your Savior. Yes, every child of God will dwell with him in glory forever. Jesus Christ had no place on this earth to lay his head. This was not his home. But he's coming to take you back to his home, to dwell in his radiance and his beauty forever. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, some of these things seem so far off But we know they're not. And so we pray, Lord God, that you'd give us patience as we wait for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, these descriptions tonight of of glory of Christ. They're so comforting. They're so encouraging. And there's a sense in which we can't wait. And yet, you've called us to be here. And so we ask that you'd help us, Lord, to to be those who radiate the hope that we have, the certain hope that we have that you're bringing us to that place that your son is preparing for us even tonight. Grant us, Lord God, the ability to press on as we wait for Jesus to return. Thank you for these pictures, these uh these images that that you've given to us of glory, of that perfect Restful, peaceful dwelling place that you will bring us into. And so we ask, Lord God, sustain us. Uphold us until Jesus returns and help us to exude that certain hope that you've laid upon our hearts. We thank you for your covenant. We thank you for your promise. Help us to shine it forth. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.