Amen. Well now the reading of God's Word comes to us from Deuteronomy 18, 15 through 22. And if you were here this morning, you already heard it. But here is now the sermon passage for this afternoon. Deuteronomy eighteen verses fifteen through twenty-two, Moses speaks on behalf of God, saying that God is planning to raise up a prophet. You know, we know he has especially in mind the Lord Jesus Christ, but it also kind of refers to a long history of prophets as well. And we hear in this passage the rationale for why prophets. Why should God speak to his people in prophets? Well, there's a reason. And listen to it in Deuteronomy 18, and then we will get into it in the sermon. Alright. Deuteronomy eighteen, fifteen through twenty-two, this is God's word. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. It is to him you shall listen. Just as you desired of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord said to me, They are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name that I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, That same prophet shall die. And if you say in your heart, How may we know the word that the Lord has not spoken? When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the word does not come to pass or come true That is a word that the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid of him Thus far, the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it, also to the preaching of it in our midst this afternoon at this sleepy post-lunchtime hour. Here we are in Deuteronomy 18. The background to this passage is the events of Mount Sinai. You see there the reference in verse 16 talks about at Horeb. Horeb is another name for Mount Sinai. And he mentions also the day of assembly, the day when Israel gathered together where God revealed himself on Mount Sinai. And you know, you heard some of the circumstances of that day alluded to in Hebrews chapter 12, as we read earlier in the service, but you could also think back to how it's described in Exodus chapter 19, because the details of Hebrews 12 basically come straight from Exodus 19. And what was it like? What was that day like? So there was a time when Israel was assembled In front of Mount Sinai, God had uh basically put them there and he was planning to meet them there. What was it like to meet with God at Mount Sinai? If you read through it in Exodus 19 or Hebrews 12 or even here, what you get is a sense that the experience could be described as nothing other than scary. Scary. Terrifying. What are some of the things that accompany the meeting of God with his people at Mount Sinai or at Horeb? Okay, I'll describe it in fairly visual terms or in in very vivid terms because the scriptures give that to us. Lightning, flashing, thunder, rumbling. The mountain itself trembling, a mountain that shakes and trembles. On top of the mountain, there's this thick cloud of darkness. They hear this loud blaring trumpet. It blasts. And continually grows louder. And then suddenly in the midst of that thick darkness comes fire. Fire representative of the Lord's presence. Fire a manifestation of the Lord's presence. And as that fire appears in the midst of the thick cloud of darkness, smoke rising up from it, smoke rising all around it. The Lord answers Moses' speech. Moses speaks to the Lord as he appears. And the Lord's answer to Moses' speech sounds like thunder, at least according to you know some translations of Exodus chapter 19. The whole thing, um, you know, that description should be enough to paint the picture of what is sort of frightening about this experience of Mount Sinai and yet if that doesn't faint that picture, then you also see it in the people's response All the people that are gathered around that mountain are trembling in fear at what they are seeing and what they are hearing. Again, it is it is something even far scarier than like a volcano, for example You know, a volcano is scary. It has fire, it has smoke, it has lava coming out of the mountain, but this seems like it's even more scary than that because it's what there's seeing it's something very supernatural, something very uh terrifying at the same time. At Mount Sinai at Mount Horeb, the people experienced God and they experienced him in a way that was scary and terrifying. And yet what was uh scary about God and their experience of him there at Mount Sinai only gets even more scary as things proceed from there. So God appears. God appears in this way. What does he do after he appears? He begins speaking to them The law. And isn't that even more terrifying? And because it actually has the effect of terrifying them. So we hear, you know, from that situation of the Lord appearing on Mount Sinai. He begins to speak to them what we know as the Ten Commandments, and that's recorded in Exodus 20, verses 1 through 17. And Exodus 21 makes clear That these commands we know as the Ten Commandments, it is God Himself who speaks these words out of this terrifying appearance of His presence. You know, they somehow heard his actual voice speaking those words. They knew it was not the words of a man. They knew it was not Moses' voice speaking. They knew it was not the words of a man. It must have been coming from the direction of where the Lord's presence had been made known on top of that mountain, that fiery appearance. The voice, whatever it sounded like, do we know what it sounded like? Not really But whatever it was, it was uniquely God's voice. It was not the voice of any other man. It was not any other man speaking for it. Somehow God himself speaks directly from his appearance on top of Mount Sinai. And what he speaks again are words of law, words of commandment, words that speak with authority, words that command. Words that direct. Words that direct behavior. Words that direct also manner of life, manner of heart. Words that tell you what to do, what you should be doing. Words that are describing ways of living that are not really natural for sinful people to live in, regular sinful people, do not by nature do the things that the law speaks. But this is what God speaks to them out of that terrifying, scary appearance. He tells them ways that they should be living. Maybe even ways that they've been failing to live shortly before they showed up to that mountain, right? Some of those commandments, like don't worship other gods, is it possible that Not too long before this, while they were in Egypt, that they actually had participated in the service of worshiping other gods. And yet here they are standing before the presence of the Lord, hearing him speak. Have no other gods before me and then you know hearing it in this very scary way, don't you think that would have struck fear into the hearts of the people? And it seems like it did Not only that, how else had they lived? Even in the midst of the camp of Israel, even in the midst of the camp of Israel since they had left Egypt, but possibly also back to Egypt, had some of them stolen. Had they failed to honor their parents? Had they committed adultery? Had they coveted? If they had done any of those things, you know, hearing the Lord's commands in this context is very scary appearance of his presence And then hearing it from his own voice, don't do those things. Surely that's part of what struck fear in them. So it was a scary appearance simply for the the physical phenomena um by which God made himself known and made his presence known. Fire, trembling, lightning, thunder, dark cloud, smoke, uh loud, blaring trumpet blast. But then also what he speaks. He tells them what to do, possibly things that they have not done. He tells them what not to do, possibly things that they have done. You can imagine how scary that would have been for them. Well, surely then it's no surprise what they do in Exodus 20, verse 19. You know, Exodus twenty verse nineteen is where they make this statement after that happens. And it's also sort of reflected here in Deuteronomy 18. You know, similar similar language, but basically the same idea is presented forth from either text. You could look at either Exodus 29 nineteen or Deuteronomy eighteen sixteen in our text. So after hearing this law, after hearing the completion of the of the law as it's been spoken in Ten Commandments, and seeing all the all the phenomena that came with it. In God's presence appearing to them on Sinai? How do they respond? They say basically, please make it stop. Please don't let us hear any more of this. This is too much for us. This is too scary for us. That's basically what they're saying. But Deuteronomy 1816 says You know, uh Moses represents them as saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God or see this great fire anymore, lest I die. You know, they're they're terrified at what they're seeing, and they're terrified at what they are hearing. You could also um look back to Exodus 20 nineteen and and this is basically you know it's basically recording the same instance of of what they said at that moment. And um uh Exodus twenty eighteen and nineteen now when all the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning And the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking. The people were afraid and trembled. And they spoke far off and said to Moses, You speak to us, and we will listen. But do not let God speak to us lest we die. So again, you can hear the terror in their voice, the terror in what they have seen. the terror in what they have heard, the commanding words of the law, and the fear that comes with that, especially as it comes with the direct, seemingly unmediated presence of God there on Sinai So what are they asking for? They're asking for, you know, don't let me hear from God directly. He's too scary. What does God give them instead? God gives them someone who goes as a go-between. And that other one whom he gives is the one whom they ask for in Exodus 2019. Moses. They say to Moses, Moses, you speak to us, and we will listen. But do not let God speak to us lest we die. How is it that they can get away from this terrifying voice of the Lord? Well they can have someone else come and speak to them in God's name. And that's who Moses is. And notice what this does. If Moses comes and speaks to the people in God's name, well he's a lot easier to listen to. We can still hear what God is saying. But we can hear it in a way that we can actually listen to it and not be so terrified of it that we can't bear to hear what we are. are saying or what what is being said. So again, it's true that if you experience the word of God unmediated, it's something very scary, especially when that word is law. It's terrifying to hear the law from God in his unmediated, majestic holy presence, because that's something that would make all of us tremble as well And yet God condescends to his people in this way. God sends them a go-between. God gives them someone who's more like them and therefore able to speak to them sympathetically. Now it's true, the word that comes to them, it may still be a word of law, and it may still be a word that announces judgment, but because it's coming through one of their brothers, they'll be able to hear it and bear it more easily Better, more readily in a way, in which they were not able to bear the fearsomeness of God and His holiness And so what do we see God doing? We see the people asking, Moses, you speak to us. Please don't make us listen to God. He's too scary, and what he's saying is too scary, coming straight from his mouth. Yet, what does God do? He answers their request, he gives them what they ask for. What ends up happening is that it is Moses, who then goes up to the presence of the Lord, up into that thick cloud of darkness, to receive directly from the Lord the words. So that he can then be the go-between who then comes down and relays that word to the people. And that way the people are easy i are able to hear it and also able to bear it more easily. And so that's what we should understand. God is being very merciful to his people. His appearance on top of Sinai seems like it was sort of a one-time event. Meant to convey and make the impression very clearly that he is a God who is holy, a God not to be trifled with. But his purpose in the end um is not meant to leave his people in that situation. His purpose in the end is to send these go-between so that there can be more of a communication to them that they're more easily able to hear, more easily able to bear Now the fact that God deals with Israel through Moses in this way is really just the beginning of how he will then continue to deal with his people, Israel, throughout their history. After all, these verses in Deuteronomy 18 They are showing how God dealt with Israel through Moses, but Moses is not just one individual, he's also a pattern. He's the one after whom all the other prophets who come down the line are patterned after. So Moses being the go-between. between God and his people is God's merciful condescension to his people to allow them to hear his word in a way That is more bearable and easier for them to hear. And not doesn't have to be so completely attended with what's terrifying about his presence as on Mount Sinai. So God sends prophets, and they are of their brothers, he says in verse 15. The prophets will be of one flesh with them, and they will even be born of the same family as them. As such, they will be able to communicate sympathetically, even when they have to speak words that are hard words of law and judgment. They will still be able to communicate this sympathetically God's word becomes incarnated in a way in the prophets themselves. Of course, we hear hints of that in that of the Lord Jesus Christ. But this is what the Lord does. In Deuteronomy eighteen and fifteen, he raises up a prophet from among the brothers, just as they desired of the Lord at Horeb on the day of assembly. And he affirms them in verses 17 and 18. They are right in what they have spoken. He promises, he agrees to do what they have asked for. He does raise up for them a prophet from among their brothers. And therefore allows that his words will be put in the mouth of a human servant rather than come straight from the unmediated, terrifying holy presence. And as this happens, this happens throughout the history of God's people. It begins with Moses there at Sinai But the fact that God continues to deal with his people through prophets, continues to speak through prophets down through the line of Israel's history. shows that God is merciful and God is condescending to the sinfulness and the weakness of his people. He's even accommodating his holiness to them in some way so that he is able to speak to them and come to them even though they are sinful. Um if his o if his full presence had been manifest in their midst, what would happen? Well we see that through many of the events that take place in the book of Numbers, which we've recently looked at. The book of Numbers You know, it points us to the ways that the holy God actually consumes a sinful people. The sinful people, again and again, when they step out of line, they are consumed or they are I'm hit with a plague, and this is a reflection of God's holiness. So it doesn't have to be that way all the way down the line. No. God is able to send his word into the mouth of prophets. And through prophets, he comes to them in a way that they can take his presence, as they can take his word more readily. And this is true of his word. Now of course this whole history of the prophets and God coming to his people sympathetically, mercifully, communicating with them in ways where they can actually bear it and take it better than they could his full unmediated presence. uh uh presence. This whole line of history of prophets culminates and point in and points to the coming of that great prophet. the Lord Jesus Christ. Because obviously, you know, Deuteronomy eighteen lifts up seemingly lifts up one particular prophet. Now it's it's Moses and the prophets who come after him. There's a pattern between Moses and those prophets who come after him, but the great act is to bring the one great prophet. There's one great prophet who's to come. And that one great prophet is Jesus Christ. And of course, in Christ, in Christ, the Word of God comes to mankind in a way That man is able to hear it and able to receive it. And the reason that is true is because Jesus Christ is not just a prophet. He's more than one of the ordinary prophets. Again, prophets are not ordinary individuals in so many ways. They've been called out by God. God's ways and God's will have been revealed to them in supernatural, special ways. But Jesus is so much more than just one of the prophets. Jesus is the prophet who came to bear the sins of all who trust in him. And as such, that, above all other reasons, is the reason why he is able to bring God's word to people in a way that they can receive it. Jesus comes and brings good news. It's good news that he accomplished in bearing sin in his own flesh. And so this is how we see this passage, pointing us to the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ is the one who speaks God's words in ways that it can be heard and it can be received. The reason why it can be received is because he has fulfilled all the conditions. Because he has paid for sin, because he has put an end to sin by sacrificing His own self, his body, his body and his blood, his soul and his body. His his whole life was an offering of sacrifice to God And because he paid for sin once and for all, therefore he's able to speak the word of God so that it comes as a word of good news. Good news to sinful people. Good news to sinful people. All is forgiven. Because Jesus Christ has borne all in his own body and with his own blood. This is the good news of Jesus Christ. So again, we see how God is merciful with his people. He doesn't require them to stand in his presence unmediated. He allows the word to go forth through human lips, incarnated in one of their brothers. This is pointing us to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ came to bring the good news of God to many who were in need of it, those who were lost and dead in their sins. lost under the curse of their sins, lost in the dev the devil's um dominion, lost in under the uh uh uh dominion of darkness And yet, what we see here is that hearing the word that comes from Christ, hearing the word that comes from the true prophet of God, allows you to put aside other words that are spoken. By some who come claiming to come in the name of God, but who don't really speak for God. Notice how we see false prophets are mentioned here in these verses. Verse 22 and you know verse 21 and verse 20 speak of those of those who come and pretend to speak for other gods or actually speak for other gods, but also those who pretend to speak in the name of the Lord. And God warns them, or God warns that uh when those prophets come speaking, if their words do not come to pass, then you don't need to listen to them. You don't need to be afraid of what they are saying about the future. They may say all kinds of things are going to happen. They may even claim the Lord's name in saying what's going to happen. You don't have to listen to him. You shouldn't listen to him. You don't have to fear what they're saying is going to happen, even if they claim the name of the Lord. We understand this. Even to this day, there are people who claim to be giving a word from the Lord. We understand even to this day there are people who are claiming to speak from God's word, including using the Bible, using the language of the Bible But using it in a way that is not in line with Jesus Christ, the final prophet. And so it's good for us to remember that once we have heard the good news that comes through the final prophet We don't have to be afraid of other words that pretend to be spoken in the name of God. Once we have heard that all is forgiven and that there is acceptance with God in Christ. We don't have to go back and listen to people who speak a word contrary to that. If we've heard Jesus Christ, we have heard the great prophet who comes from the Lord, and all things are measured by his word. His word is the final word, and it's the final word because he's accomplished it through his own death. Anyone who speaks contrary to him Have spoken, as verse twenty-two says, presumptuously, and you need not be afraid. Now it is true there is this warning that's also given. Jesus, the prophet, speaks a word of good news, the good news of what he has accomplished in his own death and resurrection There's also a warning to those who hear that word and don't really listen to that word and don't really respond as if they've actually heard and So we want to keep in mind of that warning as well, verses 18 and 19 I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. So there is a warning. If you hear the good word of God, if you hear the announcement of what he's done in Christ, And yet don't listen. There's a true warning here. We need to be mindful of that. We need to remember that He is Christ is a prophet. He speaks a word of good news. It's great news. It's the best news that could ever be heard. That all is forgiven between God and man for those who trust in Jesus Christ. But if you li if you hear that word but don't really listen to it, there's danger and there's warning. And that comes out here in Deuteronomy 18. And that remains true. Certainly the teaching of the New Testament only corroborates that fact. If you hear Jesus Christ and yet do not pay careful attention to what you've received from him. Then there's real warning and there's real danger. But let's then be quick to hold ourselves firm to what Christ has spoken. Again, the great word that's been spoken from God is Christ. The great word that's been spoken by God in Christ is what Christ accomplished. He has paid the debt of sin. He has canceled the guilt of our sins. Let's be careful to listen to him. Let's be careful to come to him. Let's be careful to be thankful for what God has done. You know, God could have left us There at Mount Sinai, speaking to him face to face, us hearing from him all that we should have done but have failed to do. That would have been a scary place to be. That is a scary place to be. Praise God. He sent his word. He sent his word to come from one of the brothers of Israel, from the Lord Jesus Christ, born into the line of Israel I'm curious the great word that comes from God, the great prophet who comes from God, who also incarnates the Word of God and also pays for our sins. Praise God for who we have as a Savior. Let's continue to live in light of who that Savior is. Let's continue to walk in his ways. Let's continue to listen to him and to truly take hold of what it is that He has spoken, and that God has spoken. Father, we do thank and bless you this day that you have seen fit to answer the request of Israel and you know we we know that they asked it in that moment, but we know that you had this plan from all eternity. And you had it planned all along that um the one whom they would ask for was ultimately Jesus. We praise you. We have heard him, we have seen him. We haven't actually seen him in the flesh, but we've seen him through your word, um the words of the prophets, you know, of a prophetic word, a prophetic scripture. Scripture that is man speaking on behalf of God, man in whose mouth you have put the words of God, that scripture brings us the one who is the word incarnate. He is the prophet, he is the word, he is the one who bore our sins, and because of that, his word, or who he is as your word, is a good word, a word of joy, a word of good news. Word of salvation, a word of forgiveness. Thank you, Father. Help us not to take grant for granted who you are, who Christ is, what Christ has done. Help us to live uprightly in light of who our Savior is. Grant us these things as you continue to mold us into His image, as you do so ongoingly through your Word and its ministry, and also through your Holy Spirit Grant these things to us. We cannot um we cannot succeed in these things in ourselves. We do not have the strength in ourselves to be molded to the Word of God, but you have the power and you have given him to us. You have given the Spirit to us. We pray that you would be glorified in us. We pray that you would bless us as your servants, so that we may be better servants of you. We pray all these things in the name of Jesus Christ the Prophet. Amen.