If you will now turn in to the book of Amos in the Old Testament. Amos chapter 5 And then we have been going through the book of Amos in our evening messages. We have come to chapter 5. And verses 14 and 15 tonight, but I'll be reading from verses 10 through 15. Amos chapter 5, beginning of verse 10, and reading on through verse 15, hear now God's word. They hate the one who rebukes in the gate, and they abhor the one who speaks uprightly. Therefore, because you tread down the poor and take grain taxes from him, though you have built houses of hewn stone, yet you shall not dwell in them You've planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink wine from them, for I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins. Afflicting the just and taking bribes, diverting the poor from justice at the gate. Therefore, the prudent keeps silent at that time, for it is an evil time Seek good and not evil, that you may live. So the Lord of hosts will be with you as you have spoken. Hate evil, love good, establish justice in the gate. It may be that the Lord God of hosts Will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. The book of Amos is indeed one that's uh I think is extremely a very a very fascinating book on many different levels. This book is written to the Jews, the ten northern tribes of the Jews. Written after the kingdom was split into the north and the south. And the predominant uh uh area uh is um i is is this is the region and the city of Samaria by this time, which is approximately seven fifty, seven seventy five to seven fifty BC By this time, when Amos is God's prophet speaking to them, the country of this northern country, the ten tribes, have become extremely prosperous and very, very rich, very powerful on the world world scene. Um however This is a group of God's people that from the very beginning of their existence had worshipped other gods. You probably remember that if their first king did not want them to go to Jerusalem to celebrate the holy days, so he erected Two centers of worship, one in the city of Dan, the other in the city of Bethel, where they place two golden calves. And Israel bowed down to those calves and celebrated them as their redeemer and as their deliverer and as their God. But That was uh in a in a way just ceremonial. They were worshiping everything. Everything but the true and living God, even though it is the true and living God who is responsible for their very existence. and responsible as well for their prosperity. They have rejected him and their treatment of others In addition to the idolatry, their treatment of others was very wicked. They became prosperous in many ways because they uh were uh they they they they prevented the poor from uh receiving justice. Uh they afflicted those who were uh helpless Slavery was prominent. They enslaved their brothers and sisters. They became rich at the expense of others. And uh they were there they they they their commerce was oftentimes marked by dishonesty and by uh dishonest gain. God does not allow this to continue. And he brings to this northern kingdom uh a series of prophets of which Amos is only one And if you if you've been here, you know that Amos has uh repeatedly uh warned the people uh to change their ways. or receive God's judgment. And it's a very uh interesting way in which the book opens The first chapter into the second chapter consists of a series of eight, eight judgments You remember against all the surrounding neighbors of Judah, all of which, except for one, Excuse me, I said Judah, I meant Israel, all of which, except for Judah, are worshiping false gods. In each case, in almost all of the cases, judgment of God falls against those individual nations because they have oppressed. The people of God. At some time in their history, they have treated the people of God unfairly. And God is going to bring judgment against each of those pagan countries for their lack of love, for their oppression of their neighbors. Now you would think That if you had heard Amos's words and you had heard seven times or six times that the guys to the north of you, the guys to the east of you, the south of you, and the west of you are all going to be judged because they treated their neighbors unkindly You would think that you might sit up and take notice. You might think that Israel would see that her treatment of the poor and the oppressed Is bound to reap God's judgment at some point if she doesn't repent. But History tells us, and the Bible itself tells us, that no amount of effort on Amos' part as the prophet of God Turned the people away from their wickedness. Tonight we see before us a precise statement of what it is that God wants Israel to do In spite of their sinfulness, in spite of the multitude of sins that they have committed, And uh we uh as I read tonight, you could you can catch some of those sins being mentioned In and verse 10, uh they don't they the the people don't like anybody who speaks the truth of God to them. In the gate, it says. They don't like the prophets. They don't like to hear that they're sinful. They don't like to hear the prophets rebuking them. But even that, even that statement is a testimony to the fact that God has been preaching to these wicked ones, that He is the one who is pursuing His people. Verse 11 again mentions that they abuse the poor and they steal from those who produce the food. And they use their ill-gotten gain to live in luxury. They build big houses, they build vineyards, but they're not, God says they're not going to live long enough to enjoy. the the the fruits of their sin. They're guilty of many transgressions. Verse 13 And they're guilty of many uh uh uh uh great sins. Um not that all sins aren't great uh or or wicked in God's sight But they're guilty of many wicked sins. They pervert justice, they take bribes, they oppress the poor, and they sin against their brothers, and they sin sin against God. This is a a large a long litany of ungodly behavior matched with ungodly worship. They have not understood that if you sin against your brothers, you're also sinning against God. As John in his epistle reminds us, 1 John 2, 11, he that hates his brother is in darkness and walks in darkness. and knows not where he goes because the darkness has blinded his eyes So coming to verse fourteen, what is it God wants them to do? Well, obviously you can say, generally speaking, he wants them to repent. But 14 and 15 are another way of saying This is how you repent. And in verses 14, we see that God expects those whom he has loved Whom he has cherished, whom he has favored and redeemed and blessed, he expects them, verse 14, to seek good and not evil He wants them to find out that which is good in the eyes of God and to do it. On the one hand, you might say, if you're trying to uh get someone to uh to to uh uh to understand what I want you to do, you might say, well, why doesn't God say, Seek me? Why not say, seek God? And my answer to that is if you seek good as God defines it, you are seeking God. Because the scripture connects God to goodness, to true goodness. Psalm 73, verse 1: Truly God is good. And it's not just good in general. It goes on to say God is good to Israel, the very people of God that we're talking about here. They have he and and it goes on to say, and even to those who are of a clean heart. When Jesus confronted the rich young ruler, The rich young ruler came to him and said, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus responded, Why do you call me good? There is none good but one, that is God. So When God says here in this text, when Amos says, seek good and not evil, he is uh uh saying, uh, do that which is pleasing in God's sight. Seek God, because God alone is good. And he is not evil. Apparently, when you seek for something, that's done with a degree of Effort to seek something. You're to seek good and you're not to seek evil. And the problem that we have as human beings is that we always by nature seek evil. We always by nature seek evil. Romans chapter 3, verse 10, and following makes that very clear. As it is written, there is none righteous, there is not one. There is none that understands, there is none that seeks after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No not one. Their throat is an open sepulchre. Their tongues have used deceit. The poison of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their ways. The way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. This is man's common condition. By nature, this is who we are. We don't seek God and we don't do good. And yet God's words here are such to these people who are already not seeking God, they're worshiping every other God, and already Not doing good because they're afflicting their brothers, their own people, they're afflicting them and oppressing them for their own advantage We begin to wonder why God would say that to them when he knows that they can And that's precisely the point. It's precisely the point When I when God says seek good and not evil You ought to, as an individual, come to the realization very quickly that you can't do that And at that very moment, when you come to that realization, the believer comes to understand help, the word help, help me. Help me, God. Help me to seek you. Help me to do good. Help me to promote your causes. And he asks God for help. Notice when God says To seek good and not evil. There's a promise attached to it. The promise is that you may live, that you may live. If you do not seek good, and if you continue to seek evil. It is true that you will not live. And it's true that you will be judged, just as this northern kingdom was judged And destroyed, never to rise again, within fifty years of Amos's prophecy. But to seek to do sin, like Israel is seeking to do sin, is to seek one's own death and to experience eternal separation from God. There's a further promise that's attached to verse 14, not only that you may live But also so that the Lord God of hosts will be with you. You know, the Lord is putting out there before his people Two perspectives on life. The one perspective is sin and do what you want. And accumulate every possible blessing, material blessing, and you will die. The other is to seek him and to seek his good as he defines good, and you will live and to have the Lord be with you. The question that every individual on the face of this earth has to deal with is what is more important? What is more valuable? What is the better choice Life today with riches that ends in death, an eternal separation from God Or life with God that may not today be rich according to the ways of the world But will be rich according to the things of God, not just for a little while, but forever. Eternally. And to have the Lord of hosts be with you again is a great joy for believers. The Lord God with you. God with us. God with you. In Hebrews chapter thirteen In the fifth verse, it says, again, we've recently looked at this, but it says, let your conversation, and by conversation, He is not using that to mean our talking with each other. It's an old English word which means let your lifestyle, let your behavior. Says, let your behavior be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have, for he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So that we can boldly say, the Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man has to do, shall do unto me. This promise in Hebrews 11, verse 5, is preceded by the exhortation not to covet. Not to covet the things of the world. Not to want to have the big houses to live in. Not to want to have the vineyards. And not to have the things which the people you're oppressing you think can give you This is the exact sin that Israel is involved in Idolatry and covetousness manifesting itself in oppression of the poor and unwillingness to worship God. Verse fifteen slightly reverses verse fourteen Hate the evil and love the good. Love the good, hate the evil. In 14, hate the evil, love the good. Establish judgment in the gate. It may be that the Lord God of hosts will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph. Again, a little bit of a reversal, the first part of the sentence, a little bit of the reversal of the verse fourteen, but saying the same thing. One focuses on loving good first, the other focuses on hating evil first But both items are covered. Hate evil, love good, and love God. There's a little bit more to verse 15 that God wants Israel to do, and this is by no means unimportant. Establish judgment in the gate. Some of you may have it translated justice in the gate. The gate was the place where all Judicial decisions were rendered, oftentimes by the elders of the city. So what he's encouraging the leaders of Israel to do is that in their cities where the elders gather to promote that which is just To remote God's idea of justice, to stop the mistreatment Of those who are oppressed, the poor, those who are being taken advantage of, those whose grains are being unfairly taxed Be just and righteous before God and unto others. publicly promote this as a new way of living. Can you imagine how revolutionary that would have been if somebody had taken Amos up on these words? Can you imagine if the prophet stands in the gates and encourages God's people to promote justice? In the gate, to love the good and to hate the evil. Unfortunately, what would happen with such an individual doing that in this situation is that Israel would laugh them to scorn It's what God says needs to be done, but God's people aren't about to do this And they would treat the Prophet and his words and any sort of correction Any sort of going against their established sinful practice would be ridiculed and laughed to scorn. And even the messenger, the messenger of such a message might be himself put into jeopardy. Does that sound a little close to what happens to Jesus? It does, doesn't it? Eventually it gets down to that. It gets that far. And that's why this, what how is Jesus' ministry characterized? It's sometimes characterized by, for example, by Mary and by Zacharias in their songs. God has come and delivered the oppressed and the poor From their oppression and their poverty. But it's uh in Christ's case, it's not so much delivering from the mistreatment of the leaders, but it's being delivered from the oppression and the poverty of sin. and being held in the kingdom of evil. Christ has come to redeem his people from that Hate the evil, love the good. Impossible By nature. But the commands are given to cause Israel to see her need and to Plead to God for mercy. Help me, help me, help me, O God. For I am a sinner, and I live in a city and a people of sinners. Destruction is is looming, Amos says. The doom for Israel is sure. Even as God brought doom to those surrounding countries, so Israel will face her turn if she doesn't repent. Someone Must. There will be some who will cry out to God for help. Because you see, God will have a remnant. And as verse 15 ends, it may be that the Lord God of hosts will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph. Joseph is the for all intents and purposes, Ephraim and Manasseh are the two biggest tribes in the northern kingdom. It may be that God will be merciful to the remnant of Joseph. And you think about that for just a second. Think about that. One of the other great prophets who spoke to the northern kingdom about their idolatry was Elijah. You recall. I'm not, I don't know for sure. I know they overlapped in time, but I don't know the exact timing. Of when Elijah was having his confrontation with the prophets of Baal. And you remember, Elijah is put under duress. And has to flee for his life because Ahab's wife, Jezebel, has put a contract out on him. And he starts lamenting his situation. He says, God, am I the only one? Who is still faithful? And it says, God says, he spoke to him and said, No, there are 7,000 in Israel who haven't bowed the knee to Baal. Seven thousand. Seven thousand who haven't vowed the need to bail No one by nature will cry out. But God, in his mercy, does make some cry out. For deliverance. By grace he does this And we see in the book of Amos a perpetual, ongoing work of God. trying to turn his people from evil and back to him. It may be that the Lord God of hosts will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph. Grace, you see, is greater than all our sin. That is revolutionary. And radical salvation. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God, we are so grateful to you For the grace of eternal life in Christ Jesus. O Lord, we know that no one deserves that grace And we know, O Lord, as we look at the people of Israel during Amos' day, we see the hardness of heart And we see the refusal to hear, and the unwillingness, Lord, to confess sin and to turn away from sin and turn unto goodness and hate the evil of sin. And we see, Lord, that judgment would come and did come, and it was horrible. But it was completely fair and righteous and just. And we thank you, O Heavenly Father, that you Have been merciful to us. You have, Lord, taken us in our own historical situation and our own sinfulness, and you have kept appealing to us through your word and through others of your servants Who have met us during our life and told us, Lord, about the good news of the gospel. You're constant. You're constant in calling people to repent. You're constant in pointing people to the right way. We're constant, Lord, in refusing. Thank you, Lord, for breaking our hardness of heart Thank you, Lord, for destroying our pride. Thank you, Lord, for causing us to see the goodness of grace For an instant is better than an eternal lifetime of sin and riches From this world. We thank you, Lord, that we don't have just an instant. In Christ that we have forever. Thank you, Lord, for being merciful. Not for anything that we have done, not for anything that you foresaw in us. But simply, Lord, you are merciful and picked us to be the beneficiaries of your love in Christ To God, our praise goes and never grows tired of singing your praises for saving grace. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.