And so it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be text. This census first took place while Quirinius was governing Syria. So all went to be registered, every one to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. to be registered there with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was with child. So it was that while they were there, the days were completed for her to be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. Now there was in the same country shepherds living out in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were greatly afraid. Then the angels said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which will be to all people For there is born to you this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. This will be the sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in the manger. Thus far as the reading of God's Word, please now be seated I promised in the message on uh Christmas Eve or last week, I can't remember which one it was. that I would return to this passage in Luke chapter 2, verse 9 and following, to speak more about the angel's announcement. of the birth of Christ, that announcement going to the shepherds on the hills of Bethlehem. I previously said that the words that we find in verse 11 and 12 are the 37 greatest words ever spoken. Now I want today to help you see more of why I said that. And I'm only going to talk about one word today. And it is the word Christ Found in the statement by the angel regarding Jesus who is born in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Now there's an interesting statement in this passage which uh Which I don't want to spend much time and I don't want you to get fixated on. I kind of did the fixating. And I just want to share with you a thought regarding it. Do you notice the relative pronoun in that sentence? The city of David, a savior, which is Christ the Lord. And When you talk about human beings, oftentimes if you use a relative pronoun, you probably would use the pronoun that would be translated who. A Savior, who is Christ the Lord. Nevertheless, having said that, and sometimes you'll see it translated as who, but nevertheless, the Greek made a choice here of the word that translates witch as witch in English The angels' words about Jesus are drawing attention to the fact of the birth of the baby in the city of David. The Savior, who is also the Christ, who is also the Christ Who would be an appropriate way of designating that? But he does use the word which, and it prompted me to ask myself the question, why? And here's what I think. The person Jesus who is being announced by the angel is the anointed Messiah. The Messiah long awaited by Israel is also the Savior. Th those thoughts, even though um they are they are the The two words you see are united together in the person and the work of Christ. They're united in the person and they're united in the work. And I think which probably gets at that a little better than who. The thought of uniting the two words. It's it's a small difference and probably not worth much, but I think it's helpful. Because I think the point the angel is making is that the Savior who comes is much more than just a savior. He is Messiah as well, or Christ. Now having said that Why does this word Christ or Messiah or It's not translated this way, the anointed one, but that's a translation, an acceptable translation. Why does that appear here? Why is that part of the angel's announcement? What is the meaning of the word Christ? Is it just a title of his name that we kind of say, Jesus Christ, second part of his name? I think you all understand that there must be more than that. What does Christ signify? Now remember that the announcement comes to shepherds. And they are Jewish shepherds. And they are out on the hillside. And the word Christ would have some meaning to them. What meaning would it have to them? Because they would have familiarity with that word, because that word is used in the Old Testament. On several different but yet important times and places How did the word Christ get into the practices of the the people in the Old Testament. Well, it got in through the the definition of the word anointing. Anointing. And anointing was a practice that was done in the Old Testament life of the Jews Um and it was done mostly with oil, and it was a sign That the person anointed, it was a sign given by God, that the person anointed is designated by God. Designated by God to fulfill a holy or sacred purpose. God's word regarding anointed commanded only three types of people in Israel to be anointed. Some of you may know who they were. The priests, the kings, and the prophets. Only three But you must admit, they're important people. They're important in the life of Israel. They're important in the faith of Israel. They're important to the nation of Israel. In the Old Testament, the Old Testament, covenantal people, the God of God. And if you can you can read about this the beginnings of the practices of anointing. For example, Aaron, the first high priest of Israel, was anointed As God said to anoint him. Exodus chapter 30, verse 30. He told Moses, You shall anoint Aaron and his sons. And consecrate them that they may minister unto me They may minister unto me. They were ministers that God commanded their anointing, they may minister unto me in the priest's Then there's the king And the kings, of course, come later in the history of Israel, after Israel clamors for a king at the end of the judges. Samuel, the prophet alive at the time, is upset that they do so, and God says to Samuel, do not take it personally. It's not you they hate, it's me. And he says, let them have their king. Tell them what a king is going to do. But if they still want a king, then let them have it, but you shall anoint the king. And we see Samuel in Samuel 16, verse 13, taking a horn of oil and anointing David. Not the first king, but the great David, king of Israel, in the middle of his brethren. Remember that story? How Samuel comes to the house of Jesse looking for, led there by God, looking for a king, and he goes through all the brothers, and not one of them is there, and they said, Is there one more? And they say, yeah, there's one more. He's young and he's out tending the sheep. And Samuel goes out there and finds David. And he anoints him. And then, interestingly, after that, another aspect of this anointing emerges. The Spirit of the Lord came upon David From that day forward. So Samuel went up and went to Ramah. But notice the anointing unto David as king. brought about the the coming of the Spirit of the Lord in his life And basically, so that David might function as the king God had designed him to be. Then, of course, the last group that is anointed are the prophets. And you see a prophet anointing another prophet. In a l i uh in 1 Kings chapter 19, verse 16. This is the famous incident in the aftermath of uh Elijah's contacts uh Elijah's contest with the prophets of Baal. The 400 prophets of Baal. Interesting and wonderful little Exhibition of how God managed to cause the offering that Elijah had poured water on. To light up in fire. And they remember after that the 400 prophets of Baal were killed, and uh Jezebel puts a warrant out for Elijah's arrest, and he flees. And right after that is that amazing conversation with God. I alone am left. Woe is me. God opened his eyes and showed him that there are 7,000 knees not yet bowed, who have not yet been bowed to the knee of Baal in Israel. And the conclusion of that discussion, God gives some instruction to Elijah. He says, Elijah, go. And anoint 1 Kings 19, 16, Jehu the son of Nimshe, you shall anoint to be king over Israel That's one. And then, and Elisha, the son of Shaphat of Abel Meh Mehola. Thou shalt anoint to be the prophet in your place. So you have examples of all three types of individuals anointed in the Old Testament. You get a little bit of a flavor of what they're to do. You get a little bit of an idea of the fact that anointing carried with it in some situations the pouring out of God's Spirit Upon certain individuals. We have in the Old Testament, you see, we have a very rich background for the word anoint. And the word anoint Is the word also Messiah? It's the word also Christ. They're indistinguishable. They mean the same thing. English we have different terms, but in Greek, Greek and Hebrew, they all mean the same. And so we see the main leaders of the political and religious life of Israel are anointed. Priests are anointed to serve God by offering sacrifices and ministering to the people. Kings are anointed to rule the country according to God's law. You remember that in Deuteronomy chapter 17, verses 18 through 20, there is instruction. to a newly anointed king, what he is to do. And those instructions had said he was to write a copy of the law in the presence of the priests. So that there was a reason for it, that he may learn to fear the Lord, and to keep the words of the law and these statutes and do them. So that, there were two reasons, so that his heart might not be lifted above his brothers That he might learn that he not turn aside from the commandment to the right or to the left. And of course That's what the anointing and the writing of the law was supposed to do, but that's not what usually happened in the life of the king. But nevertheless, that was That was the model. That was the ultimate paradigm for what the anointing of the king was to do and to accomplish. Prophets were anointed. They were anointed, as you might understand, to serve as the very mouthpiece of God, to give to the people God's divine word. Deuteronomy 17, 15 speaks of the work of the prophet who is anointed. The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a prophet. From the middle of thee, from the brethren. And then you can read on, but pick up at verse 19, I will raise from them a prophet among their brothers, like unto thee. I will put my words in his mouth, and so he shall speak unto them all that I command thee. That's what prophets did. Many examples of prophets speaking to Israel, speaking to kings. speaking to various different uh uh uh needs of the congregation, particularly when the people of God went astray. So you can see this word has, as one of my professors used to say, is pregnant with meaning. And this is the, and he's preaching it to those who have grown up in this kind of system and had some familiarity with what the word Christ is intended to mean. And so it is that for the angel to call Jesus the Savior, which is Christ The Messiah, the anointed one, is to say, Christ is the one who is far greater than any of the men which had only one of these duties or anointings. Christ has all the duties and all the anointings. All three offices. All three aspects of Christ's work, whether he is prophet, priest, or king, They describe his mission before God and man. The anointing is giving to him these responsibilities. Now he is the the the truly anointed one. The anointed one And that's an interesting phrase, the anointed one, because the kings of Israel, who were often anointed, when they were anointed, took In the the in the minds of the people, they took on the phrase, the anointed one. Instead of calling him King David or King So-and-so, he was commonly known as the anointed one. Everybody track in with me at this point? I was telling Ken you could write a book on every one of these words, and I can readily see how Christ would fill a great volume, the word Christ. Our Westminster Confession of Faith in the shorter catechism picks up on these offices of Christ. It says that as our Redeemer, he executes the office of prophet, priest, and king. It says also, it says exactly how he executes these office, how he fulfills these office offices Christ executes the office of a prophet. How does he do that? By revealing to us through his word and by his spirit the will of God for our salvation. And who is Jesus? He's the Word. The Word in the flesh. He is the prophet, the ultimate prophet. At the time he is the ultimate prophet, he is at the same time the priest. How does he execute the office of a priest He executes the office of a priest in his once for all offering up of himself as a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice and to reconcile us to God and in making continual intercession for us. He is the sacrifice, that's part of his priestly work, and he is the one who is the intercessor, the great high priest between God and men. How does Christ execute the office of a king? He is a king. After all, revolution. Revelation Says that, 19, King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Psalm 2 says that I will set my king upon my holy hill. Psalm 110 says that I will make the nations thy footstool for thy feet. It doesn't say king right there, but you get the idea everybody's coming to bow toward him. How does he execute the office of a king? In subduing us to himself. And in ruling and defending us. Subduing us to himself, rules us, defends us, and in conquering all of his and our enemies. That's a mouthful. That's a lot of work. Now I now you see By linking Savior to Messiah, you bring all of that into that picture. And you see the Savior as, and I don't want anybody to mistake what I'm saying, but you see him as so much more than simply Savior. See? So much more. And you cannot the the the linkage is such that you cannot separate You can't separate his saving work from his messianic work. And that's also reflected in the fact of his name. Jesus Christ, Savior, Anointed One, Prophet, Priest, and King Now, if that isn't enough, there's another Chapter to this. Another chapter would have to be written just on this aspect of Christ's anointing. And that's the chapter that comes to us from Daniel. And that's why I had Daniel read in verse chapter 9, verse 24, and following. Seventy weeks are determined upon the people and upon the holy city to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity. To bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and prophecy. To anoint the most holy. Know and understand that from the going forth to the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto Messiah the prince. Shall be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. And the street shall be built again, and the wall even unto troublous times. And after sixty-two weeks shall Messiah be cut off. But not for himself, but not for himself. And the people of the prince that shall come to destroy the city, the sanctuary, and the end thereof shall be with a flood, unto the end of the war, desolations are determined. And shall confirm the covenant with many for one week, and in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease. And for the overspreading of the abomination she shall make it desolate, even unto the consummation, and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate. Now, I am not going to get into a detailed Trying to understand Daniel. I didn't prepare that, and it would be very wrong for me to even try. However, you cannot ignore the fact That the coming of the Messiah is mentioned there. You cannot ignore the fact that His name is featured prominently. There talks about a coming and a restoration. And then there speaks about a desolation. It's interesting to note that the messenger that came to Daniel in Daniel chapter 9. is the same messenger who came to Mary with the message of the birth of her son It's the angel Gabriel. Now, I think there is significant connection here to understanding Messiah as a as being also the one who is the Redeemer and the Destroyer The prophecy is difficult to figure out because we don't know God's timing. But there are some things about it that I think connect to Jesus. and connect to his saving work and his future work. Now we can see a little bit better the significance of the angels Identification as Jesus the Savior, who is the Messiah, who is Christ the Lord. Rejoice and Amen