You can open up your copy of God's Word now to the letter to the church at Rome. Continue our study there, beginning chapter eleven. This chapter is full, so we'll be breaking it up into a few pieces. Tonight we'll be reading verses 1 through 10. Let's give attention now. Romans chapter 11, beginning at verse 1, reading through verse 10, this is the Word of God. I ask then, has God rejected his people? By no means. For I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know that the scripture says of Elijah, how he appealed to God against Israel? Lord, they have killed your prophets. They have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what is God's reply to him? I have kept for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. So too, at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened, as it is written. God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear, down to this very day And David says, let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them. Let their eyes be darkened. So that they cannot see and bend their backs forever. Praise be to God. Amen. Please be seated Father and our God, we come to a passage of Scripture once again that is difficult. It's difficult to hear of people whose eyes have been darkened. Eyes they could not see. It's difficult to hear of ears that would not hear. So we pray, Father, help us tonight to receive your word, to be convicted of its truth. And work in our hearts powerful desire, a zeal to see many who are in darkness brought into the light. I pray this in Jesus' name. Job interviews. Some of you haven't been on them yet. Looking forward to them, maybe. I've been in many, but I don't think they are what they used to be, but I'm sure that there are still some similarities. When I would go to an interview, I would be shawar dressed in a coat and tie, my nails trimmed, looking professional. If I were having a meal, I'd be careful not to salt and pepper what I was eating until I tasted it so the person interviewing me wouldn't think that I was rash. And doing things out of order. Everything being presented to make that good first impression. Resume in hand with a lot of good things. About me. And the decision? The decision was based solely on an evaluation of me, on the candidate. Schooling, grades, activities, recommendations, looks, gifts, talents, presentation. It's all about the person being interviewed It's so different than the way God chooses. It's never based upon who we are, what we've done, or how we look. As we've been studying the book of Romans, we know we've been studying that doctrine called justification. It's lasted a long time, many, many chapters. Came to the end of it in chapter 8. That there would be no condemnation for those who were in Christ Jesus. He did he wouldn't lose even one, that all those in Christ will be kept. By him that nothing could separate those in Christ from the love of God. But then there was one problem as Paul began, Romans 9. That the Israelites, his kinsmen, had been accursed and cut off from Christ. So there was that problem that Conflict. How is it possible that there's salvation in Christ, that He is the Messiah, the one who is to come to the Jews, and yet A significant portion of the nation of Israel had been cut off, accursed, separated from Christ. Paul explained that it wasn't as though the word of God had failed. But he did mention that not all who were descendants from Israel belonged to Israel. Not all the children of Abraham are truly children of Abraham because they are his offspring. The big question was then who is saved? Who is it that is in Christ? Who is the us if God is for us? Who does God love? So we learned that there was no unrighteousness with God, that He has mercy upon whoever he wills and hardens whoever he wills. The potter has the right over the clay. And then, as we thought of Isaiah, though the number of the sons of Israel be as the sea of the sand, only a remnant of them would be saved. That if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. But that still didn't answer the question, did it? What happened to Israel? Why were they accursed? Why were they cut off? Tonight. Tonight I think Paul answers that question unequivocally. Those who are chosen by grace are reserved for God, and the rest are hardened by unbelief. Those who are chosen by grace are reserved for God, and the rest are hardened by unbelief. Three simple points tonight, reserved for God, secondly chosen by grace, and finally hardened through unbelief. As I said before, I believe that this, like this morning's sermon, comes from an evangelical passage This has much to say to us as we seek to proclaim Christ. So as we go through this passage tonight, be thinking, how can I use this? to proclaim Christ to those who are lost, to those who are in darkness. Well first, reserved for God. Paul asked that question. He is a question ask. It's as if he's having that discussion with someone who is contesting his gospel constantly throughout this letter. I ask then, verse one, has God rejected his people? We've gone through a litany of questions, really a litany of attacks on Paul's gospel. And he's been answering those questions as he raises them as if he's got someone he's talking to who's trying to attack God, trying to Bring God down, trying to find a hole in God Himself where this gospel couldn't be true. We come to this last question then. This last question that really is the last attack upon God Himself. Has God rejected His people? As the New King James has it, or the King James, has God cast away his people This is the last disch question to unseat the plan of salvation. Last ditch question to to unseat the doctrine of justification by faith alone in Christ, alone, the final challenge to the absolute truth of God, the righteousness of God, the mercy of God, the love of God, and the justice of God, has he rejected His people. In other words, how can God be a God of compassion? How can this God be faithful to his covenant if all Israel is not Israel? If Israel as a nation is not justified as a nation, if Israel as the people of God are not righteous, as God merely rejected those he promised. To save. What's Paul's answer? Look at this first portion then. For by no means Once again, Paul slams the door shut on the possibility of God's unrighteousness, unjustice, his unfairness by no means He looks to himself now. He demonstrates first to the reader, to us tonight, the hearer, that we need to make distinctions, lines need to be drawn. And here he's drawing a line in the nation of Israel. Lines need to be drawn to understand the covenant. Lines need to be drawn to understand the promises of God. Lines need to be drawn to understand the wisdom of God, and certainly to understand his plan of salvation. There have been since the fall two lines referenced. Right? I will put eternity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. Immediately, as God speaks of redemption in the Lord Jesus Christ, he has drawn a line between the offspring of the serpent, the offspring of Satan, and the offspring of the woman, Cain and Abel, a line drawn between those two, Jacob and Esau, a line drawn between those two, a separation. Some were of Israel and others were not. Paul's telling us we need to draw lines. And he refers now to his own experience. By no means, for I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. Paul is confessing that he himself was not rejected. He's drawing a line. Saying, if I am of the nation of Israel, a member of the tribe of Benjamin, I personally have not been rejected by God. If God had rejected the entire nation, then Paul himself would not be writing. Paul had been brought into the family of God. He had been adopted. Indeed, he'd been made an apostle. And I think Paul is saying, in effect, if anyone should have been rejected, it should have been me For I'm the least of the apostles, and not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. Paul was a wretched sinner. A persecutor of the people of God, a hater of God, and certainly of his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, but yet Paul had not been reserved for destruction. He had been kept by and for God. Paul doesn't merely look at himself. As he continues on, God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. And now he speaks of Elijah. Why? Why would he use Elijah as an example now in seeking to prove that God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew? Now it's under it's important for us to understand what happened in this account of Elijah. As you recall what happened in 1 Kings, Elijah is called to Demonstrate that Baal is no God whatsoever. That the living God is the one true God. And so as he does so, remember there's that scene of calling down fire upon the sacrifice that's been prepared by the prophets of Baal and nothing happens. And then Paul prepares his own sacrifice and calls down the fire of the living God, and it is completely consumed. And subsequent to that, Elijah goes and kills the prophets of Baal. But Jezebel is after now Elijah and promises to do to Elijah exactly what he's done to the prophets of Baal. Elijah flees. That's what we read about tonight. He hid himself in a cave. And from Elijah's perspective, the Israelite The nation that he had been sent to be a prophet to were so bad they had killed the prophets, they had demolished the altars, they were worshiping Baal. They had forsaken the covenant. That from his perspective, there couldn't be any that were worth saving. That there couldn't be any who were reserved or kept. By God. And he says it twice: for the people of Israel have forsaken your covenant, thrown down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword, and I am the only one left. That was his explanation for why he was in the cave. There was no doubt That Israel, a portion of the nation, had forsaken the covenant. There was no doubt that a portion had thrown down the altars. There was no doubt that a portion had killed the prophets. Indeed, as God spoke to Elijah, he tells him that he's going to anoint Hazael and Jehu in order to bring judgment on that portion of the nation. But what does he say at the end? That I have kept for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. Do you see that Paul is writing the truth that he's proclaiming, that out of the worst, God is reserving a remnant for himself. God preserves. out of the worst, the wretched sinner. He saves. Jesus did not come for the righteous. Those who are well have no need of a physician. But those who are sick Sometimes we think in just the opposite of those terms that Jesus came for the righteous, like me. That's not the case. And God preserves, He keeps His chosen ones out of the worst And he will never reject these that he's chosen. Jeremiah tells us, the Lord professes. That if that fixed order, meaning night and day, moon and stars, if that fixed order Departs from before him then, and only then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me. If the heavens could be measured and the foundations of the earth below be explored, then he would cast off. The point is that we can't measure those things. The point is that that night and day won't stop until the Lord Jesus Christ returns and And as such, God will never cast off his people. Psalm 94. For the Lord will not abandon his people, nor will he forsake his inheritance, and in Paul's day it was no different. Had all the Israelites banished themselves? Would any Israelite be saved? Was any Israelite worth saving? Had God rejected all of them? Paul's response No, at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. God had reserved for Himself a remnant. Let me ask you, you think of yourself that way tonight? Reserved for God. Kept. Kept for God. That's the idea Look at verse 4. But what is God's reply to him, meaning to Elijah? I've kept for myself or I have reserved for myself 7,000. That word reserved is defined by Webster's as being kept for another, for future use, retained, kept. Do you think of your yourself that way. This thought is similar. This truth is similar to the truth that if you're trusting in Jesus tonight, you've been purchased. You belong to another. You're here Tonight, in this place to serve God, you've not been devoted to destruction, like Jezebel. Who Elijah was running from, and who was executed by Jehu. That's the idea, that's the truth of being reserved for God. For his purposes, for his use, for his glory. That's the first shorter catechism, isn't it? What is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. And you glorify God as you live a life knowing, thinking, speaking, acting as you have been reserved for God. Kept for him. The only question for us tonight is: are we doing that? Is that our attitude? Is that the way we think? That we have been reserved for God, purchased by Christ. Brings us to our second point, chosen by grace. Beyond this truth, then, that God will never reject his people, that he has reserved a people for himself, we might ask why. Why is it that God will not reject his people? Verse 5: So too at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. The short answer is because God Himself has chosen his people. He makes the selection. The members of his household Are chosen by God Himself. It always has been and always will be within His soul discretion and selection as to who will enter his household. But how does God make that choice? How does he make his selections This has been the question since chapter 8 ended and chapter 9 began. Who is Israel? Who's saved? How does God make this choice? And here Paul gives us the answer. At the present time, there is a remnant chosen by grace, but if it's by grace, it's no longer on the basis of works, otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. This is the second time that Paul has now written in this letter to the church at Rome in this fashion. He's written much about grace, there's no doubt. Justification by his grace is a gift. Romans 3. One is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. Grace. Romans 5. Much more have the grace of God and the free gift by grace of that one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many. Romans 5 as well, verse 21: So as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign to the righteousness leading to the eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And finally in Romans nine. Romans nine as as Paul refers to the children of Isaac, Jacob and Esau, yet they had not born or had not been born or done anything good or bad in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works, but because of him who calls. The older will serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. So he has mercy upon whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. Chosen by grace. You see, in Paul's day it was no different. If it's by grace, it's no longer on the basis of works. Our human, our ordinary process of selection in this world is based wholly and completely on the person. It's based on works. Selected for a job, maybe because of good looks or intelligence or test scores, selected for the team, maybe because you're a good athlete. Maybe a past history of doing well. Every selection that we make as human beings for Earthly works are based upon qualities, attributes, the future potential of an individual person. That's how we select, that's how we decide. But the grace of God is different. It is exclusively different. There is nothing like it on this earth. Kindness gets close. Not very close, but it comes close. An undeserved gift. Maybe that becomes a bit closer. But even when an undeserved gift is given by a human infected with sinfulness That gift is always tainted with our sinful motives and desires. How about a precious, priceless, undeserved gift given to an archenemy? Who hates you? That gets pretty close to the grace of God, but yet still falls short With the grace of God, there is no application process. No one has asked you to submit an application to enter these doors tonight. There's no preparing yourself for an interview. There's no making yourself look better than you are. No, God sees you as you are. With all of your sins, with all of your foul words, with your abominable thoughts. Dressed in your filthy, your wretched, sin-stained garments of unrighteousness, that's how God sees you. As you were helping the Romans nail Jesus Christ to the cross with your sins, as you were wagging your own heads against Jesus and hurling insults and profanities as at him as he hung upon the cross, that was the time of your interview before God. And that was the time that God poured out his gracious selection. Chosen by grace means that God's selection of you to save you by the shed blood of his son is not based upon anything about you. It's not based on anything in you. It's not based upon anything that you have done or about anything that you will do. No No, for if that were the criteria, brothers and sisters, we would all be doomed to hell. You would fail the interview process. You would be cast off eternally Chosen by grace means that God the Father looks at and considers the Lord Jesus Christ alone. It's Jesus who has gone through the application and the interview process. And he did it on the cross at Calvary. It's Jesus who was selected. He was the one who was chosen to stand in your shoes. Chosen by grace means God is squarely looking upon Christ Upon his righteousness, upon his desire to do his father's will, upon his defeat of sin and death, upon his resurrection from the tomb, and upon his sitting next to him on the throne. On the throne of grace even now. See, chosen by grace is means that it's Christ who's looked at, who's considered And you're chosen in Christ, because of Christ, because of who he is and what he's done And because of God's love that stands behind that. That brings us to our third point, hardened through unbelief. Now finally Paul gets to this explanation of what happened to all Israel. Why is it? How is it? That all Israel is not all Israel. How is it that not all are chosen by God of what happened All the questions that have charged God with fault have been answered in the negative. God was not and is not at fault. His word is true. Not one word has failed. His covenant is sound. It has been and is being fulfilled even tonight. His mercy is sure. His compassion is great. His love is eternal. And his power to do his perfect will is unbounded. The problem never has lain with our God, but has always resided in his people. Nothing has changed. From the garden where Adam and Eve attempted to lay blame on God for their sin to today, nothing has changed. The problem resides within our broken hearts. The Israelites collectively refused to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, the one who was sent to bring home the lost sheep of Israel. We have to piece together a few verses in order to get that picture fully. But it's here. Romans 9. Israel pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, but did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they didn't pursue it by faith They stumbled over the stumbling stone, and that stumbling stone is Jesus Christ. Romans 10 They were ignorant of the righteousness of God and they sought to establish their own They refused to accept the righteousness of Christ. They rebelled against it. And they said, no, no, our righteousness is sufficient. And they didn't submit to God's righteousness. They didn't submit to the Lord Jesus Christ. And even in chapter 10 At the end, all day long I've held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. Israel heard, prophets were sent. Words were proclaimed, God's word was proclaimed and preached. The people of God were warned time and again, he held out his hands to the entire nation, and that's what Paul was writing of as he alludes to Isaiah 65 in this passage. I held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. We have to realize, as Paul writes, and he as he refers back to the Old Testament More times than not, he is not including the entire passage in what he quotes or alludes to. He relies upon the knowledge of those who are reading to be able to refer back and open up that passage and import it and bring it all in. Now he held out his hands to a disobedient and contrary people. That comes from Isaiah 65. And if we read more, we would see that these people provoked God to his face continually. A people who sat in tombs, amongst the dead, amongst the unclean, spent the night in secret places. That meant away from God and ate pig's flesh, that which he contr told them not to. to eat. The people who would say, keep to yourself, as they spoke to God, do not come near me, for I am too holy for you Yes, God held out his hands to a disobedient and contrary people. They continued in their hatred for God and the refusal to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. And what happened as a result? God hardened them. As a result of the Israelites' continual unbelief and their disobedience in contrary hearts, the living God hardened them. Look at verse 7. What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it. But the rest were hardened. God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see, and ears that would not hear, down to this very day. Once again, Paul's referring to the Old Testament prophet Isaiah chapter 29. For the Lord has poured out upon you a spirit of deep sleep and has closed your eyes. If we were to continue reading in Isaiah 29, we'd see that the Lord said, Because these people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. And their fear of me is a commandment taught by men. Or Jeremiah. This people have a stubborn and rebellious heart. They have turned aside and gone away. They do not say in their hearts, Let us fear the Lord our God. And finally, verse nine. As Paul quotes the prophet David, it appears to be an allusion to a messianic psalm. 69, a portion of which we sung tonight. Verse 9 of Romans and David says, Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block, and a retribution for them, let their eyes be darkened. So they cannot see and bend their backs for ever. Psalm sixty nine speaks It speaks of the crucifixion in part of the Lord Jesus Christ. Reproach has broken my heart and I am so sick. And I looked for sympathy, but there was none. And for comf comforters, but I found none. And they gave me gall for my food, and for my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink. Do you see the rejection of the Lord Jesus Christ who's gone so far as to nail him to the cross, to so desire his death, crucify him So that was what happened to many of the Israelites, the Hebrews, to the nation of God. God hardened them. As they rebelled against Christ, remained, continually remained in their disbelief, hardened for the refusal to believe, hardened for the neglect Of the living God, of the worship of the living God, hardened as they hardened themselves against the true Messiah and cast him off to his death. I said that this is an evangelistic passage And it clearly brings together all of these verses concerning the Israelites and their condition as Paul wrote in that day. And Paul was so aware, so well aware of his brothers and sisters in the flesh who had rejected the only Savior, Jesus Christ. He was in a perfect position to to hear the opposition to his gospel from his his fellow Jews. They hated Jesus so much that Paul was bearing the brunt of their hatred as the Jews sought to imprison him and keep him from speaking about Christ and ultimately to see his blood shed. And so Paul is brings together his understanding and his deep knowledge of the rejection of Christ by the Jews. Paul, moved by the Spirit, he informs his readers, us, those who adhere to his gospel, what happened to those who reject Christ. And here and now he tells us with unequivocal language that those who persist in refusing to believe upon Jesus will be hardened by God. It will be as if they had taken from the tree of life and in their condition of unbelief, remained in that condition forever So this passage is a warning. Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see and bend their backs forever. The possibility existed and exists today that this was not a temporary condition. But in ref Persisting in refusing to trust the Lord Jesus Christ for the salvation of your soul is an eternal condition. And once God hardens the heart, there appears to be no unhardening possible. So in a sense, Paul is crying out to his brethren in the flesh, the Jews, to cast off their unbelief and plead with God for a new heart that they might They might plead for a fleshly heart that Christ would save them by gifting them the ability to believe upon Him. That's the calling. That's the warning. And as God works in us, as the Holy Spirit moves us, we should see that there are those lost. In darkness, who might remain there forever, who are on the verge of God's hardening. So, brothers and sisters, if you're trusting in Christ tonight, this should be a call to us. To tell others of Christ, to tell them that this is the only way that they're on the brink of suffering an eternal wrath of God. That they might be remaining in unbelief forever. But there's time. Christ hasn't returned. Christ hasn't come back. Tell them to plead. Plead with Christ that He might change their heart. That they might believe upon him, the Son of God, the perfect atonement for sinners. Believe upon him who was sent by the Father to save sinners from his just and eternal wrath. That is the call. If you're listening tonight, if you're here tonight, if you're watching on the stream tonight, and you're not believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, Please receive this passage tonight as that warning. That if you persist, God will harden your heart, and there will be no return from a hardened heart by God. Call out to Christ. Plead with Him to change your heart from stone to flesh. Yes, those who are chosen by grace are reserved for God, and the rest are hardened by unbelief. Brothers and sisters, there's nothing like God's grace in this world. And those who are trusting in Christ tonight have been chosen by that grace. There's another call in the scripture tonight, and that is to praise God. For his powerful work that he's done in our hearts. Amen. Let's pray Father and our God, we come before you tonight as we close our day in worship and give you thanks and praise. For you have done an awesome work. Oh Father, it is close to unbelievable what you have done in our hearts. To have taken us from hating Jesus Christ, from running in the opposite direction to those who so long to be with Him. Oh, Father, we know that this is only by your grace. We know that the selection process only came about as you looked upon Jesus. And so we praise you and thank you, and we thank you, Lord Jesus, for going to the cross, for the joy that was set before you. Helping you Help us now. Help us now. Give us hearts, Father, for those who are still in darkness tonight, who are rejecting Christ even tonight. Help us, Lord, to proclaim Jesus to these. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.