If you remain standing, turn in your Bibles to Hebrews eleven. As we continue in our study of the book of Hebrews and as we work through the chapter, of uh individuals that God has chosen uh to be His and how He shares with us the nature of their faith. Uh we come uh today to verse uh seventeen. This is a uh incident in the life of Abraham that we are all uh familiar with, but uh commend the reading of God's Word to you this day. Let us hear the word of the Lord. By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. And he who had received the promises offered up his only begotten son Of whom it was said, In Isaac your seed shall be called, concluding that God was able to raise him up even from the dead from which he also received him in a figure figurative sense. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshiped, leaning on the top of his staff. By faith, Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel and gave instructions concerning his bones. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. And today my attention will be drawn to Abraham in verses 17 through 19. As we see this the individual known as Abraham, we take note of the fact that in this great chapter of Hebrews chapter 11, that Abraham is the alone individual mentioned twice for his faith Of all the great ones that are here, in other words, more than one incident that commends Abraham. uh and more than one incident of his faith uh which uh God uh wants us to learn from And I think that part of what Abraham's faith is connected with, and part of what God's intention is here, is to have us Examine the kind of faith that Abraham had, so that we might at the same time look at the kind of faith that we have. And when you ask the question to people in general, what kind of faith do you have, you might receive a variety of answers. that come from many perspectives, even from that which, quote unquote, is the Christian perspective. They might they might say that, well, uh uh I have kind of an intellectual faith. I I understand the basic facts of the Bible. Or they might say, I have an historic faith. I believe that there is a person named Jesus, that he did die and he did resurrect. Uh they might uh they might also uh answer that uh they they have a kind of faith that uh centers on the fact that uh they always grew up in this particular church and their their grandpappy and grandmom you know they believed and their parents believed and so they believed You get a lot of answers to this question, some good, some bad, some half-truths, and not whole truths. But I want us to look at the, I mean, my whole purpose in going through this Hebrews chapter 11 is to look at how the Bible describes what constitutes saving faith. How is Hebrews eleven helpful in understanding that that question? We do see faith, you see, manifested in the lives of God's people. It is faith that is manifested in one person And it's really three in one person. It's faith in the triune God Only this kind of faith, you see, leads to a healthy relationship between God and you, his children. Now in this section that Abraham is prominently featured, we see that his faith is going through something called testing. It's going through a test. As we read verse 17, by faith, Abraham, when he was tried Or you might have tempted, or there could be even, excuse me, tested, or someone might even have tempted there But uh the idea, of course, is that there is a trial going on, and we see the nature of that trial. It involves his son Isaac. And uh We have seen previously about Abraham that what was brought to our attention in the previous uh sentences in chapter 11 was that Abraham Abraham's faith was seen in that he longed for a better country. He longed for a city whose builder and architect is God Now Abraham, as he has tried, offers up the Isaac. And he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son. Of whom it was said that in Isaac shall thy seed be clawed. We could rehearse all of the background of the story of this incident, but I know you're all familiar with it. And I just want to comment to you that Abraham's faith intersects with God's promise of a Savior. A seed who would bless the world. His faith involves When you say it this way, a high degree of trust, that isn't even saying it. His faith involves absolute trust in God. And it takes the form of this. Is God true to his word of promise or not? That is the ultimate test for you too, for every believer. It was at the heart of the testing of Adam and Eve when the devil said, Did God really say that? Abraham's faith, you see, focused on the birth of the initial seed of the promised fulfillment. Isaac his son, one born of human birth, a birth that seems impossible. In verse 11 of chapter 11, Abraham is said, at the time of Isaac's birth, he's as good as dead. And from Sarah, it says in the same verse, verse 11, that she conceived when past the age. This, according to human reckoning, the birth of Isaac was impossible. It could not happen, humanly speaking. Now I mention I I I know that you know Abraham had some questions about this and Sarah giggled when she was told. But The reality is the same. They believed that God could do what he promised. They believed what God could do what he said. Faith will certainly undergo testing. Everyone's faith, every believer's faith will undergo testing. It says here in our text, faith, even when he was tried, or tested. A couple of things about the form of that word in Greek. One is that it is a middle voice Which means that the testing is not originating from Abraham. He is passive. in the testing. The testing comes upon him, and we would understand that, generally speaking, to be from God Himself. Secondly, it's a present testing in the form of the verb, which means it's ongoing. Even though here it's highlighting only one specific incident in Abraham's life, the testing is ongoing. Any time, anywhere, any place, any day, for any believer And God uses the testing in Abraham's life and in every Christian's life for something that we don't always like to think about or talk about. Namely, God is refining our faith. God is refining our faith through testing. There's a wonderful verse, a promise, in Zechariah 13, verse 9, which I don't know that I've ever quoted before, but it's worth considering. It says, God is speaking, I will bring the third part through the fire, and I will refine them as silver is refined. And I will try them as gold is tried. They shall call on my name, I will hear them, I will say, they are my people. And they will say the Lord is my God. See that's the It's the gold. That's the point of the refining. And the refining, you know, is gold and silver are refined and tried. Sometimes there's a lot of heat applied. to that process, which may or may not argue for the fact that sometimes testing might be personally painful. But we will go through trial, we will go through testing because God is making us his people. And his people are holy people. I once heard Walter Chantry As some of you may know, he's a great Baptist, Reformed Baptist preacher, and used to be in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. I don't even know if the man's alive or not But uh I once heard him say to a group of uh college students, which I was involved with at the time. He started off his his his message. God is not interested as much in your happiness as he is in your holiness. That was a bombshell. But I think that expresses the point Yes, there is happiness and joy in being a Christian, but never at the expense of holiness. In Abraham's case, the refining that God is doing comes through Isaac in this specific instance. In your case, it may come from a different source, but there will always be testing of your faith. The way Isaac is described in verses 17 and 18 also reveals an additional aspect of the content of Abraham's faith. Isaac is referred to in these verses as Abraham's only begotten son. That cannot be a mistake. Only begotten Son The Greek and the English highlight Isaac's role as being very precious to Abraham. But it also prefigures another precious only begotten son. As we have learned from our youth in church, in Sunday school, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Or in this was manifested the love of God toward us, because God has sent his only begotten Son into the world So we might live through him. The test specifically for Abraham is, you see, Will Abraham be obedient to God? Will he sacrifice his only begotten Son, even as God will later give us his only begotten Jesus? Will Abraham believe God's promises? God's word that the Redeemer will come through his own seed, Isaac, and bless all the nations of the world. Will Abraham trust God so much? That he, Abraham, will make the ultimate sacrifice even as God makes the ultimate sacrifice for us in Christ. And I'm not talking about whether, you know, how valuable Isaac's death would have been. We all realize it wouldn't have mattered. It's Christ. It's Abraham thinking, in a sense, how is God's word going to happen if the son is dead? How can the promised son Save people from all nations if he's dead. Does God mean what he says? So will Abraham trust God so much Well, Abraham's God-given faith issue in obedience. Please note that I did not say obedience. Brings about Abraham's God-given faith. Obedience flows out of true faith Will God's will Abraham's God given faith issue in obedience and trust and belief of God That is why Abraham is so highly commended to us as one with true faith, as one whose faith in God goes so far as to be willing to sacrifice his only beginning. As one whose faith is pure, pure obedience, pure love Abraham is commended here for imitating God. Can't get around it. Even as Ephesians 5, 1 and 2 calls us to be imitators and followers of God as dear children And he goes on to tell us how you do that. But you can read that for yourself. Verse 19 reveals even more the content of Abraham's faith as it involves his son and as it involves this test. Abraham, it says, accounted that God was able to raise him, that is Isaac, to raise Isaac up even from the dead. From whence he also receives him as a figure. Abraham reasoned. That's what that word accounted means. He reasoned. God gave him the ability to reason and he used his mind. And his mind was influenced by God's revelation. And he reasoned that if A must be true, then B must be true. Even though B, God never said to Abraham. God just said your son is in your seed, all the nations of the world will be blessed. Abraham had to make an application of that. By the Spirit's leading. He reasoned, and the Spirit led him to the conclusion that God was able to raise his son from the dead. Imagine that. How stark that is, how profound that kind of faith is, especially when there had been no other examples of such a thing occurring, and no promise of God that that would happen. And on that basis, he acts in faith. Taking Isaac up the mountain and about ready to put him on the, he puts him on the altar and about ready to destroy him. And is stopped by the intervention of God. It's a marvelous statement. This belief that led Abraham through the testing, to the act. Has to originate from God. Even as Jesus said much later to the Sadducees in the outer courts of the temple, right before the last day of his life I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead. But the God of the living. Therefore you do so greatly err. God promised Abraham a seed who would bless the world. And Abraham believed God. That whether in death or in life, his son Isaac would fulfill God's promise. And God counted this to Abraham as righteousness. What greater blessing could there be for Abraham than for his seed, Isaac, to figure Christ? Think about that. We think about our children and we have desires for our children. What are they going to be when they grow up? Look at Abraham I want my son to prefigure Jesus. Isaac's death points to Christ's death. But there's something about Abraham's faith that is also essential to understand And that is that Isaac's death implies Isaac's Isaac's resurrection. It's not, you see, just by Christ's death that we receive new life. We receive forgiveness of sin. It's implied that we have new life. But Abraham apparently believes in the fact that God would provide For his people to fulfill this promise, even if his son is dead. And in the wonder of God's providence, The resurrection is then pictured to Abraham in a ram caught in a bush. And the ram becomes the sacrifice. And the ram becomes Pointing forward to the life. One life spared, one life taken, one life spared. But in Christ, that's not just a spared life. That's a new life. And that's an eternal life. And it's forever. Paul put it this way in First Corinthians fifteen twenty twelve If Christ is preached that he rose from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? And if there be no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ not be risen, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith is in vain also. Death and resurrection. Hand in hand, never to be separated, never one to be elevated over the other. Eat to be given equal treatment and of absolute necessity for you to be saved. On another day, Paul spoke to the greatest minds of the ancient world, the Greek philosophers at Athens. Heirs to all the glory of Greece, men of intellect, and men of profound reasoning capabilities whose thinking led the world then and to some degree still lead the world today Paul began preaching to them about Christ, about his death and his resurrection. And as we heard earlier. In verse 21, we know that the Athenians were kind of a ready audience because they always like to hear new things. And they always like to tell others about new things. But when it came time for Paul to say to the Athenians, God has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. By that man by whom he has ordained, whether he has given assurance unto all men that he has raised him from the dead. And the reaction from the Athenians, the Greek philosophers, to Paul's preaching of the gospel. of the gospel, of the death and resurrection of Christ, the gospel. Their reaction to that is best characterized as a mixed bag. When they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked. And others said, We will hear you again on this matter. The resurrection of the dead, a great stumbling block for the Greeks. And many mocked. A few heard. As verse 34 gives their names. Abraham's faith is tested in this Isaac incident. And Abraham's very being will show by his life that he is fully committed to God and his promises. He's fully committed to his word and to his plan of redemption. And that is only purely and simply because of God's grace. No other reason. Abraham Job and all believers know that their Redeemer, Jesus Christ, lives Abraham's seed and God's only begotten Son lives, and that we are united to him because of his death and resurrection. I know that in him I live, I move, I have my being. The you Amen. Let us pray. Merciful God. We thank thee, O Lord, for the example of Abraham. But Lord, we do not preach. Abraham, so we can follow him. We preach the content of Abraham's faith so we can follow his seed, Jesus. O Lord our God, we pray for your Holy Spirit to intervene intervene and lead us in our lives. So that our faith. As it is tested, we'll continue to remain faithful to your word. And we ask these things humbly and with fear. In Jesus' name, amen.