Get your Bibles and follow the reading of the new of the Old Testament scripture Joshua, go to chapter Joshua chapter 2, and we're gonna read from verse 1 to 14. You can find that on page 210 of your Bibles So Joshua chapter two And Joshua, the son of Nan, sent two men secretly from Shetim as spies. saying, Go, view the land, especially Jericho. And they went and came into the house of a prostitute, whose name was Rahab, and lodged there. And he was told of the king of Jericho. And he was told to the king of Jericho, behold, men of Israel. Have come here tonight to search out the land. Then the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, Bring out the men who have come to you who enter your house, for they have come to search out all the land. But the woman had taken the men, the two men, and hired them. And she said, True, the men came to me, but I did not know where they came from. And when the gate was about to be closed at dark, the men went out. I do not know where the men went. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof and hid them with the stalks of flax. That she had laid in order on the roof. So the men pursue after them on the way to the Jordan, as far as the forts. And the gate was shut as soon as the pursuers had gone out. Before the men lay down She came up to them on the roof and said to the men, I know that the Lord has given you the land, and that the fear of you has fallen upon us. and that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the waters of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan To Sion and Og, whom you devoted to destruction. And as soon as We heard it, our hearts melted, and there was no spirit left in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God, in the heavens above and on the earth beneath. Now then, please swear to me by the Lord That as I have dealt kindly with you, you also will deal kindly with my father's house and give me a sure sign. that you will save alive my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all who belong to them And deliver our lives from death. And the man say to her, Our lives for yours. Even to death. If you do not tell this business of ours, then when the Lord gives us the land, we will deal kindly and faithfully with you. This is the word of God. Please be seated. Brothers and sisters, we have a topic that's rather interesting, many times perhaps ignored. Or not pay much attention to. But Rahab was a vessel of mercy. Rahab known as the prostitute. But she was also an unlike hero Although history, all throughout history, we find many unlike heroes, men as well as women. And it is about an unlikely hero whose name is Rahab that I would like to talk to you about today. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for this portion of scripture and this woman. And Lord, before we draw her, I pray that we will examine her and her life. and see what it was that made what was that made the difference in her life. And see if we are not in need of the same thing today. We peop we people that are sitting here listening to this may be in the same need We thank you, Father, that none of us comes to you perfect. We remind ourselves of that. And we thank you that we can find something from your word in every case. in every passage that would speak to a need in our life, that would comfort a hurt, that would strengthen a weakness. So we commit ourselves to you today in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. I would like to propose something before we restart. As we examine the life of Rayhav today. We must understand God's control in our lives in order to obey Him completely. And that is that should be our goal as you listen to this presentation extract and get everything that happened in in in Rahab's life applied to your personal life. How can you apply that or how does that apply to your personal life So let's agree on that and and please if you feel free to feel free to write it to write it down. They give you a piece of paper there where where you can write your questions and you can write your You need history is full of unlike yours. I would like to look one of them today. But there is now but there's so many others like Gideon. the man that sought the way not to do things. But God used him right away. When we meet Reheaven the Old Testament, she is not exactly a model example of womanhood virtues. In fact, she is an idol worshiping pagan whose occupation has been often called the second oldest profession in the world. Yes, she is a harlot. One who gives herself to defilement for financial gain. That is the definition. But something happened in the life of Rahab. God was working behind the scenes. And for that we rejoice because he was working on her life. behind the scenes. He is working in our lives behind the scenes and we don't even know it. In Joshua chapter 2 we see not the culmination of that working. But the evidence of the beginning of that working in her life. That was to follow in fullness of faith and trust as The passage goes through. Brothers and sisters in the faith, it is a fantastic story. It is a true story. Don't let anybody tell you that this is just a a made up story. No, it did happen. In the end of her life, we have a testimony about her that reads, By faith Rahab perish not. with them that believed not, when she had received the spice in peace And I want you to remember that as we go through. Her name is found in the section of the book of Hebrews called the Faith Heroes. Hall of Fame. When we were when the pastor was reading earlier he he made mention of that And that's exactly what it's called. The Faith Heroes Hall of Fame. This is a section of the book of Hebrews where the author delineates great Christians or great believers down through history and Rahab, believe it or not, is listed there. I think we have something to learn from this woman. Hebrews chapter 11 is often called the hall of faith. Or the Faith Hall of Fame. Those are different names that are used. In this notted chapter, chapter 11, the writer of the book of Hebrews introduces an impressive list of heroic figures from the Old Testament. It would be worthwhile for you to to take a look at those names and how they are listed. The first thing I would like to talk about is the fact that God's plan is not as one we humans will have planned. The way God plans is not the same way that we plan. God reiterates this in the Bible in Isaiah 55. He says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Isaiah 55, verses 8 to 9. And his perspective on people is completely different than we would expect. In Jeremiah 9 uh in Jeremiah chapter 9 verses 23 and 24, Jeremiah discusses that And he says, not many wise, not many mighty, not many nobles are the ones that God looks for. God looks for those that would obey him wholeheartedly. Those are the ones that God is looking for here in Joshua 2. God's plan is not as we would plan. Each of us I think has prioritized least in our mind So when we walk up to someone, we get first impressions. As soon as we know them. Each of our first impressions is different than somebody else. And so when we meet someone, you are looking for four or five top things, such as a first smile, an eye contact First word that tells you that they nourish you. They they notice you that you are there. Those things will follow As you develop a relationship with another person, you will continue to develop a perspective on that person based on what you know about them. And it is sad to say that it's based on our own biases. The problem, no I should say the reality here is that everyone is a sinner. See, nobody has a perfect evaluation chart. When you meet somebody, you make a chart, analyze a person, and no one's chart is perfect. For instance, when you get evaluated at work, that is not perfect. A lot of it is correct. And Sim may not even be, but it's not perfect. God, however, has a perfect evaluation chart for everyone. And so if it would be left to us to choose who is worthy to be called a child of God, this world would be a mess. It would involve politicking, payoffs, and everything else And you may ask why. Well, because a sinner would be involved in the choosing process. Simply. As simply as that. That is not the way God has chosen to do it. Praise the Lord for that. In his wisdom, in his sovereignty, he is the one that chooses, and we are not to question. But we are to bless his name and obey him with respect to the commands that he gave us. No one is worthy to be saved. No one. So let's put our hates or personals personal opinions that we may have on Raihab. Aside for the moment. And let's look what happens in Joshua chapter 2. In the beginning, Joshua, in chapter 1, gives a stern speech to the tribes of Israel. Just before they go out into the land of Canaan. He knew that they need a pep talk. So to rally his troops, he says, be strong and with good courage. And he says that four or five times in the chapter. In chapter 2, Joshua commences his war strategy before the conquest of Canaan. Joshua sends out two sends out of Sitin two men to spy secretly, saying Go see the land on the other side of the Jordan and see what's going on even in the city of Jericho. In the area of Palestine, Jericho is just five miles north of the Dead Sea and four miles west of the Jordan River. Shetim, the place where the Israelites camp, was about six miles east of the Jordan River. and northeast of the Dead Sea. So both of them were about the same distance with the river in between and the Dead Sea in the bottom. That is the picture that that they're giving us here. So despise did a solar. Went across the Jordan into Jericho, and they came into a harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there, exactly as we read. A couple of observations. Jericho was not only the First city they will encounter to enter into the land was a substantial fortification It had been built on the same site four times since 3000 BC. Last time was about 1500 years. Just About sixty years before the Israelites conquered. So Jericho was an old city, very fortified. And we're gonna see how it was fortified. So when they came to it, Jericho was a fairly new city. It was newly fortified to stand against the attacks of the enemy. He had an outer wall that was about six feet thick and about ten to fifteen feet high. Just outside the large wall. The large wall was about 15 feet inside the small wall. It was about 15 feet thick. and thirty feet high. So it was a monumental place. Nowadays to us, that doesn't seem to be a big deal. But in those days, that was tremendous. That was insurmountable. In other words, the city would have been looked up by military strategists of of their time and they would say, Forget it. We are not going we're not gonna get in there. In the space between the two walls, of about fifteen to twenty feet, as we said, were many homes. And guess whose home was largest? just inside the outer wall. Rahab's house. She and her family lived there and it was built against the outer wall. and probably stuck over somewhat. So her window was facing out of the wall. And she was able, as we will see later, to let the spies down on the now famous Scarlet Court. Jericho was quite a city and the Israelites picked on a big one to start with. Rahab was involved in sinful occupation, as we say She was involved in immorality. We don't want to cloud that There is no excusing her lifestyle. Yet God chose to lead these two spies into her home And you have to ask the the question why? In the natural sense, our carnal minds can turn to things like maybe they wanted to get out at night in the To an a hot spot. I doubt that God was in it, and God led them. That is all you can assume from the passage, because nothing happened Nothing. God led them to the place for lodging. And Rahab's response was interesting, wasn't it? She defended them. There are a couple reasons that we can state for why they enter the house. One would be because It was right there in the wall. And if they had to escape, it wouldn't be difficult to get out very fast. Another one would be Going to such a house probably wouldn't incite so much suspicion Since there were men going in and out of the house all the time. So either one, or perhaps both of them, Are very logical and perhaps they were the reason. But only God knows that. But listen to what happens in verse 2. And he was told to the king of Jericho, Behold, men of Israel have come here tonight to search out the land. See, war got out in the great w in the great vine very fast. And the king found about it And in verse 3, we will read the message that the king sent to Rahab. Then the king of Jericho sent to sent to Rahab. Saying, Bring out the men who have come to you, who enter your house, for they have come to search out all the land. We may ask, how did the king know that the city Had a king over it. And Satan also has his dominion. And he has his realm. The king obviously has got a pretty good intelligence network In the same way that this king stood against Israel, there are lots of principalities and powers that oppose Us on a daily walk. Remember that. We're trying I'm trying to bring some of that to our lives The king knows straight away that people have entered into his country and they were in Rah's house And as we will find out a little later in the chapter, the Israelites did when before them. So everything that the Israelites did since they left Egypt was going ahead of them and people on farther lands, farther away lands already knew what the Israelites were doing and how were they doing it. So the people of Jericho, the king of Jericho, the people in cities around the area, have heard of the fame of the Israelites. their terrible ability to make war and the fact that they got God with them, a God that would part the sea. None of the gods of the other nations have been able to do something like that. None of them. So war have got around before them, so when they heard that these guys were Israelites, they were trembling in their boots. Again, a news troubles fast, and the king says to Rahab that they have to come to search out the country. The word search is interesting. It's the same word used for dig So they were kind of digging around, seeing what can they turn up By the way of their espionage, to discover weakness, perhaps any possible entrances that they didn't know And things like that. In verse 4, the woman had taken the two men and hidden them. And she said, true, the men came to me, but I did not know where where were they from. Well, there is a lie She lied to the soldiers sent by the king when they came to her house. John Calvin, in his commentaries on the book of Joshua, will bring some clarity and will answer some questions that you may have. And it reads like this. Now the questions which here arise out first was treachery to her country. Excusable. Second, could her lie be free from fault? We know that the love of our country, which is as it were our common mother, has been implanted in us by nature. When therefore Rahab knew that the object in the object intended was the overthrow of the city in which she had been born and brought up. It seems a detestable act of inhumanity to give her to give her aid and counsel to the spies. It is pure elevation to say that they were not yet avowed enemies Inasmuch as war has not been declared, since it is plain enough that they had conspired the destruction of her fellow citizens It was therefore only the knowledge communicated to her mind by God which exempted her from fault. As having been set free from the common rule. Her faith is commanded by two apostles. who at the same time declare in Hebrews eleven thirty-one and James chapter two verse twenty-five. that the service which she rendered to the spies was acceptable to God. In short In order to pass by faith to a new people, like she will do later. She behoved to renounce her countrymen And as in this she only acquas acquis acquiesced in the judgment of God. There was no criminality in abandoning them. That isn't the part of prison. As a part of the falsehood, as for the falsehood, John Calvin says, we must admit that though it was done for a good purpose, It was not free from fault. For those who hold that, what is called A dutiful lie to be altogether excusable, do not sufficiently consider how precious truth is in the sight of God. Therefore, although our purpose Be to assist our brethren, to consult for their safety and relieve them, it never can be lawful to die, to lie. Because that cannot be right, which is contrary to the nature of God. And God is truth. And still, the act of Rahab is not devoid of the praise of virtue. Although it was not spotlessly pure. We must also remember that it was a common practice in those days. In those nations they were so corrupt in their moral standards that To lie was not more wrong than to tell the truth. You just did whatever was more advantageous And Rahab thought she show, and Rahab though she shows evidence of faith here, a little bit later Was still the same person. Which points out something that is important. When we talk to other people about our faith, we do not put a list before somebody. with the changes that they need to make in their lives before they will be acceptable to God. That would be our application. There is nothing in the Bible to that effect. In fact, it's quite the opposite. God takes the sinner Christ said that he came not to the righteous, but to bring sinners into repentance So when someone accepts Christ as their Lord and Savior, that it's unconditional. The only condition is the faith in Christ. Neither you have to stop this or stop that or any other thing. So Rayhaver still has some changes to make. And we're gonna see her progress as These verses continue. It is interesting that they mention the Israelites intentions and intentions in verse 3. I'm following. Because God, and this is a We're gonna get into something that although was many, many, many hundred years ago, today still going on. It's interesting That they mentioned the Israelites' intentions. Verse three. I'm following. Because God had promised the children of Israel that this kind of conquest was going to take place. In fact, Moses back in Exodus 15 Chapter fifteen, verse fifteen sixteen, what is known as the Song of Moses, prophesy. That God was going to literally push aside everything on their way. And they would have complete victory over all the armies. that they face. God has promised the land and we've and will fulfill the promise Now we're seeing the fulfillment of that promise. Then and the Canaanites We are fully aware of the same truth. In verse 5, and when the gate was about to be closed or dark, the men went out. I do not know where the men went. says Rahab. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake him. Brothers and sisters, Rahab is a very crafty woman. She sent the chasers in a wild goose chase. And she succeeded. They went out and they shut the gate after them. So if the spies were still in the city, they couldn't get out. And if the spies were out, they couldn't come back into the city. That was their thought And then the Chasers went after them. I don't know after whom, but they they they went after something. While they were gone, Rehab brought them up to the roof of the house and laid them with the stalk of flax. As she had done before. And she goes to them because she wants to talk with them and say to the men, I know that the Lord has given you the land, and that And that the fear of you has fallen upon us. And that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you. The Lord still guided the course the course of the of the spies that they find in this center, meaning Jericho, it's called the Sikh was this this it was the center of the area, in this center The very person that was most suitable for the purpose. And upon her heart, the tidings of the miracles broke brought by the living God on behalf of Israel had made such an impact that she not only informed the spice of the despondency of the Canaanites, But she even trusted, and here comes the most beautiful part. She even trusted in the power of the God of Israel. and conceal despice from all inquiries of her countrymen at a great risk to her life. God is working behind the scenes and extremely visible to bring about not only the conquest of Jericho by the Israelites and their success. But if I may say so, but the spiritual success of rehab, if I can use the term Her faith. So he brings these two men to her door. Now Rahab obviously has done a couple of things wrong. Well, perhaps more than that. up to this point. And it may seem a bit hypocritical for her to make these statements of faith. Remember she is not an Israelite that was nurtured in the law of Moses. She knew nothing about the law of Moses. She knew of Moses but didn't know anything about the law of Moses. She knew nothing about that. She knew nothing in terms of absolutes. And while we definitely concur with the truth that it's never right to do a wrong thing like that in order to get a chance to do it right. At the same time, we have to understand the context from which it's coming from. But nevertheless, God honors his request. Well, we're looking now in verse ten to twelve It's called the statement of faith or the confession of faith of Rehabs. Of Rehab. Here Rahab tells the spies, for we have heard how the Lord dried up the waters of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt. And what you did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, to Shihan and Og, whom you devoted to destruction. eleven. And as soon as we heard it, our hearts melted And there was no spirit left in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, He is God in the heavens and above, in the heavens above and in the earth beneath. God bless Rahab in spite of her. She reiterates, she recites back to the Israelites or to the two spies what had happened. The Lord dry up the sea, they overcame all the the overc there overcome the Egyptians, uh the Moabite kings, the Amorites. She said That tells tells that tells us something. It tells us that there is a God and He's working on your behalf. That was her conclusion. It was working on their behalf. Now then please swear to me. By the Lord, as I have dealt kindly with you, you also would deal kindly with my father's house and give me a sure sign. So she asked the spies. to make an oath of truth. And she asked them to make a commitment to that. Something like how would you back that up, the commitment. And they answered to her very simply, our life for your life. If we don't keep our promise to you, that means If you don't if you don't turn us in, we're dead. We give our lives to keep our oath And they did. And Jashuas in Joshua 6 reveals that during the destruction of Jericho the spies have already talked to Joshua. about it. And he honors the request to spare Rahab and her family. Another lesson I think is that God's purpose are always noble and right. In counter distinction of the way Rahab operated, God's purpose is not to be questioned Whether there is tainted or questionable as far as the ethics, God's purpose is perfect and right. We know that from the Bible The Holy Word of God. And so whenever we are looking a specific thing, it seems to be an exception or a paradox. And we have to look at the preponderance of the teaching of structure, of the scripture, the teaching of scripture. And that is The teaching of scripture is God can't lie. God is truth. And he who worships him does it in spirit and in truth In Joshua six, verse seventeen and verse twenty five We read about Rahabs and her family life spur fulfilling the oath that the spies made with her. It would be interesting for you to read the whole chapter. It is a beautiful chapter. In verse 17, and the city and all that is within, it shall be devoted to the Lord, devoted to the Lord, for destruction. the city and everything that's in it. Only Rahab, the prostitute, and all who are with her in her house shall live. Because she hid the messengers whom we sent. That was Joshua's Order to the troops. In verse 25, we we go down to verse 25. And we read again, but Rahab, the prostitute, and her father's house, and all who belonged to her Joshua saved alive and she has lived in Israel to this day because he hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho. Well, the only conclusion you can come to, and this is political inquiries aside. Okay. This is just in the religious portion. Is the fact that the Hebrews and J and Joshua six says that She was saved from physical harm in Joshua 6. And in Hebrews She was saved in terms of spiritual salvation. So it was two savings. It was the physical and the spiritual The only reason she was saved is because she hid despise. And by doing that, Rahab made herself acceptable to God. So it was not her. action of hiding but is the fact that she made acceptable made herself acceptable to God by doing what God told her to do It was not the hiring of the spies, but the fact that she exercised faith in Jehovah by doing that. By aiding in the hiding of the spies, she was confirming her faith in their God. Jericho was destroyed. Rahab's house was the only one standing is the only one standing. Everything else was fought. Nothing is standing. A complete destruction. of the once formidable and an undestructible city. We are told by the archaeologists that nothing was revealed in that site until eight hundred and fifty BC. When you go to chapter six of of Joshua, you're gonna see what Joshua says. what's gonna happen to the ones that r tried to rebuild the city. And here we are told by the archaeologists that nothing was rebuilt in that site until eight hundred and fifty BC. before Christ. About eight hundred years later was still a total devastation. In conclusion Let's go to James chapter 2 verse 25. And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers. and send them out by another way. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. The point that James is making across here is that the confession of faith in verse nineteen of James You believe that God is one? Is the question. You believe what the shaman said is right You do well. Even then demons believe unshouted. But it's not enough to believe that confession of faith The fact that God is one. It's got to go beyond that. It has to reach the innermost parts of your life and have it produce results in what you do. And that is what James is illustrating with Abraham in verse 21 through 24, and with Rahab in verse 25, to point out the genuine living faith. Has a central component. Works. Faith that doesn't produce works is not true faith. It's not genuine living faith. Often it is stated that James is contradicting Paul on what he said, when Paul says justification is by faith alone. Let me say that James is not contradicting Paul, but it is complementing Paul. Brothers and sisters in the faith, it is imperative that we understand that the issue we got a sin For all of us sins Adam, and that makes all of us equally guilty in his sight. There is no some more guilty than otherwise. We are all equally guilty in his sight. All people sin equally. And are and are in need of faith. The issue with Rahab was not who she was before, but who by God's grace she became. By God working on her life. And by simple trust. It just took a simple step receiving the spice. And that started the parade, a wonderful experience of life in God. For her in Christ for us. We are, and I'm gonna ask this question, are we willing to live by faith? Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for the many ways you provide, protect, and guide us. With your Spirit. Lord, we thank you for your Son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Thank you, Father, for guiding us today through the topic of Rahab She is such a wonderful example for us, as a genuine vessel of mercy. Father, the darkness on her prior life should only give us hope. Lord, we pray that you will make us genuine before you. Whether we are a Christian that has professed Jesus as his Savior, or whether we sit here today outside of the family of God. Lord, make us really think on our faith relationship with you. And realize that without faith, it's impossible to please you It's in the name of our Lord and Savior, the only one Jesus Christ, that we bring these petitions to you. Amen and amen.