Well now the reading of God's Word from 1 Kings chapter 3 verses 1 through 15. In the morning we have recently started a series on the book of Ecclesiastes, and so To pair with that series, we are going to be considering passages on the life of Solomon, Solomon the king, Solomon the one who wrote Ecclesiastes. But this morning we're in 1 Kings chapter 3, verses 1 through 15. This shortly after the kingdom is established as Solomon's kingdom. Solomon established as a king, the one who comes after his father David. You know, David ruled before him, and the kingdom is passed down to Solomon. And as that kingdom is established in the hand of Solomon, then we pick up in 1 Kings 3, verses 1 through 15, and we see this incident that takes place early in the reign of Solomon as king. So now God's word comes to us from first Kings three verses one through fifteen. Now listen to the reading of God's Word. Now Solomon made a treaty with Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and married Pharaoh's daughter. Then he brought her to the city of David until he had finished building his own house and the house of the Lord, and the wall all around Jerusalem. Meanwhile, the people sacrificed at the high places because there was no house built for the name of the Lord until those days. And Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of his father David, except that he sacrificed and burned incense at the high places. Now the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. Solomon offered a thousand burnt offerings on that altar At Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask, what shall I give you? And Solomon said, You have shown great mercy to your servant David, my father, because he walked before you in truth, in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with you. You have continued this great kindness for him, and you have given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day. Now, O Lord my God. You have made your servant king instead of my father David, but I am a little child. I do not know how to go out or come in. And your servant is in the midst of your people whom you have chosen, a great people, too numerous to be numbered or counted. Therefore, give to your servant an understanding heart to judge your people That I may discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this great people of yours? The speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. Then God said to him, Because you have asked this thing. And have not asked long life for yourself, nor have asked riches for yourself, nor have asked the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice. Behold, I have done according to your words. See, I have given you a wise and understanding heart, so that there has not been anyone like you before you nor shall any like you arise after you. And I have also given you what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall be not be any one like you among the kings all your days. So if you walk in my ways to keep my statutes and my commandments, as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days. Then Solomon awoke, and indeed it had been a dream, and he came to Jerusalem and stood before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. Offered up burnt offerings, offered peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants. As far as the reading of God's Word, may He add His blessing to it. May He also bless the preaching of it this afternoon here in our midst today. Well here we are in this passage right after Solomon's rule has just been established, right after he's just been established as the king over Israel. You'll notice that, you know, it was not without controversy that he was actually established as king. There had been an attempt by another to be a king in his place before this. in the chapters leading up to chapter 3. And yet here Solomon is, the son of David, who is king, who is king after his father David. Here he is at this point at the beginning of his rule of the kingdom. And right here at the very beginning, what does he do? Well notice what he does here. One of the very first things he does is to go and to worship the Lord. He goes, he brings to the Lord his offerings. Quite a remarkable offering that we read of in verse 4 of our passage. A thousand. Burnt offerings, a thousand burnt offerings, the sheer size, the sheer magnitude of the offering that is given Astounds the mind. It's an expression of his love for the Lord. It's an expression of sincere love for the Lord. Notice how verse 3 points us to the fact that Solomon loved the Lord. And walked in his statutes. And yes, we should understand that what Solomon is doing right in this passage is that he is loving the Lord. Now, we should understand that Solomon loves the Lord, even though his love is not perfect for the Lord. Yes, and in fact, we do see some problems already with his love for the Lord. Now there are some problems that are already present here at the beginning of 1 Kings chapter 3 in Solomon's love for the Lord. For one thing, there's verse 1 in the passage mentioning his marriage to the daughter of the Pharaoh. Now it's something that makes a lot of sense politically if his kingdom were just another earthly kingdom. You make a treaty with the king of another world power. You seal it by means of a family relationship, by means of a marriage. It would have been a good idea, it would seem, if this were just an ordinary kingdom. Yet the kingdom that Solomon is king over is not just another kingdom, not just another ordinary kingdom of this world A foreshadowing and a type of the kingdom of God in the consummated state is what the kingdom of Israel is in the Old Testament. And yet the problem here with Solomon marrying this foreign wife is that marriage to a foreign wife, it is to be expected in the Old Testament, will eventually lead one to idolatry, or at least Will eventually lead one to uh finding acceptable the kinds of practices that those who worship other gods find acceptable You can think about over the course of a marriage. You can think about how pressures sometimes build up in expectations and the fact that he has yoked himself to a wife who is Perfectly at home with worshiping other gods, you can think about how that's going to affect the one who is the king over God's people here in 1 Kings chapter 3. Solomon marries a wife who is um a bel uh uh part of a a people who worships other gods. Now, it's also problematic what Solomon is doing by worshiping or uh or by uh by marrying this daughter, in that he does so making a treaty with the king of Egypt. Now again, if Israel were just another kingdom, it'd make perfect sense, wouldn't it? Egypt is this world power Um Israel is not the largest kingdom in the area at this time, and yet to yoke yourself to a more powerful kingdom you would think would be a good thing. Get them to help you, get them someone you can call upon But is that the kind of kingdom that Israel is to be under the Old Testament? No. The kingdom of Israel in the Old Testament has one king whom they're to call upon for help. One great king they are in treaty with, and only one. The Lord, and the Lord alone is the king of Israel in the Old Testament. The Lord is the one whom this earth or the human king, Solomon, is to call upon. He's to call upon the Lord. He's not to call upon Egypt. And so, yes, again, here is another error that it seems like Solomon is making here. He is making a treaty with someone who is a world power when he should be yoked to the Lord alone as great king. And he's also sealing it with marriage to a wife who uh could be engaged in idolatry and could lean in that direction and could cause him to lean in that direction. It's a problem. It is a problem later on Another problem going on with Solomon's kingdom at this point is what is taking place in verse 2 and verse 3. Notice there the mention of the high places. There are sacrifices taking place at these high places. Now what are these high places? They're often mentioned in the Old Testament. They are these platforms. They're these platforms that are set up on which people can stand and bring their offering to the gods. Those who are serving false gods, those who are serving other gods worship on these high places. Now these high places would have been scattered across the land that Israel was given before Israel had come into that land. And yet the Lord had also made very clear that even though those high places would already be there in the land He made clear that the people of Israel were not just to take over that which was already built and use those high places to worship the true God But that they were to get rid of those high places, and that the Lord wanted to be worshipped only in the way that he had asked to be worshipped And the way it asked to be worshipped was not for them to take over those high places and continue to use them. Now, um he had said that to Israel some four, five hundred-ish years. prior to this, that they should one of their priorities should be to get rid of those high places. Guess what though? Here they are in the days of Solomon, still worshiping on those high places, still you making wide use. of these things. And in addition, the Lord had also said, in Deuteronomy chapter 12, he had said that Israel should not simply use these high places that are scattered across the land that they're going to enter into, but that they should rely upon the Lord to choose for himself the place where he would dwell. Now has the Lord chosen that place for him himself already? Yes he has. Back in 2 Samuel chapter 6, David brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem, the place where the Lord should dwell. The Lord's presence is symbolized by the Ark of the Covenant and he actually dwells there. David brings it in to Jerusalem. Jerusalem becomes the city of David. Here now is where the Lord would dwell. Here now is the one place the Lord should be worshipped. Here is the one place offerings should be offered to the Lord, the God of Israel. Yet what do we see here in our passage? We see the people, even though the Ark of the Covenant and the Tabernacle are present this whole time. The people are still in the habit of worshiping at these high places, these high places that should have been gotten rid of a long time ago And notice the comment again in verse 3. You know, Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statues of his father David, except that he sacrificed and burned incense at the high places. And even here in this text, what is Solomon doing? In verse 4, he goes to Gibeon. Gibeon is not Jerusalem Not only does he go to Gibeon, he goes there because that was the great high place. So it's one of these high places that they're not supposed to be involved in at all. And yet here he is at the great high place. He's offering a thousand burnt offerings. Again, an astounding gift. And we should understand that it comes from um some uh an intention that is sincerely meant. Even if misguided. Yes, we have to say misguided. Nonetheless, sincerely meant How does the Lord receive it though? How he receives it in verse 5 appears to show us That the Lord is even pleased with the gift, misguided though it is, because he answers him by appearing in a dream. And telling Solomon to ask basically for anything, ask what shall I give you? And this seems to indicate that the Lord is pleased. Yes, we understand the the gift itself is not perfect in every way, and there's more to say about that, but at the same time the Lord does accept it, even though not perfectly given, and does receive it. It is sincerely intended. Now, what does Solomon do here? Or what does the Lord do here? The Lord He He asks Solomon to ask for anything. He appears to him in a dream. Even though there are these problems with the way the uh Solomon has given the gift, it's an open-ended question he puts to his servant Solomon. Ask, ask, what shall I give you? What do we see Solomon asking for? So now at this point you need to consider, what would a king in Solomon's position usually ask for? So if you assumed a king who is in the ancient Near East who in intends to serve a god and imagines that he's going to be able to ask something of a god and invokes a god In the usual situation in the ancient Near East, an ordinary king might ask for something such as the things that Solomon doesn't ask for, long life. He might ask that all his enemies should be defeated and fall before him in battle. He might ask that he would receive riches and spoils of war. He might ask that the God would prosper him, make his name great, the king's name great. He might ask that he would be well known across the face of the land, that his glory and his fame would spread Solomon does not ask for any of the things that normally such a king would ask for. What does he ask for instead? Notice Solomon's attitude in verse 7. Listen to verse 7. Now, O Lord my God, you have made your servant king instead of my father David, but I am a little child. I do not know how to go out or come in. The thing that Solomon asks for indicates that Solomon recognizes his own inadequacy for the task. The task is too much for him. He is like a little child who does not know where it is going or where it needs to go. The task is too great for him. That's really the very opposite of what you'd think a king in his position in the ancient Near East should ask, or should be expected to ask for. A king in his position might be expected to boast about his own greatness and worthiness. To boast that he is worthy of the God giving a gift because of how much greater he is than his enemies And therefore, request that the God would come in and confirm his greatness. The opposite of what Solomon does. Solomon says he's not adequate. He needs something that he doesn't have enough of. He needs something that comes from above that he does not have enough of. He needs wisdom. He needs understanding. He needs discernment. As a king, he needs to judge. And surely part of this is the fact that the kingdom he is king over is no ordinary kingdom. It's a kingdom that uniquely among the kingdoms of the world at this time Is a kingdom rooted in the very promise of God, rooted in God's saving grace. The whole reason that Israel exists as a people and as a kingdom is because God intends to use her as an instrument by which to bring salvation to the world. Salvation will be brought to people from all nations. Through that one nation and that one kingdom that belongs to God. Verse 8 and verse 9, he calls the people your people. He speaks of Israel as God's people. In verse 8, they are the people whom God has chosen. So it is no ordinary kingdom that Solomon is ruling over. What does he need? He needs the wisdom that comes from above. A wisdom that doesn't fit with the wisdom that's ordinary in this world. It's true that if this were just any other kingdom that we were talking about, even Egypt, you could even put a name on it, like Egypt. If it were just any of these other kingdoms in the world that we were talking about, there are forms of wisdom, there are forms of understanding that might be appropriate for such kingdoms. And yet because this is the the kingdom of God, and because it exists for God's purpose and God's saving purpose, we understand that it takes a different kind of wisdom, a wisdom that comes from above. Who is adequate for that task? God uses Israel to bring salvation through the seed of Abraham, who is the seed of the woman. And as this salvation comes to the earth by means of Israel, who is adequate to oversee that people? and that kingdom. Who is able to oversee the kingdom that is the kingdom of God and the kingdom of heaven? Things that make sense according to the wisdom that is common in this world May work when it comes to administering ordinary kingdoms, and yet may not work when it comes to administering the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God depends on the gospel of Christ. It depends on a wisdom that is much higher than what this world can understand by nature. Solomon needs wisdom from above. Solomon asks for wisdom from above. It is appropriate. The kingdom he rules over Is a type and a shadow of God's consummated kingdom, the eternal kingdom of God that is to come one day through Christ. How can you serve God's purpose if you don't have the wisdom that comes only from Him? So yes, Solomon asks the Lord for wisdom, and how does the Lord respond? The Lord is pleased to give what's been asked for. He's also pleased by the request that's been given. And he's so pleased, in fact, that he gives Solomon not only what he asked for, but also those things that he didn't ask for. And it shows you how wise the request actually was. That the Lord answers the request and also answers it with more than what was asked for. Look at verses 10 through 14. The speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing. Then God said to him, Because you have asked this thing and have not asked long life for yourself, nor have asked riches for yourself. Nor have asked the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern justice. Behold, I have done according to your words. See, I have given you a wise and understanding heart, so that there has not been any one like you before you, nor shall any like you arise after you And I have also given you what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there shall not be any one like you among the kings all your days. So if you walk in my ways to keep my statutes and my commandments. As your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days. Because Solomon did not ask for those other things, he will receive the wisdom he asked for, he will also receive other things. And notice what happens as the Lord answers this request, the Lord gives this wisdom, this wisdom that surpasses other This wisdom's from above and this wisdom that surpasses other uh kinds of wisdom. What does Solomon do in verse 15? Solomon is given wisdom. He awakes. It is a dream. But notice what he does next in verse 15. After having been given this wisdom, after having been blessed by God, what does he do? Then he goes and begins to make right the very things that were wrong in Israel. Even though he had gone and worshipped at Gibeon, even though he had worshipped at a high place to begin with, now in verse 15, having been blessed with the wisdom that he needs. He turns and he goes now, not to Gibeon, but now to Jerusalem. And now he goes and stands before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, the place where the Lord dwells. And now he offers the offerings that he should have offered to begin with. So again, um uh things begin to turn turn around and things begin to go right. in Solomon's day. But the root of that is the wisdom that he's been given. Wisdom from above. And so once again, we're reminded from this passage that we need wisdom from above, don't we? We need to understand that God's plan of salvation exists and operates on a plane that surpasses What is attainable to ordinary, common, human wisdom? Isn't that what we heard from 1 Corinthians chapter 1 We heard of God's plan that was rooted in God's wisdom. God's plan to save is rooted in this wisdom that just doesn't make any sense to the world, right? Because the world would label it foolishness, just as Paul said in 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Who of us would have said God, the way that you should operate your plan of salvation is you should send your son to die on a cross. Who of us would have looked at that and recognized that to be wisdom? And yet, this is the wisdom of God. This is how we've been saved. And if we've been saved by such wisdom, we also need to seek such wisdom and continue to seek such wisdom. and continue to depend upon such wisdom. Not depending on the wisdom that comes naturally. Yes, it's easy to do so. Yes, the world wants to go that way in so many instances. Yes, even in the midst of the church we're sometimes tempted to go that way. But it's important for us to recognize how important the wisdom that comes from above is. And this is what we're called to. Let's remember that we've been saved by a wisdom from God that contravenes, overturns the wisdom of the world. So let's be quick, therefore, to continue to seek him and his wisdom and have it be reshaped constantly by Jesus Christ. For Christ is the wisdom of God. He's the one we need. Let's continue to seek wisdom from him. Let's continue to pattern ourselves after the wisdom that comes from God until that day when we will receive the fullness of what he has promised us. Amen. Let's now pray. O Father, we do praise you for what you have shown us in your word. You have shown to us. um the need for your wisdom. You have shown to us um how Solomon needed your wisdom in particular as he was uh uh one who was ruling over uh your kingdom um as it was a foreshadowing and a type of the kingdom of heaven. We praise you that in showing this to us you have shown us that we are dependent upon the wisdom that comes from above, that which comes from you. That which is even sometimes in conflict with the world's wisdom, as indeed it was, when we look at the glory of the crucified one As we see that Christ is the wisdom of God, as he hung on a cross for the sins of the world. We rejoice, O Lord, in your wisdom, and we pray that you would grant to us more of it. Help us to be shaped by your wisdom rather than by the wisdom that this world values and esteems. We ask this thing that these things would be true more and more of us. We pray these things in Christ's name and for his glory. Amen.