Please continue to stand and turn to the scripture reading today upon which the sermon uh is based. First Corinthians chapter one. First Corinthians chapter one. And we will read verses ten. Through uh verse um verse twenty five Hear the word of the Lord. Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you. But that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it has been declared to me, concerning you, my brethren, by those of Chloe's household. that there are contentions among you. Now I say this that each of you says, I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas, or I am of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you except Christmas and Gaius, lest any should say that I had baptized in my own name. Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephanus Besides, I do not know whether I baptized any other. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with the wisdom of words. Lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written: I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has God not made foolish the wisdom of this world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God for through the foolishness of the message preached To save those who believe. For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom The we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness But the those who are called, both Jews and Greek, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated We continue to study 1 Corinthians, and as you can see, we're just getting into the book But last week you remember we talked about the divisions that apparently existed in the Corinthian church, divisions focused on certain Individuals, certain godly individuals, but nevertheless there was divisiveness there, and there wasn't unity in the body of Christ. In the aftermath of that discussion of the divisions and the need for unity in the church, in the aftermath, the Apostle Paul. . Starts a lengthy teaching moment. It stretches in the scriptures all the way from ver chapter 1, verse 18. through chapter three, verse twenty-three. And in this section He is predominantly contrasting the wisdom of the world of sinful men with the wisdom of God. And I began to ask myself the question, and Maybe some of you might ask the question. Why, after you've just talked about the visions within the body, would you launch in to a discussion of wisdom and the world's wisdom versus God's wisdom. Is there any connection in this between these ideas, between divisions on the one hand and the questions of wisdom of men versus the wisdom of God. When Paul asks the Corinthian congregation, what he says in verses 12 and 13, where he says a series of questions. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were you baptized in the name of Paul? When he asks those questions, is he not making the divided Corinthian church? See that division in the light of Jesus' cross is not something that is part of the wisdom of God But is something that's connected with the wisdom of men. Christ's death Is ultimate, the ultimate truth, the ultimate wisdom, in that by one man's death and resurrection, sinners might have eternal life. And they might also have one Lord, one faith One baptism, and therefore something eternal to be in union about Worldly wisdom with its focus on certain leadership styles and profiles That are current or present in sinful men helps contribute to division within Christ's body No human can ever buy his cult of personality or his good standing in the eyes of men, or his superior intellect, or his ability to command people, no man, no one man can ever bring unity. To sinners. No one can please all the people all the time. It's kind of accepted, isn't it? But only Jesus as Lord at the cross, and only Jesus As Lord over death has the power to change our sinful hearts in such a way that we may now believe that unity comes from leadership that suffers. and serves God's people and God's interests first As Paul starts this discussion about the wisdom of men versus the wisdom of God, he ends it With almost the same statement as we find in verses 12 and 13, you know, where he talks about his In verses 12 and 13, is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were you baptized in the name of Paul? He will end this discussion, this long discussion on the wisdom of God versus the wisdom of men He will end it with verse 20 through 23 in chapter 3. And there he will say this: The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise that they are vain. Therefore, let no man glory in men. For all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death. Or things present or things to come, all are yours. If you are Christ's, and Christ's is God's. And Christ is God's. You have two statements, chapter 1, 12 and 13, and chapter 3, 20 through 23, in which almost the same words are used And so the point is that you've got brackets around the thought. And in between In between is the prescription for how to not to continue to be in division, but how to promote unity within the body of Christ. And what is our unity in the body of Christ. Is it that we're in Paul or we're in or we're in Apollos or we're in Peter? Or is it that we're in Christ? What is more important? What's essential? And what is godly as opposed to what is worldly? These are great issues. This is not for Paul simply an academic exercise. It's not an intellectual discussion about who has true wisdom, God or man. Although we know who has true wisdom, God. It's really a teaching that says That the wisdom of God is of such degree that it counters man's sinful wisdom. and can lead the redeemed to live together in unity instead of division It's clear that the wisdom of man, which considers the cross of Christ foolishness Yields not only unbelief, but ungodly thought and ungodly behavior, including division in the church. Only you see by faith in the so-called quote foolishness of the cross of Jesus Is there truth? Is there life? And is there loving unity in the body of Jesus Christ? The foolishness of Christ's cross. To say this in another way, the foolishness of Christ's cross Is the great apologetic against the wisdom of men. The wisdom of men will inevitably bring division. The wisdom of God in Christ should inevitably bring unity in the body, and not what has happened at Corinth. To think as Corinth is thinking, you see, as some in apparently in Corinth are thinking, to think that way, you see puts them in the realm of still thinking as the world thinks. Foolishness. The cross is foolish. It's foolish for those who are perishing And it brings division. It will bring division. It has to. It must Because the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. What? What a verse. What an incredible verse. The preaching of the cross to them that perishes is foolishness. But unto us who are being saved, it is the power of God Again, this is not about an intellectual exercise. It's an exercise about power. Whose power is working in the church? Or whose power must be working in the church? God's or man's The word there in verse 18 uh where it says it's foolishness to those who are perishing The Greek word is a derivative of a word that could be translated moron. Moron. The message of the cross is moronic to those who are perishing. And it's this word, foolishness, that keeps popping up in this section that I said begins at verses verse uh with 113 112 and 13 and goes on through uh 1 Corinthians 3 and verse uh and verse uh 19 and 23 and following. It keeps popping up. Listen to how Paul uses it in this section. This word moronic, this foolishness For after that in the wisdom 1 Corinthians 1. 21. For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. The world by wisdom knows not God. It pleased God by the foolishness. There it is. Not of Christ this time, but of preaching to save them that believe For the Jews require a sign, the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. Unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks, foolishness. First Corinthians 2 verse 14 also uses this word, foolishness. The natural man receives not the things of the Spirit, for they are foolishness to him. Neither can he know them because they are what? Spiritually discerned. 1 Corinthians 3, verse 19: The wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. The wisdom of this world is foolishness with God, for it is written. He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. What Paul is saying, what is in Paul's mind is that What is foolishness is ultimately the world's rejection of the God of creation. And the God of redemption. Foolishness is manifested by living in a world of denial and unbelief. Living in the God-imprinted world while refusing to acknowledge God. Who is life and whose handiwork is everywhere spread upon creation. The natural man or the unbelieving man who rejects The preaching of the cross as foolishness is incapable of receiving the truth of the cross. He is incapable. He cannot believe because such things must be spiritually discerned. 1 Corinthians 2. 14 And that belief is outside his, that ability is outside of his human capacities and abilities. Doesn't matter how smart he is. He cannot discern the things of God And because he can't discern it, what does he do? He pronounces it foolishness. And he proceeds to live his life embracing the lie instead of the truth. He does the natural man, his objective in life. is to avoid and nullify the God who is there, who creates and sustains all things. And whose witness is indelibly stamped upon all of creation. It's like It's like when if you can remember yourself or if you have such a a a child who is bad, of course none of our kids bad. But if you can remember yourself maybe being a bad child from time to time and knowing that That at some point in the future, in some way, your dad is going to find out that you were bad. Okay? What do you do? We're not smart enough in our natural nature to go to our Father and ask for forgiveness right away. What we do is run and hide. We run and hide, and we hope, we hope that by running and hiding he will never find us. And therefore he can't enact the dreaded judgment and punishment. But I don't know about you, but my experiences was my dad always found out And he always found me. And no I couldn't there's no place I could go to to hide. Well the natural man is kind of like that. He's kind of running away from his father. He's running away from what he knows to be true and what the world says to him, what he sees with his own eyes. He even is running away with what God has done in history, the greatest moment in all of creation, the incarnation and the death and resurrection of Christ. He's running away by declaring it foolishness, and then he's proceeding to try to live in a world that's a lie. In a world where there is no where he thinks there is no God. Only, you see, with the Holy Spirit's help, can the natural man ever begin to understand some of the things of God? But since the fall, every man rejects God. Every man rejects the God of the Bible, who is the only God. And proceeds to fashion gods from their fallen hearts These people also are deluding themselves to think that since they created these gods, that these gods can serve their every wish and desire. We embrace, as sinners, we embrace whatever our eyes, our brain, and our sinful heart, our core being wants to believe. And what we want to believe, without Jesus, there is no God. There is no sin. There's no need for Jesus There's no repentance, no faith, no truth outside of what I can think is true We step away from what we know is true, from God in creation, and step into a fantasy world. A world where we are deceived to think, from the first deception on, that we are becoming like God. But the sad truth is, fallen man can never realize that being like God is not the same as being God. And so Paul declares in Romans chapter 1, verse 20. The invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. Being understood from the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are exc are without ex they are without excuse. Just because we make these gods Doesn't mean we aren't accountable. We are accountable. We're without excuse. God has left the witness in creation and his word. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were they thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. Their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to become wise, they became fools. Who is it? Who is the fool? Who is the fool? Are you the fool Where's God? Where's the world? Who is it? Who's living in foolishness? Who's the truth? Man by his own actions and beliefs becomes a fool, a moron, and even worse. According to 1 Corinthians 1. 18, the man who rejects God is a perishing moron. A perishing moron. He is being destroyed and obliterated with his soul confined to eternal death and separation from God. Without the cross of Jesus Christ, which the unbeliever thinks is foolishness, every sinful human being is truly a spiritually dead person. His sinful denial of God leads him to mock and disbelieve his only hope, which is the glorious cross of Christ. He's unwilling to accept the idea that turning and worshiping the idols that he has created with his own hands in the hope that he can gain salvation from them. Means that he loses salvation from the truth. As Jonah chapter 2, verse 8 says, they that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy. They are perishing people, destroyed by their own unbelieving mind and heart. But in the very next phrase God says that while the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, it is the power of God to those who are being saved. The power of God to those who are being saved. And then it goes on to quote in verse nineteen. It quotes a text from Isaiah in chapter 29, verses 10 through 99. 19, where you find this statement, God says, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. And what God promises in that Isaiah passage in terms of prophetic prophecy He promises, this is written to the to Judah at a period of time in their history where they're sinning against God with impunity. And God says, their fear toward me is taught by the commandment of men. Therefore, I will again do a marvelous work. Among the people. And a wonder for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men will be hidden. But I will do a wonderful Work in that situation. The world of sinful men centered in the dark world without God is centered in a dark world without God. Christians come solely to divine grace in Christ. We come to the world of the light, of the glory of Christ's death and resurrection. Resurrection. Not because we're smart, but because God draws us. And we should praise God and give thanks that He has delivered us from this foolishness. This foolishness that we continue to see all around us. This this is not what we see in our world today is not caused by some sort of economic or social or political condition. It's a spiritual condition. Again, it's the question of the wisdom of the world versus the wisdom of God. Long ago, Joshua on the eve of Israel going into the Promised Land In Joshua 24, verse 14, made this statement to the people of God in the Old Testament. Therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. Put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt. Put away the gods and serve the Lord. If it seem evil to you to serve the Lord, choose this day whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you now dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Don't be the fool and serve the wrong God or serve the wrong gods And that's especially pointed not just for the unbeliever, but it's po it's especially pointed to the people in the church. Don't let the foolishness of the world creep into your thought when it comes down to the question of what is your greatest unifying feature. It's Christ. It's Christ. Nothing takes precedent over Christ. Anything else is foolishness. Amen. Let us pray, O Lord our God. Grant now, Lord, that your message will will speak to our hearts and Lord will bring encouragement to us. Lord, even some will hear this on the uh internet sermon audio, Lord, pray that uh there might be some who will hear who are unbelievers. Pray, O Heavenly Father, that they will wake up to the peril that they are in, living in the foolishness of the ways of the world That Lord, that you might uh bring uh many to know Jesus uh and uh and live in the truth. Live Not according to the lie, but live according to the righteousness of Christ. We thank you, O Lord God, for pulling us out of our own peril. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.