Okay, tonight we'll look at our continuing study in the book of Amos. We'll turn to Amos chapter 2 and Uh read verses uh six through sixteen. Amos chapter two, verses six through sixteen. And let us now hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord, For three transgressions of Israel and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they sell the righteous for silver and the poor for a pair of sandals. They pant after the dust of the earth, which is on the head of the poor, and pervert the way of the humble. A man and his father go into the same girl to defile my holy name. They lie down by every altar on clothes taken in pledge. And drink the wine of the condemned in the house of the God. Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorite before them. whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was as strong as the oaks. Yet I destroyed his fruit above, and his roots beneath Also it is I, who brought you up from the land of Egypt and led you forty years through the wilderness to possess the land of the Amorite. I raised up some of your sons as prophets, and some of your young men as Nazarites. Is this not so, O you children of Israel? says the Lord. But you gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and the commanded the prophets, saying, Do not prophesy Behold, I am weighed down by you, as a cart full of sheaves is weighed down. Therefore, flight shall perish from the swift. The strong shall not strengthen his power, nor shall the mighty deliver him himself. He shall not stand who handles the bow. The swift afoot shall not escape, nor shall he who rides a horse deliver himself. The most courageous men of might shall flee naked in that day, says the Lord. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Well this is a uh again this is a another fascinating section of God's Word uh as it uh uh details uh judgment The judgment of the Lord that is coming upon the nation of Israel. The prophet Amos was commissioned to speak. to the nation of Israel during the reign of Uzziah, the king of Judah in the south. and uh uh during the reign of Jeroboam, the king of the northern kingdom, Israel. And again, if you remember just uh briefly, there at this point there are two nations that could have Jewish descendants or Abraham's descendants. One is called Judah, that's in the south, that's comprised of the the uh the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin. And then the other ten uh tribes of Israel are all up in the north in the north. And that nation is called Israel. And it's to the north that this Prophecy is given. And as we have seen for the past couple of weeks, the book of Amos starts out with judgments. From the third verse on, through the chapter two, verse three, from chapter one, verse three to chapter two, verse three, there's a series of six judgments. that fall on the surrounding people of of uh uh the people who surround uh Israel, the nations, um the people from Tyre, the people from Damascus. the people from Moab, the people from Ammon, the people from the Philistines. And I missed one. Uh Ammon I said Mohib I said uh can't remember. But anyway, there are six There are six different people, and they all territorially surround Israel and um did I say Tyre? People of Syria. The people of Syria. They all surround Israel. And they're all unbelievers. They're all they're they all worship false gods. And judgment comes to them primarily because of how they treat Israel. And every time you see this phrase for three transgressions and for four. That's a marker in the text. It begins a new judgment on a different nation And so all these judgments are on the poor for the for essentially the fact that they haven't treated Israel with love. They haven't loved Israel or Judah uh as they ought to. In fact they've been quite uh Merciless toward uh Israel and Judah. At 2-4, suddenly You see again at 2-4 for three transgressions and for four. But now God zeroes in on Judah. All the judgments of God have been around Israel. But now the southern kingdom takes its turn. And we spoke about that the last time. And the judgment of the Lord falls on the southern kingdom. Essentially because they have despised the law of the Lord. They have uh been led astray by lies. And they have done abominable things. Tonight, tonight the judgment falls on the Northern Kingdom. And I will only be looking at the first eight verses, excuse me, verses six, seven, and eight, and then we'll pick up Next time. But verses 6, 7, and 8 are very full of why God is judging the northern kingdom. You would think that if you're a nation and you see your neighbors being judged by God uh for the offenses that they committed against you, that you would begin to think that, you know, our God is a is a is a God who doesn't tolerate sin. And that might be a restraint to you against sin. But it doesn't work that way. It doesn't seem to work that way. And as we read from Numbers chapter 14 Even after the people of God, the forefathers, the ancestors of these people had experienced God taking them out of Egypt. and leading them through the Red Sea and almost to the brink of the Promised Land. Even then they're complaining. They're complaining against God. They're complaining against what he has done. They don't like Moses. They don't like his leadership. And they start saying, you know, be better to go back to Egypt than die here in the wilderness. And Moses and Aaron, uh as we saw in uh chapter uh fourteen, which the the the initial cause of their rejection of Moses and Aaron is because Caleb and Joshua come back from the Promised Land and they say to them, they say to the people of God, they say, It's a great land. It's a land flowing with milk and honey. There are giants there. The people are big and tall, but the Lord is on our side. And the people just will not go. They refuse to go. They refuse to enter the promised land, which is, you can understand, is very, very akin to disobedience. Very sinful disobedience. It's akin to unbelief. They don't believe the Lord who has done all these signs for them up to that point. That he will fight for them, that he who has promised to give them this land will deliver on his promises. And these Or the children of Abraham. How soon they forget their history. How soon they forget what God has done for them. And what he has been doing now for many, many, many years. Hundreds of years since Abraham. So, we come to this judgment on Israel, northern kingdom. And for a lot of the rest of the book of Judges, the focus is now going to be on that northern kingdom. And we're going to learn not only about the judgment, but we're going to learn why. We're going to learn various different reasons why. God is bringing judgment. And and and this is you know this is a lesson also to us, that our God, you know, is a vengeful God. He does not take disobedience to him lightly. If we do not, for example, obey our parents and think that God doesn't see, we are foolish He does see. If we take if we happen to go into a store and shoplift and think that, well, everybody else is doing it, so it's okay for us. And no, and we get and we get away with it. Do we really get away with it? Because God sees. And God remembers. And he says, you shall not steal. That's whether you're a Canaanite, an Israelite Or a person from Judah or an American. Doesn't matter. This law is the same. It treats all people the same. And he says that we should love the Lord our God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We should love our neighbors as ourselves. And fundamentally, as we open up this judgment here on Judah, as we look at these verses, we see that there is The general area of their unbelief or their disobedience that's being used by God to bring judgment upon them, the general area is how they treat others. That's not going to be the only reason why he brings judgment, but this is the reason. And don't forget, don't forget, it's not like God is going to say, this is going to happen to you tomorrow. God is giving them ample warning. The prophets are speaking to that northern kingdom, which was, by the way, an extremely evil nation. You probably have heard the story of the king called Ahab. He was evil number one. And maybe his wife, Jezebel, was worse. But they weren't the only ones. Every king of the northern kingdom did not bow down and worship God. Every one of them was guilty of idolatry. Everyone was evil. And that is seen reflected here, not so much with the kings, but the people under them, their subjects, the Jews who lived in Israel And sometimes, as we go on, you're going to hear the word Samaria mentioned a lot. And the reason you're going to hear that is just as Jerusalem became the most important city of the southern kingdom, and was so since the time of David, when there wasn't two kingdoms, Samaria becomes the most important nation or most important city, and it's also a region in the north. And so what if you hear Samaria, it means northern kingdom. If you hear Israel, it means Samaria and the Northern Kingdom. They're synonymous, they're they're different places, but they're synonymous terms So let's look at this. Beginning in verse 6. For three transgressions of Israel and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Okay, that phrase for three transgressions and for four. Here we see it. Another marker. Another marker in the text. This would be the eighth time that phrase is used. And God is accenting with the use of that phrase, the fact, that these people are sinful and it's ongoing sin. And their sin is not decreasing, it's increasing. Three leads to four. Four leads to five. It is not just one sin that's a problem. It's multiple sins that God is bringing judgment. Amos. It says in verse six. For three transgressions and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. And here we get it. Why? What did they do? Because they sold the poor for a pair of sandals They pant after the dust of the earth which is on the head of the poor, and they pervert the way of the humble. Let's just look at that for just a second. What is the problem with these people that God is bringing judgment to? What is the problem with these people who are the descendants of Abraham racially, ethnically, nationally? They sell the righteous for silver and the poor for a pair of sandals. Apparently, it appears that They were very interested in buying and selling, and that They were not above selling the poor, nor were they above selling the rich in order to gain what they wanted. Whether it be sandals or silver. It says they sold the rich for silver. They sold the poor for shoes. If they had someone who they uh happened to have as their servant or their slave and they needed shoes. And they would just sell them and get shoes. They had no regard for other people. This there is a f there there's like a flourishing slave trade here of people And they're not interested in their neighbor's welfare. Once again, they not love their neighbor as themselves. And because they focus on the poor, first of all, they take advantage of those in the society who can least defend themselves or protect themselves. This was a very, very affluent community. This was a very rich nation in terms of material riches They had everything money could buy. If they needed to buy shoes, that meant sell one of your slaves, they could easily do that and replace it. No problem But they were engaged in slavery. Now the interesting thing here is not only did they sell slaves, but they sold the righteous. They sold the righteous for silver. And Remember, this nation, Israel, is the same nation that Elijah had his famous confrontation With the prophets of Baal. And during that confrontation. Jezebel's Baal prophets were soundly defeated. And Jezebel put a contract out on Isaiah's life. And he's running away to hide and get protection from the king's wife, the king of the northern kingdom. And at one point Elijah becomes so disoriented and so upset that he cries out, Lord, am I the only one? Up here in Israel that's following you? Remember? And God said, no. You're not the only one. There's 7,000 knees that haven't bowed to Baal. And who is Baal? The false God. The prophets were the prophets of Baal, Jezebel's priests. Jezebel's prophets. So there's 7,000 who hadn't bowed the knee to Baal. So I would take it. This is the same time period. You know, give or take, 20, 30 years. This is the same time period of Elijah. Habakkuk, which we read this morning, is a contemporary with Amos, talking to the same northern kingdom, Israel, and bringing God's word to them and calling them to repentance. God keeps sending his prophets. God keeps preaching. Turn away from your sin. God keeps proclaiming. Follow me, follow my way, and you'll believe in me, and and uh you will be blessed. But they turn a deaf ear. They turn a deaf ear and they worship other gods. And as they worship other gods, they turn away from even being merciful and kind to one another. They sell the righteous for silver. Once again, slavery. But it's more than slavery. Why are they selling the righteous into slavery? And I think you get a hint At why they're doing this within the latter part of the text. Look at verse 12. Well, wait a minute. Let's go back just a little bit. Look at verse 11 of chapter 2. I raised up some of your sons as prophets. And God is talking about the things that he has done for this northern kingdom. I've raised up some of your sons as prophets. On some of your young men as Nazarites. They've been religious people of strong religious faith. The Nazarite vow, we can go into that more, but it's not all that important, except to note that they were strong worshipers of God. And some of your young men as Nazarites. Is it not so, O you children of Israel, says the Lord? But you gave the Nazarites wine to drink. Now one of the things about the Nazarites, they weren't supposed to take one. But you see what they were doing? They were corrupting the Nazarites. And you commanded the prophets, saying, Do not prophesy. You see, you're getting a hint now why they want to sell the righteous. Because they don't like being reminded, whether it's by the prophets or whether it's by the righteous person's presence, they don't like being reminded of God. They want to corrupt the Nazarites, again, who are reminders of their God, of one who is faithful to their God. Listen to a text in Isaiah, which I just happened to find. Isaiah chapter 30 and verse 8 Which speaks, I think, exactly to this issue of the question, why are they selling the righteous for silver? Isaiah and his words say this. Now go, write it before them on a tablet and note it in a scroll, that it may be for a time to come, forever and ever This is a rebellious people, lying children, children who will not hear the law of the Lord, who say to the seers Don't see. Who say to the prophets, do not prophesy to us right things, speak to us smooth things. Prophesy deceits. Get out of the way. Turn aside from the past. Calls the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us. See, that's the Spirit. That Isaiah was addressing in his day to the people of his time, and it's the same spirit of the people here in Israel, the northern kingdom. They don't want to listen to God. They don't want to hear his prophets. They remember itching ears The time will come when they will have itching ears and not endure sound teaching. Well here's the forerunner to that. Don't prophesy. Don't tell us the things of God. Well, you want to hear smooth things We want to hear that everything's fine, that we're good, because we're God's people. Don't you dare try to tell us that we're simple. How could we be so simple if we've got all these riches? See how it works? You sell the righteous for silver so you can get them out of the way. And you don't have to think about someone who actually believes in the living God. That's pretty ugly, isn't it? It gets worse It gets where and now and don't forget, these are the covenant people of God. These are Abraham's descendants. Not his spiritual ones, but his physical ones, his descendants after the flesh. They don't want to have the Word of God, or they don't want to have godly people prick their hearts and their conscience. They don't want to hear sound doctrine. They don't want to hear the good news. They don't want to hear that God is the Redeemer. All they want to hear is that you know, that their perverted life will go on, that their beautiful city called Samaria, and it became a very beautiful city, that their riches will continue And if it means that we have to sell poor for uh for um uh for shoes or we have to sell the righteous for slavery, fine. That's all well and good. We'll just Pocket the the extra money. But now it gets worse. Because you see, when you sell others into into slavery, you can't possibly love them as yourself And another manifestation of that not loving others as themselves can be seen in verses 8, excuse me, 7 and 8. In verse 7, we read, They pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and they turn aside the way of the meek. And the man and his father will go into the same maid to profane my holy name. The image, you know, what do you know that patents What pants? Dogs. Dog pants. Why do dogs pant? They're hot. They're hot and they want to get cool. They want to have they want to get water and they and they and they have a they're trying to cool themselves down. Well, here it says, and panting usually, when dogs pant, they're usually in an excited state. Uh they're they come to you and they pant and they're telling you that they want something. And if it's a dog who's have been uh who's hot, he wants water In this case, it's saying that they're panting after the poor. They're so They so want to find poor people that they can abuse that they're pictured as even panting after their dust on their head. They want to abuse and use them and turn aside the way of the meek. Well, the meek are those who seek to be at peace with God and with all men. These people from Israel determine and judge that the meek who seek after God are unwanted. They don't want them to be around. Turn them away, get rid of them, turn them aside. We don't want them around us. And then they say A man and his father will go into the same maid to profess my holy name. Now I there is no other way to say this than what it is. It's sexual immorality. They want to go into the same maid. And God's word clearly made it very clear that that was not to be done. Even from the very beginning, the the proper use of of the sex is in marriage, as God said. This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of a man. Therefore shall man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to the wife, and the two shall be one. It doesn't say the three shall be one flesh, or the four shall be one flesh. The three shall be excuse me, the two shall be one flesh. This is an abomination against God's institution of marriage. So much so that later in Leviticus chapter 18 God will set forth a whole series of laws that cover the issue of nakedness exposed within the family. And two men from the same family into the same woman is blatant disobedience to the law of God. The fact the scriptures mention it The fact that they mention it here, in part of judgment, tells you something. It tells you many things. It tells you that though it may be the the the the the the um It may be how do I want to say this? It may be what the what the people of the land want and what everybody is doing It is not right just because everybody's doing it. And though everybody will say to you What's wrong with you if you're not doing these kinds of aberrant sexual things? Take note. God does see even that which the world considers, you know, passe. of of no no significance. Doesn't you know what what's wrong with it? As long as I'm having fun, what's the problem? We're consenting adults here, right? God sees. And if it's against his law, you can be sure God will judge. And and we're really with w you know, when you think about the sexual mores of this society in which we live, great is the judgment that's coming upon those who practice such things. I'm sorry to say it, but the text is there. It has to be said. This is part of the reason. See, it's it's a whole, as I said before, it's a whole Different kind of way in which they are not loving their neighbors I mean it it gets it's that simple. They're disobeying God by not loving their neighbors. They don't want the righteous around. They don't want Anybody um they don't want anybody to remind them that there is a God and that he has spoken the law. And he holds people accountable. They don't even want him to be around to in any way interfere with whatever it is they want to do, to have the freedom to to go and sin with impunity, to do whatever they want. And it says, and God is profane. By this. He is profaned because they are a witness, they're supposed to be a witness to the rest of the nations around them, but they're not. They're supposed to be God's special people, but they're not, because they're not obedient, and they're not living for Him, and they're serving their false gods And so we see. In addition to that, there's another statement in chapter 2, verse 8 of another reason why they're being judged. They lay themselves down upon clothes led laid to pledge by every altar, and they drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their God. This is this it's interesting that this whole idea of clothes being laid down as a pledge to the altar is something that the scriptures address other passages addressed. So we have somewhat of an idea of what was being done. In Exodus 22, verse 26 through 29, it says, if you take the your neighbor's raiment to pledge. In other words, if the neighbor gives you his cloak as a promissory note, so to speak. that I will do what uh I say I will do. It says, if you take that, you shall deliver it to him by the time the sun goes down. For it is his covering. It is his raiment for his skin. And wherein then shall he sleep? It shall come to pass when he crieth unto me that I will hear, for I am gracious. So apparently that kind of thing was going on. They were taking people's clothes. And taking them for their own and not returning them and letting people go around naked, cold. You know, it it gets cold in Israel at night Without care. And there's another passage that talks about widows in the same w along the same line. Deuteronomy twenty four, seventeen and eighteen. Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the fatherless, nor take a widow's rainnet to fledge. In that case, you're not even to take her clothes Her cloth, her cloak. But thou shalt remember that you were a bondman in Egypt, and the Lord thy God redeemed thee thence. From thence. Therefore I command this thing. to thee to do. It seems, does it not, seem like the question of s taking somebody's coat, doesn't that seem like a minor thing Not if it's all you got. And widows, you know, often uh don't have other means of support. But God sees even minor what w what the world might think of as minor things And again, these are his people. They are those who are not Of course we know just as I read just as I read from Numbers this kind of Sin, this kind of disobedience has been going on from the beginning. This isn't new. Abraham is the father of many nations. The many nations, and in his seed shall all the nations be blessed. Because truly here we have now seen six nations around Israel who are being judged by God because they don't care for their neighbor, Israel. And they've treated her badly. And now we have seen the the covenant people of God, the people of Abraham's descendants. We have seen them virtually doing the same. same thing. Being disobedient, not loving their neighbor, and really not loving their God When you go in the direction of worshiping other gods, there will be consequences That will impact how you relate to others. There will be consequences for the society in which you live There will be ever-increasing cheapening of human life Disregard for other people. But these are Abraham's people And remember, when I read through Numbers chapter 14, there is sin. There is great sin. There's also So beautiful intercession for the sins of God's people in Moses, the servant of the Lord As he speaks to the Lord and entreats the Lord on behalf of God's own name to be merciful to the people. Even when God said, I'll make of you a great nation, I'll get rid of these people. These people who don't love me and they don't love one another. Who won't be obedient, to worship other gods at the drop of the hat, to complain and grumble be at at at their leaders who can't remember that I I fed them as they came, I I I protected them as they as the Egyptians pursued them. I fed them when they cried out for bread. I fed them with manna. And and with quail, after they complain that they don't like this bread anymore, we've got to have some meat once in a while. I did all this. Then when they said we're thirsty, I gave them water to drink. We all we we all even though this is at a much different time than what we live You know, we all see that sin is the problem. And we all see that the seed of Abraham is the solution For all of God's people, whether they be Jew or Greek. So we thank God that He promised the seed. Of Abraham, who would come and help us to learn how to love him with all that we have, and how to love one another with all that. that we have so that we won't be we won't face this kind of judgment. Amen. Let us pray Lord, though there be abominations among your people in Israel or in Judah, or Lord, even in our own Society and our own churches. We thank you, Lord, for your abundant mercy in Christ Jesus. For truly, once again, when we read about these things, it's awfully easy to point the finger and it's awfully easy to say, what kind of people can these people be? But in reality, they're all of us. We're there too. And we thank you, Lord, that you've delivered us from this kind of behavior And we thank you, Lord, that you've given us your love and a reason, Lord, to live and to serve you. Because you are the one who has redeemed And you are the one, Lord, who has taught us that we are your people, both individually and collectively. And we have, Lord, uh responsibilities and obligations to care for one another because the ones who are part of your church, your kingdom Your s the the the seed of Abraham, Lord, uh they also have been delivered from sin by the blood of that seed. We thank you for Jesus. Same we pray, Amen