Now, will you remain standing as we read from God's Word once more, this time from Paul's letter to the Roman Christians, the Christians in Rome? Uh Romans 15, and we're going to read verses 1 through 13. You'll find portion on page 1128 in your Pew Bible. And yes, Paul is wrapping up his letter to the congregation there in Rome. And as is Paul's practice, his words of exhortation, his words of instruction uh for the congregation, but he also has words of blessing, the words with which he finishes the uh passage that we'll be reading uh in verse thirteen and the words that we'll focus on uh in a moment in our sermon. Will you listen? Here's God's word. Uh Romans uh chapter fifteen, beginning at verse one. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up. For Christ did not please himself. But as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that together with one voice You may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you for the glory of God. For I tell you, the Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy, as it is written. Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles and sing your name. And again it is said, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people, and again praise the Lord all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him And again Isaiah says, The root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles. To him excuse me, in him will the Gentiles hope. May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope And that's God's word. Let's pray his blessing on it. Our Father, we have heard your word, but now we ask for that work of the Holy Spirit that would cause your word to be imprinted deeply on our hearts and that would draw forth from us the uh faith and the love with which your word is to be received, and we pray that by your grace we would be very responsive to the word of your truth here this morning. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen You may be seated. Brothers and sisters, the Lord Jesus blesses his church and continues to bless his church. You may remember. uh that at the time of Jesus' ascension, as he was being uh raised up into heaven, disappearing into the clouds, uh Luke tells us that as uh he ascended his hands were raised on blessing. The last time we see the Lord Jesus during the time of his earthly ministry. And we see him with his hands raised up in blessing. And uh that blessing is a blessing that then is picked up by the Lord Jesus apostolic spokesman so that apostles like uh Paul pronounce the Lord Jesus blessing on his church and by God's grace As we gather this morning as a congregation of the Lord Jesus, we do so in confidence that Jesus continues to bless his people. Are you a follower of the Lord Jesus this morning? If you're a follower of the Lord Jesus, you can be sure that Jesus continues to bless you out of the abundance Now you might have questions about that, and it sounds as if the Christians to whom Paul was writing uh in Rome that they had some questions about uh the Lord Jesus blessing on their lives. So there was no question about the wonderful theology that they had learned. And I'm sure as you have had the doctrines of grace expounded to you here at Trinity, your hearts have been warmed within you at the message of God's redeeming grace to helpless and needy sinners. Jesus has come into the world to save sinners. and we praise him for the gospel of redemption and we see the blessing of God shown to us in the Lord Jesus. But then of course the issues are not so much issues of theology. The issues so often are issues of practice. Isn't that right? It's when we come to live out what we believe about Jesus that sometimes the struggles begin to emerge And sometimes we begin to ask, Am I indeed under the blessing of God? Because uh well, as Paul uh writes to the Roman Christians, he explains the doctrines of grace, but then he comes on to say that uh Here's where the rubber really meets the road. Here's where our theology translates into practice. Are we doing uh such things as serving sacrificially? You can think of some of the things that Paul lists In passages like Romans chapter 12. Are we serving sacrificially? Are we enduring tribulation with patience? Are we constant in prayer? Are we honoring one another? And of course as we interact with the saints of God, with our brothers and sisters, sometimes That's where the the challenges uh come because sometimes uh those uh relationships can be difficult or as we seek to live as a congregation of Jesus. These us people, sometimes we say, Where's the blessing? We go through times of uh uh well, times where the blessing is evident and obvious, and then we go through times that seem to be uh more difficult and more challenging. And we wonder where's the blessing? It's in a situation like that that Paul writes to the Roman Christians and that Paul pronounces the blessing that we read together. uh in Romans uh chapter fifteen uh verse thirteen. May the God of hope fill you let me let me just uh pause with you. Listen carefully to the blessing that Paul uh pronounces. May the God of hope Fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Paul is not talking about a little bit of hope for God's people. Paul is talking about an abundance of hope. And as Paul unpacks Or as we unpack what Paul has to say in Romans 15, verse 13, in those words of blessing, I want you to see how Paul captures the truth that our God Our triune God is the God who blesses his people. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, unite as one God to bless those who are redeemed in the Lord Jesus and to bless us with an abundance of good things that our hearts may be glad in our God. Not in our circumstances. but in our God. So will you listen as we unpack uh the verse that we have before us? Paul speaks of the God of hope. And when Paul speaks in uh scripture of God, uh using simply the term God, Paul uh very often is referring to God the Father. God the Father, and Paul says, God the Father is a God of hope. Uh now when Paul speaks of God the Father as being a God of hope, he's uh pointing us back to what he said a couple of verses earlier in verse ten. uh where he says, in him, in God, will the Gentiles hope. People, Gentiles, nations, non-Jews, people like like you and me uh hope have good grounds for hoping in God. And Paul returns to that in verse 13. He says, God is the God of hope. God is a hope-worthy God. He's a God who's worthy of your confidence. He is a God who is worthy of your hope, and he's worthy of that hope as your Heavenly Father He's the God who makes himself known in his word. And you may have noticed how Paul uh has quoted a number of passages from the Old Testament, including the passage that we read earlier from Isaiah. Paul has quoted those passages to uh underscore for us that as God has made himself known in the Scriptures, He has made himself known to us as a God who is worthy of our hope. So that does uh Paul, as Paul says earlier in verse four, that it's through endurance and through the consolation of the scriptures that we have hope. Do you know God as your Father? And do you know God as the Father who reveals himself to us in Scripture? Because he is a hope. Worthy God. He's a God who's faithful. He's a God who keeps his promises. He's a God who watches over his people. He's a God who cares for us. He's a God who protects us. And yes He is a God who in the Lord Jesus blesses us with good things. And Paul uh speaks of the way in which that hope radiates outward as the gospel message And as we read from Romans chapter 15, you have a sense of Paul's excitement about the way in which that message of hope is spreading out It's spreading out to impact the lives of Gentiles. It's spreading out to impact the lives of people who were not part of God's Old Testament covenant community. Paul writes to the Ephesians. You remember how he addresses them and speaks to them in Ephesians chapter 2. He says, Previously you were without God and without hope in the world. To be without God is to be without hope. And there are many people around us whose hopes are placed in all kinds of things. We were singing about that when we uh sang Psalm uh uh thirty-three earlier. There's some who put their confidence in powerful leaders There's some who put their confidence in military might. There's some who put their their confidence who place their hope in their ability to lay good plans uh and to uh to be able to organize and arrange things just so. But Paul says uh if you don't have God you live in this world as someone who has no hope because Our God is the God of hope. Our Heavenly Father is the one who blesses us with hope. And as Paul speaks of the gospel going out, Paul is drawing the attention of his Roman readers to the fact that people who had no hope are hearing about the Lord Jesus, they're hearing about the gospel, and now they have hope. They are come they're being drawn into the church as refugees from a broken, hopeless world that surrounded the Roman Christians in the first century. And quite honestly and quite obviously and so very clearly uh is the world that surrounds us today at Trinity or at Knox. Uh a world that is disjointed, a world that's hopeless, a world that's confused A world that's bewildered, a world wh into which we reach out with the gospel of the Lord Jesus. And I want to commend you, brothers and sisters here at Trinity for the work that you're doing through the Food Pantry Ministry, the other ways in which you are reaching out to provide hope to those who are hopeless. Welcoming in the refugees from our broken, devastated, hopeless, confused, and bewildered world. And you who know the gospel of the Lord Jesus, hold forth that hope to those needy souls. And Paul You notice how in verse 7 of our passage Paul speaks of what do we do with those people? We welcome them as the Lord Jesus has welcomed us. Because we were those people. We were those hopeless ones. And Jesus has welcomed us to Himself. He has given us a Heavenly Father. He has given us a family of saints to surround us with love and encourage us. And as those other broken, hopeless ones begin to have a glimmer of hope, begin to hear the message of the gospel, the message of salvation. We welcome them, we receive them because so the Lord Jesus received and welcomed us and met us a part of his family. Isn't that glorious? And so Paul says the God of hope. He directs our gaze away from the wreckage and devastation and confusion all around us to the God of hope who makes himself known in Scripture. How do we know who God is? We know who God is because He has shown Himself to us in His Word. That's why we praise God for the Word that's faithfully proclaimed, so that people who are confused and hopeless can hear a message of hope. God is the God of hope. We said that Paul's words of blessing focus our attention on the fact that God is a Trinitarian God. So indeed, as we think of God the Father, who is the source of all hope, we see also the Lord Jesus, who is the basis for our hope. May the God of hope fill you with all joy. and peace in believing. Okay, do you get that? We have joy and peace as we believe. And you say, believe what? Everybody believes something. And that's true. Everybody does believe something we were created to believe. And quite honestly and tragically, people will believe all kinds of falsehood and all kinds of uh uh nonsense And will believe in all kinds of things that are vain and useless and passing away. And God uh uh speaks through Paul and God speaks of the God of hope giving us all joy and peace in believing. Believing what? And Paul might say to us, have you not read the first fifteen, first fourteen chapters of my letter because of course Paul's letter to the Romans is a letter that talks time and time again. of what we believe and in whom we believe. And that of course is the Lord Jesus. The gospel. You remember right back at the very beginning in chapter one, Paul says the gospel is the power of God for salvation uh to uh both to Jew and Gentile, to those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh faith. Uh it's uh chapter ten. Uh verse 17, Paul says faith uh comes from uh God's word. Faith comes from hearing, and hearing uh comes from the word of Christ. Uh Paul uh directs our gaze to the Lord Jesus as the one in whom we are to hope. He is the basis for our hope because when we were Helpless when our lives were devastated and ruined, when we were hopeless, when we had no God in this world. presented the Savior to us. He sent His Son into the world. He presents His Son to us as the gospel is preached. And you'll remember those very familiar words in Romans chapter 3 when Paul catalogues the ways in which we have fallen short of the glory. Remember, all have sinned, all have fallen short of God's glory, all are sunk in sin, all are ruined, all are under condemnation. All are hopeless. There is nothing whole or righteous in us. None is righteous, not even one. And Paul describes that in all the horrific detail uh that that uh sketches in for us the way our lives are ruined as a consequence of our fall into sin and our first parents, Adam and Eve, and then And then, having described that, then Paul says, God set forth the Lord Jesus to be the atoning sacrifice, the propitiation for our sins, to give uh salvation to those who by faith trust in him. That's uh uh Romans three uh twenty-two. It is by faith we trust in the Lord Jesus and then We have hope. May the God of hope give you all joy and peace in believing in the Lord Jesus. Paul doesn't Paul doesn't spell out uh in verse thirteen what it is we believe because Paul has spent uh fourteen chapters explaining what it is uh we believe. We believe in the Lord Jesus, that He is the only Savior of sinners, and it is as we uh trust in the Lord Jesus that our hopelessness is dispelled. Now for Paul that wasn't just a matter of theology It wasn't just a matter of Paul sitting down at his desk and writing out fourteen chapters of great theology in his letter to the Roman Christians. Paul knew from experience how the gospel was field tested in the most difficult of circumstances. Remember, for example, uh to to give one example, uh in Philippians excuse me, in Acts Uh chapter sixteen how Paul found himself in jail uh in Philippi. Uh he'd been beaten and he was thrown into prison. You remember how he and his companion, his partner Uh in ministry, Silas were singing and praying to God. The other prisoners were listening. I'm sure they wondered what in the world is going on here. And then then came that earthquake. And uh then uh into the uh then we we we we're introduced to the Jealer there in Philippi. And uh there was a man who Right at that moment was in a state of complete hopelessness. The the the prison was in ruins, but that man's life was in ruins That man's life was in ruins. In fact, uh Luke tells us that so devastated and so hopeless was uh that Philippian jailer that he drew his sword, he was ready to kill himself. He was so hopeless. And uh the cry to Paul, What must I do to be saved? And Paul of course directing him, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and and you will you will be saved. And Paul directed that hopeless individual in the ruination of his life and the devastation of Of all the things that he had trusted in, Paul directed him to Jesus. Now, it may be that you've been where that Philippian jailer was. Brought so low, brought to such a state of despondency and discouragement that you felt such hopelessness as to to even question whether whether it's worth going on. Ma maybe you've entertained uh this kinds of thoughts that that jailer was was entertaining And if you have, and if you are now, you let me say to let me give you two things. Talk with someone. And look to the Lord Jesus because It was to the Lord Jesus that Paul directed that hopeless individual. You may go to your pastor, you may go to your elders seeking counsel, seeking help. They may have good advice for you, but the best piece of advice, the foundational piece of advice they're going to give you, is they're going to direct your attention to God. Because he's the God of all hope. He has sent his son into the world to redeem, to deliver people who were hopeless, whose lives were at a dead end, whose lives are being Swallowed up by hopelessness and meaninglessness and futility. God gives hope to such people like that because in the Lord Jesus He makes us His own sons and daughters. And we know that in Jesus Christ we are accepted by God. In Jesus Christ, we're given a purpose and a hope that we didn't have before. Paul says May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing. You might wonder why does Paul single out joy and peace and direct the Romans' attention to that? Well Uh I think the reason for it might lie in this. Back in uh chapter fourteen, verse uh seventeen, uh Paul says the kingdom of God is not a matter of food and drink, but righteousness and joy and peace and the Holy Spirit and When we read in between we discover that the Roman congregation the congregation had Rome had got itself all wrapped around the axle. They were they were discussing issues about what should What should we eat? What kinds of foods are kosher? What kinds of how should we uh how should we uh uh observe dietary laws? And Paul says, No, the kingdom of God's not about things like eating and drinking. The kingdom of God uh is about righteousness and joy and peace and the Holy Spirit. Keep the main thing the main thing. Now I I want to encourage you to do that this morning because We all are apt to get distracted. We're all inclined to make things that are not so important of first importance. Don't do that Don't do that. Paul says, uh Paul's reminding us we need to keep the main thing the main thing. And the main thing is that God is gathering in hopeless people. uh through the message of the gospel in Jesus to make us his sons and daughters and we welcome one another as God has welcomed us. That's an amazing thing. We might say, how can such a thing come about? And Paul reminds us that it comes about, and yes we mentioned that this is a very Trinitarian passage, didn't we? It is by the power of the Holy Spirit that we abound in hope. God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing in Jesus And may uh that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. The kind of gospel hope uh that we're talking about here is a kind of gospel hope that is empowered, that is fueled by the Holy Spirit of God himself, the Spirit who is alive and at work in the church of the Lord Jesus. And uh Paul uh here directs our attention to the Holy Spirit. Where do we see the power of the Holy Spirit demonstrated? Well, uh we see the power of the Holy Spirit demonstrated uh most clearly and showcased uh in the most wonderful way in the person of the Lord Jesus himself. And didn't we read in Isaiah chapter eleven of how Jesus is indwelt by the Holy Spirit? The Spirit re of God rests upon him, fills him Luke in his gospel, Luke chapter 4 verse 16 speaks of Jesus coming back to Galilee in the power. of the Holy Spirit. Remember the Spirit has descended on Jesus to prepare him for his ministry. Jesus returns to Galilee empowered by the Holy Spirit. Uh and and and then we uh hear the Lord Jesus standing in the synagogue proclaiming uh freedom for the captives, proclaiming the opening of the eyes of the blind, the opening of the ears of those who are deaf, the setting free of those who are in bondage. And we see Jesus then following up that message by the miracles that he performed, the opening of eyes. The uh uh transforming of lives that were damaged and disfigured and uh harmed in all kinds of ways, and Jesus doing that by the power of the Holy Spirit who rested on him and now who indwells. his church. You say, well it's all very well to talk about the uh the Holy Spirit on the Lord Jesus. It's all very well to talk about the uh sovereignty of the Holy Spirit. Here I am in my uh difficult circumstances, struggling to uh to find hope and looking uh for hope and and not seemingly able to lay hold on it and and perhaps the Holy Spirit uh is not moving The Bible teaches us that the Holy Spirit works through God's Word. So if you're the hopeless person who's struggling to lay a hold on hope, who's grasping after hope, let me direct you to God's Word. Let me encourage you to be present where God's Word is preached. You need to hear that word. I need to hear that word. We hear lots of hopeless, confusing messages, conflicting messages. We come to God's Word. And the Holy Spirit speaks through God's Word and He puts hope in our hearts. Remember what we uh read earlier? It's through uh in verse uh four, it's through endurance, through perseverance and the encouragement and consolation of God You and I need to hear God's word because the Holy Spirit uses God's word. He uses God's word to put hope uh in our lives. He uses God's word to shine the light into our darkness. Oh, and yes, the other things that the Lord Jesus has given to us that the Holy Spirit uses, you've been baptized. Uh and that baptism is a reminder to you that God has set his seal on you. You remember how Paul picks that up in Ephesians chapter one, thirteen and fourteen. He says, You've been sealed by the Holy Spirit against the day of redemption. Here you are feeling yourself tossed around in a world and And perhaps that's confused and perhaps feeling very, very adrift. You, if you're trusting in Jesus, have the mark of God's ownership. on you. The psalmist cries out in Psalm one hundred and nineteen, Save me, O Lord, for I am yours. And and those who receive baptism by faith recognize in that the mark of God's own. And where we might otherwise be tempted to give way to despondency, we cry out, Save me, because I am yours. You've put your mark of ownership on me. You put your Holy Spirit in me. I belong to you. Remember your baptism. Oh yes, and if you're uh a follower of the Lord Jesus, you need to be uh sitting at the Lord's table and participating in the Lord's Supper because the Holy Spirit uses that sacrament to nourish the faith of his his saints. Our faith flickers like a like a like a feeble candle uh that's about to be blown out. Our our faith sometimes is weak and malnourished. The Holy Spirit uses the sacrament of the Lord's Supper to nourish and strengthen the faith of the saints. These things that seem so ordinary. You say what uh if I'm feeling hopelessness and despondent, I I ni I need to be in church. I need to remember my My baptism, I need to be taking the Lord's Supper. Yes, you do. It's those things that the Holy Spirit uses in order that you may abound in hope. And yes, surround yourselves with saints who uh have God's word dwelling in them richly, He'll speak to you. of the uh truths about our God, so that you'll be reminded time after time that God is a hope worthy God. And so may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace. as you believe, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for these words from your word And we pray that the Holy Spirit would write these words on our hearts, that we would be glad, that we would have joy. And that uh in this world that we would be an outpost, shining out as lights in a dark place, that we would be an outpost of hope to which the refugees of this world, who are hopeless, who are despondent, who are confused, to which they may be drawn in order to learn of the Lord Jesus and find hope in him. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.