If you'd open your copy of God's Word now, once again to the Gospel of Matthew. We're reading there from chapter five as we continue our study in the Sermon on the Mount. This is on page 963 of your pew Bibles. And specifically we'll be at Matthew 5, beginning at verse 38. Let's give attention to the reading of God's Word. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. Give to the one who begs from you. And do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. As far in the reading of God's holy word. Amen. Please be seated. Father, as we have read your word, now we ask for your blessing upon it. And as we come to what may be a difficult passage to grasp And certainly to apply. We ask, Father, that you would pour out your grace upon us. And that we would not merely leave here with understanding, but that you would change our hearts. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. As we were studying the book of Exodus, and we got to that point where God was giving to Moses that description of the tabernacle. One of the first things that he began with, meaning God, as he described to Moses, the things that should be inside He described the Ark of the Covenant. It was that box, fairly small box, not even four feet long, a little bit more than two feet wide, about The same in its height, just a wooden box covered with gold. But the important thing was what was inside the box. The Ark of the Covenant was to hold the testimony or the two tablets which Moses was Different. The Ten Commandments or the Ten Words. The law of God was to be stored, so to speak, within the Ark of the Covenant. Representing the justice of God, the nature of God, and yes, ultimately, the justice of God. And then on top of the ark, Moses was instructed to construct what our Bibles refer to as the mercy seat, which is most likely more appropriately described as the atonement cover. That which was over the Ten Commandments, that which was over the law, that which was over Justice representing the mercy and grace of God As God finished his description of the Ark of the Covenant to Moses, he said, It's there that I will meet with you from above the mercy seat. That's where God would have spoken to Moses. A very helpful illustration of the nature of God. And indeed, of his work through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And very applicable for us today as we enter into or continue in the Sermon on the Mount. So far in the Sermon on the Mount, we've seen that description of the hearts of those who are in the kingdom, whether it be on earth or in glory. Those who are poor in spirit, those who mourn, those who are meek, those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, those who are merciful, pure in heart, peacemakers. Jesus continued by telling his disciples what they were to do in this world, being salt and light. And then he told them that there is the law. Which he had not come to abolish, but to fulfill, and now he's been opening up that law to his disciples. He began by saying that there's more depth to some of these laws than you actually understand. He continued To tell them that Moses had given you an accommodation when he allowed you to divorce your wives And he told them that they had corrupted the law, as they were swearing by things other than by God. This morning, as we come to verses 38 through 42, I want us to see that the hearts of the followers of Jesus Are being changed to forgo justice and to pour out mercy and grace. The hearts of the followers of Jesus are being changed to forego justice and pour out mercy and grace. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, exacting justice. Secondly, turning the cheek, and then finally dispensing mercy. Today, in a sense, we have the Ark of the Covenant set forth for us. In these few verses that Christ preached to his disciples, the law within the ark, justice being required, and then atop the atonement cover for the mercy seat. As we go through this passage, I want you to to see if you can see That connecting line, that continuum between justice and mercy that Jesus sets out for us. Well, our first head or point, exacting justice. Once again, Jesus as he's discussing the law begins by referring to or calling attention to the mosaic. Law. That's been his pattern. We've seen it time and again. We words used by Jesus do exactly that. You have heard Referring to what we now have as the Old Testament. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. There are actually multiple references in the Old Testament to what Jesus is giving to his disciples. First we see it in Exodus 21, where you have all the civil laws that are being given to the nation of Israel kind of combined there in those verses before we get to the description of the tabernacle. In chapter 21, the scenarios when men strive together and hit a pregnant woman. And Jesus says, or excuse me, Moses said that there shall be a fine for the one who causes injury. He shall pay as the judge determines. But If there's harm, you shall pay life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe. Once again, that's repeated, not verbatim, but in Leviticus 24 If anyone injures his neighbors as he has done it, it shall be done to him. Fracture for fracture. Whatever injury is given, a person shall be given to him And finally in Deuteronomy. In chapter 19, as Moses was laying out witnesses for crimes, and if a malicious witness were to arise The judges shall see that this false witness, who has accused his brother falsely, shall be punished. The rationale is given. So you shall purge the evil from your midst, and the rest shall hear and fear, and shall never again commit any such evil among you. It shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. Jesus is referring to these passages He's referring to the law of God. He's referring to the justice of God. Remember what Jesus said concerning the law as he begins to open it up. He said he didn't come to abolish it, nor to take anything away from it, but to fulfill it. He came to fulfill every jot and tittle of the law. Just consider that for a moment. The law was so important to the Son of God. That it had become one of the reasons for his being, for his coming to live amongst sinners. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them And so as you consider the importance of the law to Jesus Christ and his keeping it, you might also consider how concerned God is. in meeting out his justice for those who break the law. If Jesus was so intent on keeping the law, it must be that the Father is so intent upon satisfying his justice. Or punishing those who break it. We serve a just God The creator of the universe loves righteousness and justice. It's throughout the scriptures We don't have to look very far. Psalm eleven, for the Lord is righteous. He loves righteous deeds. Isaiah chapter 61. For I the Lord love justice. I hate robbery and wrong. The Lord is a God of justice. Indeed, the Lord promised justice to Adam, didn't he? You may surely eat every tree of the garden. But of a tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. He promised justice to Adam. Indeed, the Lord will ensure that his His righteous justice is done. There will not be one transgression of a law which is not punished in accordance with his perfect and holy just will. His righteousness demands it In fact, if you think of it, you'd want it no other way. For if the sovereign God of all creation were unjust, where would you be today? Wickedness would have its way. Evil would not merely be running rampant. It would be the victor in every circumstance. The righteous would not prevail but be trampled upon. Those seeking to follow Christ would be at the mercy of the sons of Satan. And since there is no mercy in Satan, those following Christ would be devastated and destroyed. This law referenced by Jesus then represents the simple, exacting, and righteous justice of God. It was the simple way given to the Israelites. You shall pay life for life. It is the representation of God's justice meted or measured out. This law also invokes the truth, the reality, that God will repay. We see that truth throughout Scripture. In Proverbs 24 We read, does he who keeps watch over your soul, does not he who keeps watch over your soul know it? And will he not repay man according to his work? Later on in Matthew's gospel, we read in chapter 16, For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his Father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done. Paul picks up on this truth in the second chapter of his letter to those in Rome. He will render to each one according to his works. There will be tribulation and distress for every human being who does evil, but glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good. And so Jesus brings these truths, this truth of God's law, His just law. To his disciples. He begins with this passage, this truth, proclaiming the justice of God God's call for his people to apply justice evenly and equally. Punishment for transgressions designed by God, called for by God. To meet the wrongful acts that he knew would take place amongst his people. Justice was to be doled out among even his people, in such a way that it represented the kind of pain or suffering or loss that had been experienced by the victim. So the transgressor was to pay or repay the victim of his act in such a way that was measured according to his sin or wrongdoing. All of this was based upon the nature of God. God's righteousness, his holiness, demands that his justice be satisfied. Completely. And that sets the table for the next section of this passage. Brings us to our second point. Turning the cheek. Jesus' teaching appears to be full of surprises. For his disciples. For they did not understand the law, and more importantly, they did not understand the true nature of God the Father. And his image, which had been impressed upon them, but quite neutered within them as a result of the fall. But they were learning. And so Jesus now begins to turn the first corner from justice to foregoing justice. Look at verse 39. But I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him too. There are three words within these verses that are significant for us. The first is evil. Do not resist the one who is evil. The second is anyone who would sue you. And the third one, anyone who forces you. Those are not pleasant words. Evil, suing, forcing. There's a sense of violence. within this passage. Right about now, given the initial reference to justice We'd be thinking, uh along with these words, evil suing force, that Jesus would say something like, Let justice rule and prevail But that's not what he said. It's not how he guided his disciples. He tells them to turn the other cheek. Why would the disciples do this? Why would Jesus counsel this kind of responsive behavior? It just doesn't seem to fit Given the fact that he began with the justice of God, which is good and right and true. And Jesus doesn't say that he was modifying the law. He doesn't say that I'm changing the simple, basic command of God. So what was he saying? What's his point? Why is this here? Each one of us should be asking that question this morning. Why? We might get to the idea of what it means to turn the other cheek, but first we need to ask that question As you come in contact with evil, as you might be sued, as others might force you to do things, why would you respond this way? There's a twofold answer to this, at least. There are probably more than two reasons. But to answer this question of why, we must first ask another question, and that is who is the exactor To be an exact or to exact means to compel somebody to do something, to pay, or to yield or to require something authoritatively, that's what Webster's defines it as With regard to eternal things and spiritual things, we know that the exactor of justice is God Himself. Scripture tells us many times: vengeance is mine. The Lord will recompense. The Lord will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants. Paul writes to again the church at Rome saying, Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay he will avenge. In this world, the human realm, God has set in place governmental authorities, the civil magistrate who bears the sword. Paul writes he doesn't bear the sword in vain. And he describes the civil magistrate, the judge. As an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. It covers the field, so to speak. God is the exactor of eternal justice, and the civil magistrate is the exactor of temporal justice in this world. Where does that leave the Christian? Where does that leave the disciples? The Christian is then not the exactor of justice. This was not the disciples' role. It was not the Christian's role today. It doesn't mean that you can't pursue justice. But Jesus is pointing his disciples in another direction Christian has not been given the task of seeing eternal or spiritual or temporal judgment being carried out Now, this is not to speak of ecclesiastical or church discipline. That's another topic. And that's not what Jesus is speaking of this morning. Here he's generally speaking of civil justice, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. These were the laws of the nation of Israel. And he was showing the disciples But they weren't the judges. They weren't the ones to exact justice, but they were the ones to demonstrate mercy. Secondly, and probably more importantly, not only were the disciples not the exactors of justice. But they were to look to God who is rich in mercy The Lord is certainly just and will avenge, but he is also rich in mercy and in kindness and in grace. So much so that it can't be measured. So Jesus was setting before the disciples two options As one slaps you in the face or takes your shirt, the disciples had two options. First was to slap back. The first was to rip the shirt off the back of the one who had taken his shirt, a shirt for a shirt, a slap for a slap. But the second way was not to seek justice. The alternative was not to pursue retribution or restitution or worldly justice. In other words, the idea being proclaimed by Jesus was for the disciples to forego an attempt to make themselves whole again. It was this second, this alternative response that Jesus spoke of. In other words, do not seek vengeance or retribution or restitution from the one who has committed an evil act upon you or sues you Instead of slapping back, show the offender that you do not intend to do so as you offer your other cheek to be slapped as well. If your shirt is taken wrongfully, instead of ripping it out of the hands of the evil one, provide him with your coat as well. Have mercy or demonstrate grace. to the one who has displayed nothing but evil toward you. If the offender makes you walk one mile, do not run to the judge or the authorities or to the courthouse, but display mercy by going with him. Two miles. Isn't that the role of the Christian? To imitate God In this particular circumstance to show mercy and grace, to imitate the Lord Jesus Christ. Peter writes of this exact thing with regard to Jesus in his first letter. Speaking of Christ, he said, when he, meaning Jesus, was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten. But continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. That last part is so important. So critical for us today as we as we think of this Say, well he was j he was Jesus. Yes. Yes, he was. But do you see what Jesus did as opposed to reviling, as opposed to suffering or threatening? He entrusted himself to his father, who judges justly Paul picked up on this concept again in Romans chapter twelve, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink, for by doing so you will keep burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Paul has a way of putting things plainly at times. And he did so there for us. Isn't Jesus describing what the ark pictures? For us, the law held within the wooden box covered with gold representing Justice, the need for it to be meted about upon all offenders. And yet on top was the mercy seat or the atonement cover Which represented the grace and mercy and kindness of God to those who didn't deserve it. It's a picture of mercy triumphing over justice, as James writes. It's not that justice is not satisfied. No, justice didn't have the last say, so to speak. It's the mercy of God, the kindness and grace of God demonstrated so powerfully on the cross at Calvary as the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ flowed out Washing sins away. Washing your sins away if you're trusting in Christ this morning. Undeservedly so. You deserve that justice. You deserve that wrath of God to be poured out upon you, and instead of upon you. If you're trusting in Christ this morning, it was poured out upon Him. God was pouring out his mercy and grace upon all of his children at the cross of Calvary. Justice was being done as his son suffered But even as he suffered, each and every one of your sins were being paid for in full on the cross at Calvary. As his body was broken, as his blood flowed out, as he took upon himself the eternal wrath of his father, justice was accomplished, yes, and at the exact same time, just as illustrated by the Ark of the Covenant, God was pouring out his mercy on all of his children Mercy triumphs over justice If that describes you this morning, if you are one of those trusting in Christ and have been the recipient of God's mercy and grace, what's your first response when you're injured by another? When someone takes something of yours that that does not rightfully belong to them, what's your first response, I think, for most of us? If we dig deeply within our hearts, we're going to say, uh we need to get it back We need to be made whole. We need retribution. We need restitution. We want justice. We want to get even Paul dealt with this as he wrote to those at Corinth. And he was writing to them about the lawsuits that they were engaged in, even among brothers. And he asks this question, why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? Isn't that the idea? Isn't that what Jesus is teaching? Instead of making yourself whole See, Paul wasn't saying that they hadn't been wronged. He was saying on the contrary, why not suffer for the sake of the gospel? Why not suffer and entrust yourself to the one who judges justly? Why not remain unholy? Why not respond to the one who has injured or committed a wrong against you with grace? And so Jesus teaches his disciples, saying to each one of them, Show grace to those who perpetrate evil upon you. Show my grace to those who don't know grace. Seek to open their eyes to the hearts To grace For those who inflict injury purposefully, who steal and harm with malicious intent, know nothing of grace. And so Christ was teaching his disciples, it's your work, it's your task. It's your job. For as I have had grace upon you, now you show them my grace. Brings us to our third point dispensing mercy. Well, how do we know that Jesus is actually conveying this, this aspect of grace, of mercy to his disciples? How do we know where he's headed? Is it not by this last verse? Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. This is a call for giving to those in great need. Appears to be somewhat at the opposite end of that continuum of justice. Justice being at this end and then and then this great mercy being at the other end of this continuum. We were on our way as Jesus spoke of turning other cheek, but now this last verse, it fits squarely on top of the Ark of the Covenant, the mercy seat And if that was not so clear in the preceding verses, it is crystal clear now. This message of Jesus here is, have mercy, be merciful. Demonstrate compassion. Be liberal. Love others like you love yourself. Give to others what you have received from me. Webster defines compassion in an interesting way. He says it's a mixed passion. Two things. It's love and sorrow together. Have compassion Isn't that what Jesus is saying? Isn't that what he's telling them? Not a new command, not opening up something that's different But just reminding the disciples of what they already knew. We read it this morning in Deuteronomy 15. There will never cease to be poor in the land. Therefore I command you, you shall open wide your hand to your brother. to the needy and to the poor in your land. Did you notice what Moses said, you shall open your hand wide. He's calling upon them. Jesus is calling upon them to be those who are liberal and given, even when their hearts were not inclined to open their hands at all. Jesus has now moved from an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth Meaning giving that one what he or she has earned By the wrong committed. He moves from that to refraining from exacting justice, and finally to actively giving what is unearned. There's a problem It's just not our nature to do so. There's a sense in which if it were our nature, it wouldn't even be here. in the Sermon on the Mount. Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. You may be asking, well why are you saying that? We we give As Moses writes to the Israelites in Deuteronomy 15, he prefaces his command to give by saying, You shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother. Wow. I guess he knew their hearts. That that was their inclination to shut my hand And not open it, even when I see someone in need. Paul writes that to Timothy in his first letter. As he writes to him about the rich, charge them not to be haughty. Nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, Paul knew the minds of men, he knew their hearts. And he knew that they would hold on to their riches because they hoped. in them. Isn't that our nature? Isn't that why Jesus must teach this lesson to us today, for the disciples were not practicing these acts of mercy and compassion. We need to learn to be liberal with the things that the Lord has given us. Again, this is this passage seems to be a snapshot of the good news, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We see that connection, that line drawn from justice. to mercy and grace. And as we do, as we as we see that continuum, as we see what Jesus is teaching We have to ask that same question of ourselves. What is our response when someone asks for help? When someone's in need, maybe for money, I don't know. When someone comes pleading or begging, again, I think if we're honest, our thought might turn first to ourselves. If I give this to you, am I going to have enough? Are you going to come back again and ask me for more? See, the problem is that we we plainly fail to believe what's taught to us in the scriptures, for as Moses teaches the Israelites, you shall not be grudging when you give to him Because for this the Lord your God will bless you in all your work, in all that you undertake. We miss that. If we're entrusting ourselves to the one who is just and the dispenser of justice, we're also trusting our one who is the giver of all good things. And as we give, we know that the Lord will provide in his good timing according to our needs. That we would be entrusting ourselves not to the uncertainty of the riches of the world, but in God Himself You see, brothers and sisters, this passage is calling us this morning to examine our hearts, isn't it? Because many times our responses, whatever the situation, whatever if it's the slap on the cheek or if it's the one who who begs and And our response is not Christ-like. We have to go in prayer. Asking that the Spirit would continue changing our heart, pleading with the Spirit that we would be more liberal and merciful and compassionate. And the question is, are you doing that? Are you doing that? Is that your desire? For if it's not even our desire, we have to question ourselves: are we really in Christ? Am I really in Christ this morning? If that's not my desire, I may not do it perfectly, and none of us do. All of us have these kinds of thoughts. But the question is, are you pleading with the Spirit that he might remove these from you, that your desire might not first be provided for yourself, but But really dispensing mercy to provide first for others See, that's what Paul wrote in his letter to the Philippians, as those were giving to him for his ministry and for his provision. And he said to them, I'm not seeking the gift actually for myself But I'm seeking for the fruit that increases to your credit. That's the whole idea That as as the Lord is working compassion and mercy in our hearts and we're desirous to give and we and we think of the other one first before ourselves, that is way above the law. The law calls us to give. But giving without concern for your own well-being Knowing that the one who provides for you will continue to provide and trusting in him, that's way above the law. That's true compassion and mercy. That's Christ like mercy And we need to be those who pray that the Spirit would continue to work that in our hearts. Yes, the hearts of the followers of Jesus are being changed to forego justice and pour out mercy and grace. All of this is pictured in the ark, and now we have it in the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise be to God. And may He help us pour out mercy and grace on all those that we come in contact with. Amen. Our Father in Heaven, we are weak and frail, and Lord God, we need much work. But we thank you for what Jesus has done, Father, how he has indeed changed our hearts from stone to flesh, and we thank you now for the work that the Spirit continues to do upon us. For we know that the work that we're called we're speaking about today is not going to earn us a place in glory. Jesus has done that. But Father, we also know that you continue to change us, to be more like Christ. And so we ask, Father, that you'd continue that work in us, help us, sanctify us, help us to pour out mercy and grace. Help us to turn the other cheek. Help us to forego justice when it's appropriate, Father. And help us to provide for those in need. Help us to trust in you for all these things. We ask this in Jesus' name.