Let us turn to the scripture reading today. Hebrews 11, verses 8 through 12. And we looked at this last time, and we'll look at it again next week. Today we'll be focusing on another aspect of the faith of Abraham that's recorded here in this passage. So hear now God's word. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as in a foreign country Dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise For he waited for the city which has foundations whose builder and maker is God. By faith, Sarah herself also received strength to conceive seed, and she bore a child when she was past the age Because she judged him faithful who had promised. Therefore, from one man and him as good as dead were born as many as the stars of the sky in multitude, innumerable as the sands, as the sand which is by the seashore Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Today I would like you to focus your attention on the section that here is dealing with Abraham and what he did when he got to the promised land. And uh last week uh we did uh focus on the first part of this, that Abraham's faith was uh seen in that he obeyed God, not knowing where he was going. He obeyed God and made the journey to the promised land. And of course, every time we talk about the individuals that are mentioned here in Hebrews chapter 11 We see that it's always, whenever any of the things that they did or mentioned, it's always prefaced by the two words by faith. Because it is God who is the one that gives faith to believe in Him and to live for Him. Now, in the society in which we live today, our society, I think, is driven by the need to have and to know everything. Immediately. It used to be that we were content with fast food restaurants where we could get a burger and a fry and some fries in a few minutes. Now it's instantaneous everything. News. Anywhere from around the world. From 24-hour news networks. Do you imagine what our grandparents would have thought? Watches that can tell us our location anywhere in the world. And even monitor our heart rate. Drones that can deliver packages the same day we purchase them. That hasn't happened yet, they're working on it. And um computers that can give us any information we want. Or let us watch the Big Bang Theory episode we missed the past Thursday night. More and quicker and better are the norms and the expectation of our society. Faster and quicker delivery of information is one of our culture's greatest desires And there's always expanding effort to do that. And you have to wonder How much of that effort to know everything is driven by sinful man's desires to crave to know more and more, craving to know more and more? But in the world of the kingdom of God, isn't it the case that instant instant gratification is not usually how God works? And that is something we as believers learn, and we learn to accept it one way or the other. In retrospect, we can often discover how we have been burned by the fact. That getting everything we want as soon as possible is not always good for us. We live in a world of God's promises We live in a world of God's promises. And it is God-given faith that teaches us to wait upon the Lord and His promises. As the familiar passage in Isaiah 40 reminds us, they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings of eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not fade. Hebrews verses chapter 11, verses 9 and 10 point out another aspect of Abraham's faith for which he is singled out. And that aspect is that Abraham waited for God's promises to be fulfilled. He waited for God's promises to be fulfilled. One aspect was revealed last week. He obeyed God and left his home in Ur the Chaldees. A destination that he didn't even know when he left. Not until he got there did God show him that this was the promised land. The land which God had promised to him. All Abraham knew for sure when he left Urv, the Chaldees, was that his inheritance Would be for himself and for his seed after him. And so he goes on his journey. Now let's look at what Abraham did when he got there. Abraham's faith, the faith for which he is commended for, is a patient faith. A patient faith. Verse 9, by faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise. Let's look at that for just a minute. When Abraham got to the right place, God expressly said to him, Genesis 12, verse 6. Abraham passed through the land of the place of Sikkim unto the plain of Morah, and the Canaanite was in the land. The Lord appeared to Abraham. And said, Unto thy seed I will give this land. There Abraham built an altar to the Lord who had appeared to him. The words that God gave to Abraham when he said, Unto thy seed I will give this land, imply that That the land will not be Abraham's to possess. I'm carefully using my words. Will not be Abraham's to possess. He will have to wait for his descendants to have ownership. If Abraham was a more selfish individual, believe it, Expecting God to immediately reward him for that great trek that he made from Ur of the Chaldees. If he was a more selfish individual, Expecting gratification because he was obedient, would not Abraham have asked God, where is my part? Where is my part? And how sad it is Excuse me. Back up a minute. How amazing it is that Abraham's faith didn't do that. His faith is much more like the faith of our Savior. Think about it. In that familiar passage in Isaiah 53, verse 8, where it talks about the Savior's labors, it says he was taken from prison and from judgment. Who shall declare his generation? Who will be around for Jesus to speak of the things that he did? And further, in that section, it goes on, it says, He was stricken out of the land of Egypt out of the land of living for the transgression of my people, he was stricken. And then it says He will see the trans travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. He shall see. He shall see the results of his labor. But from an eternal point, he sees it all right away. But from a time point If he was to focus, you see, on the results of his labor, at that particular instant of his death, of his bearing The the bearing the the our sins for his death. Who could he count among his friends? They were all gone. They had all left. Abraham, I'm at the promised land. Where's mine, Lord? Where's mine? Oh, it's coming It's gonna be there. I give this land to your seed to possess. In my opinion, it's very sad that our culture is so driven by the desire for immediate reward. That's bad enough. But an even worse problem is that that drive has seduced the church. It has seduced the church of the Lord Jesus Christ to believe that eternal rewards are temporal. For the now. Give me my earthly blessings, because I obey you, Lord. is sometimes the mantra. How many Christians? And I don't know, you know, I don't know whether to put air quotes around the word Christian or not. I'll be charitable How many Christians, how many brothers and sisters are laboring under what is called the name it and claim it group? In a supreme irony, America that offers men so much instant material gratification has also robbed many Christians of the vitality of their faith. Because our faith is supposed to trust in the God who gives gifts to us in his time. And furthermore, the God-given gifts that our God gives to us are not ultimately temporal. They are the greatest gift of all faith in Christ And what that faith brings. Instead of Abraham clamoring up and down and saying, Where's mine? You see that there's no banner there as he walks into the promised land and saying, Okay, Abraham, name it and claim it. Here it is. Instead of that, what does Abraham do? He sojourns in the land of promise The word sojourn there means to live as a stranger. Abraham didn't even put down roots in the promised land He lived in a tent. When he came into the promised land, he didn't go out, the first thing he does is build a palatial house. Nor did he build an expansive church building or a palatial church building. He lived in a tent. And he sojourned. You know what that also means? He had no permanent place to call home. Abraham was going around the very land that God had promised to him He was going around that land, following the sheep from one patch of green grass to the next. I submit to you all that took a great amount of faith. But it it also is it's an informed faith. It's a focused faith. It's a futurely focused faith. That causes Abraham to live by. See, it wasn't that Abraham was poor. That he couldn't have built a big house, or he couldn't have built a palatial church, or tabernacle. It wasn't that he couldn't afford the creature comforts. Genesis chapter 14, remember where Abraham goes out to war with the nations that had come and kidnapped Lot? An alt-handed reference, it says in Genesis 14, 4, that Abraham had 314 male servants born in his household. I submit to you, it takes a lot of money to take care of 314 male servants, not let alone women and children. And then later in the same incident, the king of Salem, Melchizedek, comes out and he blesses Abraham. And listen to what he says in verse 19. Blessed be Abraham of the Most High God, possessor of heaven and earth Abraham, last time I looked, he's still going around the area intent. Doesn't look like he possesses the earth. But it's because of God's promise, you see. To you and your seed I will give this land. And says that Abraham blessed the Most High God. Genesis 14, 20, which hath delivered thine enemies unto thy hand, and Abraham giveth to Melchizedek a tenth of all that he had. Once again, arguing for the fact that he's probably a pretty rich guy, pretty well endowed materially. But Abraham seems to have gone even one step further. He believes, you see, that this world is not his most glorious home. He refused to be influenced by the world's luxuries. Instead, Abraham exemplifies Paul's encouragement Found in Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies as living sacrifice Wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Don't be conformed to this world. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove that which is good, acceptable, and perfect I think Abraham, by sojourning in the land, is looking for not the things of the world, but proving that which is excellent. Excellent. The good things that God has promised to him. For Abraham, this world is a place of sojourn. It's not simply that he's going from tent to tent, place to place, but he's also working there. He's working in the very world of promise. Peter, excuse me. Paul wrote in the verses that we read in Philippians chapter 3, verses 11 through 20, describing himself and others, he says, For many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ. Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is their shame. Why? Because they Their mind is focused on earthly things. And then he writes that ringing statement, our citizenship is in heaven. From where we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. It is very hard to resist the wonders and the riches of this world. It's a struggle. It is a daily sojourn. But sojourn you must. Resist the temptations you see with your eyes, and by faith believe the promises of God. From your heart, that there is something better waiting for you. And you see that God has in this statement about Abraham's faith, he is Focused on an antidote to the enticements that the world presents to us. And the antidote is very simple. Abraham is focused on God's promises. He has a future-focused faith. By that I mean He looked for the city whose foundation and build whose foundations whose builder and maker is God. He looked for that city. Every day he sojourned. He waited for it. He expected it. There's an imperfect tense that's used for that word looked for, the city, which means that there's something from the past that has an ongoing application. What is it from the past that's God's promise to Abraham? I will give you an inheritance for your seed. Every day as Abraham lived in the land of promise in tents, he was looking and waiting. For that which is eternal, for that which doesn't wear out, for that which doesn't rust or fade away Every day Abraham believed in the promises of God. An earthly inheritance in the land of Canaan for Abraham was worthless compared to Living in the city of God Because he understood that along with the city of God comes a kingdom. And those who are in that kingdom are the builder and the architect of the city, God and his Christ. For you here today, and for every believer that hears my voice, wherever you hear it, or wherever you tune into this sermon Your country is not your home. America is not your home, Christian. No other country in the world is the Christian's home. No other country in the world is the Promised Land. We as Christians are challenged to believe in something much bigger. Let your faith from God prevent you from ever being at home here. And let your faith in God's promises keep you sojourning. Pressing on to the city of God, to the heavenly city, the New Jerusalem. For there is where your greatest gift is. There is where your God is. There is where Jesus, your brother, your savior, your Lord is And there is where, along with the Spirit, they wait for you to come home. Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, help us to fill our thoughts with the glory of heaven. To fill our desires with the longing to be forever with you To be forever in your presence. A day in your court is better than a thousand elsewhere. Comfort us, O Heavenly Father, as we make the pilgrimage, as we sojourn through this world. Help us, Father, keep our eyes fixed firmly On the city whose builder and architect is God. We recognize, dear Lord, that just like Brother Abraham That too is a gift of your of faith. We confess unto you, Lord, our weakness We hope, O Lord, that you will we believe, O Lord, in your promises. And we know that God does not disappoint. To you be all glory and praise, amen.