Now let me direct your attention to our evening messages from 1 Timothy chapter 5. We're now in chapter 5. And first Timothy almost finished fur chapter five. And uh we will be uh Focus tonight on verses 23, 24, 25. We will read, however, beginning at verse 17 of chapter 5, and read on through. the end of the chapter. Let us hear God's word. Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor. Especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. For the scripture says, you shall not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain. And the laborer is worthy of his wages. Do not receive an accusation against an elder except from two or three witnesses. Those who are sinning, rebuke in the presence of all, that the rest also may fear. I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that you observe these things without prejudice. Doing nothing with partiality. Do not lay hands on anyone hastily nor share in other people's sins. Keep yourself pure. No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for your stomach's sake. And your frequent infirmities. Some men's sins are clearly evident, preceding them to judgment But those of some men follow later. Likewise, the good works of some are clearly evident, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden. Thus far ends the reading of God's word for us this evening. For the last uh couple of weeks uh we have been looking at verse 17 following uh discussing the uh role uh uh of elders, uh not just looking at their qualifications, but also looking at the kind of work that they are involved in, the kinds of attitudes they're to display before the people of God. And we have uh discovered uh that uh elders are uh to be to rebuke. those who are continuing in serious sin in the presence of all, so that everyone might learn to fear the Lord. Because sin and judgment are real, and sins will be judged by the Lord. Elders are also charged, and this is what we've already looked at, to make their decisions without partiality or without prejudice. To do so, to judge with partial with partiality and with prejudice In other words, to treat people unequally is unjust and runs counter to the clear teaching of Scripture that our God is just. And furthermore, that our God, who is just shows no partiality. We find that particular thought of God being not a respecter of persons found numerous times in various places of the scriptures. Acts chapter 10, verse 34 Peter is speaking and says, he says, of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. But in every nation, he that fears him and works righteousness is accepted with him. What a wonderful testimony that is. That uh God has his people everywhere. Uh that they're that in all nations The uh the the way of acceptance for g before God is uh by faith, fearing him, and uh being righteous before him uh living the righteous life through the work of the Spirit in your life. Doesn't matter where you come from, doesn't matter who you know, doesn't matter what how much uh how much or how little you have, uh what uh particular skin color you have God has a different standard of what is righteous in his sight, and he embraces all those who live by that standard. Deuteronomy chapter 10, verse 17 also reminds us that the Lord, our God, is the God of gods, the Lord of Lords. A great God, mighty and terrible, who regards not persons, nor takes bribes. 2 Chronicles 19, verse 7. Let us fear the let now let the fear of the Lord be upon you and take heed to do it. For there is no iniquity, for there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of gifts. Job even commented on this quality of God, of impartiality. Job 34, 19, how much less to him that accepts not the persons of princes, nor regards the rich more than the poor. Are they not all the work of his hands? If God shows no partiality, surely his ministers must show no partiality as well. Elders are not only not to show partiality, but they are to remember that impartiality is a reflection of the fact that God is just. And treats everyone the same. God's salvation work is even presented to us as a demonstration of His justice. Listen to how Zechariah 9. 9 put it, and these are words that you hear. Often it when we have celebrate the triumphal entry of Christ. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king comes to thee. He is just and having salvation Lowly and riding upon an ass and upon a colt, the foal of an ass. Notice how he is just and having salvation occur in the same And so I'm just saying that his justice is also Very much part of his saving activity. The God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spoke to me, he that rules over men must be just. 2 Samuel chapter 23, 3 from the mouth of David Finally, we talked about not only were uh previously, not only were elders to rebuke others who continue to sin Not only are they to be just without showing impartiality, and also they're to be very careful about who they ordain. Very careful about who they lay hands on, who they ordain to church office. And even there's even an encouragement not to do so quickly. Not to do so quickly. And I probably said this many times And I may say it again many more times if I'm giving the opportunity. But, or and Presbyterianism, I believe, is the godly form of government, or the form of government that the Scripture supports for the life of the church. Presbyterianism is subject to failure, and it usually fails because men don't do what God says. when they elect men to the office of elder or pastor or even deacon. They invent their own standards. They don't abide by the standards that God sets forward. And And here is a very uh a very important one. When you couple this with the previous injunction not to show partiality, Can you imagine the pressure that could be on a particular church if there are several possible candidates for the office of elder in a church And one of the already existing elders is a father or a brother of one of the candidates. Can you imagine how you could be easily guilty of showing partiality by ordaining a friend or a family member who may not be ready yet. But because they're a family member or a good friend, you go ahead and ordain anyway. Y do you think that happens? Uh sadly, yes, it does. But that is uh that is a uh a a concern. It does happen uh and it's very difficult to stop it from happening. some situations. Here in this particular community where you have a more urban church setting where people come and go fairly rapidly, it's less inclined to happen. here. But get yourself out on a town that has six or seven thousand people in it and they're all part of the local community and everybody in the local community knows everybody else. And imagine how this one plays out in that kind of setting. So those are some of the exhortations that the Apostle Paul has given to Timothy, as Timothy is responsible for the church in Ephesus regarding elders. And we know that he has given already a lot of material to Timothy about elders whole chapter three is about their qualifications. Other places he talks about how they're to treat various different segments of people with within the church, old people, young people, old women, young old men, young women, young widows, old widows, you know, it's a it's a veritable manual for uh ministry within the church. But tonight we come to another section. And I believe that the sections verses 23 through 25, just three verses, I believe these sections apply primarily, but not exclusively, but nevertheless primarily, but not exclusively, to elders. We have in verse twenty three this statement Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for your stomach's sake and your often infirmities. Well, this is a interesting statement, uh to say the least. Um It is strange to suddenly be talking about elders and to stick that statement here if its primary focus is not on elders It is not written in such a way that it's an option. It's written as a command. Don't drink water, but use a little wine for your stomach's sake. We could make the argument that wine Is more hygienic than water. And particularly so at that particular time. Wine is not usually infected by intestinal bugs, which happens to water occasionally. In fact, it would be very rare for wine to have that kind of problem. It has other problems, but it doesn't have that problem. He says to do this, he has a particular reason to do this. He says for your stomach's sake and for other infirmities. To me, it sounds almost like the Apostle Paul is acting as a doctor here. And that as a doctor, he may be way ahead of his time. Because more most recently, within the last 20 years, there's been significant research done on wine. And its medicinal qualities. Contains a chemical, for example, that is said to be good for the heart, an antioxidant. Furthermore, it contains another chemical, and that one is named. It's called resderatrol. That is said to be an antioxidant. Particularly red wine. Now I know the minute you start talking about this, there are going to be two extremes. There's going to be those on one side are going to say, oh my goodness gracious, each Just encourage people to drink. And they're going to say I don't want to have anything to do with that. And that's a decision you're free to make. And then there will be others on the other side who will say, oh my goodness, he just gave me license to drink. Again, I think it even though this has a general application, I think within the text, it has a more specific act application to elders. or ministers. And I'm not saying it doesn't it isn't good to to help people who are perhaps in need of some help of this medicinal qualities that are here. But notice he first of all says drink a little bit. Okay? He doesn't say go out every night and drink a bottle. Don't do it to excess. Drink a little and for your stomach. Now What is it about the stomach that Paul might be arguing about here? Well, in his culture, in his day and age, the stomach was thought to be the seat of emotion. And even the Greek words that are translated to have compassion or sympathy for someone Literally is translated bows of compassion. It uses three words. And that I think is reflective of what the Greeks thought, that overall culture that was predominant in the thinking of people in those days. Well again, what what difference does that make? Well, I think he's hitting at something that uh those who are elders and those who are pastors maybe understand. understand a little bit better because there are a lot of times in the life of the church where your stomach is turned into knots. And if it was butter in your stomach, you would if it was milk in your stomach, you could churn butter From the way in which your stomach reacts to certain issues and certain problems. I don't believe Paul had any different problems than we have today with people and the kinds of emotional roller coasters that people go through who are trying to get God's people to be faithful. It has not changed from the beginning. We talked about Moses this morning. And we know the things he went through And so I you see I think that's why this is here. I think he's saying, elders, you know, every once in a while you you maybe need to take a little bit for your stomach And calm your stomach. And this is why I think he makes this exhortation, and that's why I said earlier, I think this has a principle primary application to elders. But to the extent that other people's stomachs are upset by people, it may be beneficial for them as well. And it may be beneficial for the heart, uh the heart value Once again, drink a little, not excess. Paul is not to be held up as a defender of drinking in excess. with this exhortation. Always with Paul and always with Peter, it's do all things in moderation. The Apostle Paul said it elsewhere in Ephesians 5, verse 18. He said, Do not be drunk with wine, which is excess. But be filled with the Spirit. So you can see he's saying two different things, you know, uh, in a sense of if you take the if you take the position that he's you know, advocating abstinence, uh, that that doesn't consistently fly. What he is advocat what he is advocating consistently is moderation Moderation in all things. Um not excess I read the Peter passage earlier, but 1 Peter 4, verse 3. You might have remembered this when it was read. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, and excess of wine There's no doubt that excess of wine is a problem for many. But that's not what Paul's advocating Okay. So Then he moves to verse 24 and 25. Some men's sins are open before, going before the judgment, and some men they follow after. Likewise also good works of some are manifest before, and they that are otherwise cannot be hid. These words, again, make the most sense They make the most sense in the context of the elder who is evaluating men for the office of elder. It's the uh filling out of his exhortation in verse 22, don't lay hands on someone too quickly. Um if you do, you may share in someone else's sins. You know Some men's good works or some men's sins are open. Some men's sins are open. That may mean, that does mean I think it means that they're clear to everybody. And you might say, well, gee, why would you ever be thinking about ordaining that person Yes. That's the point. That's the point. Don't ordain that person. But let me sketch out a scenario. In a situation where partiality is involved Or, in the situation where partiality is involved, or where you have some man who has a particular sin that's evident to everybody, and yet he's a very prominent person in the community. Might you overlook those sins in order to ordain that person as an elder? Brother Alex is shaking his head. No, and I certainly agree with him, but Brother Alex is not where some people have gone with this. They show partiality. And they make excuses. Apostle Paul does not make excuses For something that's an open sin. That if it's an open sin, that means it's a continuing sin. It also means that the person practicing it is lacking in discretion. As in addition to not having his heart right, If you ordain that individual on the basis of partiality, if you lay on hands too quickly, It will certainly come back to bite you, as well as bite the rest of the congregation. Likewise, the good works of some are manifest beforehand, and they that are otherwise cannot be hid. Once again. Good works are also clear. They're also seeable. And it's good that if you do have an elder candidate who's up for you, you would suspect that there would be many good works. Good works in the sense of what God would consider. good. Good works that flow out of his faith testimony and his allegiance to Christ. You would accept to be able to see that Which indirectly does say that an elder candidate who doesn't have any observable good works might leave a question mark in your mind About whether that person is ready. Maybe not there's it not that there's anything wrong with him, but maybe he's not yet ready because those good works aren't evident to ever anybody And so um uh the uh uh uh some sins it says uh follow after they come to to they come if if if you uh uh if you know there isn't any good works out there and you ordain and then another a sin comes up after you've already ordained, well then that becomes an issue It becomes a particularly if it's public and it's known in the congregation, that becomes an issue. And these are some of the things that I think are exhortations that the Apostle Paul gives to Timothy for how to uh check out those who are going to be leaders in the church. And these these are on top of everything else he said prior to this. And so that's kind of what I wanted to share with you. They're additional words about elders. They're beneficial to whoever is Choosing elders, whether it be the session that is vetting the elders and then presenting them to the congregation, but they're also helpful for the congregation. uh when they make their decision as to who would uh who would be the elder of the church or not. Pray that the Lord would uh be uh pleased to use this in our thinking in the future. In Christ's name, amen. Let us pray Our merciful God and Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are not at all confused about how you want your church to be led. You are not leaving open for interpretation what constitutes an elder in the church. What kinds of qualifications? Lord, you're very clear, you're very precise. And we pray, Lord, uh that your church would be just as precise in the following your um your the qualifications that you have laid out. For we we truly believe, Lord, that this is your system of government for the church. We truly believe, Lord, that These things, uh, if faithfully listened to, will uh bring uh increasing uh uh praise To your name and glory to your name as faithful churches pop up and are ruled by faithful men. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.