Keep turning your copies of God's word now to Galatians. I'll be reading there from chapter four. I believe that's on page one thousand one hundred and fifty-six of your Pew Bibles. And I'll read the first seven verses. He would stand for the reading of God's word. Galatians chapter four, beginning at verse one. I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by the father. In the same way, we also When we were children, we were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. To redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent his Spirit, the Spirit of His Son, into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. Amen. Please be seated. What does it take to adopt a child Well, if you know anything about adoption, you would know that there are lots of laws involved. Lots of requirements to be met. If you just typed into Google, what does it take to adopt the child, the AI or artificial intelligence would come back with a litany of things Age. Most states require you to be of a certain age. Some states require that you be married Income. You have to have a certain amount of income. The people who want who are going to approve the adoption want to make sure you have enough money And your home, an evaluation of your home needs to be done, background checks, parenting education, medical records, so on and so forth. If one is able to meet all of that criteria, then what happens? Well, a child is moved from one family into another. A new name. A new home. New parents, possibly new siblings. Everything is different. That's what happens in an adoption. Tonight, tonight we are looking into God's adoption. of his children by and through his son. In this chapter four of Galatians, Paul has been writing about before faith. But before faith came, that the people of God were held captive under the law, imprisoned, until faith would be revealed. And then he speaks of uh being in Christ, faith in Christ That you are an heir according to promise. So Paul is going from being captive under the law to being freed by faith. in Christ Jesus to become an heir or adopted. Tonight, I want us to see that at the right time, the Son of God took on human flesh. That God's children would be adopted. At the right time. The Son of God took on human flesh that God's children would be adopted. Well See, and we're going to be focusing really on just one verse, and that's verse number four. And we'll break that up into three heads or three points tonight. The Son was sent at the right time. Secondly, the Son was sent to be born. And finally, the Son was sent to redeem. Well, as we go through this, I want you to think about what adoption means to you tonight, if you're in Christ. Well, let's begin. The sun was sent at the right time. What does Paul mean as he writes this fourth verse? of this fourth chapter, but when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son. What does it mean that Jesus the Christ was born of a woman in the fullness of time? We'll deal with him being born of a woman under our next point. But what does he mean by the fullness of time? And why didn't this happen at another time? Why not in the garden? Have you thought about that? Why not immediately after the sin of Adam and Eve? Why didn't God then just send Jesus then? Why didn't he send Jesus in Egypt as the Israelites were suffering oppression and slavery? Why didn't he send Jesus when God himself descended upon Mount Sinai? Why not send Jesus when peace was being enjoyed by the nation of Israel as Solomon ruled Why wait? Why allow sin to fester and in one sense grow even more sinful? Why was this time the fullness. Well we can begin to consider what Paul has written In chapter three, he writes again, as I've said, of being heirs according to promise. And then Paul uses that imagery as he speaks of an heir. As long as a child, he's no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. He's saying those children in the house, whether they're sons or slaves, There's really no difference. But he's under a guardian and a manager until the date set by his father. And we can understand that. It doesn't really make any difference whether you're a son or a or slave child. You're all under a guardian. Guardianship. You're all under a manager until there's a date set by the father when the guardianship is taken away. Being under that guardianship until it was the right time. The guardian, according to Webster's, preserves or secures, keeps one from injury takes charge of the education of the estate of one who's a minor, since they don't have a capacity to to manage their own affairs or concerns. That's a concept, that's a time or a process. The recipients of this letter, those in the Church of Galatia, would have understood. That's something that we can understand. By guardianship, Paul actually refers to the law, doesn't he? Verse 24. Of chapter 3. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came. And you see, that's an analogy he's making. He's he's saying, well, uh the law is like that one who would watch over one who is not yet of age in the household. The New American Standard puts it this way: the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ. You see that idea of education by the guardian. And that's how those who translated the New American Standard put it. The law has become our tutor, our educator, our teacher to lead us to Christ. And so here, Paul refers to that time when Israel was under the guardianship of the law. In a sense, Israel as a nation, the people of God, were under the law. or the guardianship of the law as children. That's what he's trying to get across to us. But they would be raised, so to speak, taught. That they would begin to mature under the guardianship of the law. And so God used the law for all of its purposes with regard to raising up his children in preparation for them to be released in Christ. The law was used by God to raise up his children under that guardianship until the time was full or right for them to come out from under that guardianship, meaning out from under the law. Now, let's make sure we understand something at this point. As we speak of the law, we're thinking of the moral law. Not the civil law, not the ceremonial law. And we understand that the moral law has more than one use. As one author puts it, it's can be used to restrain sin 1 Timothy 1. Law is not laid down for the just, but for the lawless and the disobedient. The law is used to convict us of sin, isn't it? In Romans chapter 3, for by the works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. And the law teaches us about the way of righteousness. The moral law, as one commentator puts it, serves the regenerate, not as a means of justification. But as a norm that defines the way of righteousness. And so we see that the law, the moral law, has more than one use. But in a sense, it all seems to come together here as God was using it as a guardianship for the Israelites, as a tutor. So Paul speaks of it here. The particular use of the law of which he's mentioned, for the nation of Israel, for the people of God, prior to the incarnation of Jesus. The law was being used to teach To teach the Israelites. It was being used as a guardian to keep them such that the elect would indeed come to faith in Christ. The law was used to show them that they could not keep it in order to be saved. The law was used to show them that they could not save themselves. The law was used to show them that they could not be blameless enough. or even at all, to be reconciled to the living God. And so as a tutor, the law would lead to the conclusion That justification, or to be made right before God, was by faith alone So now we're getting a sense of this fullness of time. It has a reference to the law. This fullness of time must have a reference to the law. The time was now then right. It was full, it was perfect. God had used his law among his people at that particular time to the full. He had shown it to them throughout time, throughout their history of redemption, through the prophets. through their disobedience, through their experiencing punishment as a result of their disobedience, showing them that they had no possible way of earning or meriting their way into the kingdom of God. The Israelites knew that they continually failed to keep the law. Even to the extent that Jerusalem and the temple was completely destroyed. And they were all taken into exile, into a different country, not the promised land any longer. So from this perspective, for this use, the law had done its work, so to speak. The law had accomplished for these people of God all that He had purposed for them. And it was time. The time was full. For the true way of salvation, which had been revealed by the Old Testament prophets, now to be revealed in the person and in the work. of the Son of God, Jesus the Christ. Now commentators will refer to this fullness of time as as being that which God has chosen, and it seems to be obvious. He is a sovereign God. He chooses when anything and everything will happen. And so we think of God not only as sovereign, but also as having that perfect wisdom. And as a result, his timing is perfect. His knowledge is perfect. And so he chose exactly the right time in the history of redemption to send his son. We can sit here and speculate, why not here? Why not then? Why not then? Well, God has perfect knowledge, perfect wisdom. perfect time to send the second person of the Trinity, his only eternally begotten Son, to take on a human nature. As Paul put it, in the fullness of time to be born of a woman, the perfect time for Jesus to walk the face of the earth, the perfect time for him to be born, incarnated. The perfect time for him to gather disciples, the perfect time for him to preach the good news, the perfect time for him to reveal the Father, the perfect time for him to heal. The perfect time for him to pray with tears in the Garden of Gethsemane. The perfect time for him to lay down his life on the cross at Calvary. The perfect time for him to die, to shed his perfect blood, the perfect time for him to lay in the tomb for three days, the perfect time for him to defeat death and sin, the perfect time for him to rise from the dead. the perfect time for him to ascend and to be seated at the right hand of God the Father. See, God chooses. And sets every time according to his wisdom. But here we see the fullness in the fullness of time as determined by God. Jesus was born. Not in a time determined by Mary, not in a time determined by man, not in a time determined by any other than God Himself. That should be a great comfort tonight. Knowing that God plans And perfects his plan, that he executes his plan, and that time when Jesus was born was the perfect time. No other. No other would have produced what God sent him to produce. And that's your salvation. That brings us to our second point. The sun was sent to be born. We've looked a little bit at the fullness of time, but now what does it mean, be born of a woman? What does it mean that the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, God Himself, was born of a woman? What does it mean that the Son of God became flesh? That's what John writes in his gospel, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. We might even ask ourselves, what are we doing here? There's a sense in as we ask that question about what does it mean to be born of a woman, we have to also ask ourselves that question, what are we doing here? And you were probably saying, well, we're celebrating the incarnation, the birth of Jesus. So yes, of course. But why? Why do you celebrate? Is it not because at least in part, in significant part, that he was born of a woman? That he took on the flesh of Mary. Isn't that why we're here? Mary, who descended by ordinary generation from Adam and Eve. Mary, the one who had a human nature just like yours. Mary, who was not divine. Mary, one with a corrupt nature, a sin-inclined nature like yours Mary, one who was a sinner and was in need of a savior. And this Son of God took on that human nature, which we call the flesh. All of it except for sin, and certainly her sin nature. Because he was conceived by the Holy Spirit. Jesus did not take on Mary's sin or sin nature because he was conceived by the Holy Spirit. And thus he was called and always will be called holy. But I'd like you to focus on the truth this passage sets forth for us tonight. Jesus The Son of God was born of a woman. God Himself took on your flesh. You have to say, well, why is that important for me tonight? And the short answer is because he died in your place. If you're trusting in Jesus tonight. You see, he could not do that if he had flesh, unless he had flesh like yours. Jesus could not step into your shoes unless he had shoes like yours, and I'm not talking about what you're wearing on your feet tonight. The Son of God could not go to the cross and shed his truly human blood unless he took on your flesh. The sinless Jesus, the Son of God, could not take on the eternal wrath of God the Father in your place for your sins unless he took on your flesh. Do you see? A bull could not step into your shoes. A lamb, a real lamb, could not suffer in your place for your sins. No, human blood had to be shed to satisfy the righteous judgment of God. Remember what he said to Adam in the garden, the day that you eat it, you shall surely die. He said, this is the punishment for your sin. It must be satisfied. Not by a bull, not by a goat. No, without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins. Hebrews 9. And just as Jesus stated For this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. There could never be forgiveness for your sins unless innocent, pure, righteous, holy human blood was shed for you. And you see, that is what only Jesus, only the Son of God, only the God-man was able to do. That is what the Son of God was sent to do. To take on human nature, to be born of a woman. This is what the Christ child did by being born of a woman. Born of a woman to die in the place of all human beings who would believe upon his name. That is cause for celebration tonight. Well, it's not just born born of a woman. It's born under the law as well. There are two parts. There's a second aspect. And don't miss that second aspect. Born of a woman, born under the law. See, as a result of taking on the human nature, taking on flesh, the Son of God was also born under the law. So much so that he would say to John the Baptist as as he went to be baptized, and John the Baptist said, Oh, oh no, oh no, I need to be baptized by you. Jesus tells him, let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. The son had to be born under the law. You see, Adam refused to keep it. And yet the task of perfect obedience to the Word of God, to His law, remained and needed to be fulfilled. So Jesus had to be born under the law. The Son of God had to submit himself to the law in order to satisfy the pure and the perfect obedience which the Father requires. For eternal life. That's what was before Adam. Eternal life. If He had kept God's law. See, Jesus not only had to die in your place, he also at the same time had to keep the law in your place. The Son of God had to satisfy the wrath of God for your sins, and the Son of God had to perfectly keep the law in his righteousness in order to clothe you. If you're believing upon him tonight, in his robes of righteousness So that you would be able to ascend the holy hill of the Lord Isn't that what the psalmist tells us? Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart? That's only possible in Jesus. That's only possible if Jesus gives you his righteousness after he's taken your filthy, wretched sins. So you must see tonight. If you're trusting in Jesus Christ, you must see and rejoice in in the love of God for you. As you meditate upon this one, the Son of God, who was born of a woman, born under the law, do you see how much he loved you? Do you see how low he brought himself? How he left glory to take on a human nature? You know the scripture, the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost, to accomplish that through a supernatural work, and in order to do so, he had to suffer the humiliation. He had to lower himself to a point that we just don't really grasp. That he emptied himself because he didn't count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. He took the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. Being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even to death on a cross. Think of his humiliation, because as you do, you must consider his love for you. Loving you so much that he would humble himself in this way. And so as you think upon the baby and the manger, consider how much this one loves you. How much he loves all those who trust in him. That he would place himself in the womb of a sinful woman. That he would submit himself to his own law and keep it. All of it. That he would live among sinners who hated him and who would betray him to his death. That the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords would do all of this for you, so that you could be with him and see his glory Brings us to our third point. The sun was sent to redeem. Here's the purpose, then, the reason that the Son was sent. Well, certainly to glorify the Father, you'd say that, first of all. But he does so by redeeming. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. Well what does that mean? Webster says this, the purchase back, to liberate or rescue from captivity or bondage. To repurchase that which has been sold. Isn't that what Paul said? I'm of the flesh, sold under sin. You see the idea of guardianship now coming full circle. See, the work of the sun was to redeem In other words, to bring those under the law, under that guardianship of the law, out from under the law where they were all, including us, floundering in sin. Again, consider what Paul said. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. But sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. Paul's saying that sin came alive in him as a result of the law. That's the idea. The fullness of time. God sends His Son to bring us out from under the law as we flounder in it, as we flounder in our sin. The Son was sent to do that work, to bring us out and to bring us into grace. He was sent to undo the work of Satan. That's this idea of repurchasing. We've been sold into sin. We've been sold into Satan's house. That's where our sin takes us. And that's why we're called children of wrath before conversion. And so the Son was sent to undo Satan's work, to destroy the works of Satan, and as such he was sent to repurchase those who had been sold. under sin. The son was born to bring the children of God out from under sin, under Satan's grasp, into grace. See, uh it's not that the way of salvation is changing. That's not what Paul's writing here in his letter to those at Galatia. You know, since the fall, since Adam broke the covenant of works, since he failed to keep the covenant by keeping the law, all the people of God have been under the covenant of grace. It's not that it just started when Jesus was born. No. No, the law was given at Sinai when the people of God were under grace. The birth and ultimately the death of this one Jesus reveals that grace in the most powerful way possible The law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. And so Jesus, the Son of God, was sent to redeem. He had to be born of a woman. He had to be born under the law in order to buy you back. In order to bring you out of Satan's house and bring you into an estate of grace And that then leads to adoption, doesn't it? To redeem those who were under the law so that we might receive adoption as sons, we finally get to it. Yes, the Son was sent to be born. Yes, the Son was sent to die and to be raised again. Yes, the Son was sent to redeem. Yes, the Son was sent to glorify his Father. And here lies the result. of that glory. Here lies the result of that redemption, that work of Jesus Christ, adoption. The adoption signals the end, the end of the battle, the end of the war that we have with God when we're outside of Christ. Adoption is the reconciliation of the children of God with him. And the Son was sent to bring the children of God home. Just think of that tonight. The Son was sent. To bring the children of God home. You see, if that describes you tonight, a child of God, then Jesus is bringing you home. His birth, his death, his resurrection, his ascension, his intercession, and his return are all working out your adoption. See you were children of wrath, sons and daughters of Satan. And Jesus' birth is the beginning of the end of that captivity that you had in Satan's house. Jesus' death was his victory over Satan as he bound the strong man through it and plundered his house, bringing you out and placing you in the house of God. That's adoption. All those that are justified are received into the number of his children. If you're trusting in Christ tonight, you are amongst the children of God. You're numbered. You have his name put upon you. You have the Spirit of God given to you, abiding in you. You're under his fatherly care, and you're admitted to all the liberties and privileges of the sons of God, and you're made heirs. That's what Paul was writing about. Being made an heir of all the promises, fellow heirs with Christ in glory. So what are you celebrating tonight and tomorrow? The world is celebrating something unknown. Something unknown to Jesus The world is celebrating something that's not described in the Bible. The world is celebrating something that does not involve hope. The world is is celebrating something that doesn't involve freedom from sin or eternal life. or even adoption. So what are you celebrating tonight? Is it the love of Christ? Is it the love of the Son? Is it the love of the Father? Is it the birth of the one who would bring about your redemption, your repurchase? Is it the birth of the one who would break down the doors of Satan's house to bring you out? to break your chains to sin and grant you freedom? If so, are you celebrating your adoption? If you're saying yes, good. Do others know of your adoption tonight? Do they know that your name has been changed? Do they know what your elder brother has done to make your adoption possible? Friends, brothers and sisters, we all might have an opportunity to do that. Even tonight, even tomorrow. How can you show others that you've been adopted? At the right time, the Son of God took on human flesh, that God's children would be adopted. Adoptions in this country are very difficult. A lot of laws to be complied with. But they don't compare to the adoption that you've experienced if you're trusting Christ tonight. Brothers and sisters, we we need to display our adoption. For all to see, we need to tell others what Jesus Christ, our elder brother, has done in order to perfect Our adoption. And we need to tell others about his deep and abiding love for us. And tell them that's why I'm celebrating tonight. Father in heaven, help us this good news tonight. is so powerful. The truth of redemption and adoption through the birth The taking on of a human nature, the being born under the law, the suffering of the cross, the power displayed in the tomb and now, Father, his intercession. It's almost too much for us to grasp. And yet we praise you for our adoption as sons and daughters. Help us, Lord God, to display the joy, the rejoicing of the shepherds tonight and tomorrow. And that you would receive all the glory. We ask this in Jesus' name