If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Romans, Romans chapter eight, I believe you'll find that on page one thousand one hundred and twenty-two of your pew Bibles. This morning we'll continue our short study here in the chapter eight of Romans. I'm going to be reading beginning at 18, verse 18. I'll read through verse 30. The sermon this morning will be on verses 28 through Let's give attention to the Word of God, Romans chapter 8, beginning at verse 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. But the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only creation, but we ourselves. who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also Glorified. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Lord and our God, there are many distractions in this world. Even now as we hear a siren. Many things that might take us away from your word Holy Spirit, we ask even now that you would draw us even closer to Christ through your word. Grant us, Heavenly Father, the ability to hear, to receive your word, to love your word, to feast upon Christ even this morning. Help us, Lord God, to keep our thoughts, our minds fixed upon the things above. And now work powerfully in us as we open your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How do you perceive the individual events And circumstances of your life I'm sure that those Israelites, as they were experiencing being sold into the hands of other nations when they disobeyed God were not perceiving that individual event in their lives is a good thing This morning we read a portion of Judges. In chapter three, we read that God left some of the nations around Israel in order to test them even as he brought them into the promised land That they might know war, to teach them war, those who had not known war before, but also for the testing of Israel to know whether or not they would obey him. Whether they would obey his commands. And so he was testing them through leaving the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites around them And then when they forgot the Lord, he sold them off into the hand of a foreign king. How did they perceive that event? How did they think of it? Did they know that God was testing them? Did they know that God was working? Actually for their good. This morning as we continue in our study in Romans chapter 8, we've seen The backdrop that Paul has been writing about the law of God. He's been writing that he is sold under sin. He's of the flesh. He is struggling with sin and yet And yet there's good news. As he opens up chapter 8, he proclaims, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That he knows in Christ that he won't be condemned, and neither will the church be condemned in Rome to those to whom he was writing. And yet even then he was describing that there would be suffering, suffering in this life. Suffering because the people were weak, even in prayer, even as we saw last week that the Spirit was given to intercede in their prayers because of the weakness And so how is God using all those things? This morning I want us to see as we just look at verses 28, 29, and 30. That the Lord works all things together for his glory, and thus for the salvation of his children. The Lord works all things together for his glory, and thus for the salvation of his children. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, knowing, secondly, working, and finally Saving. As you go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, do things really work together for good? Do I believe that? Really believe that. Let's begin then with knowing You come to verse 28, and it's probably a familiar verse to many of you. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. Paul begins here with what has become, I think, a very familiar verse, maybe even a favorite verse. For some of you. But do we really know what it means? Who are the we? And we know. That's how Paul begins. We know. He's writing to the church at Rome and he's saying, We know, you know. You know this. You know this truth that I'm about to tell you. That all things work together for good. Is Paul saying that all people know everywhere, know that God does this? Is he saying that all humanity, every single person? I don't think so. We have to consider how Paul uses the pronoun we. He must be referring back to a particular group of people, and we know that Paul wrote to those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. Remember how he began the particular teaching here in chapter 8. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So I think Paul is clearly referring to believers as he uses that pronoun, we, followers of Jesus Christ, those who are in the church Meaning, including himself, the brothers and sisters at the Church in Rome, and even more broadly, all believers, all those who've been effectually called by God, those who the Creator God has placed his love upon, his everlasting and eternal love upon. Those whose hearts have been changed. From stone to flesh, who've been birthed a second time by the Spirit of God. These know, all these know this truth. This truth is not mere speculation. That's what Paul's saying. Paul's saying this isn't a hopeful wish But maybe God works all things together for good. No. Paul is not saying this is something he's hoping for without any basis. He's not saying to those Christians in Rome, maybe, maybe this might be. No, he's saying you know this to be true. It's not mere speculation or wishful thinking. Because it's based on God's promises, his faithfulness, his truth. He's saying you as believers know it to be an absolute truth because it's based upon the love of God. That's the backdrop, isn't it? The Lord God Almighty has provided this blessing to each and every one of his people, those who are in Christ And those who are in Christ know of God's everlasting and eternal love for them. And see, that's behind this verse, isn't it? We know that for those who love God, and only those who love God have been first loved by Him. All things work together for good. It is out of God's love that he works all things together for good. So Paul begins with we know. But it's not just an intellectual knowledge. Paul is saying you you know this based upon experience. It's different than that which you can gain from merely reading a book of history If we are right about who the we are, then this truth is exclusively for those who have been brought into the fold of Christ, into his sheepfold. Those who are called according to his purpose, his elect, his chosen. They know his truth, and they in particular know this truth. These clauses for those who love God and for those who are called according to his purpose both suggest that these who know this based on experience That there is an experiential aspect to what Paul is writing this morning. Those who love God, those who are called according to his purpose, experience this truth that God works all things together for good. Those who are in Christ, those who believe upon Christ, have experienced this in their lives. As he's called them to himself. Those who love God have experienced all things in their lives being turned toward God through the atonement and the resurrection of Jesus. So then it's not only the word itself that is laid up in the heart, but it's also the experience of believers that seems to be set forth here. We know. We know. So this knowledge is somewhat limited. Seemingly to those who have this experience who have been brought into the family of God. It causes us to think of of a question, doesn't it? Have you experienced this work of God? This work of the king who sits on the throne, who has been given dominion over all things, that he's working all things together for good. Have you experienced that? Have you experienced it to the extent that you cannot merely agree with Paul and say, yes, Lord, I know this to be personally true in my life? This may be that one question that just digs deeply into our hearts this morning. It tells us much about the strength of our faith. Indeed, in order to truly answer this question, we must unfold and unpack the meaning of this passage. And as we do, once again, ask yourselves, am I convicted of this truth? Because I've experienced it. Brings us to our second point, working. And so this verse is fairly simple. If we break it down. The truth here is all things work together for good. Now, there are some subordinate clauses in this or phrases that add to this that are critical for us to understand as well. But the primary statement is that all things work together for good. And so it would be important for us to begin to break down each of those aspects. So what does Paul mean by all things? It will be easy for us to be misled this morning by that those last two words for good and say, well Paul means those things which we would consider to be good. He's talking about all things which we think are good. When our bank account is full, that's good. When the refrigerator is full of food, that's good. When I get an A on my paper, that's good. When I get a raise at work, that's good. That must be what he speaks of, all things. But that really doesn't seem to be his point. You have to remember where we started. We started with the understanding that this section of Scripture that Paul writes of chapter 8 is all about salvation. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. It's all about salvation. But within that context of salvation, then Paul begins to write about suffering. He writes about Christian suffering between that time when one comes to faith and that time when Jesus returns or when that person is taken home to be with Christ. He writes about the suffering that every Christian will endure. The creation is groaning, it's suffering, and so are we, as we await the return of Christ, as we wait for adoption as sons. As we wait to become fellow heirs with Christ, Paul tells us, provided we suffer with him. And so as Paul writes of sufferings, that seems to be a significant aspect of what he's writing about in this chapter 8, as he writes about salvation. It would seem that all things necessarily then include suffering. Paul is certainly not writing exclusively of suffering, but we must understand the term all things given in the context here to include a particular focus on Christian suffering. So here all things work together for good likely is intended to and does in fact include your suffering. Just think all things include persecutions. All things include Christ. Who suffered for telling the truth. All things include Christ suffering for calling people to faith and repentance. All things include Christ suffering for doing the will of his Father. If that's the case, then all things must include suffering for following Jesus Christ. All things must include that event if you're disowned by your family, by those whom you love, because you follow Jesus. All things must include your being cast off by family members. spoken harshly to because you're following Jesus. All things must include losing your job because your employer requires you to work on Sundays and you've told your employer that that's the Lord's day. And you can't work on that day, and you lose your job. You're suffering for following Jesus. All those would be included in all things. If you're mocked and derided because you believe the Bible is the Word of God, If you're scorned and thought ill of by your neighbors because you believe the Ten Commandments are the rule for your life announced by the Lord Jesus Christ. And you suffer mocking and derision, then these must be included in all things If you're having some difficulty this morning accepting that all things include suffering, then I just ask you to consider the crucifixion. How is it possible that Christians across this globe annually refer to that day approximately 2,000 years ago on which the Lord Jesus Christ was crucified as good? Friday. How is it that that day, that event, that the sins of men against the very Son of God unfolded and brought to a culmination? as Jesus was betrayed by his companion and abandoned by his friends, was nailed to the cross, mocked, spit upon, scorned, derided, all the while he suffered the eternal wrath of his father for sins that he did not commit, how could anyone call that day good? How could anyone think upon and meditate upon that which the Lord Jesus Christ suffered? An eternal heartbreak, so to speak, and consider it good Well let me remind us why. This day we remember as the crucifixion, the death and burial of the Lord Jesus Christ is Referred to as Good Friday, for on that day the Son of God took the punishment for the sins of the world upon himself. Thus, for every single person who sincerely believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ, upon his person and upon his work, Christ did in fact suffer and die for them in their place. Thus the wrath of God was satisfied, such that on the day of judgment, when Jesus returns to judge the world, there will be not even a single drop for you of God's wrath. Because he took it. Because he suffered in your place. This was the day that God the Father had planned and ordained from eternity that he would use the sins of men to bring about the salvation of his children through the atoning death of his son. That's why we refer to it as Good Friday Is not this event in the history of redemption proved without a doubt that all things include suffering? If the Father canon did use the suffering of Christ to bring about your salvation, why would he not also use your suffering, your personal suffering, to bring you into glory? Yes, all things. All things include suffering. All things include your chastisements. Consider how the Father disciplines you as a son or a daughter when you sin against him. We know that's what happens. The writer of Hebrews tells us that if you're not experiencing that, you are not a son or daughter of God. That's exactly what happens. He will punish you, he will chastise you, and it will be painful. Won't that fit into the category of all things? Of course it does. Chastisements may be one of the most important all things working together for good. So while it may be difficult, we need to wrap our arms around this truth, the fact that God is using all kinds of sufferings, chastisements, along with other things for good. Yes, they work together. As we go through this life It may seem to us that our various circumstances, even the various situations of various events, in a single day are disconnected. That there's absolutely no relationship between one circumstance and the next. What happened at the breakfast table in your home has absolutely no relationship or connection to the classroom. Said that you were in at 3 o'clock in the afternoon or the employer calling you into his or her office just before quitting time that day That the things that happened in January have no connection, are not working together with the things that happened this month, eleven months later. We may be able to draw some connections between those things that happen close in time. But days, months, even years apart, relationships begin to fall and fail. If they were ever considered by us in the first place, when a significant amount of time intercedes. Most of us would probably say there's absolutely no connection, no relationship between the events of our day, the events of a year, even the events of a decade. But Paul writes something different. A simple sentence here is that all things work together. Despite our thought that there's absolutely no relationship, the Apostle Paul states that there is a connection between all things. This verse states very clearly that all things work together. There's a relationship between every event and circumstance and situation in our lives. There's a connection between each of them. Such that no event, no circumstance, no situation is random. I'm not even sure what that word means. That each and every one of them are working together as one. That might be a radical thought for us this morning. We don't think of things that way. We live in a material world and we don't consider the spiritual connections. Now, in order to understand this truth that all things work together, we must grapple with and hold on to the sovereignty of God. In fact, the sovereignty of God is at the very center of this entire truth. And it might come to us even most powerfully when we consider all things working together. Who is it that made all things? God. That's how the Bible begins. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The psalmist writes that the counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart. To all generations. God not only made all things, he plans all things. And so it's by his sovereign eternal decree by the most wise and holy counsel of his own freely and unchangeably ordained whatsoever comes to pass. Westminster Confession, Chapter 3 That's how all things work together. The sovereign God of the universe is causing them all to work together out of his own will, freely and unchangeably. The sovereign power He is the one knitting, weaving all things together. In his perfect plan for your life, as one of his creatures, he is working all things together for good. Now we come to those words. For good. That's the last part of this phrase. First we must see the what it what it does not say. It doesn't say according to what you think is good. It's necessary for us to grasp that. It's necessary for us to see that this is the work of the God of creation, and He's the one who defines good. He's the only one who is good. And as a result, he is the only one who's able to truly define good. So the good, which results from all things working together, is defined by God alone. And so the question is, are you able to submit to that? Are you able to submit to the Lord the sovereign God of the universe working all things together, not disconnected, but connected relationally Are you able to submit yourself to his determination of what is good? The prosperity gospel always defines good in terms of material wealth in this life for you. This passage tells us something completely different. Because that's not God's definition. God's definition of what is good will always involve his glory. Isn't that what he tells us through Paul's letter to those at Corinth? So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. If he calls us to do that, is not he also doing the same? Brothers and sisters, I think we each one need to ask the Spirit to help us with this. We're inclined to define good ourselves. And this morning I think the call is to submit. To God's definition of what is good. So let us each one submit and ask the Spirit to lead us in that submission. to God's definition of what is good. That does bring us then to our third point, saving. I'd like to continue on this subject for good here, because this passage doesn't stop at verse twenty-eight. It's connected, it's related to what comes next. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. In order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers, and those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. You have to see the connection now between verse 28 and what follows in 29 and 30. In verse 28, he spoke of, Paul writes of those who are called according to his purpose. And then immediately follows that in verse 29 with those whom he foreknew. He appears to be writing of the same people. In other words, it seems reasonable to read this. Those who are called by God in verse 28 are one and the same in verse 29 as those whom he foreknew. Not a different group of people, the same. The calling it's referred to in verse 28 occurred before. The foundation of the world. That's what Paul tells us in the beginning of Ephesians, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. called even before the foundation of the world, identified, chosen, elected before the foundation of the world, thus being equivalent to foreknowledge. And so we might say then that Paul uses verse 28 to lead the church at Rome directly to verses 29 and 30. But the all things working together leads one to being conformed to the image of his son, leads one to being justified, and leads one to being glorified. I think that's p the point. Well, what are these things? Predestined, chosen by God, like Jacob. That's what Paul refers to. For those whom he for who he also predestined. Remember in chapter 9 of Romans God had determined that the older son of Rebekah would serve the younger son of Rebekah, even though they had not been born yet, even though they had not done anything good or bad, God chose In order that his purpose of election might continue, he loved Jacob and he hated Esau. God chose he predestined one to life and one to death What does it mean to be conformed to the image of his son? For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Remember, I'm saying that God is using all things. He's working all things together for good to bring about Being conformed to the image of his Son. We know that the image of God was tarnished, it was marred at the fall. When Adam and Eve sinned against God, They, in a sense, broke the image of God, not completely, not wholly, but a significant tarnishment, a significant marring. But through all things working together for good, the image of Jesus Christ is being restored in those who are called according to his purpose, those who he foreknew. The image meaning the righteousness of Christ. The image meaning the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. The image meaning being renewed in knowledge after the image of our Creator. That's what that means. God is using all things working together to bring that about. Being recreated in the image of Jesus. He's using all things for your justification. As we've been studying the shorter catechism, we know that justification is an act. of God's free grace, whereby He pardoneth all our sins and accepteth accept accepteth us as righteous in his sight only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. He's using all things. To bring about that justification. And he's using all things to bring you to glory What benefits do believers receive from Christ at the resurrection? Being raised up in glory At the resurrection, believers being raised up in glory shall be openly acknowledged and acquitted in the day of judgment. God is using all things together to bring that about. For you, I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do it. Brothers and sisters, as we go through our day, our day by day, our event by event, our circumstance by trivial circumstance, our situation by situation. All things are working together according to the power and purpose and plan and will of our God for something greater. Than the individual event. Do you see that? Isn't that what this passage tells us? At their these passages it's all about salvation Are you able to see what the Apostle Paul is saying this morning? This is critical for our understanding. It's critical for us to grasp this truth and to hang on to it day by day, hour by hour, event by life event. And that brings us back to our first question. How do you perceive the individual events and circumstances of your life? How do you understand the tasks you've been given to accomplish, whether it's completion of your homework or an assignment given to you by your employer, cooking dinner or folding laundry? How are you perceiving them? As we've already said, usually we're understanding them as individual events, unconnected to one another. with a very plain purpose to accomplish that particular task in an isolated and insignificant fashion. Complete the homework. Learn the lesson, get a grade, turn in the work that's been assigned by the boss, answering his question, or compiling the data effectively, or merely putting dinner on the table to feed hungry mouths. Individual tasks with short-term disconnected outcomes and accomplishments. But that is so different from what these three verses tell us. That is so different from the purposes of the living God. That is so different from the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. And in order for you to continue your Christian life Christian walk after Jesus with much less pain and frustration and rebellion, you must see all of these things from a different perspective. From God's perspective. Paul tells us to set your mind on things that are above, not upon the things that are on the earth. If you do not change your perspective you will be living circumstance by circumstance, failing to look at and to consider the real reason that you're in it You'll be fighting against God in your heart. Not setting your mind upon his perspective, not submitting your will to his definition of what is good. And always thinking that things should have turned out differently. Always striving against the Lord, working all things together. According to his definition of good. Whatever it is When you're changing a flat tire and you're already late for an appointment, or the electricity going out when dinner is only half baked, or the homework assignment that you've been working on is lost in your bedroom somewhere in the report due tomorrow on your computer hard drive has just crashed. The Lord is using each of these events together in your life to first glorify Himself. And then to make you more like Jesus, to sanctify you, that you might be more useful to other Christians. And to prepare you to enter into glory. Yes, the Lord works all things together for his glory, and thus for the salvation of his children. The Israelites were being tested, but they probably didn't perceive it. And they were probably angry at God. And yet all the while he was working it for their good. Brothers and sisters were called this morning. To realize that our God is working all things together for good, for his glory, and for your salvation. Salvation. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God. We have such a difficult time accepting some truths like this one today. And yet, Father, we know it to be true. The church at Rome knew it to be true. You've given us experiences in our lives when we know, Lord God, that as you work out all things, indeed They are good. And so we ask, Lord, God, help us. Holy Spirit, submit us. Submit our hearts. As our Heavenly Father works out all things together for His glory and for our salvation. We ask this