Testament reading this morning comes from First Corinthians chapter fifteen. As we think about the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, this seems to be an appropriate passage. Passage for us to read and to hear. Hear now God's word, 1 Corinthians 15, beginning at verse 12. Now, if Christ has preached that he has been raised from the dead, how do some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. Yes. And we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom we did not raise up, if in fact the dead do not rise. For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile. You are still in your sins. Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. But now, Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive. But each one in his own order. Christ, the first fruits, afterward, those who are Christ's at his coming. Then comes the end When he delivers the kingdom to God the Father, when he puts an end to all rule and authority and power, for he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. For he has put all things under his feet. But when he says all things are put under him, it is evident that he who put all things under him is accepted. Now, when all things are made subject to him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all. Amen. Praise be to the Lord. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we come before you now to a passage which is so important, so critical. To our spiritual well-being. Work powerfully now by your Spirit. Pierce our hearts, Father. Cause us to see our sins, bring us to repentance, and help us to rejoice in the truth of the resurrection. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, consider the gospel accounts of the scene at the tomb. On that first resurrection morning. A great earthquake Stone rolled away from the entrance to the tomb. One sitting on top whose countenance was like lightning The guards shaking, becoming like dead men, two men in shining garments, declaring, he is not here, but is risen. John and Peter running to the tomb, first peering in, then entering. Seeing the linen cloths lying there, those that were wrapped around the body of Jesus Christ now on the floor. One disciple sees and believes the other we have no record of And yet we know they didn't know the scriptures. They didn't understand. They walk away. We don't read that they rejoiced. We don't read that they ran to tell others Mary stands outside the tomb weeping because she can't find the body of Christ. Thinking that the one who spoke to her was indeed the gardener, not Christ himself. How is it possible that they did not understand the resurrection? Jesus had been speaking of it time and again. How is it possible for Thomas to doubt, seeing that they all witnessed and all they heard from Jesus Christ? Paul was asking a similar question here in this letter to those at Corinth. How is it? How is it that you say there is no resurrection? Well, this first letter that Paul writes to the Corinthians was written to believers, to the church, those who were sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. Paul mentions the grace of God which had been given to them, that they were enriched by, and the testimony of Christ was confirmed in them, believers. The church which he planted. But there are many problems in the church. Divisions, contention, strife, envy, carnality. Pride, sexual immorality, civil disputes, disorder in worship, many problems and all important things which Paul needed to address But now at the end of the letter, Paul takes up that which would be the most important truth for their spiritual well-being, the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's my hope that we're going to see this morning that the truth of the fantastic resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, through which believers live forever, is fundamental to the Christian faith. Three simple points. The fundamental nature of the resurrection, the fantastic nature of the resurrection, and the future nature of the resurrection. Well. As we're going through this, you should be asking yourselves, why would anyone cast off the resurrection? There are certain fundamentals to the Christian faith, certain fundamental truths, foundational doctrines, basics, and without these, without these basics, without these doctrines, the Christian faith is really not Christian. It is not a faith or a trust in Jesus Christ for salvation. It might be some kind of faith, but it is not the Christian faith. It is not effective unto salvation Indeed, if the tomb was not empty, Christian faith is empty. Why would anyone cast off The resurrection. Well, first point then is the fundamental nature of the resurrection. Paul begins this section of the scripture with a question It's a conditional question. If Christ is preached, that he has been raised from the dead, how do You notice that he places a condition if Christ is preached. He does that as an emphatic way to say, indeed, Christ has been preached among you. The chapter begins, verse 1, we didn't read it. But it begins with him reminding them that which he preached to them, that which brings about their salvation. For I delivered to you, first of all, that which I received. that Christ died according or for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day. He's setting forth the gospel. He's telling them, this is what I proclaimed amongst you. The brethren knew that. Christ was preached, the Messiah, the Savior, the promised one had come. And he did that for which the Father sent him, that the world might be saved through him. Nevertheless, the resurrection was cast off. The resurrection by some in Corinth had been discounted. It was not necessary to their faith. I don't know if you've heard about uh Thomas Jefferson's Bible. It's called the Jefferson Bible He apparently kept what he desired and cast off everything else This is the way the website puts it, the JeffersonBible. com. Jefferson's goal was to clarify the teachings of Jesus, which he believed provided the most sublime and benevolent code of morals which has ever been offered to man. The Bible is not a code of morals. He removed the resurrection from the scriptures. And its sole force for his purposes were to set forth a code of morals. The truth of the resurrection for some in Corinth had yet to be received as true. It was not central to their faith. Like Thomas Jefferson, they had taken it out. Here then was the final issue for the church at Corinth, the most significant issue, the one that Paul needed. desperately to address clearly and forth forcefully for their good. Sad truth was that some Corinthians were believing only in this life. Look at verse 19 If in this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. And that's what was going on in Corinth. They were believing for this life only. How could that be? He didn't read it, but Paul did explain later on in verse 33. Don't be deceived. Evil company corrupts good habit. Awake to righteousness and do not sin. The ESV puts it a little bit more harshly Bad company ruins good morals. Wake up from your drunken stupor. The Corinthians Caught asleep, as though they were drunk, as they cast off the resurrection, Satan was still at work in their hearts, deceiving them, and thus the Corinthians were willingly, lustfully remaining in their sins and casting off the truth of the scriptures Satan continued to deceive them that they would not die, just like he deceived Eve. That great deception was residing in the hearts of those in Corinth. There was no need to confess the resurrection if they were not dead. And if they were not going to die eternally. Those of the church at Corinth needed to see and understand and believe that eternal death would be the result of denying the resurrection. They needed to grasp that their ultimate problem was not in this world, but their sins committed against a holy God. They needed to see that Adam In Adam they were sinners, condemned to death, eternal punishment and wrath. For as in Adam all die. Isn't that what Paul was preaching to them? The Corinthians needed a way out. They needed a way to God. They needed to be of a true, a full, sincere, a saving faith. This would be a good time for us to remember. Faith is the way of justification A man is justified by faith apart from the deeds of the law. A man is not justified by works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ alone. Made righteous, declared righteous in the sight of God. It's by faith. It's the only way to be declared righteous in his eyes. It becomes important to know then what kind of faith. In other words, what does that faith include? What must be included in order for God to make that declaration about Me, what's central, what's foundational to know, to believe, to trust? And so here Paul lays out that answer for those in Corinth and for us today as well, in clear and simple terms. Verses 12 through 17 really becomes the center, the center for this passage for us. There we're going to see the words no or not appear nine times Many times the negative, the negative statement can be the most emphatic of all statements. But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty, and your faith is also empty. Do you see what he's saying? If Christ is dead, if the tomb still holds his body, that the preaching that they've been doing has zero value. Indeed, it's less than zero because it's been false. In other words, if there's no resurrection, preaching on the resurrection is And if preaching is empty, it has been mere lies, and the end result is their faith has no foundation, no legs, no truth. It's a vain hope. It's empty, it's worthless, it's futile. Without the resurrection, the gospel is no gospel at all. It's empty of good news. Paul was teaching that if the resurrection is not included in your faith, it's worthless, it's vain, it's a hopeless faith, it's not the Christian faith, it's not a trust in Jesus Christ for your eternal soul. Without the resurrection of Christ, the firstborn males of Israel could not be truly redeemed, and neither can you. Without the resurrection of Jesus, your sins abound. They've not been separated from you. from you. They cling to you and bring upon you an eternal grave. Jesus must be alive in order for you to have life. That was the testimony of the Spirit through Paul. If Jesus did not rise from the dead, if Jesus is not alive today, you remain in your sins, and the eternal wrath of God awaits you. Do you see then the summation of the nose and the knots? The power that they bring then to this verse, but now Christ is risen from the dead. Hallelujah. Amen. All of those no's and knots lead right there to verse 20. Christ is risen. They culminate in the positive and make it even more emphatic. He has become the first Paul is pleading with those in the church at Corinth to believe upon the resurrection, to cast off all doubt, all false teaching, to grip tightly to the resurrection of Christ. In their minds it was not central, it was not foundational. It was not even part of their faith. Remember, many other matters have been addressed by Paul before he addresses this one. And maybe he does that because this one is the most significant. They were carnal. They were immature. By using the word carnal, what he meant was that they were living according to the flesh. They were not living as though they were citizens of heaven, believing upon the resurrection. And there's a sense that Paul was asserting, if you get this If you believe the truth concerning the resurrection, if you believe that Jesus did in fact arise from the dead, then all of these carnal issues which plague the church Division, strife, envy, sexual immorality, then your carnality will fade. And you'll live as a spiritual member of the kingdom of God. Paul was seemingly saving the best truth for last, as he now had prepared a way for them to hear it. He shifts their attention now to the spiritual, the resurrection, which had the power to remove them and their thoughts from the world. If you're here today, if you're listening today on the stream, if you listen to the recording of this message, And you do not believe in the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're listening to this message and you're in disbelief over the resurrection, if you're like Jefferson and you have cast off the resurrection and understand Jesus Christ only as a good person you're holding tightly to your sin And you've cast off the truth of the resurrection. Let the scriptures be clear and let the words of God ring in your hearing You're seeking eternal life this morning. I know it. That's what the scripture tells us. And the only way to have life is if Christ lives. God has given us eternal life. And this life is in His Son. And the only way to obtain that life, which is in Christ, the Son of God, is to believe that He lives and to have faith in His resurrection. He who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have life. Repent. Cling to the resurrection as your only hope Brings us to our second point, the fantastic nature of the resurrection. Why weren't the Corinthians believing? How do some of some among you say that there is no resurrection? At this point we must confess that the resurrection is supernatural in nature. We know nothing of men rising from the dead. This act, this event is against that which we know and have observed for many years. The dead do not move out of their graves Thus, to believe the resurrection is to believe that God does work supernaturally or above or outside of the natural laws which He alone has established. It requires faith. It requires faith to believe that God made the world and everything in it, and it requires faith to believe that God is recreating human beings through The resurrection. That God is making alive and giving new birth to those who are dead in their sins, to the resurrection of a son requires faith. In other words, the resurrection is fantastic. And I don't mean that in the sense that it is unreal or fantasy. I mean that in the sense that it is exceedingly great in size and degree. It's extravagant. It's extravagant, it's wonderful, it's superb, it's remarkable. I didn't write that, it came from the free dictionary. In short, the resurrection is beyond our finite ability to intimately understand and grasp. We need the Spirit's help. No one saw what happened inside that tomb. Just the result. Resurrection is fantastic or exceedingly great because it's powerful. Remember how Paul began the letter. He began it as he wrote about the cross That the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. He began with the cross. He began with speaking of its power. He began with speaking of our deadness in sin, for as in Adam all die. Isn't that what God told Adam? The day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Adam's sin, the sin of our representative head, original sin, brings death upon us. Think upon the deadness brought about by your own individual sins. Scripture does not speak of sickness as a result of sin like a rash or a fever. No, it speaks of deadness. Go back to the prophet Hosea, as he tells us about our sin and the need to be ransomed from the power of the grave. That God will redeem them, meaning us, meaning all who trust in Christ, from death. Oh, death, I will be your plague. Oh grave, I will be your destruction. See what Hosea was telling those he was prophesying? That you are in the grave and God must take you out. You are dead. Dead in trespasses and sins, and we're by nature children of wrath, just like the others. That's the condition. That's what each of our transgressions brings about, death Not sickness, not slight illness, but death. All in Adam die But then there's the contrast. Even so, in Christ, all shall be made alive. In Adam we die in Christ, all shall be made alive. Paul is calling the Corinthians, the Spirit is calling us to see and understand and rejoice in the unbounded power of the resurrection. It is Fantastic. It's wonderful. It's full of wonder. It is exceedingly great. What is it to be alive in Christ? True life in Christ. It might be seen most powerfully in the garden In Genesis is the Lord breathes life into Adam's nostril. He was made, he was created, he came alive, he became in the image of God Himself. That meant that Adam was made for communion. He was made for fellowship. He was made for union with God. He was made to worship God. That distinguished Adam from all other creatures made by the living God. And that was what Adam lost. as he sinned against a holy God. On that very day Adam and Eve were cast out, they were driven away from the presence of the Lord God. They could no longer commune or have fellowship with him in the way that they had prior to their sin. In essence Adam and Eve were driven out of God's presence and they were no longer alive. It's that fellowship. It's that union and communion with God which defines life They died spiritually that day. The resurrection reverses all that which Adam brought about in his sin. For you to be made alive in Christ is to be rejoined to that precious union and communion and fellowship that you were made for. It's to be made alive through the resurrection, to live and serve the living King, the God, the one who made all things. To be made alive is to be invited to dine at the king's table with the king daily, as you're loved eternally as a child of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords To be made alive is to know and to love a God, the only living God, in the deeper and most intimate way. Such that nothing else is of concern. He becomes your all-in-all. Isn't that what Revelation teaches us? I saw no temple in it. For the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple. The Israelites streamed to the temple. That was the center of life for them. The new heavens and the new earth. God, God and the Lamb are the temple. There is nothing else, so to speak These are all in all. That's that's being made alive The resurrection is also fantastic because it's true for all. Notice that Paul merely declares it to be true. Isn't that wonderful? He doesn't ask what the reader thinks. He doesn't seek the opinion of witnesses. He merely declares that Christ was seen and it happened, and thus that it's true. And it's not just true for Christians. Without the resurrection, no one can be saved. And that's why it must be preached and proclaimed. The resurrection is a global truth For as in Adam all dies, so even so in Christ all shall be made alive. All who have faith, all who believe. All nations, tribes, tongues, and peoples who follow the Lord Jesus Christ will eventually rise from their graves to meet the risen Lord. It is fantastic. This truth, the resurrection, is certainly part of a big part of that which we celebrate each and every time we come to corporate worship. Do you see how Celebratory worship can and should be. As we consider the resurrection and what it means to be made alive in Jesus How we should be jumping, so to speak, within our hearts. How our praises for God should be full. He's made us alive in Christ. As we meditate upon the graves we occupy, dug by our sins and by Adamson, and then to think of the abundant life we have in Christ through the resurrection, this should cause every believer to come to worship overjoyed. That he or she was given the gift of life. Reformed worship should be the most exciting and joyful of all. As we celebrate being made alive through the resurrection of Christ. Well, there's also the future nature of the resurrection. That's our third point. When we think or speak of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, we're usually think of a once-in-time historic event, indeed An event that Christians celebrate regularly, usually thinking of that which happened nearly two thousand years ago as Christ's body was raised from the tomb, raised from the dead, such that the angels could say, He's not here, he is risen. However, the resurrection has many, many implications for the future. Yes, it was a once-in-time event But like many other historical redemptive events, the resurrection takes place in God's plan of redemption. And thus it has an effect. Upon future redemptive work. One way of considering this is to say, without the resurrection, no other work of redemption would take place. As redemption, the work of salvation, would have been completely stopped in its tracks. So the resurrection does look forward. Verse 20, but now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep, each one in his own order. Christ is risen But those who are in Christ will be raised. The resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ was not only for himself, it's certainly part of his exaltation. It was also for the future. The resurrection of Jesus points to and seals the bodily resurrection of those who trust in Jesus The once-in-time resurrection looks forward as it was accomplished to save the past, the present, and the future children of God. You say, of course. Of course it does. Well, there's more. There's more. Verse 24, then comes the end. When he delivers the kingdom to God the Father. Think of this. If Jesus Christ was not raised bodily from the dead, there'd be no kingdom. There'd be no subjects to occupy the kingdom, to dwell in the kingdom. He must rise bodily from the dead in order to populate the kingdom. And then he must be raised bodily in order to deliver the kingdom to put an end to all rule and authority and power. Jesus Christ must be on the throne today as he is doing just that putting an end to our rule, authority, and power. He is putting all enemies under his feet, even as we worship this morning. He sat upon the throne at the right hand of his father because of the resurrection. If Jesus was not raised bodily from the dead, he could not take the throne. And if he could not take the throne and the crown, then He would not be able to engage in battle with principalities, with powers, the rulers of the darkness of this age, against the spiritual hosts of wickedness. That's what he's doing. He's leading the battle. But he had to be raised from the dead in order to continue that battle. Resurrection marks the beginning. And the continuation of the battle for the kingdom. In the tomb, we see the battle raging And we see the victor emerge triumphant because of the resurrection. resurrection, we know that the battle continues. Because the first fruits have been raised up, the battle now continues with the Lord Jesus Christ. Zealously pursuing his father's kingdom as he leads the way, because he was victorious in the resurrection, so that he might deliver the kingdom out of the hands of Satan and into the Father's hands. And then there's that true end of this chapter. True end of this portion of God's Now when all things are made subject to him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him, who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all. Do you see? The resurrection does glorify the Father, but it also leads to the glory of the Father. As Jesus defeats sin and death, as the Lord Jesus Christ frees the prisoners, as Christ by the Spirit works true faith in our hearts, as He's building up and populating the kingdom, as He's destroying and placing his enemies under his feet and delivering the kingdom to his father. He's glorifying him. Resurrection points to that. It leads to that. It is future in nature Brothers and sisters, sometimes we think that our Christianity, the truths of our faith, is just for ourselves and our culture. We're told time and again that it's all right if you believe that, but just keep it to yourself As we think of that, we might also want to think of at the same time that which Wilhelm O'Brochel wrote. While the resurrection is good news for the believer, it is terror. For those who are unregenerate, for those who are not believing in Christ Jesus, the thought, the idea of Jesus Christ rising. from the dead to ultimately return on Judgment Day and judge them is terror. They'll be condemned for their sins and they will suffer. Suffer the wretchedness of deadness, being separated from God for an eternity. If we grasp the fullness of the resurrection, if we see how central it is to faith, how faith is truly faith only when the resurrection is included. If we see the power of the resurrection in bringing us out of the grave and into true life with Christ Jesus If we appreciate the future implications of this redemptive, this historical event, and how it relates to the entry into the kingdom of God and its deliverance, then we must See the resurrection as a prime motivator for evangelism, for telling those who might be terrified at the coming of Christ that it is indeed true that he He is indeed risen. Just as Paul asked. If Christ is preached that he has been raised from the dead, how do some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? We must ask ourselves How could we not tell others about the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ? How could we let them continue in ignorance in their sins when life is offered by Jesus Christ? Christ through his resurrection. The truth of the fantastic resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, through which believers live forever, is fundamental to the Christian faith. Brothers and sisters, resurrection. Resurrection is a gift. That first Sunday morning Mary, Peter, and John were blessed with the gift of seeing the empty tomb, the linen cloths lying and removed. Death emptied of its hold on the Lord Jesus Christ. It was a wonderful, a fantastic gift. The greater gift. Is actually believing that Christ lives today and that he rules the hearts and lives of all who sincerely trust in his work on the cross and in the tomb. Let us praise our triune God. For the gift of faith in the resurrection of His Son and our Lord Jesus Christ, and tell others of this resurrection glory. Amen. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we thank you, we praise you for the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we thank you for the faith that you've worked in our hearts to believe upon it to our salvation. Oh Lord God, lay up in our hearts the desire to proclaim this from the roof To tell others to come, to see the empty tomb, to praise the Lord Jesus Christ, to see the power of his resurrection, and to live Help us, Father. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.