I would ask you to remain standing and turn to the sermon text today from Hebrews, chapter 13, verses 7 through 9, as we continue the study in the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 7 through 9. Let us hear God's word. Remember those who rule over you who have spoken the word of God to you, whose faith follow. Consider the outcome of their conduct Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Do not be carried about with various and strange doctrines For it is good that the heart be established by grace, not with foods which have not profited those who have been occupied with them Thus far is the reading of God's Word, a please be seated I would like us to see these three verses under the thought of them being an appeal to Christian fidelity, an appeal to faithfulness. Sometimes people who say they are Christian and maybe indeed are With well-meaning intent, will say the gospel needs to be updated. With modern words and phrases that will make the message more understandable and always added to this generation As if this generation or that generation or the next generation is somehow special. somehow deserving. This question and others like it, as well as the thinking that lies behind them, are coming from people who wonder what actions Could we take to make the gospel more relevant? Now, I admit it is a good thing to ask ourselves, is the gospel message connecting with the people of today's world? I think it's also appropriate to ask the question: can we utilize new technologies to better share the gospel with the people of our time? But if such modernization is to be done, it needs to be done very, very carefully. What I'm concerned about with all modern kinds of things that People want to do with the Word of God is that somehow the gospel message will get lost. The text today surprisingly speaks to the matter of being true and faithful to that which we have heard and have been taught. In these verses, there is a very strong preference toward maintaining fidelity. Being extremely careful to keep the content of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Verses 7 through 9 give us some practical guideposts to help the church stay anchored to the gospel. As we live in a swiftly changing world, I'd like to speak, first of all, just briefly, to the issue of the structure of these three verses. If you look at verses 7 and 9, they begin, both of them, with commands. And of course, these are commands to the Christian church, to whom the writer of Hebrews is addressing. The first command that we read in verse 7, remember them which had the rule over you. Remember them which had the rule over you And verse 9, the command in verse 9 is be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. Now, in between these commands, we find a striking declaration of a timeless biblical truth. And that striking declaration of a timeless biblical truth is simply that Jesus Christ is the same today, yesterday, today, and tomorrow. Pardon me for going in a little bit different comment today, but I think what we have here in this section structure structurally with regard to the structure is a biblical oil cookie Where the inside is the that icing that we all like, and the outer verses are the chocolate cookie wafers. Both the inside and the outside make the one cookie hold together. And make it the delicious thing everybody loves. Biblically, in seven and nine, with eight in between, These verses form biblical truth, which we all need to know. In order for us to be faithful toward God, toward the gospel, toward his kingdom, toward his world, in whatever age we live. So let's unpack this a little more now. Beyond the structure, let's look at what the commands are first. A first command in verse 7 gives us a positive command. Do this, it says. What are we to do? Remember them which have rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God. whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation, or considering their life, their walk, their faith. Believers in the church are commanded to remember their leaders in a very specific way. The leaders are also described specifically as those who have rule over you. God did set up An institution called the church, and that church has leadership. That is not something that's dreamed up by man. The Bible speaks about leaders in the church It may not always call them leaders, but it does call them various different names. Elders, bishops, shepherds, pastors And this is what the writer of Hebrews is enjoining the people that he's writing to. Remember those whom God has appointed over you, who are responsible for sharing the Word of God to you and equipping you in righteousness But if you notice, it's not simply remembering them that way. It's also remembering their lifestyle. It's also remembering their Christian example to you, of walking in the Lord, of living their life safely. They taught you the gospel. They taught you the truth of God's word. That they taught you not just in words. But they taught you by example. They taught you by the kind of life they lived. Remember their faith. Follow their example. Now In that verse, in verse seven, after he talks about remembering them who have rule over you, he gives He gives in that verse three commands or three three verbal statements. Each of the verbs are in the present tense, which in Greek means. You continue to do this. Each of the verbs are plural. So he's not simply talking to one person or to a few persons. He's talking to everybody He's talking to everybody in the church when he says remember, when he says follow. Actually the word there is imitate. Imitate. Actually, it's even more than that, it's the word that we get in English, mimeyo. If you ever used to use a copying machine before they had uh before they had uh Xeroxes and all that kind of stuff, you used a mimeograph. Remember all that purple stuff all over your hands? You never could get it off. Uh Minio, you're you're reproducing an image. And hopefully it's an exact image of what you wrote on that piece of paper that was mimeographed. Everyone in the church. Now remember again, Hebrews is writing to believers. He's writing to a church. Everyone, remember your leaders. Consider their conduct of life and imitate their faith. Those who ruled over you and who spoke the word of God to you and the church, follow their life, imitate their Christian walk, all of you do that. And of course, this has to be understood that all of those leaders are being faithful and being faithful to God. And this, the writer of Hebrews is saying, forms A help to those who will do it regarding their Christian walk and their life It forms an important connection with that which is in the middle. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. And I'll explain more of that in just a second. Now there's another command, verse 9. It starts off with the second command. Do not be carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace, not with meats Which have not profited them who have been occupied with them. So he's exhorting those believers in the church. Don't get carried away with diverse and strange doctrines. Yep, you're going to hear them. You're going to hear diverse and strange doctrines. They're all out there. There's all kinds of false teaching. All kinds of false ideas about what it is to be Christian. You're going to hear it. Don't get carried away with it. Don't get inundated by it. Submit it to the test. Submit it to what the Word of God says. You know, you Submit it to the clear teaching of Scripture. Submit it to what the Word of God says consistently. Not try to make it say something it doesn't say. Because you see it it sounds good. Or or there's Or there are those other things that get into our culture and get baptized with the word Christian, which really are not found in the Bible. Maybe the best example of that is God helps those who help himself. And there are others. One of them that affects our salvation more directly is we must do our best to be good so God can save you. That's not biblical. That's not the teachings of grace. On so many different levels that was wrong. Try to be good. There's nothing good in us. Nothing. There's no one who does good. No, not one. How is God going to accept us? Makes it sound like we're doing God a big favor. That we're making ourselves good for Him so He can He can say, come on, believe in me. That isn't it either. God draws us to himself. God saves us by grace. Not of works, lest any should boast. We all know that, we all hear that. But there are people who do get carried around with strange doctrines. You know, it's an interesting thing. There's a place in upstate New York. I can't remember the county, I can't remember the name of the city, but in that county, there were three heresies formed that still exist with us today. Mormonism, Jehovah's Witnesses, and I can't remember the other. But there were three. And every one of the perpetrators were at one point in a reformed church. Isn't that awful? Now they heard it, but they got carried away with strange doctrines. Don't get carried away with strange doctrines. You see, that's what the elders and the leaders are there for. That's why they're there to help prevent that from occurring. to being watchmen over the sheep, to being good pastors of the sheep, to lead them to good pastures and feed them with the good biblical food. And protect them from the evil one who's always there wanting to snatch away the Word of God wherever it falls on fertile ground. It's good, the text goes on, to be established with grace To be confirmed, that word there means to be confirmed or grounded. Grounded, grounded in grace. If you understand the grace of the gospel, if you understand that you are before God solely because of his mercy to you in Jesus Christ. If you understand that, if that's what you believe, if you stake your life on that principle You can't go wrong. You can't go wrong in your Christian walk. You may stray. You may struggle. We all struggle. Sometimes we stray. But the grace of God is going to draw you back. Because our good shepherd will not let any of his sheep get lost. Grace, established by grace, grace is good. You don't have to look beyond God's grace. There's nothing better. There never will be any better. There never will be anything better. And then it talks about uh don't get carried away with strange doctrines, diverse doctrines, which he characterizes as being meat which have not profited those who have been occupied therein. In other words, those who have followed these strange doctrines are eating a kind of meat, but it isn't profitable to their souls They're eating bad meat. They're eating the wrong meat. It may be doing great wonders for their physical stature, but it's not profiting a bit their spiritual lives. Again, when you look at the verbs in this Chapter 9, there's three of them there. Excuse me, not chapter 9, verse 9. There are three of them there. Two of the three are plural. Again, they're all present. All three are present, two of the three are plural. That means we always But don't get carried away with strange doctrines. And that means everybody. Everybody. All who hear this, all who hear this when it was preached to those to whom the author intended it, and all who continue to hear these words. They're not to get carried away with many doctrines, strange doctrines. It's like what the Apostle Paul said to young Timothy And what he warned them about in the church that Timothy was establishing, 2 Timothy 4, verse 1. I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the quick and the dead as his appearing. and his coming. Preach the word, the incident season. Preach leader, elder, preach the word. Be instant in season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine But after their own lust, they shall keep to themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth. And shall be turned onto fables. You hear that? Turned unto fables. No one should turn to strange and different doctrines because this meat, their meat, has never spiritually nourished anyone. And never spiritually profited anyone who happened to eat of it. Remember those who have rule over you. Remember To not be carried away by strange and diverse doctrines. And think about what I said earlier, about the desire to always try to be relevant or try to update the gospel into modern language. Think about that. Think about the difficulties of trying to do that. Think about how easy it is to take go from the doctrine of grace to the doctrine of grace plus works. Think about how quickly that is done. Just as an example. So easy. The truth that is embedded in that Oreo sandwich, the one that keeps you safe. The one why you shouldn't do verse seven, why you should do verse seven and listen to your leaders, and why you shouldn't do verse nine, bec don't be carried away by diverse and strange doctrine, is because of verse eight. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Four, it goes on to say, it is a good thing that the heart be established by what? Grace. Grace. The church is always and only safe in Jesus Christ simply because he never changes And he will never change. And his message will never change. And his gospel will never change. And that is true throughout all times, from the beginning to the end of recorded time. He is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. He's the Savior yesterday, today and tomorrow. His gospel, his grace, yesterday, today, and tomorrow. They weren't saved in the Old Testament because they Because they obeyed the Ten Commandments, they were saved by grace. Looking forward to who? Jesus, the school teacher, the one to whom you will be led to. Looking to him. That's how you're saved. It wasn't that Abraham was saved because he was so smart and he loved God and he served God Well, those things are true. That wasn't why God chose Abraham. He picked him out of Haldes. He was a nobody living in a pagan land. And God showered him with blessings. To the point where when Abraham had finally had his son, Hebrews recalls in chapter 11, that and also in Genesis 22. That when he had an heir and God told him to slay that heir, and the angel intervened and told him not to. And Abraham said, He said, Son, have no fear. God will provide us Himself a sacrifice. And then Hebrews follows that up by saying, that's grace. See? Hebrews follows it up by saying in the Hebrews 11 chapter that Abraham reasoned that even if God had taken Isaac, what? He could raise him up from the dead. An Old Testament guy who believes in the sacrificial atonement of Christ and believes that God can raise the dead That's faith. And you can't get faith anyway other than by grace. Christ is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. It will always be by grace. Man wants to be relevant To this generation runs the risk of putting news news fins on the same old gospel message And substituting that message, which will inevitably work out to being a works message, which is not profitable to those who eat those Words. Words that cannot bring life, but words that, for as long as you eat them, will retard spiritual growth And eventually lead to spiritual death. Keep this in mind with anyone who calls for you to update the gospel with new things, new ideas, new words, supposedly to make it relevant. To this world. This world doesn't need relevancy. It needs the gospel. It needs Jesus Christ the same. Yes. Today, and tomorrow. Your fidelity to Christ is essential because fidelity to Christ is also fidelity to his word Jesus is eternal and his word is eternal. It means That because it's eternal, you can count on both Jesus and His Word for ever being steadfast. Jesus is the rock of your salvation. And if you hold on to him By God's grace, in the end, you will eat the meat of the gospel. You will feed on the word of life. You will feed upon God's grace There is no grace anywhere for man but in Jesus and in his word. In fact, those who want to tickle the ears with unprofitable meat are like those of whom Ezekiel spoke this morning Vanity of vanities, says the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity, and a striving after the wind. Amen. Let us pray. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, to thee, O Lord, we lift up our voices with thanksgiving. Oh Lord, oftentimes the world mocks the message of the gospel as being out of date. Non-contemporary, and that's the more kinder things the world says We need to remember always that man's heart is foolish and it's been darkened And his heart and his mind are at variance and at odds with your word and with all that you are. There is nothing. There is no way for us to devise better. Words. Because as we try to bring those better words to light, even those, by our best efforts, fall short of what you've already said O Heavenly Father, keep our church safe. Keep it secure in the arms of Jesus. Keep it, Lord, feasting upon your word. For we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.