Please remain standing and turn to the beginning of the study on 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. And we'll be looking today at the greeting, verses 1 through 3 of 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Let us hear now the word of the Lord. Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God and Sosthenes, our brother. To the Church of God, which is at Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. With all who in every place call on the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Grace to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. Cards Corinth was a i was a city in ancient Greece or in Greece Located on an island, a big island, west of Athens. It was a city that was surrounded by water And as a result, it developed a very prosperous sea trade. It was a center of trade and commerce. And as such, it naturally promoted the free flow of goods and ideas. With Athens, situated less than ten miles away, Corinth became the leading exporter of Greek thought and philosophy To the Mediterranean traders who did business in the city. And eventually that Greek thought came to dominate the thinking in the countries in the Mediterranean region. The epistle begins abruptly Just Paul is out there first, the first word, Paul. And he announces his presence and then proceeds to give his ministerial credentials to the believers at Corinth. And we just read from Luke's writing in the Acts chapter 18 and verse 1 and following. We find that Paul was someone who was familiar to the Corinthian Christians. He came to Corinth after his famous discourse with the philosophers in Athens. Chapter 18 follows chapter 17. And if you know anything about Acts chapter 17, it's that famous story of the Apostle Paul on Mars Hill. speaking to the Athenians about the monument that they had erected to the unknown God. He said, I'm going to tell you about the unknown God. And after Paul had that famous event, he left Athens and came to Corinth in approximately somewhere between 50 and 52 A. D. With the culture of Athens and the various philosophy of Athens recently impressed upon Paul's thinking, the epistle to the Corinthians could well be seen as Paul's efforts to counter the inroads that ungodly Greek philosophy has made on the minds and the hearts of the Corinthians. For along with numerous exhortations to the Corinthian Christians to live for Jesus and not for the way the wicked values of their Greek culture The epistle is also known for its opening chapters, the first three chapters which contrast the wisdom and knowledge of God with the wisdom and knowledge of the ancient Greek. These opening chapters are Paul's attempt, opening verses, excuse me, are Paul's attempt to help the Christians at Corath. To see that worldly Greek values and teachings are interfering with their efforts to live their lives in a God-glorifying way. So, with that introduction, let's look at the verses which are before us today, verses 1 through 3. Paul called to be an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God. and Sosthenes, our brother. Again, Paul begins this epistle abruptly. And the abruptness of the beginning is a strong indication that Paul is someone who is well known to these believers. As mentioned before, he has already visited the Corinthian church after his ministry in Athens ended. And as we read from Acts chapter 18 this morning, some details about this ministry emerge. It is in Corinth that Paul first found Priscilla and Akilah, who would turn out to be great helpers for the work of the Word of God. We find that he reasoned regularly in the synagogue and persuaded some Jews and some Greeks of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Of course, others complained. Other Jews in particular complained that Paul had blasphemed. By teaching that this Jesus is the Christ. Verses five and six. Christus, a synagogue leader, believed in the Lord, and many were baptized. Verse 11 of chapter 18 says that Paul was in Corinthians, in the city of Corinth, for 18 months. Teaching the Word of God. Now that's as as time goes for Paul's ministry, that's a long time. That's a lengthy period of time. And that contributes to me saying that these Corinthian Christians are people that he knows. He has familiarity with them. As Paul later was forced to leave the area, he appealed to, or the Jews appealed to the Roman Pro-Council Gallio against Paul. But Gallio left the matter in the Jews' hands, whereupon they beat a man named Sosthenes who comes up again here in our verse, they beat Sosthenes, a ruler of the synagogue, who apparently had also come to saving faith, believing what Paul was teaching. And now we find that Sosthenes is journeying with Paul, or he's part of this delegation that Paul says is he is writing along with him. So Paul is well known, but he goes ahead and reiterates his credentials. Called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God. He is careful to establish one point from the very beginning. That his labors are not due to his own efforts. He is someone who he believes has been sent by God. He has been commissioned by God and by the will of God and Christ. Paul has not somehow taken on the mantle of being a self-proclaimed apostle He is God's man. He is divinely appointed and divinely empowered. And therefore, anything that he says is what God wants to have said. And those who are supposedly God's people ought to listen to Paul. After making this point of who he is, and it's an important point, that's not one to be skipped over or or or or not emphasized Again, it is not Paul himself, the man, who is saying this. It is Paul acting as God's surrogate, as God's divinely appointed person. To share these words. Now who does he address? Who does Paul address? Well That's obvious as well. To the church of God, which is at Corinth. To those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints with all who in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. This, you see, is a called-out assembly, a church. It's called out of the world by God to assemble for God's purposes to assemble to worship and to praise God. God has brought them out. They did not come out of the world. God brought them out And God called them to be his special people. They do not belong to the world. They do not belong to the world. Very early in the epistle, Paul is establishing a point that he is going to make over and over again. With regard to the Corinthian church, you are not worldly. You are not fleshly. You are God's treasure, God's people. You belong to him. He is your God. He is your shepherd. He is your protector, your provider of all good things necessary for your spiritual welfare. And he calls them those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. Their identity is further described as the fact that they are the set-apart ones, the ones in process of being sanctified. And while they're in process of being sanctified and set apart from the world, they are to be acknowledged as saints. And that's an issue that we oftentimes don't fully appreciate. We think that sainthood is somehow reserved for the super spiritual of the world. And can only be attained through some sort of rigorous self-effort. No, that's not how Christians should look at their existence. They are called. They are being sanctified. They are being made progressively more holy. And they are saints. Now, we may not act like saints, but that isn't the point. It's who we are, what we are. We're set apart. And we don't have to wait for somebody someday down the future to canonize us as saints God has already done that. And whether it's the Corinthians who hear that, or you who hear that You need to accept it. You need to embrace it. You need to believe it When it says too that they are sanctified and set apart, they are set apart unto God and not unto the world. That means that those who are in Christ, whether they be Corinthian Christians or you, are different. Different from the world, different from the mindset of the world. Your minds and your hearts are not linked to the drumbeat of the world's ideas. Your minds and your heart are linked to the fact that you are a saint of God in Christ Jesus because of what God has done. Because of him calling you out of darkness into light, calling you out of this world and into his presence. Notice it also says that they are called saints because they are in Christ Jesus. And they differ from most other people in the world because they are joined with others who in every place call upon the name of Christ our Lord. You're not alone. There are others around the world, in every place, who name Jesus Christ as Lord. You are different. You call Jesus your Lord. You call him Master, you call him Savior, and you bow down exclusively to him and not to any other. You are not like the world in its view of God. You're not a polytheist. Nor are you one who simply thinks that God, if he exists at all, is no longer around. I mean we could do so much about this. You are not one who believes that God is uh i is up there, out there somewhere, but he ain't here. Uh You believe that Jesus alone is your Lord. He is your curios Your master. He is your Jehovah. He is your God. How much how different that is, you see, from the world. How uh how how how different that is is. I mean, you you ask people who Jesus is. You know, most people are going to give you a lot of answers. Unless they're born-again Christians, they're not going to say he's God. You know, they might say he's a great man, they might say he is a God, but they're not going to say he is Lord, God, Almighty. This is part of what sets you apart from the world. This is what part of what It means that you are being sanctified to have your minds and your hearts attuned to what the truth is about your existence and about this being God's world You are saints. Notice also that who in every place call on the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Here's something else unique about whether they be the Christians at Tarinth or the Christians in Lanham. God is our God. That word is a pronoun. That means that you can know Him That God is personal. That God is not an ethereal concept. And that God is also, though He be almighty and though He be all powerful, He is someone who wants fellowship with you And someone in Christ that has made that fellowship reality. That's not something the world wants. They don't want God here They don't want God that close. They don't want God as someone they can call upon. U until it's really necessary. And then they call on him with all they can They don't want God with them, leading their lives, encouraging them, comforting them. Telling them when they're wrong. Reminding them not to go that direction. Because if you do, it will be problems. You see, that that whole idea that God is our Lord, that Jesus Christ is our Lord, is at the very heart of the name Emmanuel. That God will be our God and we will be his people. He's not a picture, he's not a statue, he's not. He's not a concept. He is personal. You know him. He's opened your heart and mind to know him. And he has erased all that bad stuff. All those bad ideas, what you thought about God, and he's replace them with the ideas that, yes, this God is almighty, and he's all powerful, and he's infinite, and he's eternal, and he's unchangeable in his being wisdom, knowledge, holiness, justice, goodness and truth. But he's also merciful. And he knows me, and I know him. I'm not afraid anymore that he knows me. Say a little word How amazing that word is in this context To de see Jesus as our our Lord is what sets true believing Christians apart. From the world. It is at the heart of our message. It's the heart, at the heart of the good news. And any spirit that does not confess that Jesus has come in the flesh is not of God. As John, 1 John 4, verse 3 says, this is the spirit of Antichrist. It says it again in 2 John 1, verse 7. Many deceivers have gone out in the world who do not confess that Jesus Christ. has come in the flesh. This is a deceiver, and as it is the Antichrist, we confess that God Almighty came in the flesh. God Almighty took on human flesh, and we needed that human flesh so that our God might be able to sympathize with us in our way. weaknesses. He might know us and know what he might experience temptation and all things like as we get without sin. He might know the burden. And as those who are have uh have once been under the dominion of sin. The world you see hates this Christ. The world you see cannot abide this Christ. But the saints adore and worship him. And they call upon his name. And because you call upon his name, the world Hate Jesus Jesus says, the world cannot hate you, John 7:7, but it hates me because I testify of it that its works are evil. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hates you. John fifteen, verse eighteen. Again, the Apostle Paul is setting up setting up the world of faith Over against the world of unbelief. And he's landing the Christian, sanctified and called to be holy. He's landing the Christian. In the the the world of God and in the wisdom of God And in the knowledge of God. And he's seeking, I think, to counteract the false philosophy that he has encountered in Athens And which he knows is permeating in Corinthians, and which he knows still permeates in the world in which we live There aren't two different realities. There aren't two different truths. There isn't God's way and the world's way, and they're both equally ultimate. Pick and choose which one you want It's only God's. That's reality. And the apostle is going to address more of the more of that in his writings. But as he closes And after he sets up this dichotomy, which he's going to start talking about in chapter one and continue through chapter three. He gives his audience God's blessing. Grace to you, and peace from God, our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Need we say any more that grace is unmerited blessing God has given you every unmerited blessing. He has highly favored you in Christ. Yeah, we need to keep saying it. And Paul says it to every, almost every, in every epistle, where he begins an introduction. He talks about grace being to you in Christ Jesus. For we are so prone to forget it, and we're so prone to think that our lives orbit around us. ourselves. Grace to you and peace from God. Peace with God and peace among men. Peace with God because your guilt for sin has been removed by faith in Jesus Christ and his death and resurrection. Peace with men, because only when men love one another can there be real peace, and only in Christ can men love their neighbors as the You have been reconciled. Formerly an enemy with God. Now you are his friend. Now you are a saint. And he makes sure that we understand that such grace and peace only come from God and his Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Our merciful Heavenly Father, we pray, O Lord, that your word would instruct our hearts and would penetrate. our hearts and oh Lord that um it would re it would bring blessing to us Encourage us, Father, as we seek to maintain our profession. The profession that you have taught us, that you have showed us by in your word, but also by your actions, that you indeed are our God, our Lord, our Savior. And may you receive, Lord, all glory that is due your name, both from us and from all the world. We long to see that day For even then, Lord, when that day occurs, and even in that day of vindication, it will not be enough to contain your glory. These things we pray in Jesus' name, Ana.