Our second reading from God's holy and inerrant word is from the book, the Gospel of Luke. And it is verses chapter three, verses twenty-one through thirty-eight. And inasmuch as all Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for approval, for correction, for training in righteousness. That being so, let us not simply eat the Hear, read, or have pass by this reading of his word, but prayerfully take in and seek to be led by it, guided by it, and corrected by it Let us hear God's word. Verse 21. Now, when all the people were baptized, Jesus was also baptized. While he was praying, heaven was opened. And the Holy Spirit descended upon him in bodily form like a dove, and a voice came out of heaven: You are my beloved Son, in you I am well pleased. When he began his ministry, Jesus himself was about thirty years of age, being as was supposed the son of Joseph, the son of Eli. The son of Matha, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Janai, the son of Joseph, the son of Matathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum The son of Hesi, the son of Nagai, the son of Ma'a, the son of Mat Matathias, the son of Semeen, the son of Josek the son of Judah, the son of Joannon, the son of Resa, the son of Zrubbabel, the son of Shiltiel, the son of Neri The son of Melchi, the son of Adai, the son of Kosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Ur, the son of Joshua The son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matat, the son of Levi, the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim The son of Meliah, the son of Mana, the son of Matatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David. The son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nashan, the son of Aminadab, the son of Admin The son of Ram, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor The son of Seruk, the son of Ru, the son of Peleg, the son of Heber, the son of Shela, the son of Kainan, the son of Arfaksad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah the son of Lamek, the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalalil, the son of Cainan, the son of Enosh The son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. Let us pray. Heavenly Father If we have known your mercy and your love, and if we are among those chosen before the foundation of the world, to be chosen in Christ. We are adopted sons and daughters of yours, of this number Oh Father, we pray that you would teach us and feed us and guide us from this your Holy Word, as you show us how in the fullness of time, in your perfect time, right on schedule as We would say. You brought the promised one, the Redeemer, the Messiah, your Son, the second person of the Trinity, Jesus Oh Father, we pray that you would teach us and feed us through this your word and show us how it is that it is indeed perfect. How it is indeed exactly what we needed. Even if we didn't know we needed it. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Pause for a moment here. I've never been somebody who's followed the tech world incredibly closely. Obviously unless you just sort of forswear the use of anything electronic you're going to be bumping into it Uh and I know that the uh fellow Steve Jobs, who was quite inventive and creative with the uh Apple Company Had some kind of expression or saying or addictum to the effect that he was sort of providing products for people that they didn't know they wanted until they got it Something to that effect. I mean it was something that was sort of meeting a need they didn't know they had, but once it was there, it's like, oh, that is what I wanted and and it does meet some need And analogies are necessarily by nature weak, because you're saying this is like this But I was thinking of this passage here this morning, talking about Jesus coming to be baptized, the anointed one, the promised one, the one the Messiah promised for all those centuries And I was thinking of the the analogy of seeing recently a few weeks ago seeing with my son-in-law the movie The Darkest Hour about Winston Churchill Churchill, who at the age of 65 achieved his life's dream of finally becoming prime minister. And he had been a voice in the wilderness back in Britain and England in the 1930s. Uh Hitler came to power in thirty, early thirty-three, I think it was. He was seen on the horizon for the years before that. Uh and then he took power in thirty-three, early thirty-three And quickly and swiftly just truly just took over everything, crushing opposition. Really fairly quick and thorough. It got worse as time went by, but it got really bad really quickly Yes, it was. And Churchill, I'm told, was actually in Germany back in thirty-four and looking into some family genealogy when he became truly aware of what was going on. And the wicked force that Hitler was, and how he would not stop with simply neighboring countries. And he has a voice in the wilderness warning his brothers and sisters in England of what was coming And the people in England didn't know they needed somebody like Winston Churchill. In fact, he had a lousy record from World War One, sort of held responsible for the loss of some twenty-five thousand soldiers at Gallipoli. At least some thought he was at fault. And I thought, oh, not him. But he wound up being exactly what Britain needed. Exactly what Britain needed. In fact there were others at the time he took he took over as Prime Minister who wanted to negotiate terms of surrender with with Hitler. I didn't really know that, but I look I've looked it up since and because that's true. But they didn't know that he's what they needed and he's what they needed And it was providential that he was there. And I think of the people of Israel, and obviously all Gentiles who wound up being saved thereafter. But the people of Israel, here we are in the year thirty, give or take. We call it that for you know have something s have some way to refer to it And they there have been people they've been told for years and years there's going to be a Messiah coming. They'd read in their holy scriptures and Isaiah and Jeremiah and uh even Job. Job makes reference to a coming Redeemer Someone who would forgive his sins. Isaiah speaks of him in all sorts of ways. And they're told this man will come. And there were a few that the Lord had given such a knowledge and a burden knowing that he would come, that it really weighed on them with with not a burden in that sense, but you have someone like Simeon waiting at the temple. I will see the Messiah come So when baby Jesus came, he'd finally seen the Messiah. He knew God had kept his promise. He knew God would, he just didn't know when. And there were others who were waiting faithfully for the God to keep his promise, and he And here came the Messiah. And so here we have this passage, and I will be in large measure concentrating on the first few verses, not all of the names But here we have Jesus being anointed by water. And Luke tells us this is about the commencement of his work. The beginning of what he does. I mean, the chapter before this, I mean earlier in the chapter, you have the description of John the Baptist, who in a way I'm sort of blending Churchill as if we both of John the Baptist in the 30s And then when it came time to take over as Prime Minister, he becomes the uh the promised one, as it were. That's why I say analogies are are weak But you had the earlier in the chapter, I mean you have John the Baptist. You don't have Jesus. Jesus is born as a baby earlier, but and uh he goes to the feast with his parents When he's 12, but we have nothing of his adulthood. Boom. Here we now have his adulthood. He all of a sudden shows up. And this is Jesus come as the Messiah. And throughout the Old Testament, we read of God's chosen one. There would one come from the seed of David. Even sometimes the prophet would say, David will sit upon his throne again. As it were. And you're thinking, what are you talking about? David's dead. He died around 900 something BC. Not that they would have said BC that But they say, you know, one like David will come. And so the Messiah, it's interesting, in Hebrew the word for uh the word for this one was Mashiach. But the Greek translation of the word is very familiar to us. Christos. Christos. Transliterated as C-H-R-I-S-T-O-S. Christ. What it means is the anointed one. The anointed one. Now, anointing was used as something throughout the Old Testament. In fact, we we often especially see it with someone like anointing with oil because God set someone apart for a particular task. The prophet Samuel comes, and God, his job is basically to be used by God to identify the people who are going to become kids Does it for Saul, does it for David? Anoints them with oil, whether they want it or not. And so here the anointed one is the one set apart. One set apart by God for this task. And that's why Jesus is called the Christ. I mean it's really when you have people referred to as Jesus the Christ, well, because Christ needs Messiah I mean it's a job description. It says something about who they are, what they do. And he has he has he is and always has been the Messiah That's what he was, that was his purpose in the flesh. But he commences his earthly ministry as God's chosen one when he's baptized by John on the River Jordan. So I want to look at what what this what this means to us. Literally what this will mean for us as well When we look at the blessed baptism, let's look at the few things we know about Jesus' baptism. When Jesus comes to be baptized, John tries to put him off. In the Gospel of John, we hear John say, I need to be baptized by you. Do you come to me? John was led to know this is the one. And Jesus is coming to be baptized. Are you kidding? He knows it has to do with forgiveness of sins. He knows it has to do with repentance. And he also knows that the chosen one Would have no sins, would not need to repent of anything. So John John knew that he was unworthy because he was sinful. John knew that I'm unworthy to baptize you. It's like you need someone who's less sinful than you are. And that's not possible with me. So it's easy to sinless. We know from a number of references in scripture that he was. He committed no sins. Well if he knew that, then why would he need to be baptized? I mean baptizing is meant to symbolize what God does for his people And the forgiveness of the sins. I mean the water doesn't you know literally make it happen. It's it's not some kind of magic thing like that But it references the forgiveness of sins. So I see three main reasons for the Lord's baptism and teaching about it. First, Jesus says to John, Permit it at this time For in this way it's fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Permitted at this time, for it's necessary to fulfill all righteousness. Why? Well, we know from the New Testament that baptism is something that does is commanded for God's people. The covenant families we we we baptize the children, just as the in the children covenant families you'd have the boys circumcised and Old Testament. Likewise in the New Testament of the New Covenant we have baptism. And so here Jesus was Following through on going through what all of God's people should have happened to them. To fulfill all righteousness means to do what God has set before him And one thing we know about Christ is He He was both passively obedient and He was actively obedient. He was passively obedient in the fact that He took upon Himself the punishment for our sin. He let it be done to him. He could have stopped it. He didn't. He was passively obedient. He was actively obedient, and we have that act of righteousness attributed to us by God, reckoned to us by God. His act of obedience is the fact that he he obeyed all the words of the law. Anything that a faithful Jew was supposed to do, he did That's how he was sinless. He had to he obviously had to not do a lot of sinful things, but anything that he was commanded of a faithful Jew at the time He was supposed to do. And he knew this was now something that was supposed to be it was now commanded by God for his people. So even though Jesus had technically had no sins I will I will have it happen to me as well. I will be baptized, because that is what I'm calling upon all of my people to have done to them as well. So it fulfills righteousness. Second, Jesus is baptized to show in a visible way for people to see that he is God's anointed one. As John the Baptist said in John chapter 1, verse 29 and following, John's saying this when he sees Jesus. Familiar words, behold the Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world. He sees Jesus. This is he on behalf of whom I said, after me comes a man who has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me. And I did not recognize him, but in order that he might be manifested to Israel, I came baptizing in water. John bore witness, saying, I have beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven And it remained on him. I did not recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize the water said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending And remaining upon him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit. So this is something that God, the Father, gave to John the Baptist to have to see, to know this is Jesus. This is the one In a similar way, Simeon, how is Simeon to know this baby coming to the temple is the one? Obviously God led him to know. But here John has something where he sees the spirit descending and remaining upon him He was led to know that this dove coming down out of the heavens. It's possible there's something beyond that, but we're we're we're not told that. So we at least that knows this is the one So we read that Jesus was baptized when all the people were being baptized. It was not a private ceremony. So it was something that anybody could see. And no doubt there were people nearby who heard, behold the Lamb. The Lamb of God takes away the sins of the world. Like I'm sure John the Baptist had said that about no one else coming to be baptized by him for their sins No one. So there were people who heard this about Jesus. And there were people, no doubt, in the three years to come later of Jesus' ministry who remembered, do you remember what the Baptist said about this one? My brother was there, he told me what they said. I mean this is known. This is known. It's not just hidden in some book that was later written two or twenty-thirty years ago. People People heard it. This points to the third reason why Jesus was baptized, which is so that he could be completely identified with man sin Failure. He did it, as I say in the first point, because it's something that we're supposed to do, and Jesus was utterly obedient to God's command, so he did it. But here is symbolically, he's identified with our sin and our I mean on the cross, he took the wrath and anger and punishment of God the Father for sins upon himself, not his sins. He committed none. But he took the punishment of the Father for all those sins on our behalf. And so here he's visibly being identified with us And something that people knew had to do with repentance. Well, what is repentance? What it means is you're turning from sin To obedience. You're turning from wickedness to holiness. You're only enabled and you've done that because he gives you the gift of repentance. You don't you don't gin it up on your own I mean you you ask Lord please give me you know convict me of my sins. I pray that often. Convict me of my sins. But Father, as you do so, please bless me with repentance, please Otherwise I'll be left in the conviction. That that is a horrible state. Know of my sin but not change. Give me the gift of repentance. So the people visibly associated what John the Baptist was doing with you know repent, repent. You're being washed for your sins. And he spoke of one who would be coming. And it's interesting, Jesus is the only person to have lived the perfect life on this earth. We know that's true And it's interesting, he did not need to be baptized for his sin because he had none. But what he was showing publicly through his baptism was that he was to be our substitute for sin. And it would be for us. I mean, as people watched and saw Jesus as time went by, they knew they could tell that he was the holy man of God. He did not sin And so here's identifying with us. And it all becomes clear after Calvary. It all becomes clear after the cross. It all becomes clear after the resurrection. Paul says, 2 Corinthians 5. 21, God made him, Jesus, who knew no sin, Jesus was saved. To be sin in our behalf. For us, he's our sin. He takes the punishment for our sin. To be sin in our behalf, that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. He puts our sin and the punishment for it upon Christ, and he takes Christ's righteousness, his perfect obedience, and puts it on us. I don't know about you, but I need that. I don't have righteousness. And I, you know, I continue to sin I'm so thankful that 1 John chapter 1 verses 8 and 10 are there. If we say we have no sin, we calling God a liar, the truth is not in us Because were I to think I could live a perfect life, I would be quick to despair, for I would see too soon that I can I do not and cannot. That is my I am called upon to be perfect as my father in heaven is perfect. But at the same time, God lets me know through his servant John, I know you will sin. That's not good. And you must turn to me in repentance. You will sin. But I need Christ's righteousness. And here we have that And it's interesting, the last thing I'll mention here in this part about the baptism is that notice that at the beginning of his earthly ministry, Jesus was praying in connection with his baptism. I mean Luke emphasizes again and again that Jesus prayed. Remember how Jesus had been healing us Luke 5. 16 He'd been healing the sick. He himself would often slip away to the wilderness and pray. He chose, before he chose his twelve disciples, Jesus spent the whole night praying to God. Chapter 6, verse 1. 12. And as Bishop J. C. Ryle wrote, a baptism without prayer is a baptism on which we have no right to expect God's blessing. So here we have Christ, as it says, Jesus was baptized while he was praying. I mean, here we have Jesus in the midst of what's happening around him and to him. Praying to the Father about this. See, much prayer always ought to be made when anyone is baptized They need it. Those who are placed providentially by God around that child or that whoever whatever age the person is Need prayer as well to help that person. Jesus felt it necessary to pray, and so should we. So that is the blessed baptism. And right after that we have what you could call the heavenly, the fatherly savor. The father we favor. But Jesus is praying, heavens opened. I mean it's one of those scenes in scripture like with the waters parting, you know, with with uh Moses and others, you sort of what a lover's just been watching. What does this Look like? What does that look like when that happens? But heaven's open. Part of what God shows here is symbolically is that He has opened a way between Himself and that kind through this one Christ You know, signal the people because right out of the gate I mean actually there is a forty-day interlude, but right after the baptism he goes to the wilderness to be tempted More about that this afternoon. But right after that, ministry starts immediately. But here we have Jesus fulfilling all righteousness, and when a prayer is made, the heavens are open And Luke tells us next that the Holy Spirit descends on Jesus in bodily form like a dove. At the baptism. And this is to show that Jesus had upon him and within him the power and favor of God. He had the blessing of God. It shows that God the Father authenticated the ministry of Jesus and approved of him Well, so why did the Holy Spirit appear as a dove? Well, I think probably the first thing that anybody notices about a dove is that it's white. Sort of clean. I used to have white cars. I had a white Toyota Corolla, 1988 white Toyota Corolla. And I had a nineteen ninety-eight white Toyota Corolla. So it looked looks really neat. Problem is it momentarily looks really neat. Because you get anything on it, it shows real quickly But if you have something it's just plain white, there's obviously no there's no brown dirt on it, there's no smudge of this, there's nothing. It's a kind of cleanness and purity And in the scriptures, a dove is a symbol, is used as a symbol of purity. New Testament scholar William Hendrickson notes: to save us from our sin, Jesus himself needed to be pure. So here we have this symbol from God, this white dove coming down to Jesus. Jesus is sinless and remains so throughout his whole life on earth. Second, a dove is a symbol of meekness, gentleness, and graciousness. This is peaceable Little dove. And Jesus is eminently gentle, meek, and gracious. I mean, what does he say in Matthew 11? Take my yoke upon upon you and learn from me, for I'm gentle and humble in heart Here's gentle Jesus. He's not only that. The Pharisees and the Sadducees, when he would overturn tables in the temple, saw more. But he was there, among other things. Jesus says, you come to him, you shall find rest for your souls. So we who are in the turmoil of our own sin, we're feeling the painful effects of someone else's sin upon us. We might react sinfully too, add insult to injury. We need the peace of gentle Jesus in that instance. But it was not only a dove which descends upon Jesus from heaven, but it Jesus and those around also heard a voice. Verse 22. It says a voice came out of heaven, you are my beloved son, and you I am well pleased. And we're not sure who heard this voice. I mean look at the other gospel accounts, we have we have indications that not all n recognized all of what was being said. Jesus certainly heard the voice. But we don't know whether anyone else heard it in the sense of understanding, but sometimes these are described as thundering. Except John the Baptist. John the Baptist, we would would think understood heard the voice. In John's Gospel, chapter 1, 32 and 34. It says, I have beheld the spirit descending as a dove out of heaven. He remained upon him, and I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God. That's John the Baptist. The last, as many people call him of the Old Testament prophets. The John the Baptist saying, This is the Son of God. This is the Messiah. And the voice of God confirms that Jesus is God's Son. In other words, God Himself. He is the beloved son of God. In Psalm 2, verse 7, we read that God said, Thou art my son, today I have begotten thee. And in Isaiah 42, verse 1, we read the words of God where he says, Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. So those who knew their scriptures, the faithful Jews, the ones who were truly and honestly waiting for the Messiah to come. And there were Jews like that then. They were a minority, but they existed. Like Simeon and Anna. If any of them have been there that day, it's like, is he the one? Now Jesus is declared to be the one whom the Father loves. The one in particular whom the Father loves. His life from the time of his birth until his baptism had been pleasing to God so far, and would also be true of the life he would lead in the next three years or so. God is pleased with him. So here in this one verse we have the Trinity spoken of: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Jesus the Son, God the Father, God the Holy Spirit God the Father and God the Holy Spirit both testify that God the Son is the beloved one in whom the Father is well pleased. So we have the Father Father, Son, and Holy Spirit together here at the baptism. That's God's favor. God's favor upon Jesus. We need a sinless Savior to be punished for our sins. We need the Savior to be punished for our sins. And Jesus is that one. Jesus is that one. And it's interesting, if you look in the book of Hebrews, chapter I get it confused, I think it's chapter twelve, what people often refer to as the Hall of Faith, listing all these saints from from from the past, in the Old Testament, who are faithful to God, looking forward in faith to the coming Messiah. And we are of that we are of that line as well if we are His The last thing I'll look at is the legal lineage, because in verse 3 we read, Jesus himself was about 30 years of age when he began his ministry. And pointing to what follows, one writer said that the fact that Jesus has a family tree and is listed and described as having a family tree, and not just here, not simply in Luke, it's Matthew as a long one. Shows that he was not a figment of the imagination or some kind of mystical half-man, half-god. He's an actual flesh and bone man. Luke gives us a long list of names. It's possible there's one or two people here like me who sometimes when you get to these seconds Sort of skip over them. You just think, okay, whole bunch of names, when do they start with the with the with the the rest of the narrative? But remember, we have names too, don't we? We're part of, and hopefully our children or grandchildren or our parents Would be in a list like this of God's people. It's interesting. We have a list, a long list of names here. We have a similar list in Matthew, but Matthew starts with Abraham. And traces the line of David up to Joseph, the husband of Barry, and on to Jesus, who is the Christ, but comes downward like that. Luke, on the other hand Um starts with Jesus, as it says, being supposedly the son of Joseph. I love how it put that because it's affirming the fact that we know from Scripture We know from Luke that it was a virgin birth. He's not biologically Joseph's son. Joseph is, as it were, a stepfather But Luke starts starts with Jesus, supposedly the son of Joseph. He traces the ancestors of Jesus back to David, then to Abraham. And then to Seth, every so often you're reading and going, wait a minute, I know that name. I bet that's thee, David. Wait a minute, Jesse, I know that name. Noah Methuselah, you mean the Methuselah? Yes, the Methuselah. You guessed these actual actual people from the early chapters of Genesis. And what why do these different gospels write different ways of showing the ancestry of Jesus? Well, it's a question somewhat similar to the fact of why don't we just have one gospel and have everything in it? Well, God knows that we are different people, doesn't he? You can have you can have a half dozen wonderful believers in Christ, all of whom are incredibly different. Different reactions, different behaviors Different likes, different dislikes. Well, we also get the we get the feel for different gospels. People write differently. He shows variety in that as well. It's not different facts about the same thing It's just that some have some information, the other one does not. And it's interesting, Matthew is we think is writing for Jewish readers in particular. It's one reason why he would keep on referencing the kingdom of heaven. Because faithful Jews would not say kingdom of God. You not you don't want to say the divine name too much. So we say kingdom of heaven because that would be more they they'd listen more And he's tracing the legal lineage of Jesus. That was through his earthly his earthly father, because women did not have legal family trees of their own in those days But Luke's concerned to show the ancestry of Jesus, involving his mother Mary, as well. And the stories in the opening chapter of Matthew seem to be looked at from the standpoint of Joseph Well, the stories in the opening chapter of Luke, I think, come from Mary herself. I think I've joked here before. I can just imagine Luke sitting there with his goal and taking down notes, chatting with Mary, and getting information To write the gospel. And she was, you know, perfectly remembering exactly all the things that occurred that she passed on to You know, Jesus, the ancestor of Jesus goes through King David, and his earthly father and his mother numbered this great king among their forebears. Both of them did, coming from different directions. It's interesting, my my genealogy in one little section of my family is made easier by the fact that my mother's parents were second cousins. So you get back and you wind up having because either the grandmothers or great-grandmothers were sisters. So you have a section of the tree that winds up being easier to work with because it sort of fuses together a little bit in one spot. Well same thing here with Mary and Jo you know Mary and Joseph. They're distant cousins So remember how Gabriel had said Jesus was going to be given the throne of his father David and reign forever? What what do we do what do we know about all these names in in in Luke chapter thirty uh chapter three verses twenty-three to thirty Yay. What do we know about all these names? What are we supposed to do with them? How are we supposed to benefit from them? I always read, I always say the passage from 2 Timothy, all scriptures inspired by God and profitable for teaching or approved correction. And you're going, well, except parts like this. Well no. I mean we're we're supposed to find something from it. If nothing else we can say, well we know it's true and God has a purpose But what you I think it's it's helpful to look a little deeper than that and to know he wants us to there may be something he wants us to learn there. And it's interesting, what do we know about these names? Well, number one, we know very little about most of them They don't show up elsewhere. I mean, here there's a bunch of them that do show up, probably a good half dozen or eight of the names. We can find them in Genesis But the rest of them, and in fact some of the names seemed to get reused. Levi, Matat, you know, these different names that you just passed down in the family. And a few were famous, but many are unknown. But they all took their place in the Messiah's line, didn't they? They all had their place. And if I didn't have a particular great-grandfather, I wouldn't be who I am. If you didn't have a particular great-great-grandmother, you wouldn't be who you are So these people are necessary. And it should be, I think, and can be an encouragement for us when we feel that nobody cares about us or our lives don't have particular purposes. To realize that we never know what part we have in God's plan. And look at some of these names. They lived their life and they came and they went. Now I don't know for every I don't know for for certain that every single one of these names are people who are faithfully trusting in the Messiah. That wasn't I don't know necessarily where let we have to understand that that was a a job requirement for being an SF. Jesus. But nonetheless they were they were necessary in God's plan. But if we know that we know the Lord and we know his forgiveness, because we've trusted in Christ Then no matter how unknown we are to ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent of the world, we're left by God And there are times he's correcting us because we need it, and because he loves us, he does it. But we are loved by God. So we are important in that fashion. Second thing to notice is all of these, except the Lord Jesus, are now dead. All these people are now dead. Most of them were at the time the baptism occurs. Bishop J. C. Ryle also says about this passage, he says, they all had their joys and sorrows, their hopes and fears, their cares and troubles. Their schemes and plans like any of ourselves, but they have all passed away from the earth and gone to their own place. And so it will be with us. We too are passing away and shall soon be gone Sometimes you'll drive somewhere in the country and maybe it wasn't in the country. I was driving here this morning. I drove past a little plot somewhere between here and the beltway. And I can see there was a driveway there and it led to an empty lot. And I thought, okay, obviously there was a house fire at some point. And if I walked onto the property I might find the foundation. There's nothing there. But I'll bet at some point there was a family there that had joys and sorrows. Happiness, newborns, the sadness of death, all sorts of things lived in that house, and they're gone. Which doesn't take away from the reality of what happened then and there. Likewise with you and me. We don't know how long we're going to be here. But we don't know how you know we do not know our time, the scripture says. But we need to be ready to leave at a moment's notice whenever the Lord calls us The third thing to notice is that Luke's list goes back to Adam. That's all the way back. That's all the way back. Adam, the son of God. Adam was made in God's likeness, wasn't he? The most directly in his likeness, as it were. But we're all described, men and women, it's all described as being made in the image and likeness of God. Which when you think about human life, whether it's you know the value of a child in the womb or other human life, all men and women in the world, no matter how good or evil they are acting at the moment. Are made in the image of God and thus have value before Him in that way. And they may be throwing away anything in the in the way they live their lives You may be throwing away any kind of godliness as it were. But inherently all men and women have worth because of being made in God's image. We're not nothing Adam was made in God's likeness, and Jesus is by his own very humanity, God's Son. We know the the nature of his of his birth all the more astoundingly and especially to see the Son of God. All of us are sons of Adam Think of the chronicles of Narnia, the sons of Adam and the daughters of Eve. We were all sons of Adam. But the line was not continuous, was it? It was broken by the fall I mean now when we think about it, you can't use the plain expression that we're all all people in the world are children of God. No, we're all preachers of God. All men and women are indeed have the same father our father the devil. But if we if our hearts are changed, if we are born again, those of us for whom he does that then have him as our father, our adopted By nature we are children of wrath, even though we're made in the image of God because of the fall, because of what has happened to all men and women. That's why the Jesus Christ speaking to the Pharisees says they were of their father the devil, because that is something that is true of all men and women because of the fall Jesus the Messiah came. God kept his promise. What does this passage say to each of us? What does this passage say to each of us? First, we follow Jesus in his baptism with water, baptism just as he was baptized with water, but also If we know him as our Lord and Savior, we submit to him, we end our rebellion against God, we submit to him as our Lord. And we thank him for being our Savior, being punished for our sins. We too have been baptized into the death, with into his death, and we have been raised with him. Newness of life. That is true of us. We follow Jesus in his baptism. That is true. And if these things are true, we also know the favor of the Heavenly Father. No one's going to see a dove floating onto our head, necessarily. But we have that likewise blessing. We have, in fact, the spirit whom the dove symbolizes living within us, if we are his As we sin, we grieve the Spirit, but we have the Spirit within us. And third, we are now of this great lineage. No matter how humble or plain your life might seem, you're thinking, nobody knows what I'm doing, and the and the things I'd hoped to do, I haven't done them all Well the we d you don't know all of what how all how God is going to use all of what He has led you to do. Past actions, current actions Future actions. But if you are his, he has prepared good works for you to walk in, hasn't he? And he's causing all things to work together for your good, if you are his. So you are part of that lineage of God's people, part of that list of names. If you trust in Christ as your Messiah. Is he yours? Let us pray. Heavenly Father We see what must have happened to Jesus. It needed to have happened. And it did happen For so many different reasons. But it happened to him, something that is likewise to be true for us. It happened to him in a way that was radically different, and radically more And it will ever happen to us. But that is so because he indeed was and is and evermore shall be the Messiah, the Savior of His people, the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings. Oh Father, we pray that you would cause us to bow before Him in reverence and awe And to with gratitude and thankfulness prayerfully ask how we might serve you, Lord Jesus, how we might glorify you in what we do in our lives, how we might exalt your name. How we might share what you do for sinners, what you've done for us. For we too share much of the anointing that you do. are yours and you have work for us to do. We pray that you would lead us to that. We ask this in your name. Amen.