Now turn your attention to the text tonight for the message, Amos chapter 3, and beginning in Verse 1 and going on through verse 8, tonight we will simply be looking at the first and second verses of Amos 3. And um as I read, um uh uh just try to keep in the back of your mind what we just read from Deuteronomy six. Um because it it it uh Deuteronomy six and what we just read there impacts Helps to better understand this passage. So hear God's word. Hear this word, the Lord has spoken against you, O children of Israel. Against the whole family which I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying, You only have I known of all the families of the earth Therefore, I will punish you for all your iniquities. Can two walk together unless they are agreed? Will a lion roar in the forest when he has no prey? Will a young lion cry out of his den if he has caught nothing? Will a bird fall into the s in a snare on the earth when there is no trap for it? Will a snare spring up from the earth if it has caught nothing at all? If a trumpet is blown in the city, will not the people be afraid? If there is calamity in a city, will not the Lord have done it? Surely the Lord God does nothing unless He reveals his secret to his servant, the prophet. A line has warred. Who will not fear? The Lord has spoken. Who can but prophecy? And thus for ends the reading of God's Word Here now in Amos chapter 3, as we continue looking at the book of Amos. We come to a period of time in history before the, shortly before the Northern Kingdom. to whom Amos is speaking. Shortly before that, northern kingdom is taken into captivity by the Assyrian armies and ceases to exist. As you recall, the northern kingdom was named Israel. It came about after the death of Solomon. And the rebellion of the ten of the twelve tribes of Israel against Solomon's sons rule as king. The ten tribes went north, or the ten tribes focused in the northern area of what was Israel, and it's to that group of uh Hebrews that um that Amos is addressing. Now as you read through uh uh chapter three tonight as we get started uh we see that um The Lord has something to say toward the children of Israel, particularly this northern kingdom. And it's not something that's going to be favorable to them. And then in order to appreciate why this is the case, We need to go back to the passage in Deuteronomy, verse chapter 6. There you have Israel. As a united group of people, approximately 2500 years or twenty twenty twenty-two to twenty-five hundred years. Prior to this time that Amos chapter 3 is talking about. We see here, Moses is alive. At this particular point in Deuteronomy, the people of God have been led out of Egypt. They've been delivered out of Egypt. And they have recently concluded the wandering in the desert, in the wilderness, because they refused to believe that they could go into the promised land and take it. They would not listen to Caleb and Joshua's report that they should go and listen and trust the Lord, that the Lord was going to promise to them this land of the Canaanites. And and as you as you see um in in Deuteronomy uh chapter six There is an appeal by God that his people would remain faithful to him that they would not ignore his commandments. They would not forget his statutes. He encourages them that this is not just a uh these statues are not just for God's uh senior people, but they're for children as well The parents are to teach these truths about God and God's promises even to their children, and they're to be diligent and regular about doing so. In essence, God wants his people to love him and to have gratitude to him for his mighty deliverances. For bringing them out of Egyptian slavery, and for thanking them for his faithfulness and his good provision for their lives. God goes so far in Deuteronomy chapter 6 to predict that his people will enjoy a time of prosperity. But they will reap material blessings in the promised land, which they will eventually inhabit and conquer. After Moses dies comes Joshua. And Joshua conquers what is the promised land. And all of these people in the northern kingdom are descendants of that history. They're descendants of that race, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are their their forefathers in the faith. Their leaders, and they are the ones who by this time have gone through many different centuries of experiencing God's faithfulness, but also experiencing his judgment for their unfaithfulness. And that's uh recorded for us during the period of the book of Judges in particular. But it's all throughout the period in the Old Testament, all the way from Deuteronomy into the time of David, the kings, the judges, the kings, then the the prophets. And now we've got this northern tribe called Israel that has become incredibly successful, incredibly prosperous Even though they are among the most wicked people on earth, they were God's people, and God had chosen To bless them. The time of prosperity has come to them. They've occupied houses they didn't build They've um the as Amos talks about that, they they have wells they didn't dig. They have olive groves and orchards they didn't plant. They become materially successful, and along with that material success, they become ever more wicked, and they have forgotten God. and sought after their own gods. And that's the situation we find now when we come now to this period of time in Amos chapter 3 To the northern tribes, the ten tribes of Israel, not the southern, Judah and Benjamin. Jerusalem, that area. This is not addressed to them. It's addressed to the northern kingdom. And he starts off by saying that God has something against you. I have a word against you. And even though you're the people that I brought out of Egypt, And you alone are the only families of the earth that I have had a special relationship with. Nevertheless, I am bringing punishment. To you. And always, as always, Amos is not the lone voice crying out to these demons. At the same time that Amos is speaking directly to these people, the prophet Habakkuk is doing the same thing to these people, their contemporaries. And Isaiah is uh a is a contemporary of these people. They overlap. from some degree, but Isaiah primarily is talking to the southern kingdom. The Habakkuk and Hosea and Joel, they're they're all Speaking mostly, primarily to this northern kingdom, roughly about the same time. Multiple witnesses pleading for the people of God to repent And so that kind of sets the stage for what we hear now in verse one and verse two. Hear, O Israel, the Lord has spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought out of Egypt. God wants them to hear these words that he's about to say. And it is not that he He is warning them ahead of time of their imminent disaster with the, I believe, with the with the desire That the wicked sinners will repent. That uh that something will strike a chord in some of their hearts. And that they'll turn away from the disaster that's about to befall them. It says that he wants them to hear this word. According uh in essence, God believes this is so important that uh that they need to listen. He identifies, he speaks to them when he says, hear this word that the Lord has spoken unto you. That command, that's a command. And that command is very much like Deuteronomy 6, verse 4. A very familiar passage, maybe one of the most familiar passages to most people of Jewish ancestry. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one. One Lord And you shall love the Lord with all your heart, God, with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. These and these words which I command you this day shall be in your heart Hear, O Israel. Again, that's Deuteronomy 6, Amos 3. 1. Hear this word, which the Lord is speaking against you, O children of Israel. God, again, just like he did in Deuteronomy, 6. Before the people went into the Promised Land, he speaks now to the people already in the Promised Land for 22 to 25 centuries. He is the same God. He identifies himself in the same way. The Lord your God. Not only the Lord your God, but He also shares with them that he is our God. This is not uh he he's not He's not an unfamiliar being to these people. Even though they abandon him, he hasn't yet abandoned them completely. He is their God. And that they're not going to change, no matter how many gods they bow down to and worship, which they did many. But from his perspective, he is still their God. And um and he is also described here in the Amos passage as someone who has been involved in their life, so involved that he has delivered them. from the land of Egypt. You notice that? He these people are the ancestors, many generations removed, from those people that God did bring out of Egypt. During the Exodus. Nevertheless, God is portraying himself as the same God. The same God that put them out of Egypt is the same God that's speaking to them now. And he reminds them of what he has done. He shares with them what really in the Old Testament is the pivotal example or the ultimate example of God's redeeming work So in in some ways you could say when he said, I brought you out of Egypt, he's forcing them to recall not only his power, but also his redemptive concern for their welfare. For their being. I saved you before. I displayed my mercy to you before. Your parents saw your ancestors saw this. And they were delivered with a mighty hand. You've heard the stories. They're part of your culture. They're part of your religion. They're part of your faith. He's making an appeal based on how God has been faithful even to his children who have wandered away. And um and he encourages Israel um He doesn't quite say it here, but he's going to say it multiple times to come back. To come back, to return, to come back to me. And I, you know, I you know, I will be merciful. Um and and and and that's how they've experienced him. It's not like God has not been involved in their lives. It's not like God has been completely divorced from their existence, even though they want to divorce themselves from God's existence. God has been there all the time. And that's because he's the God of the covenant. He doesn't forget his promises to his people. He entered into a relationship with them That he would be their God and they would be his people, that he would be merciful, he would provide, and only if they would only if they would love him, only if they would love him and serve him. And not bow down to the other gods. This is a uh uh uh people who have been uh in their history, throughout their history, uh mightily blessed, chastised when they have been sinful. I mean they've experienced that. But there's a concern that God has now for these people, and that is that they have become so successful. so materially blessed that what he said would happen in Deuteronomy 6 is now happening. He says, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. Beware, he says, in Deuteronomy 5. 12, in the same general section, he says, beware lest you forget the Lord. I brought you out of Egypt. I brought you out of the house of bondage. You should fear the Lord and you should serve him. You should not go after other gods. There is no clearer statement of the meaning of God in relationship or in covenant relationship with his family. God delivers, God blesses, God treats his people as his own children. He is merciful. And he expects that they will, in turn, love him and serve him and not forget about him. You know, it's an interesting phenomenon, isn't it, when everything is going right and you feel material blessed, materially blessed It's an interesting phenomenon that is being addressed here, and perhaps you see it in your own life. But that seems to be a time not when you draw closer to God, but you draw closer to yourself. You trust more in yourself. And you forget. You forget who is the one who provides all these things. Our discussions, which we have had up to this point in Amos, reveals that Israel has forgotten God. That she's worshipped other gods. She's violated the covenant terms. She has not loved him with all of her heart, mind, soul, and strength. She's bowed down and worshiped every false god there is She's abandoned God, she's forgotten him, and she doesn't want to be a part of their special relationship. But God does it forgot Forget them. Just as God doesn't forget the sinner. Any sinner. God keeps pursuing with truth Who he is, what he has done. Over and over again, he reveals in his word, but many times he reveals just in the bents of providence Even in the life of unbelievers, that he orders all things for his good, for his glory, and potentially for their good. Now, in verse 2, he makes this stunning statement, which is really true. When you think about it, he says Of Amos chapter 3, he says, you only have I known out of all the families of the earth. Therefore, I will punish you for your iniquities. Now, let's take that one phrase at a time. You only have I known of all the families in the earth God is here declaring again what the Bible has revealed, that he has a special relationship with the nation of Israel that he has known them in a special way ever since the days of Abraham They have been the subject of his promises to Abraham He has provided for them. He has cared for them. He has defended them. He has blessed them. He has fought for them. He has protected them. Notice also, he refers to Israel as one of the families of earth. on earth. You only have I known. You only have I had this special relationship. And you know, in a in one way, God knows all the families of the earth All the people, all the tribes, all the tongues. They're no mystery to him. He knows them. But Israel occupies a special The Israel of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They occupy a special place in God's concern. For it's to them he enters into covenant. It's to them he establishes a relationship. It's to them he promises blessing. It's to them he promises his blessing He first promises his messiah. It reminds Israel when he says, I've uh uh you have I known out of all the families of the earth. It reminds Israel with that word of that little word family that that she is God's child. When you think about families, what do you think about? Father, mother, children. It's a normal family. And God is saying that I have a special connection to you as my children. Those whom I love, my sons and my daughters, who will be able to call him not simply Jehovah, but can call God Father. And then all of a sudden in this verse 2, it seems that everything God has done up to this point has been kind of woo Israel back. You know, to kind of m bring her to her senses and remind these people of Amos all that God has done and that they're special in his sight. And then there comes this big curve that God throws, or seeming curve. And it's the statement Therefore, I will punish you. Therefore, I will punish you for all of your iniquities. And you hear that and and and given given the the rest of this situation, uh you look at that and you say, whoa! God's gonna punish these people? What kind of loving God and providing God does that? Why would he do that? How can being punished benefit in any way those whom God says are his people? How can it be a blessing to them How can a real father punish his child? Certainly in our world today the world pu the word punish is loaded with negative thoughts. A real father can't really punish his child. Yet the Bible is very explicit as to why God does bring punishment, even to his children. children. And I remind you of a passage that we looked at not too long ago in the book of Hebrews, in the 12th chapter where we read. My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord Nor faint when you are rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening Or discipline, or punishment, however you want to translate it, God deals with you as sons. For what son is he whom a father chastens not? But if you be without chasting, whereof all are partakers, then you are bastards and not sons. We have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of Spirits? And live? For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure. That is our own parent. But he that is God chastens us for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness No chastening for the present seems to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yielded the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them that are exorcism. Yes, you only of all the families of the earth have I known. You only have been my children. I've treated you with love and respect and given you all that you needed to sustain life But I love you too. And I can't let you go down the path you're going. Because it's the path that leads to unholiness, ungodliness, the very antithesis of who I am as your father. And so I will bring judgment, I will bring chastening. Because as Hebrews 12 says, God loves his children and wants to see them holy as he is holy. Isn't it uh isn't it rather amazing that God is very consistent in how He relates to his people. There's nothing new under the sun. He provides, he blesses, he's merciful, he's kind. We forget. We deny him. We are unfaithful. He brings judgment, hopefully to call back those unto himself That are really the children of God. You remember, always remember, in the Israel of Amos' day, It was a very bleak spiritual situation, so much so that Elijah, another one of the prophets to the northern kingdom at the same time as Amos, Habakkuk, and Hosea. Elijah cried out, Am I the only one? Who is faithful? And remember, God opened Elijah's heart and said, There are yet 4,000 knees that have haven't four thousand persons that haven't bowed the knee to Baal. Four thousand yet in Israel, a remnant in that northern kingdom that was faithful. And it's for their sake that God is telling them exactly what he's about to do, so that they might continue to remain faithful. And to believe when everybody around them is laughing and mocking them, it's those who are laughing and mocking who will beat the whirlwind. And God's people will be preserved. You in Christ are his children As you remain faithful to him, and as you refuse not to not bow the knee to the bales of our day. Amen. Let us pray. Almighty and most merciful God We are grateful, Father, for your leadership of our lives. And we thank you, Lord, that we can always count on you to behave in a way which is consistent with your holy character We can always trust that through your word and by your spirit Lord, that you will also speak to us if we lead ourselves in such a way that isn't honoring to you. If we begin to walk down that path that goes awry spiritually, if we start looking at things that And doing things, Father, that aren't glorifying in your name. For once you begin a work In your people, as a result of your election and your calling, Lord, you will complete that work. And you will make your people holy as you are holy. Father, help us not to be stubborn and resist your uh your your gracious words help us lord to listen and to hear help our hearts to be Not so heartened with it because of our sin that we, Lord, reject your word out of hand. But Lord Keep us in the power of your spirit. Keep us safe. Keep us from wandering. Protect us, Lord, from the many ways in which we can go astray Keep us faithful to you. Lord, help us in all things to put you at the center of our life and to worship you and you only, to bow down and praise you. In grateful recognition beyond all the material blessings you have given to us, you have given us one special treasure. A treasure of salvation and life in your Son Jesus. Jesus Christ. To him be the praise this evening and every evening. Amen