Let us turn now to First Timothy chapter six and uh let us turn to verse 17 and we'll read from 1 Timothy 6, verse 17 through the end of the chapter. Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God. who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Let them do good, that they may be rich in good works. Ready to give, willing to share, storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold of eternal life. O Timothy, guard what was committed to your trust, avoiding the profane and idle babblings. and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge, by professing it some have strayed concerning the faith Grace be with you. Amen. Thus far, the word of God Last week we began looking at verse eighteen of this uh chapter. And again, verse 18 says, let them do good, that they may be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share. And tonight we'll be looking at that some more, and then going on to verse 19, which uh which says Storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come that they might lay on to eternal life. And you remember that uh as we have come to chapter six A large portion of this chapter, the Apostle Paul has dedicated to sharing with Timothy. How Christians are to look at the whole question of material riches And of course, as he shares this with Timothy, he's expecting that Paul will give these instructions to the believers at Ephesus as well. And we we see some of the perspectives that Paul brings forth. They're just all throughout this sixth chapter. For example, he says we should be content with what God provides in verse 16. Verses 7 and 8, he says, material treasure has no place in eternal life. It has no profit. It has no value in in in eternal life. He uh gives a command that we not desire to be materially rich because this is one of the ways the devil lays a trap for us getting us off focus, getting us to be tempted, or to stray, to fall away after material riches when as Christians our thoughts should be toward what we might call spiritual riches. It's also in this passage that A familiar verse is is oftentimes quoted by people who are not even Christian. The love of money is the root of all evil. Verse 10. Causing some to stray from the faith, Paul says. Beginning in verse 17 of this chapter, leading up to the verses tonight, Paul says, just because you're rich is not a reason to be proud or haughty. He goes on to say, no one should put their hope or their trust in riches. Why? Because they're uncertain. The riches of the world are uncertain. Instead of putting your trust in uncertain riches, your trust should be in the living God. who he identifies as the one who gives us richly all things to enjoy. And then in uh verse eighteen, as we uh looked at last time, uh Doing good in God's eyes is being rich in good works. They that do good, let them be rich in good works. Good works being defined as those things which God has given to us to do being created as His workmen, as part of His workmanship So all of this leads up to our verses tonight. And uh I shouldn't have to say this, but for the benefit of those who are listening over the, or we'll be tuning this in on the internet. All of what Paul has to say about riches here is directed toward believers. Believers and how believers are to understand their perspective on riches. There is not one truth There's not one aspect of truth to saying, well, Paul is somehow saying that if you are rich and you do good to others, that salvation will be yours as well. Nor is he saying that salvation is a belief in Christ plus doing good works. Both of course stand in sharp contrast to what Paul has consistently said elsewhere in Scripture. I'm thinking, first of all, of Ephesians chapter 2. verse eight for by grace you're saved through faith, not of yourself. It is the gift of God and not of works, lest any should boast. Titus chapter 3, verses 5 through 7. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he has saved us. By the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Ghost, which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. Having been justified by His grace We should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Both passages are very signature statements from Paul about salvation is the work of God's grace and not of any human work. But what Paul is saying in our verses tonight, both in 18 and 19 What he is saying is that those whom God has blessed with spiritual riches in Christ, in other words, those who he has saved by the precious blood of Christ are expected by God to use those material riches to benefit others They're expected by God to bring blessing to those who are in need. And even though I think he's primarily talking here about material riches, you can't divorce that from the spiritual treasures. that you have to bring to those who are poor in faith. By doing so Rich Christians are fulfilling Ephesians chapter 10, excuse, excuse me, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, where his workmanship created in Christ Jesus This, you see, stands in sharp contrast to what Paul said earlier, that you should not put your hope in Uncertain riches, material riches. Now in verse 18 he further goes on to say Be ready to distribute. Be willing to share. Ready to give. Willing to share. Both terms. Both terms have the same assumption. The assumption is that even within the body of Christ, or perhaps outside the body of Christ, there are going to be people who have need. Both terms assume not only will there be people who have need, but there will be others who will benefit from your sharing. Whether it be physical, material riches, or spiritual riches, we see here that God's intention is for those who have been given many riches or blessings or treasures, however you want to describe it, whether they be material or spiritual, We see that God's intention is we don't hoard those riches to ourselves, but we use them to help others. Help out your neighbors or love your neighbor. Christ shows us. Christ is the one who shows us how to give and share riches with others Do not ever forget the riches Christ left behind in heaven to be incarnated. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever should believe in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Philippians 2, 5 through 8. Let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus. Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. Took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross This, brothers and sisters, is Almighty God, who they're talking about He who has the cattle on a thousand hills, he who has the vast storehouses of all riches. For your sake, for the sake of his elect, he became poor and became a servant, humbled himself, and was obedient to the point Even of the cross. You know, 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 9, Paul writes, You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that through his poverty you might be rich Christ's example in that particular passage is used on the background of Paul commending the churches in Macedonia because they richly gave to others If you go back and you look at it, you'll see that that's what's going on. And it's on the background also of the fact that Paul is exhorting the churches to give to help overcome some extreme poverty in the churches of Macedonia. So the churches that are better off, well off, are giving to help the material and spiritual needs of other churches. And in that in that aspect of what they're doing, Jesus Christ is held up as the supreme example that though he was rich, he became poor. And that's you know that's a good that's that's good for the people of God to have that mentality. That this is this is how we look, this is how we ought to look at all the blessings that God has given to us. uh however much they are, um however great they are, whether they're material or spiritual, uh that uh That the concept of sharing and giving to others who are in need is very much Christ-like. We should not think that because we are rich materially, Paul's words do not apply to us here. Or excuse me, that's not right. We should not think that because we're not rich materially, that Paul's words do not apply to me. Those who believe in Christ have been given riches that are greater than material riches. I'm talking about spiritual riches. How would you assign any sort of value To eternal life? How would you assign any monetary figure to having your sins forgiven? How would you assign any Any amount of uh dollar figure for one audience with God when you have Him 24 hours a day What we have is infinitely precious And it's described in 2 Corinthians 4, verses 5 through 7, as having the treasure in earthen vessels. And that treasure that we have in earthen vessels is said right before that, in 2 Corinthians 4, 5 through 7, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Christ, we have that treasure in us. Now, believers again, the uh I I made the point and I got a little sidetracked, but the point was is that just because you don't have riches Materially does not mean these words don't have any meaning to you. Because the word for rich here most frequently does apply to material riches. But it also is used to apply to spiritual riches. As well in the Bible, in the New Testament. For example, James writes in James chapter 2, verse 5: Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath God not chosen the poor of this world? To be rich in faith? Rich in faith, that's not a material treasure, is it? It's the same word here. Rich in faith. And heirs of the kingdom. Moses in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 26, is pictured this way, that he esteemed the reproach of Christ To be greater riches than the treasures of Egypt. The reproach of Christ And of course that's talking about Christ's the hostility that men have toward Christ, but nevertheless, uh he wasn't coming to Christ because Christ was offering m uh uh an exorbitant amount of money to him. It wasn't material riches he was looking for. He saw the reproach of Christ to be of greater value than all the riches of Egypt, which, as second in command in Egypt, he would have had access to much of it. And I suspect it was a great storehouse of treasure, worldly treasure. We all have in Christ eternal riches. And God calls us to share those riches, especially the spiritual riches that we have. And I remember I cannot help but this pointed parable that we read earlier from Luke 12. I read that again last week, the same parable, because there's so much in it that uh that speaks to this question of where W where do you place what do you consider to be riches? And where do you what do you think about your riches? And you know that parable. You notice that this parable was told by Jesus. It was occasioned by a guy coming to Jesus. And tell asking Jesus, tell my brother to give me my inheritance. Or give me my fair share. Which, of course, you could tell the only thing he's interested in is material treasure, material riches. And Jesus tells this parable in response to that request. He says in Luke chapter 12. One of the company, yeah, well, okay, I read that. Uh he says, take heed and beware of covetousness. For a man's life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses. You see, when Jesus frames it that way You begin to see that the question is, what is important in life? What is important in my life? What defines me as a human being? And surely, and surely we all know that there are many people who think that their riches, their material riches, define them. That their life consists in the abundance of the things they have, the possessions that they have. Jesus goes on to say. He spoke this parable to them, saying, The ground of a certain man brought forth plentiful. He thought within himself, saying, What should I do? I have no room to bestow my fruits. I have no room to where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This I will do. I'll pull down my barns. I'll build greater. There I'll put all my fruits and my goods. I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods. Laid up for many years, take thine easy drink, and be merry. And God said to him, You're a fool. You are a fool for thinking that. You're a fool. This very night your soul is required of you. Then, whose will all these things be? Which you have provided? And then he adds this pointed statement, so is he who lays up treasure for himself, but is not rich toward God. This very idea of uncertain riches, which Paul nails in chapter 6, and which Luke talks about here in this parable. Jesus himself, let me remind you, in Matthew chapter 6, had something to say about it also. Matthew 6, which is still considered part of the Beatitudes. Matthew 6 and verse 20. Well, let's go back to verse 19. Do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth. where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. Lay up for yourself treasures in heaven Where neither mouth nor rust destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there also is your heart. That's another aspect. What is what's on your heart? What's in your heart? What do you value? What's the point of life? What do you consider is the most important thing? God's definition of life. Is it your definition of life? What does your life consist in? Are you rich toward God? And are you rich toward others? You see, If the parable were told in the sense of what the man should have done, remember, it was told because he was covetous. But what he should, the parable, if it was told in a way that would give honor and praise to God, the guy would have said, I'll just give the excess that I have to the poor, to those who are needy. I won't covet it to myself. I won't see my very soul's existence as dependent upon these riches that I have accumulated. Are you rich toward God? Are you rich toward one another? God has been rich to you. in Christ. And of course, when I ask the question, are you rich toward God and are you rich toward one another, that brings into the question, where is your heart? And that brings into the question, what do you love? What is it you love? As Christ wrote in Matthew 22, verse 27 and following. I think that's 37 in following. I think that's a misquote. But he also had the Apostle John write it in a little bit more unfamiliar form. In 1 John 2, verses 7 through 11. Brethren, I write no new commandment to you, but an old commandment. which you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you heard from the beginning. Again, a new commandment I write to you, which thing is true in him and in you. Because the darkness is past, and the true light now shines. He that said he is in the light and hates his brother is in darkness, even now. But he that said he is in the light and loves his brother and abides in the light, there is none occasion of stumbling in him. He who hates his brother is in darkness, and walks in darkness, and knows not where he is going, because the darkness has blinded him. Romans chapter 13, verses 8 and 11. Again, under this concept, are you rich toward God? Are you rich toward others? Owe no man anything but to love one another. For he who loves another hath fulfilled the law. For this thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness. Thou shalt not covet, and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love works no ill toward your neighbor Therefore, love is the fulfilling of the law. Being rich toward God is to love God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. Paul then adds in verse nineteen that those who are Ready to give and willing to share to those in the body of Christ, particularly who have need, he says that they are laying up a foundation to lay hold of. They are laying hold of a foundation. And you have to understand that the Greek language here is rather interesting. It's in an airs tense which means it's action that's already been completed. In other words, the foundation has already been laid. And in a sense, because we're created unto Christ Jesus, unto good works, those good works are already decreed by God that we should do. We're simply Following that. And as a result, we are laying hold of the foundation that's already there for us. We're following what we are now recreated to do as we share the riches God has given to us We receive that which God has prepared for us. And that foundation is nothing less than eternal life We act in a way to share our riches And we receive the riches from God that He has prepared for us in Christ. What we are receiving is eternal life as we walk in the good works God has prepared for us to do. Save first by Christ's riches, give our riches to others, spiritual Or material. There is no force here It's simply a matter of doing that which God lays upon your heart. Where is your heart? Are you rich toward God and are you rich toward Others pay back. Oh, let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we uh thank you that in the long history of our church That there has there has been a generosity of your people toward the needy and Lord, in many ways, this generosity has come materially and spiritually. As we sought to help brothers and sisters within the church, others who are uh calling you the Lord and Savior, but yet not in our fellowship, and also Lord from time to time, the occasional one that comes in off the street. Father, we thank you for helping your people to see clearly how to use in a way that glorifies your name how to uh how to use the riches which you have given to us. And uh and Lord, we pray that there will always be Within our heart, uh, a love for you and a love for others. That, Lord, uh we would always understand that our life does not consist in the amount of riches materially that we possess, but our life consists in the amount in the in the in the precious infinite amount of spiritual blessings which you have showered upon us in Christ Jesus. That is real treasure. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.