So the reading of God's Word comes from Philippians chapter three, verses twelve through sixteen. Listen to God's word. Not that I have already attained or am already perfected But I press on that I may lay hold of that for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. But one thing I do Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forward to those things which are ahead I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Therefore, let us, as many as are mature, have this mind And if anything, if in anything you think otherwise, God will reveal even this to you. Nevertheless, to the degree that we have already attained. Let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind. The reading of God's Word, may He bless it, and may He also bless its preaching in our midst today, this morning. So what does it look like for a Christian to be mature? What does a mature Christian look like? What does maturity look like in the Christian life Did you notice that Paul just told us what maturity looks like in the Christian life? Notice what he says in verse 15. Let us, as many as are mature, have this mind. He's describing the mindset of a mature person, a person who is mature in Christ and mature in the faith. Now, how does he describe the life of maturity in the faith? What does that life look like? The life which is mature in the faith? What when he says, let those who are mature have this mind or this mindset? Well, what mind? What mindset? What mindset is he talking about? Well in verse 15 he says, let those who have mature have this mindset. The mindset he wants you to have is what he described before verse 15. So everything there in verses 12 through 14. Verse 12 through 14 shows us then what does a mature Christian look like? What does a mature Christian think like? What does a mature Christian act like? Well he act- he or she acts like what Paul describes in verses 12 through 14. Now, very key piece of that. The first thing Paul says in verse 12, the one who is a mature Christian has the same mindset that Paul has in verse 12. The one who is truly mature in Christ is ready to confess and acknowledge the very thing that Paul confesses and acknowledges in verse 12. I, as a mature Christian, Paul says, No. That I have not attained what I desire to attain. I as a mature Christian, no That I have not been perfected yet. I am not someone who is already perfected. And in fact, I give an open account that this is true. I'm not afraid to admit it. I'm not afraid to acknowledge it. Isn't that what Paul expresses here? Those who are mature must have this mindset. We know we're not already perfect if we're mature. If we're not mature, then maybe we don't realize that. But those who are mature in Christ are very ready, very willing to say, not that I'm already perfect, I'm not. I still have a long way to go. I'm still pressing on, the language that Paul uses in verse 12. I press on. I'm pressing towards something, but I'm definitely not there yet. Verse 13, I do not count myself to have apprehended it. But what do I do? I press towards it. So again, I reach towards it, I press towards it. If you are still pressing towards it, the presupposition of that is that you are very aware that you're not there yet. So this is part of the mindset of those who are mature in Christ. Again, one key piece of true Christian maturity is the willingness to acknowledge I still have a long way to go. And if you're not willing to acknowledge that or able to acknowledge that, you just might not be mature in the ways that Paul describes maturity. After all, what does Paul say in verse 15? If in anything you think otherwise, if you don't accept this mindset that he's describing as maturity, God will reveal this to you. So you will come face to face with the fact that you're not perfect if you don't already acknowledge that, if you don't already see that Okay, so that's one very key piece of what Paul's doing here. What does true Christian maturity look like? It looks like What Paul says here. Paul is an example of a mature Christian in our text. And Paul, as a mature Christian, says, I'm not perfect yet. I have not attained it yet, and I know it. Alright. Now one reason why mature Christians are able to admit this is because they recognize how high the goal is of the Christian life. They are stretching towards something that is so high above them that they know they can't reach it by their own strength. What is the thing they are stretching towards? Well, we see it here in chapter 3, verse 14. The thing they're stretching towards is the upward call of God in Christ. They are looking for God to call them upward. But what does it take for God to call them upward? Can any amount of working on their part add up to God's call? No. In order to be called upward by God God has to call. So this is what Paul stretches towards. He does not presume to say that he's going to attain it or make it happen. He stretches towards it. This is what he's aiming at. The upward call of God in Christ Jesus. If that's going to happen, that's something that ultimately is going to have to be a matter of grace in the end. Okay? Another thing that Paul is stretching at is something he described at the end of the last text. In verse 11, what is it that he hopes to receive? What is it that he hopes to attain? He hopes to be made like Christ in his resurrection from the dead. Resurrection from the dead is what Paul is stretching towards. This is the perfection he is after. Resurrection from the dead. Can you attain resurrection from the dead by working your way towards it? Absolutely not. You know the the the amazing the nature of what it is, resurrection. Something that only God does, that only God can do How ridiculous to think that we can attain this by working our way there. So again, um you can't attain it unless God gives it, and you won't have it until God gives it. That is definitely true of the things that Paul is after. Now again, the the point I'm driving at here is the goal that Paul desires and is stretching towards He recognizes it so high above him that it's actually in many ways unattainable by him. Okay? So it's important to remember that. Now, notice how this is the exact flip side Of how he used to think of maturity and growth in the Christian life. Remember, what was Paul before he came to Christ? What was Paul before he was a Christian? He was what he described back in the beginning of chapter 3. He was a Pharisee. What did spiritual progress and growth in the life that is a spiritual life What did that look like when Paul was a Pharisee? When Paul was a Pharisee, his mindset about spiritual things and maturity before God Had to do with doing the right things until they all added up one after another until you received reward from God at the end. Okay? The spirituality Paul describes here in our text cannot be described as checklist spirituality. The spirituality that Paul engaged in as a Pharisee was the textbook definition of checklist spirituality. When Paul was a Pharisee, progress before God and progress in the life of righteousness came down to following one big checklist. And that one big checklist was the law. The keeping of the law was presented as if it was one big checklist. You check one thing after another off the list, and then when you get to the end of checking everything off, you're there Now again, what Paul does today, or now in this text, now that Paul is a Christian, spiritual growth is no longer about a checklist. Spiritual growth is now aiming at something that is so high up there, so high above you, that you can't reach it at the end of a checklist. Okay? So that's a very significant point. Now this thinking about growth in in maturity, growth as a Christian, growth in your spiritual life It would remind you of some things that Paul said earlier on in chapter 1. Is it perhaps the case that the Philippian Church had some issues with Their views of what maturity is and what spiritual growth is. You'll recall back in chapter 1, verse 9. You'll remember perhaps that section of text. The issue in chapter one is that the Philippian church is a church that very much had love that was on the right track as a church. And yet even this church that was very good at loving, they were good at loving Paul. Paul stretched them in verse 9 of chapter 1. In the fact that he that he prayed that their love would abound even more. So again, there's this there's this issue of if you have something good that comes from God, something that counts as true spiritual growth What else do you need? You still need more of it. And that is very much reflected in chapter 1, as Paul prays that they're abound with love more and more. It's also reflected here in chapter three. Again, what is the mindset you always have to take as a Christian? What is the mindset you never get away from as a Christian as long as you're here in this life? You never get away from the mindset of I have not yet attained it. I am not yet perfected. And this is what Paul says. Alright? So again, we see one aspect of true Christian maturity is always being willing to admit. That we're not there yet. Always being willing to admit that we're not there yet. Even though we are stretching towards it, we're not there yet. Yet we will be, only by God's grace. Okay. Very important point, very significant point. Alright, what is another aspect of true maturity here in this passage? All right. One other very significant thing. What is Paul's view of the past and the future in these verses? Verse thirteen. Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended, but one thing I do Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forward to those things which are ahead. Now again, another thing I want to point out is how different this is from the way Paul used to think as a Pharisee. As a Pharisee, what should your approach be to the past and to the future? How does a Pharisee think about the past? A Pharisee thinks about the past as his good record. The Pharisee looks backwards on all that he has accomplished and tried to accomplish and says, this is my record of the good things that I have done. And this record of good things I have done is building towards reward in the future, right? That's how a Pharisee thinks about the past and the future. Paul says, no, no, no, no, no. That's not how we think about the past and the future in Christ. In Christ, we think about our past record Doesn't mean anything. Our past record is something to forget about. This is what Paul says in verse 13. We're always stretching ahead to what's next. Because we all we're always looking for what God has to give us, and what God has to give us is far better than everything we've experienced in the past. So again, you think of your past not as a good track record that you can build upon, but you think of it as something that you hope you can forget and put aside completely And shouldn't that be our mindset in terms of when we evaluate our own righteousness and when we think about our own sin? When we think about the the uh progress that we've made in the Christian life in terms of righteousness And when we think of our failures in the Christian life, it's it's it's very forgettable. It would be nice to be able to forget it sometimes, wouldn't it? It would be nice to be able to forget it because we uh yeah sometimes you'd be a lot better off forgetting your past than trying to remember it. And yet this is what Paul says Those who are mature in Christ are so directed towards the future in this way that they're ready to put aside their past and to forget it. And why is that? It's because what are they stretching towards? They're not stretching towards checking boxes off a checklist one at a time. They're stretching towards something that is so great that they're waiting for God to give it one day and they're hoping for it. So again, they are stretching forward. Hoping for what is to come, looking forward to what is to come, not by their own power, not as the buildup of their own achievements one at a time, piled one on top of the other But as a result of God's upward call that will come one day, and God's resurrection power that will finally make them what they are to be. Now it's true, we do um we do hope to see these things at work in our lives here and now. And certainly we are praying for those things. Certainly we ought to be stretching towards those things But stretching towards them with the mindset that it won't come unless God gives it. And that's the important point to be made about what Paul is saying here. And so again, um here is Paul's approach to the Christian life. Here is Paul's approach to maturity. Knowing that you're not yet perfect, and being ready to admit that, and being ready to straightforwardly acknowledge that. Being ready to forget the past. Because you recognize it as very forgettable. Being willing to stretch ahead and to look ahead to what God has for you in the future. Because you trust that what He has for you in the future is far better than whatever you have attained to this day. And that's because the goal you're stretching towards is something that you know you can't accomplish. You know that all the that all the uh The best you can do in this life is not going to bring you God's upward call or God's resurrection. You're not going to be able to accomplish that. Only He can do that for you. And therefore, those who are mature stretch for that. They look for that goal, they see that goal. That goal is their delight, and yet they also wait for God to give it. But therefore they stretch towards it. So, beloved congregation, may we be inclined to look at spiritual progress and maturity in the Christian life. Very much in the same way that Paul thought about these things. This is what we all need. We all need to be um Ready to acknowledge these things, and ready to approach Christian maturity and Christian growth in the very same ways that Paul did. For in so doing We will be able to keep our eyes fixed on Christ, and in so doing, we will continue to grow, and we will continue to make true progress. True progress comes not from us. It comes from God. And it comes from God's Son. May we be quick to acknowledge that. May we be quick to thank him for it when he grants it? May we be quick to desire more from him and pray for him to grant more and more until the day when he actually will fully give all of it. Because that day is the day that is coming soon. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, we come before you today, having heard your word. O Lord, yes, we acknowledge with the Apostle Paul how far we are from perfect. Help us to recognize this more and more. Help us to have the eyes of faith that is able to focus on Christ and the great thing that He has won for us. The upward call of God in Christ, Christ's resurrection from the dead. Help us to look forward to these things and to stretch towards them. Help us to stretch towards these things with all our might. And yet also to be aware that it is not in our power to attain them, or to actually fully accomplish or reach them. Lord, help us to be people who are mature. Help us to have true maturity in Jesus Christ. Help us to follow after your ways, and we ask you to grow us in these things Through the grace that you have for us in Christ. Yes, oh Lord, help us to forget what lies behind. Help us to strain forward towards what lies ahead. For here is our hope. Our hope is in what you are yet to do, what you will yet do for us in Christ. We look forward to the great future we have in Christ. We look forward to the day that He has appointed us to. The day of resurrection, the day when we will join in feasting and gladness in the kingdom of God, consummated. We look forward to that day, we long for that day. Strengthen us so that we arrive at that day. We pray these things in his name, Amen.