In in the core of who you are, honor Christ the Lord is holy. So we we always want to set apart Christ as our Lord and our Savior. He is our King. Secondly, we always being prepared to make a defense. This word in Greek, this defense, is apologia Apologia. It's like where we get the word apology. But of course we're not making an apology like saying we're sorry we're Christians. It's where we get the word apologetics So apologetics, when we talk about basic apologetics, it's just simply seeking to defend the Christian faith with Scripture Seeking to use the scriptures to speak the truth in love. Alright? So using the scriptures to seek uh to speak the truth in love. If you look right here, It says, make a defense or an apologia, that is an apologetic, to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, but look at what it says. Do it with gentleness and respect. Sometimes it's easy for us to fall into the trap of uh of being short tempered with others or impatient or we might lack compassion. So setting apart Christ as Lord is so important because that's how we first Go to the Lord and remind ourselves that He's the King, that He loves us, that He's the Savior. We ask Him for compassion Because he has compassion on us, we want to be compassionate to others. Now you'll have a handout that says basic biblical apologetics And so I want to go over a few things with you. Now, I can't go over all this with you, but I wanted to put it together as a packet for you to have as a family, as a church family, that I hope that you'll use And what I'll do is I'd like to first go over pages one and two with you, these important principles to remember when doing apologetics. The important principles in doing apologetics. The first did you d uh w would you just stand at the back and um until everyone comes in, do you mind, sweetheart? Thank you, sweetheart. Or you maybe Ron would be kind enough to do that. Thank you. So we're gonna, there's a lot of uh there's a lot of good stuff I think in this packet And maybe we'll do a part two on another day. But uh for today we're going to do pages one and two, and then we're going to do the last two pages in the time that we have. So let me just uh start with some important principles to remember when doing apologetics. Well, the first one we've already looked at in 1 Peter 3. 15, we want to set apart Christ as Lord, and we want to give a defense We want to be prepared to give a defense. So this is part of that being prepared to do it and asking Christ to be that we can be gracious with others. So here are some principles. The first is Who is God? When we're explaining to someone the God we serve, we must always remember we begin with the triune God in all of our thinking. You know, the the Bible begins with, in the beginning, God. Hebrews 11, 6 says, Without faith it is impossible to please God, for those who come to Him must believe He exists, and that He rewards those who seek Him. The second thing is we want to remember what is his story. That is, how has he revealed himself in real history We must always begin and end with our triune God story. Now, I I've put this below. We won't go over it today, but I give it to you to enjoy and read as families. The the overview that I put down is found on your page uh five. So on page five, uh there's the drama of creation, fall, and redemption storyline. So one of the principles is what is God's story? How has he revealed himself? And that's to just remember what is the the big overview of how God has revealed himself from the time of Genesis to the time of Revelation. So we begin and end with our triumph God story, and the story that God reveals makes important impossibility of the contrary. In other words, if God has revealed it as part of his person plan, there can be nothing contrary to that. And we want to uh show that uh to the people we have the privilege of talking to. We want to remember that God's story makes the most sense to reality and to us. God's story is always the one that makes the most sense of reality and of our lives. There's many stories, there's religions, there's philosophies that have elements of God's true story. They even witness to the true story, but they're not consistent as the true revealed story of God in Holy Scripture. For instance, unbelievers may know how the world works through science and mathematics, but they will never know why. Or for what purpose it works. That is, what is the end? You know, so someone can do math, someone can do science, but they do not know that it's for the glory of God and as an end to point to God as the Creator. And so uh unbelievers may know how the world works, but they'll never know why or for what purpose it works. Um they'll never know what is the end, what's the purpose and meaning of all this. Just as we looked at uh Ecclesiastes today We see that people by nature will just say, this is vanity of vanities. I don't understand this. I don't get it. They have no foundation. Unbelievers have no foundation for ethics, for what's right and wrong, for morality. for limits to what man should do or how he should live, but they affirm some morality and and limit as it fits them, because they're made in God's image But this is always borrowed capital from Christianity. Because you see if if if if if they if they refuse to acknowledge the true God, then How are they telling others what's right and what's wrong insofar as they they will only say what what they think best suits themselves They'll not think about what is true, about God and about reality. So we always ask, who is God? What's his story? We remember who we are. Who are we? We must always begin with what God says about who we are. We are created beings with dignity and purpose and meaning given to us in creation by God our Creator. No matter what someone else might say about being evolved, we know the true story and we know that they are image bearers. We want to remember that God has spoken and continues to speak. So we must always begin and continue in our relationships and discussions with unbelievers with confidence With confidence that God has spoken fully and finally in the Holy Scriptures. We want to remember the Scriptures are the living and active Word of God. It's how God uh takes blind people and causes them to see. We want to remember that mankind is made in God's image, yet corrupted by sin. So we remember that the person who we're discussing truth with, no matter how sinful, no matter how far from God, no matter how confused in their religious philosophical thinking, they're made in God's image. And they know the truth to some degree, but refuse you. They refuse it and exchange the truth of God for a lie. Listen, uh, let's turn to Romans 1. And see an example of this in Romans one, a very important passage for thinking about apologetics Elizabeth, you can come back up if you'd like. Why don't you just leave the handouts there and if anyone comes in I will uh I'll let 'em know. Thank you for doing that, sweetie. In Romans 1, let's begin in verse 18. It says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. So part of the unrighteous, the fallenness of men, is that though they see, they refuse to see. They suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, namely his eternal power and divine nature. Have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. That's why I say, remember, we begin and end with God, we begin with God's story to us. The story in Scripture, ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made, so they are without excuse. For although they knew God They did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things Therefore, God gave them up in the lusts of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, because they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. So that reminds us, beloved, that mankind is made in God's image that God has already proven himself. That's so important for us to remember in defending the faith using Scripture, is God has already proven himself in everything that's been made. People can see the beauty, the truth, the power of God. They could see the hand of God. They will slip sometimes on believers and say, wow, that was a majestic God like thing, or they'll say that's a God thing. They to some degree will recognize God's hand and God has proven Himself in such a way that that That all mankind are without excuse. They refuse to acknowledge, and so mankind is made in God's image. Yet corrupted by sin. Another principle of doing apologetics, beloved, is so important is the importance of prayer and utter dependence upon God's Spirit And so before we talk to others as we're setting apart Christ as Lord in our hearts and being prepared to give an answer or a defense of the Christian faith, we always wanted to ask the Lord, uh, use us as your instruments. We want to be praying. We want to be dependent upon the Holy Spirit for the heart and mind change in others. If we're using God's word And they uh refuse to believe it. Only the Holy Spirit can change them. Only the Holy Spirit can change their hearts. Only the Holy Spirit can change their minds So prayer is so important to our doing apologetics. Some people will ask, what about evidences and arguments for God's existence? Evidences and arguments for God's existence can be supports for the truth, but they must always stand beneath the revealed truth of God in Scripture. In other words, there are arguments that are good from design, from causality, something having that every effect must have a cause, therefore it must be a first cause of the fact that that there's morality in every human being. All of those are evidences, all of those are helps or supports But at the end of the day, even if you have someone to say, hey, I can see design and I can see that the creation is beautiful and that there must be a God They'll only be acknowledging a God, not the God of Holy Scripture. You see, only the God will reveal himself the triumph God through the scriptures by his Holy Spirit Only in Jesus Christ will they ultimately have eyes to see. And so um are these evidences helpful? Yes, absolutely. We want to use them. But I would say this way the evidences for the existence of God, the arguments for the existence of God, are more useful for the believer than they are the unbeliever. They're more useful to us that they say, wow, that is helpful support to what the Bible has already taught us. But only God speaking by the Spirit can truly change others, beloved. Because God's word is living and active. The next principle, this is found on the page top of page two, the next principle is remember to be filled with the Spirit in order to listen well. When we're talking to others, we want to be seek we want to be seeking to be filled by the Spirit so we can listen well, not just to what's being said, but the story beneath it all. I don't know how many times I've uh witnessed to others and and had a um an interaction with others that Seems to be philosophical and theological on on the surface, but the story beneath the story is they were hurt by someone in Christianity Or they see hypocrisy in certain Christians who claim to be Christians. So you're praying to hear well. You're praying to help them that if they uh uh have Love given by a a mother or a father. You ask them how does do they know that this is love? And and listen well to what they say. They will define everything about the true God when they speak of it, that they feel comfort, that they feel support, that they feel cared for, that they feel seen or heard Those stories beneath the surface are very important and the hi the Holy Spirit can give us ears to hear. But here's the thing. It's it's not just defending the faith in in in you know doing it kind of been passing with someone, the best times we have are following these principles by establishing a relationship, a long term relationship, uh, with with unbelievers, with those uh who um Who we can befriend and can show them the truth of God's Word. Let us remember another principle is gentleness and compassion, to win a soul by God's grace. We must always be gentle, not merely trying to win an argument, but trying to win a soul by God's power and grace. These are image-bearers who are enslaved by sin. They're blinded or endarkened. They're not enlightened as they think they are. In their knowledge and intellect, they're not enlightened. They're serving false idols and ultimately, as we learn in the Bible, they're children of the devil. When Jesus said that You claim to be sons of God in John 8. He says, you're not of your father Abraham because you're unbelievers. He said you're of your father the devil. And then in Ephesians 2, 1 through 4, it says that we who are dead in trespassing sins are followers of the principalities and the powers, the prince of the power of the heir, who is at work In all the sons of disobedience. So we want to pray for gentleness and compassion because they're enslaved. They're blinded. We want to remember the importance of relationships. We must seek to develop relationships and conversations with unbelievers as God would give us. Help. We we can pray each day that God would give us a new friend or someone we can meet and get to know and share the good news, the gospel, with them Keeping these principles in mind. And hey, by the way, there may be many other principles you can add to this from your experience. These are just things I try to keep in my mind. We we want to develop relationships and conversations, and because unbelievers believe a lie, they also deceive and are being deceived. They think they're good, often victims of the evil of others, but all have sinned See, one of the things it's so important to bring to their attention is show 'em that part of God's story is remembering that that that when they say, Why do bad things happen to good people, we say, there are no good people. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Why does anything good happen in this world is the real question. And so it's those kind of things that helps them to see. You see, this takes time in fellowship discussions. The deception, the lies, the enslavement have caused them to knit their lives in a web of deception with others who also believe lies. They share darkness and blindness together because misery loves company. Let me show you two places. Look first at the end of Romans 1 that we were just uh looking at and listen to what God's word says about the unbeliever that we're seeking to have a conversation or relationship with. Look at the end of Romans 1 and verse 28. It says, and since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, that is the God who clearly revealed himself, and continues to clearly reveal himself, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with a m all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God Insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. And listen carefully, though they know God's righteous decree, That those who practice such things deserve to die. They not only do them, but approve, give approval to those who practice them. That's that web of relationships. They are deceived in being deceived. They are those who are caught in that kind of web of relationships. One of the things we can do by God's grace is when we befriend one We begin to talk to them about the truth, share the truth, pray for them, and then hopefully bring them into a new web of relationships in the church And new friends are made by God's grace. But notice the true story about humanity is not one of good people having bad lives. It's about bad people filled with unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, envy, murder, strife, deceit. As Romans 3 23 says, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Look at another place in Titus 3. Titus 3 And beloved, as believers, we can be so thankful after we read Titus 3 of how God has had mercy on us as undeserving sinners. In Titus 3 I'll begin in verse 1. It says, remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work. To speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, to show perfect courtesy toward all people. That's what we're called to in our defense of the truth. But look at verse 3 For we ourselves were once foolish. You remember that? We were disobedient. We were led astray. We were slaves to various passions and pleasures. passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. But look at verse 4. When the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared. He saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. Amen. That's what God does for us because of His grace and what we don't deserve. So in our relationships We remember that, yes, they're deceived, but we want to remember that we once were there too, before the Lord had mercy on us through the power of his word. Remember in another principle is always learning more. I found that in every apologetic conversation, every time I get the opportunity to share my faith, with with whoever it is, whatever kind of uh philosophy, uh with someone who's made science their religion. I've had those conversations. Someone who serves Allah and who is a Muslim. When all of those conversations, we always are learning more. In all of our apologetic conversations, we're learning more about God in ourselves. And sometimes what happens is God blesses us with interactions with others so that We can grow in our friendships and our knowledge of these things because none of us can have all the answers. But I have found I have found three things With whoever I meet who's an unbeliever, whether they're a New Age spiritualist, whether they're a black witch, a white witch, whether they're Muslim. Whether they're just good old-fashioned pagan unbeliever, Jehovah's Witness, whatever. I've learned to ask three questions. First is, who is God to you? And you'll learn what you need to know about the God they serve. Even if it's a a a person who's an evolutionist and says, I don't believe in God Then ask them what they love the most and you'll be getting on to their God. Though they don't know his name, we do. The second thing to ask is, what is the way of salvation? Listen, every other plan of salvation in every other cult, in every other religion, will always be works righteousness. And there will never be assurance that one has done it all. And so you ask who is your God? You ask what is your way of salvation? And then of course show them the grace of the Lord Jesus because it's so unique. And then ask them, and this sounds arrogant at first, so you do it with gentleness and respect, but you say Are you going to look me in the eye and tell me that you truly believe that? You say it with a twinkle in your eye. But the reason you ask them that is you know that the God they're serving is not the God who created them. Because you know the true story. That's keeping that true story before you. That's where our confidence is. It's not in what they say. Remember they're deceivers. They're being deceived. They don't know themselves who they are. But if you ask them who their God is, what the way of salvation is, and you ask them, do you truly believe that? And even further, are you willing to die for that? If they're honest, they may say they believe, but the more you ask them about reality and how that fits as a hope of heaven or as an assurance of their faith, you'll find that They'll struggle, honestly. So God's holiness uh God's holy scripture is unique. Remember, revealed truth from the triune God in holy scripture is unique. It's unique in its wonder, its majesty, its unity unity and the uniqueness. One apologist taught me the 321 principle. I put it here, 321. And it goes like this. Three, three persons of the triumph, the triune God. And others will either hold to some kind of polytheism or mere monotheism or deism. And you say three. The Bible says God is one in three. God is one God in three persons. Trinity. What's unique about that is man's religion is always either many gods or just one God who is not the true God. It's true. And God says it's neither. I am one and many. I am one God in three persons. The second thing is. Think about Adam and Second Adam. There's only two kinds of people in the world. They're either in Adam, under sin, enslaved by sin, under God's wrath. in the flesh, or they're in Christ, the second Adam, with no condemnation, save by grace. There's only two kinds of people. So compared to every other religion being one of works righteousness, there's only one way of salvation in Christ Jesus, and it is free. It is, it requires of us works, but the works are not, in order to be saved, the works are evidence of our salvation. It's the works of Christ that we put our hope in, not our own. And then number one is that the one way to God uh the exclusivity of Christianity compared to many ways to God of other religions. And so those are some principles that I would want to share with you and you of course can share with me some of your own principles but those are things that I would encourage you to think about and perhaps those might be useful to you, those have been useful to me. I want to turn to page number three for a moment, and I can't spend a lot of time here, but I'll tell you how to read this to uh that hopefully you and your family uh can enjoy this as a way of thinking through uh apologetics. But over on the left side I put triumph God uh our King and Father, then the covenant, Son and Word, and then the temple dwelling of the Holy Spirit. So we have Father, Son, and we have Holy Spirit. And While we don't have the time today to talk about the creation, I do want to move our attention on page three to the fall. And just remembering the things that have occurred because of the fall of man into sin. In other words When we look at the fall, if you look on this uh column here under fall on page three, you'll see that first, as according to Romans 1, there's a refusal To believe, a refusal to embrace the truth, a refusal to acknowledge God's rule, even though He is the true and living God. And so the image of God is then blemished or marred. It's corrupted. It's not completely taken away. And that manifests itself in idolatry, ingratitude, immorality, impurity, injustice, and indifference to the things of God. In the one below that, there's rebellion against God's rule. And in the rebellion against God's rule is autonomy. It's where man says, I'll do it my way. I'll I'll live as a law unto myself. I'll I'll I'll do what I want to do. But this is depraved, this is disgraced, it's disfigured, it's divisive, deceptive, devouring, disbelief, disorder. And if you'll notice this affects individuals, it affects marriages. Go up the it it affects where's the Families, it it it affects society and culture, and of course it affects the whole world. And then the running and resistance to God's spirit or presence produces the sin and corruption, death, pride, polygamy, murder, lying, blasphemy, gender confusion, usurping of roles and headship That's uh just a long list of all the things that we see by nature in ourselves, but also in unbelievers, and why we want to pray for compassion and hope for them through the Word, through a Savior. If you look over at the uh the far column under the fall, we have dignity. All mankind has dignity because of uh of being made in God's image, but we also have depravity There's a common grace that God gives all mankind, but there's also the common curse. There's some truth, there's some beauty Some goodness mixed with error or falsehood. There's ugliness and evil, and discernment is always needed. And reading a book Um watching a movie. You you can see some things are true, some things are beautiful, some things are good But we have to have discernment because it's mixed with falsehood. Well, every human being we meet is going to have some good, some truth, some of uh the the the goodness. But it's always going to be mixed with error. That's why in art, literature, music, vocations, architecture, culture, you're going to have a common grace, you're also going to have a common curse. And that's important to keep in mind. At the bottom there I said fear of death or condemnation or judgment. Every person um who's still in Adam under condemnation They they the sinners, the unbelievers will desire justice and fairness. They'll cry out for fairness, equity all the time for others, for themselves, for their families. They'll even take vengeance. But they refuse to see that they're part of the problem. And that they too deserve God's wrath and judgment just as much, if not more, uh, than others who have offended and hurt them. And then finally down at the bottom, the enslaved to sin. The enslavement to sin finds a sinner, and this is where the relationship with them In doing apologetics is very helpful as you'll find in them a yearning for things to be made right, a yearning to understand, a longing. Uh there there's not any story I know that uh we all love, uh a movie that we haven't seen that's still a classic that's not about getting home. There's a longing to get home. J. R. R. Tolkien's book, uh, The Lord of the Rings, one of the things that was so uh has always been uh so influential about it is it's uh it it takes the reality of evil seriously. And as as Tolkien put it, he he says that that it's just a a a a a a book, a story, about the defeat of evil so that we can get home. That every one of us are soaked with a sense of exile east of Eden. So there's a yearning, a longing, a despairing, there's a coping, there's a wandering, there's a discontentment, there's a distractedness And those who say they're free, listen. Those who say that they're you that they believe in progress They believe that we should drop all the morality of the past and do whatever we want to do today, that we should use technology to go as as far as we'd like to be gods They find themselves addicted. They find themselves in addictions, in alcoholism, in broken relationships, worldly sorrow, and without repentance. They're slaves. They haven't found happiness. They're still searching. Well, beloved, this uh Because of time, I'm going to encourage you. Write me back and we'll do part two or take this home. I I printed this out so you'd have it. But what I'd like to focus your attention on is pages six and seven These are the five primary uh questions that are frequently asked of Christians. And um and and It's always good to be as prepared as possible because I found that most people you talk with, they have these five questions on their minds. And they'll ask him in different ways. But the first is how can we say Christianity is the only religion when there are many Now, listen, with each one of these, remember the principles on pages uh one and two to keep those in mind at all times. But uh there are uh little Uh there are very brief, short answers here that I'll let you read and study and add to them. Number two, is Christian morality hateful and intolerant? Some say that that Christianity is not loving because uh God defines the relationships of male and female, and that that's not true love Okay, that's what people will say today. So they they uh get confused when we say that God has a design, He has a purpose He has a will that we're to obey him. They are confused in their identity and their sexuality, and therefore they think we're being hateful when we're truly trying to be loving. Is homosexuality really wrong according to the Bible? That's another frequently asked question. And then probably the most popular are the last two on page seven. Isn't hell barbaric and cruel? Wouldn't a loving God accept everyone without judgment? And then finally, why would a good God allow suffering in the world? I want to uh do the last one because that is so popular. Let me let me answer it very briefly. And then we'll close to have fellowship. And if um if we're going to put this online, I'm happy to to make this available uh uh to you as a file you could put online so other folks can can read if they'd like But the the final question, why would a good God allow suffering in the world? Let me just say a few things very briefly. In most places in the world and throughout most times in history, suffering is not the exception, but the rule Whether because of wars, economic crises, food shortages, or lack of health care, many people are seriously hurting on a daily basis. The question that most have, if God is a good God, then why doesn't he stop all the suffering in the world? Is he able to stop it? Or does he not want to? Or does the Bible reveal something else? The main point to always stress is this, beloved, that God is infinitely good beyond our imagination. Never doubt it. That God is infinitely powerful and just beyond our imagination. And yet God is infinitely wise beyond our imagination. God is good, God is powerful, God is wise. That is why He allows suffering to remain. Though he has the goodness, power, and wisdom to remove it now from the world. It remains for a season. Why? Because he turns it into something good for his glory and his people. All you have to do is think of Job. Think of Jonah, think of Joseph, and especially Jesus Christ. They're all J's for us to remember. But when you think of Joseph, you remember that famous line in Genesis fifty twenty. That's the line we want to remember. What God what what Satan intended for evil, God intended for good God is the King. God is the sovereign one. God is infinitely powerful, infinitely good, and infinitely wise. And what he wants us to know in the scriptures is that O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his paths and his ways beyond tracing out. Who has known the mind of the Lord and who has been his counselor? Who has paid him or given him a gift that they should be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever and ever And listen, this is satisfying when someone is listening with the Holy Spirit. Because while Suffering is real, it's painful, and we can show compassion and talk about our own suffering and even show them from the book of Ecclesiastes. We know that God has begun to put an end to all suffering through the death of his beloved Son. God didn't spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all. How will he not with him give us all things? And with the resurrection is the beginning of the end of suffering. It's the beginning of the end of death. It's the beginning of the end. But until God sends his beloved son back to restore all things and we see him face to face His infinite goodness, his infinite wisdom, and his infinite power says, I'm going to allow suffering to remain, because I'm going to use it for the good, the sanctification, and even through that, to glorification of my people There's a movie I'll end with this. Did did anyone ever see the Italian Fen li the Italian Phil film Flim? Actually actually been speaking a couple hours every day just you know. But the Italian film was called Life is Beautiful. Yeah. Beautiful film. So here's an example of how God turns suffering into good. It takes place in a concentration camp. And in the concentration camp, um there's a father and there's a son. And the father um loves his son. And doesn't want his son to to know the depths of death and suffering yet. But he knows that he must go and be exterminated soon. And so in the midst of that movie Somehow there's a father's love, there's grace, there's laughter. It's a powerful film And it's about how God is very similar to how God is with us in our suffering, even when we know that we may go to death before He returns. Now, our souls will go to be with him, but we know that ultimately we were made for our souls and our bodies to be unified and glorified together for all eternity with him. But we await that time. And as R. C. Sprohl used to say, that he wasn't frightened by death, he wasn't scared of death. But he was concerned about how he would die. I think all believers could say that honestly. is that we know that Jesus is the resurrection of life. We know Jesus has taken care of suffering. We know that even in a concentration camp we'd have the Father's love with us. We'd have his joy. We'd have him with us. And that would help us to get through that pain. And he and he does help us to get through the pain. Well, let's close in prayer and let's ask the Lord to give us opportunities to share the gospel and to defend the faith with as we set apart Christ as Lord and be ready, prepared to give an answer to the hope that lies within us. to but doing it with gentleness and respect, let's pray.