If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Daniel, you should find that on page 884 of your Pew Bibles. We'll continue our study there in chapter 7. I'll be reading verses 1 through 25 this evening. The preaching of the Word will only be on a portion of this, as we'll be splitting up this chapter into two sermons. Let's give our attention The Word of God, Daniel chapter seven, beginning at verse one. In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter. Daniel declared, I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea And four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one another. The first was like a lion and had eagle's wings. Then as I looked, its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it. And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth, and it was told, Arise, devour much flesh. After I looked, and behold, another like a leopard with four wings of a bird on its back. And the beast had four heads, and dominion was given to it. After this I saw in night visions and behold a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful and exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth It devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what was left with its feet. It was different from all the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns. I consider the horns, and behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots. And behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things. And as I looked Thrones were placed, and the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool His throne was fiery flamed, its wheels were like burning fire, a stream of fire issued and came out from before him. A thousand of thousands served him And ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court sat in judgment, and the books were opened. I looked then because of the sound of the great words that the horn was speaking, and as I looked, the beast was killed, and its body destroyed, and given over to be burned with fire. As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages would serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. As for me, Daniel, my spirit, within me was anxious And the vision of my head alarmed me. I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made me to know the interpretation of the things. These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever. Then I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast, which was different from all the rest, exceedingly terrifying, with its teeth of iron and claws of bronze, and which devoured and broken pieces and stamped what was left with its feet And about the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn that came up, and before which the three of them fell, the horn that had eyes and a mouth that spoke great things, and that seemed greater than all its companions As I looked, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them until the ancient of days came. And judgment was given for the saints of the Most High in the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom. Thus he said. As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different from all the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down and break it to pieces. As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them. He shall be different from the former ones, and shall put down three kings. He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High, and shall think to change the times and the law. And they shall be given into his hand for a time, times, and half a time. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. If you watch the news at night Or open your newspapers, you'll know that there's a war going on between Ukraine and Russia The news reports that the deaths continue to mount. Newspapers report that the Ukraine offensive that is in effect even now will be long and bloody. Mercenaries for Russia have revolted and are now in hiding. Russia, it is reported, has already stationed its first batch of nuclear weapons In Belarus. Sudan, according to ABC News, is on the brink of collapse, as two rival generals are warring, battling for control. This conflict, as ABC reports, has left hundreds of people dead and thousands more wounded and hundreds of thousands displaced. If you go to the website Open Doors, you'll read that 360 million Christians suffer high levels of persecution and discrimination. Two of every five Christians are persecuted in Asia. One of every five are persecuted in Africa. One of every seven Christians are persecuted in the world. This is just a snapshot. Of our world today, struggle, a struggle for dominion We've been reading that in Daniel, even in these first six chapters. We've seen the way of the world and the striving after dominion. And we've seen the way that Daniel and friends have been persecuted Entreated, threatened with death. And now we come to Chapter 7, which is actually the beginning of several chapters, even to the end of this prophetic book. Tonight we'll be dealing with a portion of chapter 7. That portion which deals with the beasts and the interpretation of who those beasts Are. Next Lord's Day evening, Lord willing, we'll focus on the middle of the chapter, The Ancient of Days, and the one Who's like a son of man coming on clouds? Tonight, tonight I'd like us to see that the beasts of this world will seek dominion and cause suffering and strife. for the children of God until the return of Christ. The beasts of this world will seek dominion and cause suffering and strife. For the children of God until the return of Christ. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, listening to prophecy, secondly, lacking peace, and then finally longing. We're about to enter into what some refer to as apocalyptic literature This might cause some of us to shy away thinking, I can never understand this. Or maybe this is really not applicable for our time. For Daniel, yes. But for me tonight, maybe not so much. I'd urge you, I'd urge you to keep your ears open, to listen intently. For this prophecy is for every single one of you tonight. No, first, listening to prophecy Up to this point in Daniel, we have read of events, of dreams, civil laws to which Daniel and Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego respond. Daniel chapter 1, we see that these four are exiled and then they're groomed for service to the king, and their reaction and response is that they would not eat the king's food. But they grow. They're healthy. And they stand before the king, and they're brought into his court because their understanding was greater than all others that the king had prepared to serve him. In chapter 2, we read of Nebuchadnezzar's first dream, that great image, mighty and exceeding in brightness. The appearance was frightening. No one could interpret it. Daniel comes in and by divine intervention is able to interpret the dream. He's able to tell the king what the dream was and and what will happen to the king That his kingdom will not be forever. But there will be a forever kingdom, and that is the kingdom of God. In chapter three, we read of Nebuchadnezzar's golden image, that attempt by the king to create that Enduring kingdom and enduring idol. And he calls all to fall down and worship. But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego respond by telling the king that they will not fall down, they will not worship, and they are saved by one whose appearance is like a son of the gods As they're thrown into the fiery furnace, and then as they exit the fiery furnace, there's no smell of the fire which had come upon them. Glory is given to God. In chapter 4, we read of Nebuchadnezzar's second dream, the dream of that great tree. As in Daniel interprets it, he understands and is told that this tree is representing Nebuchadnezzar in his kingdom, and that he will be reduced to a beast of the field. Read that he was. And in the end God himself is glorified once again, and Daniel is praised. In Daniel chapter 5, Belshazzar drinks from the vessels that were taken from the temple. from the house of God. And immediately the fingers of a human hand appear and there's writing on the wall. And Daniel admonishes and then interprets Daniel is raised up. Belshazzar is put to death that night. And then we just finished up Daniel chapter 6. The wicked law of Darius, the high officials who wanted Daniel put to death, Daniel put into the lion's den as he continues to pray and delivered. Wicked men are put to death in Daniel's place, and God is honored, and Daniel prospers. Throughout these six chapters, we are beginning to see a pattern. The Israelites are suffering as a result of their disobedience. They're corporate straying after false and foreign gods. They've been taken to a foreign land and they suffer. And generally we see an oppression of the people of God through these four men, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, the tribe of Judah. And yet we see them trusting in the Lord. They're exhibiting righteousness and honoring God, and those who are oppressed them are being lowered, and they are being raised up. And that brings us then to a point where God now begins to speak directly to his people. Beginning with Daniel 7, we read of a distinct change. From Daniel 7 to the end of the book, Daniel is no longer responding to visions or dreams of others. These four Jewish exiles are not responding to their individual circumstances or threats of death. Now we see that there are broader concerns. Seemingly bigger but similar issues that will arise. Daniel is being given special prophetical apocalyptic revelation He's listening. Daniel is hearing. Daniel is being spoken to by God. Daniel is now the one receiving direct revelation. He He is the one who God speaks to directly now. As Calvin puts it, this is revelation for the common edification of the church. No longer revelation to pagan kings. No, this revelation is for the people of God given to and through Daniel. Now most commentators that I've read understand that Daniel 7 through 12 is what is referred to as apocalyptic Literature very similar to revelation. Dale Ralph Davis puts it this way: apocalyptic literature is a sort of prophecy. That seeks to enlighten and encourage a people despised and cast off by the world Stephen Moiter writes apocalyptic writings are marked by distinctive and literary features, particularly a prediction of future events and accounts of visionary experiences. Involving vivid symbolism. Ian Dugood writes the apocalyptic literature is revelation of the ending of this present age. Which is characterized by conflict and its replacement by the final age of peace. It shows us ahead of time the end of the kingdoms of this world and their replacement by the kingdom of our God and his Christ. That's what we're entering into tonight. And the call For each one of us here is to listen. Daniel listened. And now for all of those who seek to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. The call is to listen and hear what the Lord is saying concerning today and the future. Not so that you might know what tomorrow will bring to your door, but so that you might understand the world and the spiritual battle that's going on within it. That you might expect it and prepare for the battle. Indeed, you're already in the midst of it. If you don't recognize it, if you don't understand the forces which are at work, if you don't realize the desire of those leading the opposition, how will you engage How will you fight? Abel was in a battle with Cain. Did he recognize it? We cannot say. The question is not whether you will be involved in the battle. You already are. Davis writes, you have to live in the stuff, meaning this history. So you need to know what it will be like. And if you're one of God's people, how you will endure and how God will keep you. This passage, if it says nothing else, it tells us that the battle is going on right now. So listen. This passage is for you tonight. The only question is, will you fight well? Will you be encouraged and not dismayed? Listen. Brings us to our second point, lacking peace. There are really two very general ways to understand apocalyptic literature, and certainly this portion of Daniel chapter 7. Two broad ways. The first is to interpret this chapter and to attempt to determine who these kings are represented by the beasts and who these kingdoms are specifically. Certainly various commentators, including Calvin, have sought to do just that Indeed, Calvin was very certain of the kingdoms which are represented here by the four beasts we read of in Daniel chapter 7. The lion, the first beast. According to Calvin, was the Chaldean Empire. Calvin writes, their wings were torn off. For when the Chaldeans desired to stretch beyond their bounds, the Lord restrained them within due limits and checked their continual victories. The bear, the second beast. Calvin understands the bear to be the Medes and Persians. He compares the Persians to a bear On account of their barbarity, this is Calvin writing. Since we have already pronounced that nation fierce and savage, they dwelt among their mountains and lived like at the brutes. Third, the leopard. Calvin assigns this to the Macedonian Empire. By four wings and four heads, Daniel means That partition was made immediately after the death of Alexander, meaning Alexander the Great. And finally, the unidentified beast, the one with iron teeth. So this is Rome, this is Julius Caesar. It had large teeth. This ought to be referred to its audacity and insatiable greediness. Calvin takes about fourteen pages in his commentary to describe the nations which are represented, so he thought, by these four beasts. That's the first way to interpret this and assign to each one of the beasts a specific king, a specific kingdom. The second way That these beasts represent not particular kingdoms, but a general description of the world And the strife and the violence and the war that will continue Ian Duguid notes that there's no real certain way to identify the beast to particular kingdoms. He notes that the inspired author does not do so. God did not see fit to identify the kings or their kingdoms with particularity. Yes, Daniel's given particular descriptions of these beasts. And even though some, like Calvin, believe that these descriptions point to particular kingdoms. That cannot be stated with certainty. So the second way to interpret is not to identify the kings particularly And to understand the passage to speak of men and kings and rulers and worldly kingdoms in general, their opposition to one another, even their stronger opposition to God And to the children of God. That's the way I'll be taking it tonight. This passage sets before us a picture of chaos and violence, these various beasts, and the explanation of them provided to Daniel, the visions given to him. If they tell the Christian anything, they speak of corruption and unrighteous striving and chaos and turmoil in this world. Consider the beasts themselves They're disturbing pictures. The first was like a lion and had eagle's wings, which are plucked off, and it's made to stand on its two feet like a man. The second, a le a bear. It's raised up on one side. We're not quite sure what that means. It had three ribs in its mouth. And was told, Arise, devour much flesh, the fourth the third, a leopard. Four wings of a bird on its back. And it had four heads. And then finally the fourth beast. Terrifying Dreadful, exceedingly strong, iron teeth, it broke and devoured in pieces, and Stample was left with its feet. Had ten horns. Claws of bronze. These are strange images Consider the corruption of the images themselves. None are naturally found in creation All are strange and a horrid combination, a bit like a zoo of various animal parts put together by a man born blind. Who's able to control a lion, a bear, a leopard, and a beast with ten horns, which devours and breaks and tramples anything and everything in its path? Daniel himself found the fourth beast terrifying. And thus causing him The one who received the special revelation to be disquieted in his spirit. As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious And the visions of my head alarm me. So what does Daniel do? He seeks an interpretation. The interpreter seeks a divine interpreter. I approached one of those, verse 16, who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this, so he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things. Isn't this why the Spirit is known as the Comforter? Daniel is anxious and he's seeking comfort. He's seeking to understand that which he had been given. The Spirit of truth comes. Jesus tells us that He'll guide you into all the truth. Declare to you the things that are to come And so Daniel asks exactly for that. And that's exactly what he gets. Verse 17, these four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. The image this described in the passage lack peace They're all images of violence. The beasts are set upon destruction, and the violence continues in a sense it increases As we learn that these represent kings in their kingdoms, each one striving for dominance, a picture, a lack of peace, a world filled with turbulence and war and certain death. As men strive against one another and against God for control, a lack of peace will prevail. Like in the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve were called to exercise dominion. But they were called to exercise dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds, over every living thing that moves on the earth. They were called to exercise dominion over the creation. Not exercise dominion over one another. They were not called the violence between themselves, that one would be dominant or seated upon the throne and rule over the other. No headship was given to Adam But here the picture is men seeking dominion, seeking to exercise dominion over one another. We read of that as early as Genesis. The battle for superiority is Cain kills his brother. Seeking to put down the one who is righteous and uplift himself against his brother. And then as Cain has children, we read of Lamach who said to his wives, Ada and Zillah, hear my voice, you wives of Lamach, listen to what I say. I've killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me. Lemmech sought power and he did so by violence The same desire is set forth here in Daniel. Genesis was many, many books ago, and now we see that that continues, but on a larger scale. This passage paints a picture of constant and unending turmoil, a world which is unceasing and unending battles are constantly taking place. One comes to an end, another takes place, another arises, another starts. It's the string of beasts arising from the sea, stirred by the four winds. That's the picture What are the inhabitants of earth to do? What is the solution for those who are not wanting to engage in a worldly battle? For this Daniel is revealing to us tonight that this lack of peace will be with us, will be with all inhabitants of the earth until the end of time. The only answer is to take refuge in Christ. Now. Seek it out. Search for it like a great pearl. Think of that parable that Jesus spoke of. The kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls. Who on one pearl, on finding one pearl of great value, went and sold all that he had and bought it. Do you see the value? The value of this great pearl, he sells everything so he can have it. That's the idea. Peace. In Christ Jesus, refuge in Christ is that great pearl. That's the kingdom of heaven. And this one sought it out The pursuit of the wicked will only create more unrest and turmoil. The world is not headed to increasing peace, friends. That's not the picture we have in Daniel. Wickedness will increase. It's shown in the final beast with iron teeth. That's the one who is the most destructive. The wicked of the world, through their longing for more wealth, more power, more of the world, will never attain to their desires. And yet they will continue to pursue them, bringing additional misery and suffering upon the world. The search for true peace ends in Christ. For this lack of peace, this turmoil arises and is fueled by one thing and one thing only, and that is sin. And only in Christ can this refuge be provided from this suffering, this death due to sin. Isn't that why he was sent? Do you see? Isn't that why Christ, the very Son of God, was sent since Adam's fall from grace? The world has been full of misery and sin, full of this constant striving against God and against his perfect will. Jesus knows the suffering caused by sin, the sin of men and kings and kingdoms who battle with each other against God. Indeed. While Adam was placed in the middle of paradise in the Garden of Eden, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was placed into the middle of this misery This vain striving of men in their sin to address it. That's why he was sent. To cleanse it with the righteousness of his blood. The Son was sent to suffer. So that you in your current suffering would be able to rest in him. He has become your sympathetic high priest. Since we have a great high priest who's passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. You see, he is able and does provide rest for weary souls. Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden. How much heavier laden can we be than with the suffering that's caused by those who are striving after the wind How can you live? We're not experiencing in this country some of the kinds of suffering that others are in other countries tonight. Even as a result of this battle of the beasts. Consider those living in Ukraine, they're suffering. Consider those living in Sudan and they're suffering, they lack food, they lack water, unrest permeates the land. But that's not to say we won't experience these things. But even as we do Where's your refuge tonight? How are you resting? Are you finding peace? You must Christ is the only one who will satisfy the weary soul. Indeed, he tells us that every languishing soul I will replenish. If you're not finding your peace in Christ tonight, if your soul is not at rest in Christ Jesus tonight, cry out to him. For you must be striving on your own. And on your own, you will never find refuge because this world will suck you in. Call out to Christ. Rest in Him alone. Confess your sins. Repent and believe upon Jesus, and you will receive rest for your weary soul. That brings us to our third point: longing for dominion Well God has established governments, we know that without a doubt. And He has seated officials with particular positions in government structures. That's part of the world order that God has established. However, here the picture we are given is not one government ruling over its people, but government striving against another sovereign government. It's a picture of longing for dominance Over other kingdoms. It's a violent description of how men will continue to seek the ultimate throne over all men that inhabit this earth. That's what Daniel's telling us. And that's our experience. We see it here in this chapter in Daniel, but we also see it in our secular history books. We see it in our newspapers and the evening news every night And that's why four beasts are presented, not just one. Because men, not only in Daniel's time, but in our time, will continue to seek world dominance. Is it not because men seek to become like God? Is it not because men seek to unseat God? Is it not because men want to be rulers themselves and cast God off the throne because they don't want to be ruled by Him? Christians must see that this is not only true for Daniel's time, but true until the Lord Jesus Christ returns. We see it as early as Psalm 2. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? Kings of earth set themselves and rulers take counsel against the Lord and against his anointed. The seeking of dominance will not stop. And as a result, there will be suffering. Daniel specifically asks about the fourth beast. Look at verse 19. Then I desire to know the truth about the fourth beast. In fact, we might consider just the number of words assigned to the description of the fourth beast. It becomes a significant focal point for this apocalyptic prophecy. Yes, there will be general suffering. We read that. Verse 23, as for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on the earth, which shall be different from all the kingdoms. It shall devour the whole earth. And trample it down, break it to pieces. The prophecy is that there will be universal suffering for all the inhabitants of the world. And then for Christians in particular. Verse 24, as for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them. Verse 25, he shall speak words against the Most High, and wear out the saints of the Most High. You see, the express, the vocal opposition to God Himself and thus to his children is revealed to Daniel. Well, maybe the most concerning here are these words in verse 21. As I looked down, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them. In verse twenty five, he shall wear out the saints Of the Most High. Now we know the rest of the story. Say, well you're you're forgetting the ancient of days. No, I'm not forgetting it Lord willing, next week we will dig into those passages, but we're not there yet We need to set the table. We need to understand the situation. We need to understand Daniel's coloring. The end of the matter for me, Daniel, my thoughts greatly alarmed me, and my color changed. Now we don't know what color Daniel was. But it seems like he becomes white as a sheet, right? Blood draining from his head, feeling faint. He sees his vision and he is greatly alarmed. And notice that verse 28 comes at the end of the chapter, even after he's given the vision of the ancient of days. Seems that Daniel would be thinking about that horn. That temporal victory of the fourth kingdom. The one who makes war with the saints and prevails over them, the one who speaks against the Most High and wears out the saints. As one commentator puts it, the Lord is revealing to his people that there will be specific Suffering, specific oppression for the people of God. Not just that general trampling of the entire world, but specifically for Christians, this particular horn Whoever it is will oppress and trample down and wear out the saints and prevail for a time. The suffering for the children of God is part of this apocalyptic prophecy. It's been foretold. What are you doing to be prepared? Assuming that we're correct that this War that's being waged in the world, this war against the Most High, the war against his children will continue until Jesus returns. What are you doing to be prepared? Paul writes this, this letter to those at Colossae. You who were once alienated and hostile in mind doing evil deeds, he's now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death in order to present you. holy, blameless, and above reproach before him if. Paul writes, if Christ will present you blameless and above reproach if indeed you continue in the faith stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope. Of the gospel. Isn't that the purpose of Satan Isn't that part of what's going on here in the War of the Worlds of the Beasts as they battle? Isn't Satan seeking to break you, to wear you down and out? That he might shift you from the hope of the gospel that is just really no hope at all Isn't that the idea? Isn't that Satan's plan? If, indeed, you continue in the faith stable and steadfast. You see, now you know. Now you know that this persecution is coming. Maybe not in your lifetime, I don't know. It could be tomorrow This is what Dugod writes, the continual presence of the beasts in our world ought not to surprise us, because every human manifestation of evil is simply a reflection of the work of the great dragon, Satan himself. Dugad then points this out that in Revelation We have this tie back to Daniel, don't we? In Chapter 13, I saw a beast rising out of the sea with ten horns and seven heads Ten diadems on its horns and blast them as names on its heads, and the beast I saw was like a leopard, its feet were like a bear's, its mouth was like a lion's mouth. You know it's coming. And now you know it's part of Satan's plan to separate you from this certain hope. What are you doing to be prepared? I think we find the answer In another prophecy in Isaiah. In chapter 55, the prophet Isaiah writes this: Incline your ear and come to me. And hear, that your soul may live. And I will make with you an everlasting covenant. Do you see what Isaiah is saying? Do you see the words that have been given to Isaiah? Do see the promise that's been given to you tonight if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen Listen to his words, listen to his promises. Consider how God has acted even here in the first six chapters of Daniel that leads up to this apocalyptic literature. preserving, protecting, providing for his children, even in the fiery furnace, even in the lion's den It's all because of that everlasting covenant. We need to be reminded of that, brothers and sisters. We need to remember the promises of Christ, their yes and amen in him, and he indeed is our sure. Hope, a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul That's the way the writer of the Hebrews puts it, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain where Jesus has gone as a forerunner on our behalf. Do you see he has secured it He has secured it and he becomes our anchor. Mountains may fall into the sea. Wars will continue to rage on. What are we doing to prepare? Listen to his words, hear his promises. He's made with you an everlasting covenant. He indeed is your steadfast anchor of the soul. You can't stop the wars But you can trust in Christ. You can remember that he has entered into an everlasting covenant with his Father. To provide life to you tonight, preserving, protecting, and providing for his children, even in the fiery furnace In the lion's den. The beasts of this world will seek dominion and cause suffering and strife for the children of God until the return of Christ. Yes, Russia is at war. It is seeking dominion. The Sudan generals at all costs will seek to rule, and Christians are in the crosshairs. But Christ has entered into that everlasting and unbreakable covenant, and he indeed, brothers and sisters, is your sure and steadfast anchor of your soul. Even tonight. Praise be to God. Amen.