A man please be seated. Now here comes the reading of God's word to us. God's word comes to us from Philippians chapter 4 this morning. Here we are, Philippians chapter 4, verses 2 and 3. In Philippians 4, mostly what we have from this point on are uh wrapping up instructions, a few A few uh pieces of instructions that come together in a little list here in this section, and then a final wrapping up towards the end. So we are getting close to the end, but This morning, Philippians chapter 4, verses 2 through 3, Paul has these instructions to these particular individuals in the midst of the Philippian congregation. And so this is the reading for this morning. Philippians 2, verses, or chapter 4, verses 2 through 3. Again, he's instructing some women in the midst of the church to Come to the same mind or to be of the same mind. And this is the reading of God's word for this morning, and it is also the sermon text for this morning. Philippians 4, 2 through 3. This is the very word of God, therefore give your attention to it as such. I implore Euodia, and I implore syntic. to be of the same mind in the Lord. And I urge you also, true companion, help these women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also And the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the Book of Life. Thus far the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it this morning. May He add His blessing to its preaching in our midst today. Well, here it's clear that what Paul wants is to see these two particular women in the Philippian congregation. Come to the same mind. He wants to see these two particular women be of the same mind instead of in conflict with each other. He mentions them in verse 2, Euodia and Sinti. These are both female names. These are both referring to women. He also mentions, obviously, in verse 3, he calls them these women, these two women, Yodia and Sinti. He wants them to come to an agreement in the Lord. Instead of staying at odds with each other. It sure seems like there's some history behind this statement. We don't really know anything about these women in particular. There's no other mention of them anywhere else in the Bible or in the New Testament other than here in these verses. And yet what we see here seems to tell us all that we would need to know. The fact that he's urging them to be of the same mind would seem to imply that they aren't at the moment. And yet, if they aren't of the same mind, what are they? It seems like there's some kind of conflict, some kind of sense in which they are at odds with each other. And if that is the situation they're in, if they are in some kind of personal conflict, in some way at odds with each other, What do they need to come to? Well, they need to come to what Paul tells them to come to. Again in verse 2, to be of the same mind in the Lord. They need to be of the same mind in the Lord because they're not of the same mind in the Lord. But because they're not of the same mind at this moment in the Lord. They need to come to and become of the same mind of the Lord. So this is the thrust of what Paul's after here. He instructs these two women in verse 2. Again, I'll read verse 2. I implore Euodia And I implore Sintic to be of the same mind in the Lord. Now it is significant to notice that this language of being of the same mind that shows up here in verse 2 of our passage We've seen it before, and we've heard it before. And the Philippians have heard it before. So as we've been tracking through the letter, we have come across this same phrase, this same language, be of the same mind. in the Lord. Now this language was used back in chapter 2, verse 2. This language of being of the same mind. The same phrasing in English shows up in many English translations. It's the same Greek word behind that phrasing. But it's there in chapter 2, verse 2. You'll notice in this translation, I believe it says, be like-minded. Paul says in chapter 2 verse 2, fulfill my joy by being like-minded. Well that that phrase there, be like-minded, the exact same language, the exact same Greek wording behind it. Be of the same mind. So what is Paul telling uh the Philippians to do? This has to do with getting along with each other. This has to do with pursuing and extending the unity that exists among them. Strengthen the unity that's among them. Be of the same mind. Come to the same mindset. Come to the same mind in the Lord. So again, we have this special circumstance in chapter 4, verses 2 and 3. A special conflict that it seems like is going on between two particular women in the congregation. And yet the task that they're to pursue is not just for them. The unity that's to be pursued is not just for people who find themselves in conflict and at odds. It's the same unity that the whole church is to be pursuing all the time. And so that's an important point to be made. Yes, there's a special conflict taking place between these women, Euodia and Syntec, but at the same time, even if there wasn't The Philippians are called to pursue unity in the Lord. Unity with one another, becoming of the same mind, becoming of the same mindset, becoming like-minded So there is instruction here for us. When you find yourselves at odds with someone within the congregation, seek to be of the same mind. If you don't find yourself at odds with someone in the congregation, seek to be of the same mind. You see how important that point is. It's not just a special instruction for a special instance. This is instruction for all Christians in the church all the time. Seek to be of the same mind in the Lord. Seek to be grounded in that common unity that we have in Jesus Christ. We all have the same Savior if we belong to Christ. Seek to be one with those who have the same Savior whom you do. How do you do this? Well, Paul gave us instruction back in chapter 2. Again, back in chapter 2, there was a deeper instruction on this point. How do you come to that same mindset? Well, you do it by taking the same mindset that Christ himself had. What was Christ's mindset? The mindset of Jesus Christ was To put others ahead of himself. And we saw that back in chapter 2. Jesus Christ laid aside his own well-being to seek the well-being of others. This he did when he came to save us. And so this we too ought to do, as we are those who are saved by him. We ought to receive the instruction of chapter 2, verse 4. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. How can we be uh seek the same mindset We can lay aside our own interests in order to seek the interests of others. We can willingly put aside our our interests at times. We can seek not only our own interests but also that of others. And this is how we can come to a like mind. So that's what Paul pictures here. It's worth reading chapter 2, verse 1 and 4 through full, or through in full. Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and mercy. Are there these things in Christ? Yes. I hope you think that you have these things in Christ. I hope you experience these things in Christ. But if you have these things, then do what? Fulfill my joy, Paul says, by being like-minded. So being of the same mind, coming to the same mind together By being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind, togetherness, unity, coming to unity How can you do this? Well, part of that is in verse 3. Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others. better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his own interests, but also for the interests of others. Be willing to pursue the interests of others, even sometimes at the expense of your own interests. And so again, it's important to see the instructions that come to Euodia and Sintic in our text, they come in this broader context of the calling of the entire Philippian church And in fact, this is instruction for the whole church. The whole church that belongs to Jesus Christ ought to seek to come to the same mind in Christ. So when there is personal conflict Also, when there is not personal conflict. When there is personal conflict, seek to be of the same mind. When there is not personal conflict, seek to be of the same mind. It's important in this setting to remember not just personal conflict, but other things threaten to divide the unity of the church that belongs to Jesus Christ. And let's remember that some of the very same things that we face as Christ Church are the very same things that could have threatened to divide the unity of the Philippian Church just as much The New Testament church in the first century faced the very same threats to unity that we faced in the threat to our unity as Christ's Church. Now what are some of those things? They're the very same things now that they were then. You could always point to things like differences in race or class. Differences in ethnicity, culture, or heritage. The church very naturally, because it is the coming together of people who come from all kinds of different places. It's no surprise that sometime we we we run into things that cause us difficulty to be united. It's no surprise, is it? the many different places that people in the church come from. It has an effect on what they find acceptable, what customs they observe, what customs and standards they find to be acceptable. And so it's no surprise that uh that that this is a difficult thing for the church. And yet it was a difficulty for the Philippian church and every other New Testament church as well. And Paul's instruction, Paul's requirement for them, God's word for them, was be of the same mind, seek the same mindset. Within the church there are inevitably differences in social standing. People have different places in this world, different jobs, different positions, different social ranking or standing. Different ideas about politics, different ideas about how life in this world can be made better, and what path we need to pursue to get there. There are all kinds of differences among us that could threaten to break up our unity as the Church of Jesus Christ. Well guess what? All of those same things might have been operative in the Philippian church as well, and in the church of the first century just as well. Just the same as it is for us. So what we need to understand is that the task of Christian unity is something that always takes work to pursue It should always be something that here in this life, we never think that we've arrived. And we're always seeking to get better and better at it through faith in Jesus Christ. Now again, this is due to the nature of what the church is. The church is a gathering that's based on the gospel. And the gospel asks people who come from all kinds of different places To come together on the basis of a common hope and a common thing. The heritage that we have through having heaven as our homeland. The salvation that we have through Jesus Christ purchasing for us heaven. And again, we come together as a gathering, not in order to pursue and create lasting peace here on this earth. But we come together based on the fact that we have the same inheritance, the same promises, and we remain united in that Now, heaven itself and the promises that we have through Christ, these are things that lie far beyond every one of us, no matter who we are or where we come from. And yet, at the very same time, the promises of God that we have through Christ are within reach of all of us. Because of Christ. So it's important to remember that. That as we consider how do you come together on the basis of the gospel? Well remember, we're all coming from very different places. But we can all come together because there's a gospel that's greater than all of us, and that's within reach of all of us at the very same time. The gospel calls us not to deny or suppress the things that divide us or the distinctions that make us different, but nonetheless to find unity in the one thing that transcends all of us. The gospel is no more inherent in one culture than another, because it's of heaven, and because it's of Christ, and it comes down to us. But that means that we need to work to pursue that unity because it lies beyond us, at least in our natural condition. So again, Euody and Sintic, they find themselves in this personal conflict. They're struggling. They're at odds with each other. Maybe they don't see things the same way. Paul calls them to come to the same mind in the Lord. This is the calling of all of us, whether we're in personal conflict or not. The Church of Jesus Christ is called to be like-minded, is called to to be of the same love, of one accord, and of one mind. It's not something that's easy to go after. And it's not something where we should ever feel like we've already arrived. In this life. But it is something that we are called to pursue. So let's remember that. Let's not forget that. Now, a few things that can be observed here in this text. Again, Euodia and Cyntic in some sort of conflict. We don't know exactly what it is. A few observations as to how to pursue peace and unity within the church from this text. One very important point to make here in verse three is that these two women appear to need help. They appear to need help. Either they need help or they could, or at least it's true that they could use help. Okay? So remember that. Unity within the church is never an easy thing because of the earthly things that might just might divide us. But there is room for help. And this is what Paul says in verse 3, I urge you, true companion, help these women. Help these women When it comes to resolving difficulties and conflicts and things that may produce division, we are not to be left to ourselves. It is good to seek help. It is good to receive help. It is good to give help. And again, this is here in this text. Who is this true companion? Paul is writing this letter. In the midst of this letter, he addresses someone. He says, you. You also true companion. Who is this person? We have no idea who this is. You know, true companion. The word for true companion could possibly be somebody's actual name Or if it's not somebody's name, it could just be the way uh Paul is addressing this person. He's calling this person true companion. This person could potentially be male or female. We don't know. Whoever this person is, this person is a third party who's able to step in and offer some help. So again, it's important for us to remember this. When it comes to pursuing unity with one another within the church, we are not to be left to to ourselves, and it's not just about um working on that by ourselves. But there is room for there to be help. And sometimes help is just what is needed. We also see in this that pursuing unity within the church is not simply a matter of praying for unity. Paul doesn't say just keep praying for it. I mean pray for unity, yes. But not just pray for it. Help. Somebody helps. And let's let's remember that. Sometimes help is what is needed to get past things that would threaten to divide us. And sometimes help on the part of somebody stepping in is is able to go a long way in actually helping. Okay, so so one important point is that help is sometimes needed. Help is sometimes what it takes for unity to be preserved and not only preserved but pursued. And that is something that can sometimes get ugly and sometimes get dirty. And yet, this is what we are called to in Christ. Alright, what else do we see here in verse 3? Also here in verse 3, not just help coming from this true companion, but who is it who is in need of this help here? What kind of believers are these two women? These two women, Euodia and Sintic, who are named. Are these people whom Paul writes off as Well, they just can't get over their issues because they are just immature believers. Or this conflict means that maybe they really aren't believers to begin with. Is that the way that Paul approaches this issue? No, it's not. Who are these women? In verse 3, these are women whose name is written in the book of life. These are women who labored with him in the gospel. These are women whom he counts among his fellow workers. Okay, who needs help in pursuing unity in Christ? Even believers who are mature Even believers whom you would think are mature and are able to even help in the work of ministry, and whose salvation is not in question at all. And if they are not um if if they are not able to say that they don't need any help, then none of us should be able to say that we don't ever need any help in these matters. And so this is important for us to remember. What does it take to pursue unity in the body of Christ? It does take willingness to put aside your own interests for the interests of others at times. It does take the use of help. It does take um willingness to receive help Willingness to give help. And this is our calling. And it's our calling because the church is not just an institution or a gathering like any other gathering or any other institution. The church is the institution that is born of God's grace, sustained by God's grace, living in God's grace So let's remember this. And let's remember what our calling is, and let's press on in this calling, looking to Him for grace to continue in this. Amen. Let's pray. O Lord God, uh today we hear your word, we hear the instructions that Paul has given to the Philippians We hear how he has um implored or exhorted Yodia and Sintic to be of the same mind in the Lord. Lord, we stand and we confess how difficult that can be at times. Oh Lord, yes, we all have our own minds. No, no, but your word says, be of the same mind. But we all have our own minds, and we all have many things that make us different. And yet We're called to come to the same mind through Christ. Lord, thank you that you have composed your body, the body of Christ, of members who do come from many different places. And who have many different placements even in this world. Um even uh differences in things like race and class and politics and Many differences that could threaten to divide us and indeed possibly do bring division at times. And yet we pray for your grace, we pray for your help to get past earthly distinctions, that earthly distinctions would be okay and that they would it would be okay to acknowledge that they're okay. But that they would not ultimately divide your people. Lord, keep us together as we find our common the basis of our common life together in Christ and not in ourselves. Strengthen the life that we have together by growing us in the grace of Christ so that we come to lean more and more upon Him rather than upon what we have in ourselves. We ask you to provide these things for us because we know that it takes your grace in order for these things to be true of us. Well Lord, would you bless this church, Trinity Reform Church, that we would continue to be of the same mind, and that where we need to, we would come to be of the same mind. More and more. Help us to be like-minded in Christ. Help us to look to Christ as the basis of our common unity, not to ourselves. And grow us in these things. We pray that Trinity Reformed would indeed be a picture of Psalm 133, the blessing of brothers dwelling together in unity. Um the the how how great it is, how joyful it is, what a glorious thing it is when brothers dwell together in unity and the peace that is ours in the Lord. Well Lord, today we bring before you many of the other prayer requests and the needs of your people. We come to you as people who are in need of your mercy and in need of your provision. Lord, we think uh especially of the um those who are suffering from ailments and afflictions, especially um even in the last week, um that the number of Things that have happened, O Lord, we trust you in the midst of these things. We ask you to bless and to answer our prayer. to provide healing and relief to those who are in need. Oh Lord, we pray and we thank you for the the the relatively quick recovery of Hazel. We thank you that she is actually able to be home today. And how remarkable that is for having having had this fall one week ago that she's actually home. We pray for her continued recovery, for her continued encouragement. And for her continued well-being. Lord, we also ask you to be near to Mary Shabron. We ask you to give insight to the doctors and to those who are caring for her. Help them to know what is wrong and to be able to address it well. Lord, uh be with Gary and Mary and bless them and strengthen them in encouragement. Give them encouragement in the midst of this. We pray that that the body of your people would gather around them and encourage them and support them in the midst of this, and that you would perhaps provide healing and relief to Mary. Lord, we also pray especially for Jean Snaufer in the midst of the recent health difficulties, and we pray that you would uphold the Calderon family in caring for her in uh uh uh seeking to to uh keep her at home and to take care of her. I pray that you would bring people to their side and to her side and that she would be encouraged and that you would give them peace and comfort along the way, even in the midst of of the difficulties of caring for her. We ask you to continue to provide in that instance. Lord, we also pray for the Fields family. We ask you to be merciful to Ken with the flu, that you would heal his body, that you would bring healing to him. And Lord, we also would pray for um Russell's Uncle Dave. We ask you that that whatever is needed for him that you would provide. Lord, we uh pray for others in our congregation with with uh ongoing health issues. We pray for um Autumn, we pray for Debbie, we pray for Joan, we pray for uh Brian Warburton and others. um who have um ongoing um health issues going on, we ask you to sustain and to to support them in the midst of uh of the difficulties and we ask you to give them good sound care that is able to help them with you know the problems um that are going on Lord, we also lift up to you those who are seeking work. We pray for Adamo. We pray for Joe. We ask you to provide for them work that is steady, work that is able to provide for their needs. work in which they are able to work so as to please you in the world and to to do good, honest work. Lord, we would pray for many who are in need of your salvation. We all know people whom we we desire to see saved and we desire to see come to you. We also know people who have wandered from you, some within our own families, those who have wandered away from the church or away from the faith. We ask you to draw them to yourself in grace. We ask that you would give us lips that are able to testify to your grace and goodness well, so that we might be good um witnesses to you, to those people. Lord, we would also bring before you elected officials, those who are tasked with overseeing Um our our nation, our state, our local government and all the all the governments in this in this nation especially We pray that you would continue to uphold the authority that you have established in civil government. We pray that you would use it as a blessing. We pray that it might be a blessing to people who are made in your image. We pray that justice and equity might be done and upheld, and that wickedness might be restrained and punished. We pray that you would give the fear of you to many so that they might do and pursue what is right in this world. In reflection of your glory and honor as the Creator and Sustainer of this world. Lord, we commit ourselves to you as people who are in need of your ongoing care and your ongoing grace and your ongoing provision Well Lord, you know our our our our true needs better than we do, and we praise you that even when we don't know what to pray, That we have your Spirit interceding for us, praying as we should, and we trust that you know our needs even better than we know them, better than we're able to voice them. And so we entrust ourselves to you. We ask you, Lord, to bless your people, to sustain us, to give us what we need. And our greatest need, O Lord, is to bring glory to your name through whatever. we are going through. Help us to do this. Help us to cry out to you in our afflictions. Help us to be patient in our adversities. Help us to give thanks to you in times of prosperity. We are your people. We are your creatures. We are your redeemed saints. In ourselves we are nothing, but because of who you are and what you have given to us, we have much. Help us to be thankful. Help us to walk before you. And as we do so, help us to continue to pray the way that our Lord Jesus taught us to pray, by saying, Our Father, who art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen