We're rapidly coming to the end of our study in 1 Timothy. We're in chapter 6, the last chapter of the book. I'll ask you to turn there. Um, First Timothy chapter six, and we'll be reading uh Versus um Be reading verses seventeen through uh nineteen. Let us hear the word of the Lord Command those who are rich in this present age not to be halty, nor to trust in uncertain riches. But in the living God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Let them do good that they may be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share. Storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. And this verse tonight, verse 18. uh continues in the uh topic uh that uh Paul has been addressing in chapter six of 1 Timothy, and that a topic is the is the perspective that believers ought to have with regard to material riches. And as he uh lays this uh matter out, uh he uh takes great pains uh to show that uh uh riches are uh material riches are uh something that uh uh uh Christians need to be careful with It is not sinful, it is not wrong to have material riches. But where we cross the line is where we are not content with what God provides. Where we want more and more of these material things and are ready to do whatever we need to do to get it. In such a situation, you find yourself focused on accruing more and more material treasure But that material treasure really has no place in eternal life. You cannot take it with you. It won't buy you anything in heaven. It has no value there. So why spend all of your life trying to accumulate it? Again, you heard the parable earlier today about the rich man who determined when he got more crops. That instead of being thankful toward God and praising God, he decided that he was going to use what he had to get bigger and better, to get more, and to store up those things that are material treasures In order that he would have confidence in them so that he could rest easy. It's an interesting statement in that section where it says, and he said to his soul, Soul. Be content. Eat, drink, and be merry. Everything is okay. All's going to be good. All's going to be fine in the future. Paul has said in Timothy, don't trust in uncertain riches. And if ever there was a parable of uncertain riches, the man has riches one day and gets more riches the same day, and subsequently the Lord calls him a fool and takes his life. That's pretty uncertain. Those riches do nothing for his eternal welfare. In addition, Paul has reminded the Christian, not only do material treasures have no place in eternity, But we ought not to desire to be rich because this leads to the devil's snare This opens the door to temptation. Not only does it open the door to temptation, but it can bring on idolatry, and it can bring on worse. The way Paul describes it, he talks about it, this desire to have more is a form of covetousness that drowns us has the potential to drown the believer. Or on another image he uses is that it can snare us. gradually choking the any spiritual life out that any spiritual life that we might have out of us Instead of hoping in uncertain riches, Paul says, put your trust in the living God. In be rich in him, he who gives us all things richly to enjoy. And now, tonight, in our passage before us. Paul exhorts the Christian, exhorts the Christian who happens to have riches, material riches. Or great spiritual riches. It really doesn't make a significant difference. He exhorts them to do good. He exhorts them to use their riches for good works. And these good works that he has in mind aren't precisely defined, but we can see From what he says subsequently to be rich in good works when he says, be ready to distribute, willing to share, or the old King James says, willing to communicate. We can see from that that the kind of riches Paul has in mind that we're to be rich in has to do with ministry to others has to do with a focus on those who have maybe legitimate physical needs or material needs, but also legit have also spiritual needs as well. And And this is all predicated on the fact that Paul says, God has been rich to us. He has blessed us with many riches in Christ. And as a result, he commands us to be rich in good works to others. Now this command should not be misconstrued. And I recognize that this command could very easily be misconstrued by those who follow certain Prosperity Gospels. Paul is not saying here that Christians um um have uh by being rich in good works, that they have another way to gain their salvation before God. He's not saying that. He's not saying that if you are rich, do good to others and salvation will be yours. Neither is he saying that salvation is belief in Christ's death and resurrection, plus being rich and doing good works. Paul is simply saying that if God has so blessed you, he has blessed you with riches in Christ, but if he also has blessed you with the riches of the world, Then you be focused on sharing those riches with others This is not another form of Christian communism. It's not that easy either. Paul is not demanding or he's not forcing anyone to share their riches. He is simply encouraging them. To share with others. Why? Because as God's people, we are to love God. With our heart, mind, soul, and strength, and we are to love others, our neighbors, as ourselves. And if we see our neighbor in some sort of spiritual har having some sort of sort of spiritual problem, or if we see them in some sort of material problem, or not material Some sort of material riches problem. If we let them go and don't say anything or don't do anything, how is that love? How is that a manifestation of love? It's not, is it? Again, Paul is not talking about another way of salvation. Richly, rich, richly giving to others in good works. That's not a new salvation. This would In addition, this would stand in sharp contradiction to everything Paul has said about the gospel of grace. There'd be no way to reconcile the Apostle Paul's statement here, if we are taking the position that he's saying Be rich in good works in order to be saved. There'd be no way to reconcile that with second with Ephesians 2, would it? There'd be no way to reconcile that with what Paul says there You're saved by grace through faith, not of yourself. It is the gift of God, not of works. Lest any man should boast. It would be impossible to reconcile The idea that Paul is commanding us to be rich in good works and share with others as the way of salvation. Impossible to reconcile that with Titus Chapter 3, 5 through 7. Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. By the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Spirit, which He shed on us abundantly through Christ Jesus our Savior. That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. I I know I don't have to say that to you But there's a radio audience, or there's an internet audience out there, too, that needs to hear. Needs to hear what the gospel is. And needs not to be confused. Paul is saying in verse 18 that those whom God has blessed with spiritual riches in Christ and material riches in abundance. Are expected to be willing to use their God-giving material blessings to help others, to give to those who are in need. Need. By doing so, rich believers are fulfilling Ephesians two ten We are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. The word rich keeps coming up over and over again in this section of Ephesians 6. It occurs in verse 17. It occurs in verse There's eighteen um and there is a definite um mind that there's a definite aspect of how Christians are to view material riches. And sometimes it involves a mind change We should desire to be rich in good works unto others. But how often do you hear Christians desire worldly riches, whether it be through the health or wealth gospel, or whether it be Christians who get sucked into playing the lottery. You know that little that little game that Christians play about the lottery with God? God, if you just let me win the lottery. I'll give so much to you. I make these bargains with God. And in a certain sense, it's so very sad It's so very sad because so what if you win the lottery So what if you have riches in abundance? If all that that means to you is that you're going to be able to give something To God in some sort of repayment, it just seems to me that that's that's wrong It just seems to me that the better perspective is, Lord, give me whatever you have given me, and let me be rich in good works to those who are in need. I mean and I and I think I can't I can't help but be uh very thankful that in this congregation Even though we're not rich by any worldly standard in terms of material things. Nevertheless, there is a very healthy giving in this congregation to people who are in need. There's a very healthy offering that goes to the needy. And I probably haven't said it enough, but I do need to say it. I think you're to be commended, and I think our deacons are to be commended The command Paul makes That they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, or ready to give, another another meaning of the word distribute, willing To communicate or willing to share. The new King James says, ready to give, willing to share. Both terms. Ready to give, willing to share. Assume that others That they come that pe Christians come in contact with will have needs. Both terms, expect. That others will benefit from believers who willingly share riches with others. This is what God's intention is, or this is what appears to be God's intention for those who have been given riches by him. Him, whether they be spiritual or material, help out your neighbor. Help out others. Love your neighbor Don't let the desire for spiritual riches drown you with a further desire to get more It's not about you. It's about loving God and loving your neighbors. The Lord Jesus is a prime example of showing us how To be ready to give and willing to share, to share riches with others Remember that statement Paul makes about Christ in Colossians, 2 Corinthians 8, verse 9. He says there, you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he were rich, that though he were rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. That through that you through his poverty might be made rich What riches did Jesus have? I mean, in in one sense you could say he has everything in the world. But it wasn't the material riches that made him rich. It was the richness of his the willingness to give of himself To pay for our sins. Though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. That you through his poverty might be rich. Do you feel rich tonight? If you know Jesus, you're the richest man or woman on the earth And not only that. The riches you have can't ever be taken away. They're not uncertain. They're definite. The encouragement to follow Christ's example in that 2 Corinthians 8 passage. If you go back and you look at the context of 2 Corinthians 8, and it has Christ out there as an example. It's written on the background of there being extreme poverty in Judea. And the churches in Macedonia are being commended for richly giving to relieve the poverty. Of the churches. They were a prime example of being rich in good works. Even as our Savior gave us all riches Rich, you see, in verse 18, where it says, that they be rich in good works. Is not really to be defined as material riches or spiritual riches Instead, the word rich is defining a spiritual state that we should desire for ourselves. To be rich in good works, to have be willing to have a multitude of a multitude of ways to help others when they are in need. Those who believe in Christ have been given riches that are greater than material riches. Those riches are eternal and spiritual. And because we have so much in him, we should desire to share any riches with others in need. That's not to say that the word rich from time to time in the scriptures doesn't talk about other spiritual riches. It does 2 Corinthians 6 verse 10 reads, as a sorrowful yet always rejoicing, as poor, making many rich, as having nothing, yet possessing. All things. Hebrews chapter 11, 26, Moses as the example, esteeming the reproach of Christ, greater riches than the treasures. of Egypt to know Christ and to suffer for him and to be identified as him, as one of his. a and to be scorned. As a follower of Jehovah, Moses held that in greater honor than any of the riches of Egypt. Egypt. All that he as a prince of Egypt would have eventually been entitled to. All the material riches. We as believers in Christ have eternal riches. You might even say we have eternal treasure. And our Savior calls us to share our treasures, be rich in good deeds, in good works. Even as the example that we read earlier in Luke chapter 20, 12, verse 20 violated this command. God said to that man, You fool, this night your soul shall be required of you. Then who shall these things be which thou hast provided? In a case we didn't get the point. Verse 21 nails what the point is. So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich So is he who layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich in good works To others, but to be to others is also to be unto God We preach in 2 Corinthians 4, 5 and 7, Paul said, we preach not ourselves, but Jesus Christ the Lord. and our self as servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts. To give us the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We have this treasure in earth and heaven. What treasure do you have? You have the light of the knowledge of the glory of God. That's what you have. Whether we are rich in the material sense or rich in the faith in Christ, We Christians should be ready and willing to be rich in sharing all good works to others. Let us especially be zealous to share the unsearchable riches of God, who is Jesus Christ. Be rich in good works. Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father Encourage us, Lord, to embrace the kind of the attitude that the Apostle Paul had toward the things of this world, the material treasures of this world. Encourage us, Lord, and protect us, Father, from seeking after them with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. Cause us not to love material treasure, help us to love you more than anything And help that love of you not be compromised by our love for the things of this world, the treasures of this life. We pray, O Lord, that uh you'll teach us this lesson. And that out of the richness of the treasures that you have given to us in Christ Jesus will flow. A life uh defined by being full of good works to those who are in need. Father, we read of a woman in the book of Acts whose name was variously recorded as Taditha and Dorcas, regardless of her name. She finds her way into the Word of God because she was rich in good works to others. May it be, Lord, that you will see that same attitude in our hearts As we seek to bring further glory and honor to the name of Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. All these things. Amen.