If you turn your copies of God's word now to Joshua, we'll start our study there tonight in the first chapter. I think that's on page 210 of your few Bibles. And we'll be reading the first nine verses. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. Joshua chapter one and verse one. After the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, the Lord said to Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' assistant, Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise. Go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land that I am giving to them, to the people of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses. From the wilderness and this Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates All the land of the Hittites to the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your territory. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. Be strong and courageous, for you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their forefathers to give to them. Only be strong and very courageous. Being careful to do all that the law that my servant, my Moses, my servant, commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success where you go. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. But you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it, for then you will make your way prosperous And then you will have good success. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous, do not be frightened. And do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we begin this study this evening, as your servant seeks to proclaim your word, help us. Give us listening and hearing ears, give us receptive hearts. Father, we need your spirit. And we ask that you'd plant your word deeply within our hearts, that you'd convict us of its truth, that you'd help us to see the promises that are contained within it. And help us to see even here in this passage, Jesus Christ. Guide and direct our hearts tonight, Father, all for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you strong and courageous enough? To follow Jesus Christ. It's a hard question to even ask, to think through. Think of Peter and the passage that we read earlier this evening. Before the passage we read, Peter had said to Jesus Christ Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. Peter thought that he was strong and courageous. He professed that he was strong and courageous. I will not deny you, even if I must die with you. But as we saw tonight, as we read that passage from Matthew's gospel, Peter was not strong, nor was he courageous. He denied Jesus Christ three times. The last time invoking a curse on himself and swearing, I do not know the man Peter was not strong. He was not strong enough. He was not courageous enough at that point in his life to follow Jesus. In a sense, that brings us to our text this evening as we begin to open up Joshua. As Joshua receives this command, arise, go over the Jordan into the land I'm giving you. Moses is dead. Remember, Moses wrote the Pentateuch, the first five books of our English Bibles, and now we're at the sixth book. And so everything that goes before Joshua was written by Moses, the one who was called to lead the Israelites, the people of God, the church out of Egypt. out of the iron furnace, out of the land of oppression. Moses was called to bring the people to a place where they could freely worship and honor and praise and glorify the living God. That which could not be done within the confines of Egypt and within their oppression of being slaves. And so as God heard the calls, as he heard the cries of his people, as he remembers his covenant, his covenant of redemption, his covenant of grace, he sent Moses to lead the people to the promised land. But we know that Moses sinned against God as he struck the rock as opposed to speaking to the rock. Because he did not honor God as holy before the assembly of the congregation, the assembly of the people of God, God would not allow Moses Now to enter the land. He would not allow Moses to lead the people, those final steps into the promised land. And so now there's a substitution. The Lord calls to Joshua. The leadership has changed. Moses has died, and the people are now on the cusp. on the border, about to enter that place that he had promised to them, even to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and certainly to Moses. And so this history of redemption continues to march forward. As human leaders are raised up, as human leaders die, as human leaders point to the ultimate leader, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we come to this passage, a passage where God tells Joshua three times here in these first nine verses to be strong and courageous. As he's about to lead them into the land that he promised them. We might sum up these first nine verses in this way: that the people of God are called to be strong and courageous. As they follow the Lord Jesus Christ into glory. The people of God are called to be strong and courageous as they follow the Lord Jesus Christ into glory. We'll see that tonight in two truths, two doctrines, just two. First, the strength to arise is found in Christ. And secondly, the success to enter is found in the Word. So as we go through these first nine verses of this book entitled Joshua, I want you to be asking yourself, am I strong and courageous enough to follow Christ? Let's begin then. The strength to arise is found in Christ. Joshua has been selected by God as the one who follows after Moses. And he's given this command. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all his people, into the land that I'm giving them. As we think of rising, we think of going from a lower estate to a higher estate, we think of going from a sitting position to a standing position, we think of going from a state of inaction to to in a state of action. It seems to be exactly what the Lord is calling Joshua to at this point. Rise up now and go into the land that I've promised. Rise up and take the land. Rise up and purge the land of its current Occupants, rise up and occupy and dwell in the land that I've given to you. Be active. Go. Enter the land now. To fully understand this command, we have to remember what had happened forty years ago. For that was the command given to the fathers of those who now stand on the banks of the Jordan. Forty years had passed. Their fathers refused and rebelled to enter the land. They would not go in. They were fearful of the occupants And thus they rebelled against God, even though the report from Joshua and Caleb was a good report, and even though Joshua and Caleb urged them to go in. Forty years ago the fathers refused. And now as forty years have passed, and once again the command to arise and go and enter the land is given. As Christians, we tend to be inactive, don't we? As Christians, sometimes we tend to be idle, not outgoing. Yes, seeking to live peaceful lives. But misunderstanding at times what it means to live a life of peace. It doesn't necessarily mean remain at home and don't engage with the world who's in darkness. We tend not to arise. We tend not to go over and engage. At least in part because we don't think we have the power For the strength. That might describe you this evening, and I think to an extent it describes each of us. We must listen to this text. I must listen to the Holy Spirit as he works in us. As Joshua is told to arise and go. With Joshua at this point, as he receives this command from God, and then make no mistake, this is a command, arise, go over the Jordan, you and all those people. You might be thinking, how? Did you notice the route that God had called Joshua to take all the people? Go over this Jordan. Cross the Jordan. Cross over the river. That's the direction I want you to take. Not just into the land, but this route, this direction, through the Jordan. So at that point Joshua may have been scratching his head and wondering, how will this be possible? Where are the boats? How will our little ones survive? A million people, probably more than a million, crossing the Jordan somehow. How would they take their animals? If we're to enter the land through this river, how? And yet Joshua was commanded. It seemed to be an impossibility, not to mention driving out the current occupants of the land so that they might possess us, first being told to take the route over the Jordan It seems as though God was warning Joshua at that point, or at least giving him some notice that nothing was going to be easy. Even as Joshua was given this first command of his leadership, of his position, now as he's the one who's going to lead the Israelites into the promised land, it seems as though God was telling Joshua, nothing's going to be easy. For your first step will be through the waters of the Jordan. Nothing will be easy in this walk with the Lord. Nothing will be easy from a human perspective. That's a challenge, isn't it? As you live this life as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ That is the challenge in a sense that from a human perspective, the life of the Christian is not an easy one, but full of challenges. As we go through this book of Joshua, we're going to see time and again the Israelites being challenged again and again and again, but God does not leave them with the mere challenge. No, he gives Joshua the help that he's going to need in the midst of each and every one of these challenges, these difficulties, these trials and tribulations. You might be asking yourself, what is that help? Well, there's several even in these first nine verses. He's called to be strong and courageous. The question is how? How is that to help him? Well, first Be strong on the promises of God. Did you see that? Every place, verse 3, that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given to you just as I promised. Moses. There's a succession set forth here. Joshua succeeds Moses in the position of leadership. And Joshua succeeds Moses in being the recipient of the covenant promise, which was given to Joshua now as the representative of the people. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I've given to you just as I promised Moses. Moses declared this promise and Deuteronomy chapter eleven for if you will be careful to do all this commandment that I have commanded you to do, loving the Lord your God, walking in his ways, then the Lord will drive out all these nations before you. And you will dispossess nations greater and mightier than you. See, Moses was now conveying God's promise to the people as he writes the last book of the Pentateuch, the last book before he dies. No one will be able to stand against you. The Lord will lay the fear of you and the dread of you on the land that you shall tread as He promised you. Doesn't that sound familiar? The language here in Joshua 1. 1 is almost word for word parroting the promise given to the people through Moses in Deuteronomy. But the promise that Moses declares did not stand alone. It was based upon the covenant promises to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. As Abram received that promise in chapter 15 of Genesis, to your offspring I give this land. And in Genesis 17, and I will give to you And to your offspring after you, the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan. So how will Joshua be strong and courageous? Is it not in part by the binding, unchangeable, powerful, promise-filled covenant of God? Joshua can arise and go over the Jordan in part because God has established his covenant. Yeah, there were two parts to the covenant, weren't there? That Abraham would have many descendants. So many that he couldn't count them. Even though Sarah was barren, that God would bring about the population of his very people, those that would be able to call him Lord my God. The people who would serve him joyfully and gladly, God promised Abraham he would be a father of nations, that he would be a father of each and every one who would believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. And the second part of that promise involved land, didn't it? That God would provide a place where he would dwell with his people in eternity. A place that there would lack nothing, a place where they could worship the one living and true God, a place of eternal blessing. A place there would be ultimately no more sin, no more tears, no more death, only pure, perfect, blameless, sinless life with their Maker and their Savior, Jesus Christ. And so now this multitude who've been wandering through the wilderness forty years have been brought to the promised land, or at least on the banks of the promised land, where he would dwell with them in peace. God had entered into a covenant, an unbreakable covenant, to bring them to this place and into this place. And from Joshua's perspective, it was evident that he was fulfilling it. And such that he would encourage Joshua to be strong and courageous. Are you strong and courageous through the promises of God which are yes and amen in Jesus Christ? Isn't that what Paul writes to those at Corinth in his second letter? For him all the promises of God find their yes in him, referring to Jesus Christ. That is why through him we utter our Amen. To God for his glory. You see, that's why God continues to fulfill his covenant promises. It's because of Christ. It's because of his Son, our Lord Jesus, because He has done all that the Father has asked of him. It's because Jesus has satisfied his wrath. It's because Jesus has satisfied the law by keeping it perfectly and purely, and because he's offered himself as an unblemished sacrifice on the cross at Calvary. Yes, God the Father continues to fulfill his covenant promises because his son kept our covenant obligations. So you can be strong and courageous, knowing that the promises of God will be kept for you in Christ Jesus. What else? You can be strong and courageous in the finished work of Christ. Isn't that what's demonstrated here in this passage? The work of God has already been done, accomplished, finished. This is what he tells Joshua. He's telling him to go into the land that I am giving to them. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given to you. It's not I will give it. It's not maybe I can give it. It's not if I can give it. It's not that maybe you might defeat the current occupants. No, the work of God was complete. I am giving it. I have given it to you. No one shall stand before you. You shall have the land. It's as if you already are there. I have given it. The work of God was complete. Joshua can be strong and courageous based in part upon the finished work of God. And you can be strong and courageous based upon the finished work of Jesus Christ Remember his words on the cross, as the Apostle John records it, when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, it is finished. Jesus Christ had finished his work on the cross. He'd finished his work of receiving the wrath, the the ultimate The eternal wrath of God for you. He said it's finished. There's no more wrath for you to drink on the day of judgment. It's finished. His work is completed. His work of salvation was complete. It's finished. For God had done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. Jesus' work is finished. There is nothing else to be done to secure your eternal life in Christ. If you're trusting in Him tonight, if you're repenting of your sins, His salvific work is finished. It's complete. There's nothing that can separate you from the love of God in Christ. Nothing. Why? Because his work is finished. It's complete. There's nothing else which needs to be done to secure your place in the house of God. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go and prepare a place for you? Does that encourage you tonight to be strong and courageous? Well, if that's not enough, there's one more. To be strong and courageous on the everlasting presence of Christ. Did you see there was one more thing for Joshua? No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. But the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Joshua called to arise and go over this Jordan, was called to do so with the caveat that the Lord Almighty will be with him. Somewhat like Psalm 90, excuse me, Psalm 23, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. The all-maker, almighty maker of the heavens and the earth would be with Joshua, never leaving, never forsaking him. How could Joshua not arise? How could Joshua not go? And Jesus has stated the same to all of his followers. If you love me, you will keep my commandments, and I will ask the Father, and He will give you another helper to be with you forever. I will not leave you as orphans. You see, Christ said it was better for him to ascend and send the Spirit. That he would dwell with you, that he would be in you, that he would never leave you nor forsake you. Does that encourage you to be strong and courageous? You see, we are weak in and of ourselves, aren't we? You're weak in your sinful flesh. But in Christ, you're strong Isn't that what Paul said as he was afflicted? With a thorn in his side. And even as he pleads with the Lord to take it from him, what does the Lord say to him? My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. It seems that Paul was saying that you must recognize your weakness in the flesh. And only then Can you become strong in the power of the Lord Jesus Christ? Indeed, only in Christ. Are you able to be strong and courageous? Brings us to our second point, our second doctrinal point. The success to enter is found in the word Well, if you remember back 40 years ago, meaning forty years ago in Joshua's time, the first attempt to enter the land was a failed attempt, wasn't it? Even as the spies go out and return, only Caleb and Joshua had a good report, all the others persuaded the people of God not to go in. Persuaded the people of God to rebel. And even as Joshua and Caleb tried to convince them, that that they were ready, that the land was ripe for them to take, even that God was with them. Congregation set to stone them. And so Moses tells the people that they've sinned against God. And now they would not enter. Well what happens? The people then see their sin and they say, well, no, no, now we'll go. Now we'll go up. Now we'll go into the land. But they went up without Moses. And they went up without the Word of God. They went up by themselves. And as a result, they were defeated. The occupants of the land were victorious that day, and the Israelites were defeated. So they didn't enter with the Word of God. They didn't enter with the one who was commissioned to lead them. So now they're given a second opportunity, a second chance to enter. And the question is, how? In the second opportunity, forty years later, with the children of those who had fallen in their graves in the wilderness, how will these enter We might expect, as God has now called, for Joshua to arise, go over this Jordan, you and all the people, into the land that I'm giving to them, to the people of Israel, that the next step would be for God to give them the battle plan. Call to be strong and courageous is given and now followed by a battle plan. One would expect that preparations for battle will be set forth. God explaining to Joshua, sharpen the swords, practice the skills of swordmanship. Head off to the archery range to ensure that the arrows will strike the mark. But we read none of that. It's not here. It's not in God's instructions. The unexpected call is given to Joshua now as to how the people would be successful. And entering the promised land. Look at verse seven. Only be strong and very courageous. Being careful to do all the law that Moses, my servant, commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left. That you may have good success wherever you go. That was the battle plan. Be careful, do everything according to the law. Do not turn it to it for the to the right or to the left. The book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night. The emphasis was on the word of God. It's only when Joshua would meditate, being careful to follow the word, that he and the people would be prosperous and have good success. This is the additional direction and guidance given to Joshua and all the people. This is what they would need. To meet every single one of those trials, those tribulations, those challenges that were being set before him and the people of God. Cross over the river. Go over the Jordan. How? By the Word of God. At this point, the word was the five books of Moses, the Pentateuch, the law, the Torah. That was it. That was the Word of God up to this point in time as Joshua receives the command to arise and enter. But to do so in accordance with the Word of God, every step of the way, every step through the Jordan, on the battlefield, remembering, meditating upon, acting in accordance with the Word of God Living in accordance with the Word of God, not straying from the Word of God to the right or to the left, but heading straight down the middle in truth. Then Joshua and the people would be prosperous and have good success. That was the battle plan. Do you do that? It's a question for each of us this evening. For Joshua and the Israelites were not the only ones who faced challenges and obstacles and trials and tribulations, even as they were called to go over the Jordan, even as they were called to enter the occupied land. Even as forty years earlier their fathers said no to the Lord as he called them to arise and enter the land. Now these children Of those who died in the wilderness are being called to do the very thing their fathers refused to do. Arise, cross the Jordan, enter the land. You see, every day God is calling you to arise and to live. To live in this world amongst sinners. To face every single day challenges and opposition to your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and thus to you and your faith. How will you do it? How will you live amongst Satan who continues to throw darts and arrows at you, seeking to tempt you away from Jesus Christ? How? What's the battle plan? We were given a simple and straightforward answer here within the sixth book Use the Word of God. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left. The book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do all That is written in it. He will give you guidance and direction. That you may step forward even and especially when you're scratching your head. And you're in a particular circumstance and you're wondering, how Lord, will I cross this Jordan? How Lord will I get to the other side of this trial or tribulation or this affliction? And so he tells you. You're being called even tonight, even now, to use the Word of God, to be in the Word of God, to immerse yourself in the Word of God. And the Word of God is the only way to cross your Jordans. It's the only way to good success. And he uses that word twice. And you have to ask yourself the question, well, what does good success look like to me? As I'm presented with the Jordan or the land occupied by those who oppose Jesus Christ. What does it look like? And the answer is that it looks like honoring Jesus Christ. It looks like good success looks like exalting the name of Jesus in the midst of your trial, certainly in the midst of deep water. It means being strong and courageous and following Jesus so closely. That you end up exalting Jesus Christ. That's our lesson. That's the teaching tonight. Be strong and courageous. In Christ. Remembering the promises of Christ that are yes and amen in Him. Remembering that he's committed to being with you, to watching over you, to not forsaking you. To leading and guiding you by his spirit. And ultimately, he's giving you his word. He's calling you. To use it, to meditate on it, to be immersed in it For it's only by his word that you'll be able to cross over the Jordan and enter into glory. It's only by his word that you're able to follow Jesus Christ. Into eternal bliss. That's the call tonight. As the people of God are called to be strong and courageous. As they follow the Lord Jesus Christ into glory. Peter That knife failed to be strong and courageous because he was relying upon himself. He was boasting in himself, just as all the other disciples did. And just as all the other disciples fled. They failed because they were looking to their own strength. They failed because they didn't Look to Christ for their strength and their courage. Brothers and sisters, that's the lesson tonight. Look to Christ for your strength, for your courage. And as you do, he will lead you all the way into glory. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this passage tonight. For we're weak and frail, we're just like Paul. And we know that your grace is sufficient. We know that the strength and the courage of Christ is sufficient. So we ask, Holy Spirit, continue to lead and guide us in His strength, in His courage. That we would go out, that we would be active, that we would pursue your call to be lights amongst this world of darkness that Father, we would not sit at home. Yes, we need the peace of Christ. But you're calling us to take it out, to go over the Jordan. And enter the land, even where there's opposition. Help us, Lord, strengthen us in Christ. Give us his strength, give us his courage, knowing that he will never leave us nor forsake us. And we'll give you all the praise. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.