If you turn in your copies of God's word now once again to Psalm forty six months, I believe that's on page five hundred and fifty seven of your few Bibles. We'll continue our study. We'll actually finish our study tonight of this psalm. Tonight's focus will be on the last two verses. But for context, we'll read the whole thing. Let's now go to the Word of God, the very Word of God, the holy, the infallible, the inspired Word of God. To the choir master of the sons of Korah, according to Almath, a song. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, we will not fear though the earth gives way. Though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling There's a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdoms totter. He utters his voice, the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Come, behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolations on the earth. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots with fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we ask, we plead with you, help us. Father, we're tired, we're weary, we're mere humans, created beings, and yet you've spoken to us. You've given us your special revelation. You've condescended to us and you desire us to know you. And so we ask tonight, Father, by your Spirit, teach us, lead us, help us to know more of you and more of Christ. Oh Father, this is on our hearts tonight. Guide and direct us now. Speak to us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, how do you fight against the temptation? To worry, to be anxious, to fear the future Where do you find peace in a world of tribulation? As the Israelites Had walked out of Egypt after the ten plagues had been brought upon them. Pharaoh changed his mind, and you know what happens. The entire army of Egypt now goes out and pins the Israelites up against the Red Sea. They had no way out. No way to go forward, no way to go back. And Moses tells us in Exodus chapter 14 that as a result, the people, the Israelites, as they lift up their eyes and see the army of Egypt, they feared greatly. Indeed, they went to the extent of saying to Moses, Isn't this what we told you while we were in Egypt? Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians. Moses told them to fear not, to stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord He went further, and he told them that the Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent. Such a wonderful picture for us as we consider tonight the end of this Psalm 46. You have only to be silent as the Lord fights. This Psalm 46 was written by the sons of Korah. Once again, we don't know much about it. We don't know why it was written, when it was written, but we do know that it's attributed to the sons of Korah. It was written to be a song, to be sung. And we know that it was written for the purposes of worship. But tonight, as we conclude our study of this psalm, I would like us to see that the God of creation moves hearts. to stillness as his children know and exalt him. The God of creation moves the hearts To stillness of his children as they know and exalt him. 3 Simple points or heads tonight, first being still, secondly knowing God, and then finally exalting God Again, as we go through this passage, ask yourself, how do I fight against the temptation to worry, to be anxious? And to fear the future. Well, first, being still. This is a very interesting ending that the psalmist gives us here in verse 10 as he's wrapping up this Psalm. In in a sense, he waits to the end of the psalm to instruct his readers, the hearers, the singers. As to how they are to take refuge. That's how he started, remember, in verse 1. God is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. And now at the end it seems what he's doing is he's instructing the readers of this psalm, the singers of this psalm, as to how they are to take Refuge, be still, and know that I am God Well, what does that mean? The new American standard in place of being still says cease striving The Hebrew is interesting there. That's been translated as be still or cease striving. It means to loosen. It means in English to to make your hands slack, to let loose, to release, release your grip. Seems to be the idea behind being still or cease striving. Now we know that this is joined to doing something. Be still and know that I'm God, that I will be exalted. Presumably starting with the listener. And so being still cannot mean to do absolutely nothing. It includes knowing, it includes exalting. Yes, there's also this sense of stopping something. That seems to be what the English translators are getting at. Be still, cease striving. The Christian Standard Bile, stop fighting. Young's literal translation, desist. So what does it mean? To be still, to be quiet, to cease striving Psalmist, those who wrote this, appear to be in trouble. They're writing about trouble. Therefore we will not fear. See, that's the premise. He's saying there's trouble, there's tribulation in the world. The earth is giving way. Mountains moved into the heart of the sea. Waters are roaring and foaming. Mountains tremble. He's describing worldly tribulations, worldly trouble And so it must be that this idea of being still, of cease striving, of stop fighting, of desisting, relates To the tribulation, the trouble that was being related to us by the psalmist Be still amidst this tribulation. Be still amidst the trouble. As the nations rage, as the kingdoms totter Be still, cease striving What would cause you to be still in the midst of trouble? In the midst of trials, in the midst of tribulation, what would cause you to cease striving? To bring an end your worry, your anxiety over the future Isn't that what the psalmist is pointing to? Therefore we will not fear, though the earth gives way. What will you do is you suffer attacks from those who oppose God? How will you not fear them? When you're tempted to fear, not God, but something other than God, someone other than God. What would cause you to put an end to that temptation? What might put the brakes on your sliding headlong once again into worldly fear, ungodly fear, indeed sinful fear. My guess is that few of us have ever asked that question of ourselves or even thought of it. I suppose that if you're like Peter, who is following the command of the Lord Jesus Christ, to come to him on the water, Even as he was following that command, even as Jesus Christ was right there in front of him. In his physical presence, yet Peter was tempted to and began to fear as he saw the wind and the waves. As he considered his mortality, that must have been what was happening in his heart and mind. As he considered his circumstances, as he feared what might happen to him in the next moment He took his eyes off of Jesus. You see, I'm quite sure that describes most of us tonight The temptation to fear something, the future, our circumstances, or someone, those who hate God. Or, alternatively, those who we want to please is quite strong. So what would cause your heart To be still, to cease striving after that which you have no ability to obtain See, like Peter, he had no ability to remain on the top of the water on his own. What could bring your heart to be still? In a sense, this entire psalm has been answering that question. Stop fearing, God is your refuge. Desist from your fear. God is your help. Cease striving after safety. God is in his city, which shall not be moved. The Lord of hosts is with you. He is your fortress. Stop fearing and behold the works of the one who makes wars cease. So what could cause you to be still? That brings us actually to our second point, knowing God. And so we have it there. Be still and know that I am God. There is a connection between being still from desisting from fear and knowing God. If we've not learned it yet, the psalmist is in a sense repeating or summarizing that which has already gone before. And now he presents an imperative, the form of a command. Be still. How? And know that I am God. There's a direct relationship between these two and and so now we have to understand or we have to know what it is to know. God. In the context of this psalm, we see much as to what it is to know God, one who establishes, who creates. And then who provides refuge. That's a description of the God that the psalmist speaks of. The one who is strong, and who graciously grants strength to the weak The one who is a present help, nearby, close, ready, willing, able. And who actually does help. One who is more powerful than his creation. who's in the midst of his city, a city which cannot be moved because of his presence, more powerful than his creation. The one whose voice is so powerful that the earth melts as he speaks. The one who is a fortress to his people, the one who makes wars to cease, who breaks bows and shatters spears, who Burns the chariots of his enemies. Well, that's the God that the psalmist describes. But I'm asking tonight for us to go and think a bit more, not deeply, but what actually is Isalmist pointing to in all of these Is he not pointing to God, knowing God as your Savior? Let me suggest that. That's exactly what he's doing. That's the sum of all of these descriptors, isn't it? There are several images and words of trouble and tribulations in this psalm which All of which remind us of the trouble and the tribulation, the misery that we have with results of or with regard to sin. And certainly its sting. Death And none of us are able to escape that tribulation, no matter how hard we try, not in our own strength. Isn't that what Paul wrote at the end of chapter 7 in his letter to the church at Rome? Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death. Paul recognized that that he was in this body of death. He had no means to get out of it by himself. He's asking, who is it? Who will deliver me? Psalmist here in Psalm 46 seems to be saying something very similar. There's trouble, there's tribulation around you, all around, and within. If you're to be still, if you are to cease striving, then you must know God as the one who humbled himself. The Son of God. The second person of the Trinity. As the Westminster Confession put puts it the very and eternal God of one substance and equal with the Father did, when the fullness of time was come, take upon himself man's nature. With all the essential properties and common infirmities thereof, yet without sin being conceived, by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary of her substance, he humbled himself. You need to know God as this one. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. To redeem those who were under the law, that we, that you might receive adoptions as sons. You must know God as the one who humbled himself. Though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself. by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in a human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross Yes, the one who rose from the dead on the third day, the firstborn. Firstborn from the dead This one who by doing so has defeated already defeated your true enemies, sin and death. You need to know God this way. You need to know God as the Father who loved you so much that He did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for us all. As the one who poured out his eternal wrath on his only eternally begotten Son, the one who wrote your name in the book of life, the one who is spared nothing, the one who has spared nothing to ensure your salvation. You need to know God this way. You need to know that God is the Holy Spirit who abides in you to protect you and preserve you, who perfects your prayers through his groaning. who helps you to understand and lay up the very word of God in your heart, who grows you in grace. Preparing you as part of the bride's church for that great wedding day with the bridegroom, even Jesus Christ. This is the God that you must know to be still. I think this is the same God that the psalmist points us to in Psalm forty six. And then let me suggest that part of knowing God, part of truly knowing God, must be experiencing this God. Isn't that why school children take field trips? I haven't been one-on-one in a long time, but my understanding the books are helpful, but seeing and experiencing enhances learning. And so to be still or to cease striving has a connotation of getting your hands, your minds off of this world. What is it that brings you, that tempts you to fear? Is it not the things of this world? Or more pointedly, the fear of the loss of the things of this world, even life itself. It seems to sum up what tempts us to fear. So then to be still would be very simply to engage in setting your minds on the things above. So much so that in a sense you you disengage from this world, from the creation. Well, not completely. But so much so that you leave the material world behind, at least for a time. That which Lot's wife was unwilling to do. If you remember the account of Lot's wife, as Sodom and Gomorrah were being fired upon, as they were being destroyed. Lot and his wife were told not to look back, but she was so tempted by the world and by worldly things, by her lust for the world, she couldn't resist. So she turns back to look. And she becomes a pillar of salt. She was unwilling to leave behind the world, to disengage from the world. And to seek God. You see, that's exactly what the Lord has given us in His Word, and in even this day of rest. These are two means by which the Lord has given us the ability to experience Him through knowing Him. First Scripture The writer of Proverbs admonishes his readers to get wisdom. Get wisdom, get insight, do not forget, do not turn away from the words of my mouth. Do not forsake her. She will keep you, love her, she will guard you. The beginning of wisdom is this. Get wisdom. The shorter translation of this is read the Bible. Immerse yourself in the very Word of God. And that has the effect, yes, of gaining wisdom, but also of causing you to set your mind upon the things above. To read the Bible is to gain knowledge of who God is. To read the Bible is to experience God, what He has done, His mighty works. His promises, his eternal covenant, his everlasting and eternal love, his justice, his righteousness, his goodness. He's given it to us as a means by which we actually experience him. What's the other means? Not that there are only two. But it's the Lord's day. It's worship. The Lord has given us a day of rest, a cycle of rest of one day and seven. He's gifted his people with the ability, with the call to worship him. He's blessed his people with a day in which they're called out Of their worldly employments and recreations and are called in to spending it, experiencing him, worshiping him, serving him. Called the day, called to spend the day in knowing God and gaining more knowledge of him, but most importantly, spending the day in experiencing him with the body of believers. These are two means, only two, by which you can strive to be still to cease striving, to fight against anxiety, worry, and fear of anything that is not God Because you know that God is God. And because you experience God as your Savior and your Lord. And you can be still and cease striving. That brings us to our third point: Exalting God. Look at verse 10 once again. Be still and know that I am a God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. It's part of knowing God. That it's not a question as to whether or not God will be exalted. It's not a question as to whether or not God will reign. It's not a question as to whether or not God is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. It's not a question of whether or not God's the creator, the sustainer of the universe. It's not a question of whether or not he owns all things. It's not a question of whether he directs and guides and sustains And has decreed that which will come to pass. Oh, psalmist is saying This is our God, the one who will, without question, be exalted among the nations, the one who without question will be exalted in the earth God. God will cause the nations to exalt him. If we think about that today, we think. And maybe that's not happening. Maybe it won't happen. But the psalmist is saying to us very clearly Be still, know that I am God. And this is another description of him That he will be exalted among the nations. The nations which appear today to be in opposition to him, the nations which appear to be in rebellion to him, the nations which appear to have cast God off And the psalmist is saying they will ultimately exalt this one We see it even in this passage. We have a comprehensive view of the sovereign power of God, that he has already called a halt to wars. Even now, even as the psalmist wrote, it had already happened. Maybe we can't see it today, but it's already happened. He shall judge between many peoples, he shall decide disputes for strong nations far away, and they shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Micah chapter 4. Not only does God thwart man rebellions against himself and against his kingdom, he controls and overrules the actions of men. Even as they seek to establish dominions on earth. A couple of Sundays ago we talked about the desolations. Maybe it was last Sunday. The God has brought desolations on the earth Meaning ultimately that every pagan will be forced to bend the knee to me. Every knee will bow, every tongue will swear allegiance. Isaiah chapter 45 And so as every knee bows, and every tongue swears allegiance, God, our Lord, is indeed exalted. Well the psalmist doesn't stop there. He also describes God as the one who will be exalted in the earth. And God ensures his exaltation by calling his people to be still, to cease striving. Behold the works of the Lord. Come and see the works of the Lord who in his awesome who is awesome in his deeds toward the sons of men. He ensures his exaltation by calling his people to the stillness. Even amidst the trials and tribulations, even where the earth gives way Even as the mountains are moved into the heart of the sea, he calls his people to stillness, and that is part of his exaltation. Do you see? Even as things crumble around us, he's calling you to be still. To know who he is. And that even in that tribulation, he is being exalted. He ensures his exaltation by calling his people to praise him. Isn't that what it means to exalt him in the earth? By calling the reader to acknowledge, to know, to trust that the Lord God of creation is with us. It's a repetition in the Psalm, verse 7, the Lord of hosts is with us. And it ends the psalm in the same way, The Lord of hosts is with us. His presence calls for worship. Indeed, all of this calls for the believer to offer up much thanksgiving and praise. That's what's described here. That's how God is exalted amongst the earth as his people come together and offer praise and adoration. And worship him. He will be exalted in the earth So how do you fight against the temptation to fear? How do you fight against worry? Where do you find peace? The psalmist is saying it cannot be found in the creation. We can't put our hope in the temporal things of this world. It's vanity to store up treasures here on this earth. And this psalm is a call to stop. It's a call to hope in the city of God. Where there is guaranteed peace and prosperity. It's a call to hope in the one who's actually given you Stillness and peace. And it's a call to experience that even today. By exalting him, by exalting the one who has brought salvation to you, by gathering together on his day of rest to know him. To praise Him, to exalt Him, and by magnifying Christ as the Savior. Is there not much peace in that? Is there not much refuge in worshiping the triune God? Yes, the God of creation moves hearts to stillness as his children know and exalt him. The Israelites feared men and failed to fear the one who was delivering them in that very moment. May our God give us that stillness which the psalmist speaks of here May our hands release and let loose of this world, the fears and anxieties of this world, and grip tightly to Christ Jesus. To our triune God. Amen. Father and our God, we ask even now that you forgive us of our worry, of our anxiety, of our fears. And that you'd help us, Lord God, to be still. That you'd increase our knowledge of you and of Christ. That you'd help us to experience, Father, all of you, of your might, of your knowledge, of your wisdom, of your power. Of your justice, of your righteousness, of your holiness, of your goodness, of your truth. Help us, Lord. These are the things that will bring us to that stillness, that ceasing of striving. Help us to remember that Christ Is our Savior and our Lord. Help us to remember how He humbled Himself and how He condescended. And help us to remember how the Spirit continues to abide in us, even as we are sinners. Oh Father, all these things, knowing you, brings us to a quiet stillness. Help us. Help us, we are. We pray these things in