If you turn in your copies of God's Word now to Matthew's Gospel, we'll continue there this morning in chapter 25. I believe that's on page nine hundred and eighty-seven of your view bibles. Again, reading this morning at verse 14, this follows immediately after the parable of the ten virgins, as Jesus is describing the kingdom of heaven to his disciples. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. Matthew twenty-five and verse fourteen. For it will be like a man going on a journey who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away. He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five more. So also, he who had the two talents made two talents more. But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. Now after a long time the master of those servants came and settled accounts with them. And he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, Master, you delivered to me five talents. Here I have made five talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. He also, who had the two talents, came forward saying, Master, you delivered to me two talents. Here I have made two talents more. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little. I will set you over much, enter into the joy of your master. He also, who would receive the one talent, came forward, saying, Master, I knew you to be a hard man. Reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed. So I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground. Here, you have what is yours But his master answered him, You wicked and slothful servant, you knew that I reap where I had not sown, and gather where I scattered no seed. Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest. So take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents. For to everyone who has will more be given. And he will have an abundance, but from the one who has not, even what he has, will be taken away, and cast the worthless servant into the outer darkness. In that place, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come before you once again having read your word and ask for your blessing. Holy Spirit, we ask, move powerfully among us now. We pray for understanding and not mere understanding, but that you would convict us of sin in our own lives and then help us to rejoice in remembering all the promises of Christ. Help us to see his goodness here in this passage. Lead and guide us now. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you trusting in the goodness of Jesus this morning? Remember the rich young ruler as he came to the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're familiar with with that passage, he he begins by addressing as l as far as Luke. records it. He begins by addressing Jesus as good teacher. And then he asks the question, what good thing shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? Goodness is set forth in that passage even before we get to Jesus' interaction with him. And if you're familiar with that passage and the rich young ruler coming to Jesus and asking for what good thing shall I do, he tells him to keep the commandments and And the rich young ruler says, Well, I've done that and he said, What do I what what more do I need? What do I lack? And so he's understanding that he doesn't have it yet. And then Jesus tells him to go sell your wealth, and he had much. Give it to the poor and come follow me. At the end of that passage, the rich young ruler goes away sorrowful because he had a lot of possessions. And so as you go through that test text, you might ask yourself the question, well, why did he go away sorrowful? Why did the rich young ruler determine at that point not to sell his possessions, give to the poor, and follow Jesus? Clearly, we can say that the rich young ruler at that point in his life was not trusting in the goodness of Jesus. He wasn't trusting that the direction that Jesus had given him was a good one And so if it wasn't a good direction, if his possessions were better than what Jesus had suggested to him and directed him in, how could Jesus be good? That brings us to our text this morning. The goodness of Jesus Christ. He's left the temple. He's left the Pharisees and scribes behind now who had failed And the work that God had given them to do, the work that He had entrusted them with, and that is proclaiming the goodness of God. And he'sn't even as he's left the temple, the disciples are still casting their eyes back upon it, looking at its beauty. And Jesus tells them that the temple will be destroyed. And so they ask him that question, when will these things be? What will be the sign of your coming? And Jesus has been explaining that to them. Since they asked that question, he's told them that he will return But no one knows the day or the hour. And so he's called them to be ready, to prepare for his return, to be spiritually awake. And while he knows, they're probably scratching their heads and wondering, well, what does that really mean? He now gives them these two parables to help them understand what it means to be ready. Last week we looked at the parable of the ten virgins. He began that by saying, the kingdom of heaven will be like And so he's explaining to them his return. He's explaining to them how to be ready and to be prepared for his return. It's continuing to ask that question, answer that question of when will these things be? And so he provides that parable of the ten virgins, those with the five who were wise with the oil, those five foolish who didn't bring enough oil as the bridegroom delayed. The five wives able to find the bridegroom able to go into the marriage feast to celebrate A picture of going into heaven, into glory, to be with Jesus Christ, the bridegroom of the church. But the five foolish outside with the door shut in their face and Jesus telling them, I never knew you. They weren't prepared. They didn't have the spirit. So that brings us to our second parable, the one we have before us this morning, the parable which is referred to as the parable of the talents. Also, Jesus using this to describe the kingdom of heaven. And the parable is really very straightforward. The images and pictures of this parable are clear. The master is leaving. That's the overarching backdrop of the parable. The master is leaving, like the bridegroom who delays in his return. The master will be gone. Not present with his servants for a time. No time is given for his return. We know as he's gone for a long time. And we also know that the master is wealthy. He has much. And he's leaving. He can't take it with him. And so now he gives it to others to care for while he's gone. And we read that word talent, we're really not sure what it is. Sometimes in scripture the word talent is used as a measure of weight, but here it's used as a measure of money. One commentary indicates that one talent was equal to 20 years of labor. And so he gives his servant number one five talents, which means a hundred years of labor. Servant number two gets two talents or forty years of labor. Servant number three gets one talent or twenty years of labor. He entrusts his servants with his property. According to Merriam-Webster, that means to commit to another with confidence. He entrusts. He gives it to them with confidence that he's not giving up his property to keep. He's giving it in trust, so to speak. For his benefit. Benefit me when I return. To use the talents For my good. And it seems that he gives them to all of his servants. For it will be like a man going on a journey who called his servants. There seems to be three of his servants. And he calls them all to him and he entrusts all of them according to their abilities. Don't miss that. He doesn't give one too much or too little. He gives them just the right amount for their abilities. He knows his servants. He knows their talents. I'm using that word in a different way now. He knows their gifts. And he's entrusting them according to his knowledge, according to his understanding, according to their individual abilities. And so we see servant one goes out and trades the five talents and makes five more. Servant two trades and makes two talents more with the two talents he's given. Servant one does something completely different. He digs a hole. And he puts the talent in the hole. He hides the master's money. And then the master returns and he settles accounts now. Meaning, what did you do with my money? And so each servant comes forward and explains. He gives an account The one with five talents. Here. This is what I've done. I've earned five more. Well done, good and faithful servant. The one with two talents. It's a parallel. He's done the same thing. He's been given less. He's been given in accordance with his abilities. He earns two more talents. Well done. Good and faithful servant. You've been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. But the third The third is set in contrast to the first two. Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, gathering where you've not scattered no seed. I was afraid. And so he doesn't trade. He hides the money. He makes no increase for his master. And so as his master responds to him, as the servant speaks of his master in this way, he says You're a wicked and slothful servant. He calls him worthless. Instead of entering into the joy of your master, this one is entering into the outer darkness. As a result of his refusal and failure to do what the master intended, expected, the work given to him. It's a representation of what will occur on the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, isn't it? That's what he's speaking of. That's what the parable is intended to show. That's what he's been teaching his disciples. It's a representation of the kingdom of heaven. Some will go in, others will not. It's a representation of what the children of God should be doing until The Lord Jesus Christ returns as they wait upon him. And as Jesus continues to preach, on his return, he calls his disciples to be diligent in using the gifts that he will leave with them. Such that his kingdom might be increased. See, just the opposite of what the Pharisees and the scribes had done. It seems to be the overview of what we're looking at this morning, the parable of the talents. We might sum it up and put it this way, to trust in the goodness of Jesus Christ is to receive his reward. To trust in the goodness of Jesus Christ is to receive his reward. We'll see that in three doctrines, three points this morning. First, the faithful know and trust in the goodness of Jesus Christ. Secondly, the wicked reject and disbelieve the goodness of Jesus. And thirdly, the Lord will praise and usher the faithful into his joy. As we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourself this question: Am I trusting in the goodness of Jesus? Well, our first head then. The faithful know and trust in the goodness of Jesus Christ. There's a picture of trust set forth in this parable. As the master returns, And and the servants begin to describe what they have done, and the first two come to him and show the master what they've done. He refers to them as good and faithful servants. You've been faithful over a little. A faithful idea where that faithfulness is set in parallel to being good. In other words, both of these first two servants who've been entrusted with a significant amount of money, of the master's money, use it diligently and in the way the master intended. I think that's what the parable is telling us. They were good and faithful in the way they used the talents, the money, because it was exactly what the master had intended them to do. But why? What moved them? What moved these first and second servants to trade with the talents that they were entrusted with? It was a lot of money. They could have lost it Why would these two obey and seek to please their master, to be good and faithful, when the third would not? What moved these first two to be good, in other words, obedient and zealous laborers, in contrast to the third? Who does not put the talents to work, but merely hides it? What was the difference? We have a clue. And those words, good and faithful, are not a mere description of the act of their labors. Now, maybe in the parable that's the way it's presented. It's just a description of the way they acted, good and faithful But as Jesus is using it as a teaching tool to his disciples, he's saying more than it was more than just an act. It pointed to the motive of their hearts as to why they labored in that way. They were faithful. Said in contrast to the wicked and slothful nature of the third. The first two were trusting in the goodness of their master. Let's just look at that for a moment. That's what it was for the first two to be faithful, to trust their master. I think we can take that away from this parable. But they trusted in the master to reward them for their labors. The first two servants knew that they had a task, they had labor, they had work to do with the talents that were given to them. They knew their master's business. They knew that he was a rewarder of those who did his will. We see that, don't we? As the master returns and speaks to the servants, right away we see his generosity. We see his goodness. Well done! You've been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. And turn to the joy of your master It seems that these servants, lying behind this parable, were aware that their master was good. And he gave good gifts to his servants as they performed according to his will. It would seem that they trusted in this goodness. That their faith or their faithfulness was based in part of their knowledge and belief upon the goodness of their master. As the labors of the first two contrast with that labor of the third, so too the attitude of the first two contrasts with the attitude of the third. You're a hard man. You see, most of the language describing the master is given to the third servant, and he sees him and perceives him as a hard man, and that's set in contrast to the first two. They trusted on the goodness of the Master, and that moved them to do his will. What is it for you to trust in the goodness of God this morning? Jesus was reminding his disciples. Of what he'd actually told them at the end of the passage of the rich young ruler. You remember Peter, Peter said, Look, we've left everything. You just said it's going to be harder for a rich man to enter glory than for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. What about us? We've left everything. And Jesus tells them that they're going to receive a reward. And now here, chapters later, he's telling them, indeed, I'm reminding you. That my faithful servants will be blessed out of my goodness There will be a reward for I'm the good king. Jesus was saying to his disciples, you can trust in my goodness What moves a Christian, a follower of Jesus Christ, a true follower to obey? You may be thinking, well, it's the hope of eternal life. Yes, it is. But what is eternal life? Jesus describes eternal life in his high priestly prayer in John 17 as this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. So eternal life is equated with knowing God and knowing Jesus Christ. That's what moves Christians to good works, to obedience. As you know and thus trust in the goodness of Jesus Christ. Well, what is the goodness of Jesus? Here in the parable, goodness is represented by the receiving of rewards. And the servants received rewards even before the master returned. They were entrusted with much. Isn't that a reward in and of itself? Undeserving servants entrusted with much from their good master. And giving them good work to do. Just like the Lord has entrusted each of us with good work to do. They were entrusted. That's the goodness of God. That's the goodness of Christ. And then upon his return, the rewards, blessing after blessing, even with these servants in the parable The goodness of Jesus is connected to these rewards. But don't miss this. The rewards flow not from your work, but from Jesus' work Just think about that for a moment. It's Jesus' work that the rewards flow out of. You see, that's the foundation of Jesus' goodness, isn't it? That he kept the law perfectly. That's his work. That he proclaimed the truth of the Word of God inerrantly, perfectly, zealously. That he died on the cursed cross for your sins. That he rose from the dead as he defeated sin and death. These are the works of the Lord Jesus Christ which demonstrate his goodness And he earns a reward as a result of that, and then he freely gives you his reward. Does that move you to obey? Meditate upon that. Today, tomorrow. That rewards have been given already and rewards await you because Jesus has earned them. And that's his goodness. Because he gives them to you freely. Brings us to our second point. The wicked reject and disbelieve the goodness of Jesus Christ. There's another theme underlying this parable, and that theme is that there will be an accounting Jesus is teaching his disciples that not only will he return, which is clearly set forth as the disciples ask about when, when's he coming, when's the end of the age. What's it going to look like? As he describes that, now he's telling them that not only will I return, but there will be a judgment when I return. There will be an accounting when I return. I've given you gifts and I want to see how you use them. And as Paul puts it to us in Romans chapter 14, for we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. Each of us will give an account of himself to God. And so, in a sense, that's being set forth for us here as the master returns and asks for that very explicit accounting. What have you done with my money? Now don't make the mistake that some do and think that the third servant was just a really conservative, cautious investor He was innocent, really. And he was right about his master as being a hard man. No. That's not the teaching of this parable. That's not the point to take away from this. To understand the parable rightly, you must understand the intent of a master being clear. Put the talents to use. Make me more money. The perception of the third servant of his master was corrupt. That's what we need to understand. Master, I knew you to be a hard man. Exactly the opposite of what the first two understood. This one It's one in complete contrast with the perceptions of the first two servants. I knew you to be a hard man Based upon that understanding, that perception of the master, he refuses to serve in the way that the first two servants did. His actions are based upon his perception of the master. And so he rejects the master's instructions. He denies the master's will for fear of the master It's a foolish attitude. Think of that. The third servant brings the wrath of his master upon himself because he was fearful of his master's wrath. And so in a foolish attempt to avoid his master's wrath, he hides the talent. And returns it without having put it to work, as his master expected. He denies the goodness of his master. That seems to be exactly what's happening here as he speaks to the master. He professes him to be a hard man, maybe an evil man. I think exactly that's what he's saying here. I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, gathering where you scattered no seed, you reap where you've not sown. Isn't he saying by that you're an evil man? You take what's not yours. He perceives his master not only as being hard, but as being evil. Did you notice how the master referred to the talents? As he praises the first two servants, he tells them, Well done, you have been faithful over a little. That tells you much about the attitude of a master. A hundred years worth of work, I'm just giving that to you, in dollars, so to speak. I'm giving you a hundred years worth of labor. Now go. I'm entrusting it to you. Come back. But he refers to it as a little. Seemingly there was no pressure, even if we were lost, it's just a little, as long as the one who is faithful with that which he had been entrusted That is the sign of a kind and compassionate master. But the third servant didn't know his master that way. He had slid into a pit of darkness. He had pulled the shades down over his eyes, so all he could see now was blackness as he looked upon his master. He couldn't see the goodness. He couldn't see the light. Because the darkness of his sin had just covered it over completely. Many in the world do the same thing today. Many perceive the biblical teaching of Jesus Christ to portray an evil, uncaring, unkind master. Many perceive the teachings of Christ as concerning sin to be that which is unreasonable or harsh. He's a hard man. Because he stands upon the Word of God as beautiful and as perfect and as holy. And so the third servant comes to a corrupt understanding of biblical truth, a twisting of the goodness of the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. into something utterly unrecognizable. That's what the world does today, just like the third servant. They've twisted to the point of unrecognition the portrayal of Jesus Christ. Does that describe you this morning? Are you like the third servant? Have you rejected the kindness, the compassion, the goodness of Jesus Christ? He's called you. to set aside those things which you love which are displeasing to God Ultimately, this corrupt view of Jesus rises out of that your love for sin, which you're not wanting to let go of. You see, you will always refuse to know and trust Jesus as good if you desire to remain in your pornography. You'll always refuse to know and trust Jesus Christ as being good if you desire to remain in your idolatry of money. Or in your lies and lack of telling the truth, or your refusal to submit to authority Because Jesus states that these things are offensive to a holy God and must be set aside and hated. If that describes you this morning, what is the solution? Go to the Bible. I know that may seem odd to you because you say, well, I don't trust Jesus. Go to the Bible. Let the Word of God pour over your soul. Pray that the Spirit would plant the goodness of Jesus Christ, the God man, deeply within your heart. Go to the Psalms. You are good and do good. Teach me your statutes. Psalm 119, Psalm 86, for you, O Lord, are good and forgiving and abounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you. For Psalm 100. For the Lord is good. His steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations, go to the Word of God, let it pour over your soul. But this is the only way for you to truly grasp and understand and praise God for the goodness of Jesus Christ. That brings us to our third point. The Lord will praise and usher the faithful into his joy. We've already spoken of the reward at least a little bit, a portion of that reward given to the first two servants, those who took the master's talents and put them to work and and increase their master's holding, pleasing the master and receiving that tangible demonstration of his goodness, he first praises them. Did you notice that? That's what he does first. Well done, good and faithful servant. The first two servants are praised. Can you imagine hearing those words? Well done, good and faithful servant. Those words are evidence, they're demonstrable evidence of the goodness of the master. And over much, you've been faithful over a little, I will set you over much. If it were not enough to praise them, well done. Now he tells them, I'm going to give you more. I've given you little. Now I'm going to give you more, continuing to pour out his goodness. Notice how much is given to them who already have been given much. Notice how much has been given to you who have already been given the gift of faith. Jesus Christ keeps on pouring out. His abundance on you day by day. But that doesn't seem to be the culmination It's that last part of the master's speech to the first two servants. Enter into the joy of your master. Isn't that the essence Of the goodness of Jesus Christ. Enter into the joy of your master. That is the ultimate reward. That's the reward given to the good and faithful servants. It's the joy of their master that these two longed for. And it's the joy that every Christian so desires The joy of Christ. You see, there's no joy outside of Christ. Not really. Not truly. The world today believes that there is true joy, true happiness, true fulfillment to be found in this world And so as we see the news reports, we continue seeking or seeing those that are seeking that joy, that happiness, that fulfillment here in the creation. All people, all tribes, all tongues, all nations of people are striving after, seeking to find, searching, always searching for joy and happiness in this life. But this passage tells us that there's none to be found in this place. The third servant thought that he would find safety and peace and happiness merely in returning the single talent to his master, but he was completely mistaken. In his human wisdom he had become wicked and worthless and condemned. Isn't that what we see in this passage? Contrast what the first two was told with what the third was told. Take the talent from him, give it to him who has the ten. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. See he was looking for happiness, he was looking for peace In hiding the talent. And and the master says, No, there's no happiness, there's no peace, there's no joy for you. I'm taking it away. He's cast into the outer darkness. Just picture that for a moment. He was with his fellow servants. He was a laborer under his master's household. Now everything is gone Everything. From the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. He's separated from each and every relationship that he had He's cast into the outer darkness. He's away from his fellow servants. He's certainly away from his master. He's immediately separated from everything. Completely severed. It's a picture of hell Jesus is describing his return. He's describing the kingdom of heaven, and he's saying, There's none of these who will be in the kingdom of heaven. They will be in another kingdom. It will be the kingdom of hell and damnation. Not every scripture passage that deals with hell defines it as a place of fire, of eternal fire where the worm never dies. Here It is aptly described as a place of separation, separation from his master. All servants were brought to the master. All servants were given talents of a particular amount. Some, the faithful and good, head into the joy of their master. The unfaithful, the worthless, the sluggard, is excluded from joy. He will never find satisfaction or fulfillment in outer darkness, having been separated from his master. And those who do not trust in the goodness of the Lord Jesus Christ will be forever separated. From Him, from the Triune God, from every single relationship and everything that you might have enjoyed upon this earth and that is hell. That's the contrast. That's the deadly contrast. Do you remember how Jesus began these two parables? Then the kingdom of heaven will be like He's picturing the kingdom. He's picturing glory. He's picturing heaven. And this is where the picture has been focused. Enter into the joy of your master. True joy, true happiness, true fulfillment, only found in Jesus Christ. Why? Because you bear the image of God. You do not bear the image of man. None of you bear the image of worldly man. No, you bear the image of the divine one. All of us do. You're not God, you're not divine, but you're made in his likeness. And as a result There can be found no true joy outside of him or outside of Christ, outside of communion and fellowship with the triune God. And so the master tells his good and faithful servants, Enter into the joy of your master. This is the ultimate goal, the ultimate reward for anyone and everyone who truly believes in the goodness of the Lord Jesus Christ. Aren't those the words you're waiting to hear? Don't you long for those words? Enter into the joy of your master. That's the door you're waiting to have opened. Just like the ten virgins. Just like the door that was shut in the face of those five foolish virgins. It's the door to the master's joy that only Jesus opens. It's the door to the fulfillment of being made in the image of God. And Jesus Christ is the only one who can give this to you as His reward. Are you waiting to hear those words? Do you long to hear the words of Jesus Christ spoken to you? Enter into the joy. Of your master. Yes, to trust in the goodness of Jesus Christ is to receive His reward. The rich young ruler didn't understand that. At that day that he spoke to Jesus Christ, he felt that his reward was in his wealth and his earthly possessions, and Jesus was telling him There's no joy and happiness in those possessions, young man. Trust in my goodness. Follow me, as I will bring you And to the joy of your master. Amen Our Father and our God, we thank you so much for Jesus Christ. We thank you so much for his goodness. Lord, we don't even grasp it. We don't really know how to understand it. But we know He is good. And we know that as he returns, he brings rewards with him, not because of what we've done, but because of what he's done. And so help us to help us to remember what he's done, help us to cling to his goodness, help us to be obedient servants in this life, not to earn a reward, but to to see the rewards that he brings with him. Oh Father, we pray, separate us from this world So that we might truly long for the day when Jesus returns and brings with him the rewards, the crown, the joy It only exists in him. Pray all these things in his name. Amen.