Keep turning your copy of God's word now to Matthew's gospel. We'll continue our study there in chapter eighteen. I think you'll find that on page nine hundred and seventy-eight of your Pew Bibles. This morning we'll read the first fourteen verses. Let's give attention to the Holy Word of God. At that time the disciples came to Jesus saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe to the world for temptations to sin. For it is necessary the temptations come, but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes. And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire. See that you do not despise one of these little ones. For I tell you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father who is in heaven What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine in the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray? And if he finds it, truly I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray. So it is not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish. That's probably the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father our God, as your word has now been read, we'd ask that you would add your blessing to it, and that Father, your Spirit would guide us this morning. Holy Spirit, direct us. Help us to understand these passages rightly. And that you would apply them. Powerfully apply them to our hearts. Help us leave this place, not only having heard, but having been changed by your word. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. How dangerous is your pride? Have you ever thought about that? We may think of pride as an acceptable, or as Jerry Bridges puts it, a respectable sin. Everyone's prideful. So what? Doesn't kill anyone But that's not how pride is characterized throughout Scripture. Proverbs 8 tells us that pride is the opposite of the fear of God. Proverbs eleven tells us that pride is the opposite of humility. In 1 John, the Gospel writer, tells us that the pride of life is not from the Father, it is of the world. Pride in Proverbs 1 is aligned with destruction. And pride is connected to the scoffer who's arrogant. Pride is that which brings a person low. Pride is that which Jesus said defiles a person, along with coveting and deceit and sensuality and envy and slander and foolishness. Pride was that which was displayed by the Pharisee as he went up to pray with the tax collector. God, I thank you that I'm not like other men. Remember, the Pharisee did not go to his house justified. The tax collector did. This passage that we have before us this morning in chapter 18 of Matthew, in a sense, tells us how dangerous Pride is. Jesus has been transfigured. He took up those three disciples with him to see and hear as God the Father spoke about his beloved Son. The disciples have also seen Jesus remove a demon from a young boy, returning him, restoring him to do that which the disciples couldn't because of their little faith. We've seen Peter has paid the temple tax from the mouth of the fish. And now Jesus goes back to the basics. As he begins to tell them how they can be saved. This morning, as we go through this passage, I'd like you to see that unrepentant pride leads one away from salvation in Christ. And is a great hindrance to the building of the kingdom. Unrepentant pride leads one away from salvation in Christ and is a great hindrance to the building of the kingdom. See that on three points this morning. First, humility recognizes the weak. Secondly, humility receives the weak. And finally, humility retrieves the weak. Again, as we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, how dangerous is my pride? Well, first, humility recognizes the weak. The disciples come to Jesus and ask that question: who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? It was at that time that they were asking this question. We must ask ourselves the question, what what time was it? It was apparently time to think about the kingdom. The kingdom was clearly on the minds of the disciples So as they asked this question, but think of where they'd been. Think of the three disciples that had been with Jesus as he was transfigured. Think of them as they heard the words of God the Father speaking to them Think as Peter has now witnessed this supernatural event of Jesus telling him that there'd be a coin in the mouth of a fish and he could pay the temple tax with it and he finds that it's actually absolutely true. The disciples were slowly coming to realize that the kingdom of heaven was being ushered in by Jesus Christ. But they were not completely clear on what that kingdom was. And so they ask Who's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Presumably they were thinking of a worldly kingdom in which Jesus was going to rule. That was their thought, that was their idea re-establishing David's throne on earth, in which Jesus would be sitting on it. And so if that was their thought, then it seems to be the case, then they were asking about their own positions. You're going to be sitting on the throne. Where are we going to sit? Who'd be next in line? In other words, who would be the greatest? It does not appear that they were thinking about the spiritual realm. And so they ask, who's the greatest? It's a question that we ask frequently, or at least ponder in our minds, isn't it? Where do I stand in the order of importance? Whether with our spouse or friends or our employer, our teacher, our neighbors, how important am I to you? What do you think of me? Do you favor me more than others? You may be thinking at this moment, well, I don't really think those thoughts. I'd have to ask you to examine your heart again. Because these are the questions that stand behind a good bit of our pride. Isn't that what Eve was thinking? As she took and ate of the forbidden fruit? This will make me wise, like God. Adam, what do you think of me now? Yes, I'm supposed to be your helpmeet. I'm supposed to be your helper, follower. But I've become wise, like God. What do you think of me now? Well, Jesus hears that question and responds to his disciples. In this way. You've asked the wrong question. In fact, by asking the question that you have, you've just opened up your heart to me so I can actually now see What your desire is. Your concern should not be about the greatest So important is this lesson that Jesus is about to teach that he uses an object, meaning this child. As a visual aid. He brings a child and he sits the child in the midst of them and wants them to look upon this child Truly, I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Your concern should be whether or not you will enter the kingdom. Whether you'll be saved from your sins, your concern should not be with what chair you'll be sitting in. Whether you'll be granted entry or not, that should be your concern. That should be on your heart And so he told them that they must turn. I say to you, unless you turn Unless you redirect your hearts. Unless you turn from your sin. Unless you turn from your inclination to sin. Unless you turn from your rebellion. Unless you turn from your corrupt heart, unless you turn from your self-centeredness, unless you turn from your desire to be great Unless you turn from the hardness of your heart, unless you turn from your pride And turn to the Father. He will not enter the kingdom of heaven. But there was a second call as well, wasn't there? A call not only to turn, but to turn into a new creation. To become new, to turn away from that which you have been, and to become childlike. A call to change, a call to be like this little one that was sitting in the midst of them. It wasn't a reference to becoming immature or unknowing or uneducated. That wasn't what Jesus was saying. No, he was saying, I want you to become something that is in complete contrast to what you are now Are children concerned about their greatness? I don't know many Jesus was calling these to become like one who was completely dependent and knew it. Jesus was calling these to be childlike in innocence, innocent of pride. Jesus was calling these to become like one who did not seek out their own greatness, who was not concerned about greatness. He was calling these to cast off their pride. And to humble themselves like this child. That's what he said to them: whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest. There's a parallel here in this whole event to Jesus' meeting with Nicodemus, isn't there? We know that children are not sinless, and yet the call was to become like children. The call was to have this radical supernatural change. To these disciples moving away from this yearning for greatness, to a childlike heart that seeks only to humbly serve and please the Father. Jesus was calling for a new birth. Truly, truly, unless you are born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. That's what he told Nicodemus. That's what he was telling these disciples that day. See, pride had put its tentacles around the hearts of the disciples. They were entangled. Even as Jesus had explained that he must be persecuted to death to die on the cursed cross, to be buried, to rise again on the third day. Yet these twelve were so enamored with themselves that seemingly the only thought in their minds was their greatness. We don't like to admit it, but we have the same problem. We're filled with pride. We desire others to speak well of us. We want to be thought well of in the eyes of our friends, our co-workers, our family, our neighbors, even those at the grocery store and the gas station. We want to be liked, we want to be received. Those desires are really no different than seeking greatness. Jesus is calling you to turn. First, like a child, you must recognize your weakness The danger here lies in not seeing it, not confessing your pride as sin and as a weakness. You must confess it first. It is a weakness. Pride is a weakness that runs deep. A weakness that succumbs to the slightest opportunity to raise its head and call others to Look upon my greatness. And so Jesus calls you to turn this morning. Turn from your pride. See how wretched it is in the sight of God. Understand what an abomination your pride is before a holy God. The one who condescended before you to take on a human nature just like yours, except for sin. Where was Jesus' pride? It was non-existent. Where was the son's pride? He had none. Who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. That's a description of the very Son of God. The call this morning is to recognize your pride and turn That's a call this morning for each of us, isn't it? And it's a call for us to be asking ourselves that question, what am I doing? To turn. To turn from my pride and to become like Jesus These next two points actually provide suggestions as to what you might be doing to turn from your pride. That brings us to our second point. Humility receives the weak. Well, the theme continues in verse 5: Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. On his face this seems to be a separate teaching, like Jesus is moving from one thing to another. But he refers to one such child, and the child seems to be still sitting there in their midst. So now he's seemingly pointing. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. Now while Jesus makes a reference to this child again, it appears that the reference is now used a bit differently. He's not speaking of becoming like this child. He's speaking of receiving this one. Speaking of how these disciples might demonstrate their humility. It's one thing to profess your humility, isn't it? Oh, I'm humble. I'm not a prideful person. It's another thing to demonstrate your humility. You see these passages are also connected because they're both all about salvation. Jesus is getting to the basics, isn't he? Unless you turn and become like children, you'll never enter the kingdom of heaven And even this passage is a bit subtle, but it's clearly about salvation. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. Seems to be what Jesus is saying is that if you receive a child like this one in my name, You're actually demonstrating your faith, your trust in me Oppositely, if you lead a child like this one away from me, then it would be better if a millstone were hung around your neck and you were cast into the sea. You see, he's saying that there is there's a way to demonstrate your humility. Such that you will be assured of your salvation. What is it to receive How did these disciples know what it what he was talking about? What does Jesus mean, receive such a one like this? In a sense, it's very simple. To receive is to take the thing offered, to accept it. That's what Webster defines it as. Receive doesn't entail going out and getting or producing something It doesn't involve anything that you already possess. No, it means something that you've been given by another. And here it is, receive one such child. It's the child that's to be received. Jesus is speaking as Webster defines received to admit into membership or fellowship. That's the idea. Receive such one. In my name. Paul puts it this way: accept the one who is weak in faith. What does this have to do with pride? These passages are closely connected. We see the first one is clearly about pride. It's about not being able to enter the kingdom of heaven with pride. But what does this have to do with pride? As he's speaking to his disciples about receiving one such child in his name, he's speaking to them that they would receive one that they might not consider to be worthy. Worthy to be received into their community, worthy to be received into their fellowship, worthy to be received into their ministry with Jesus, into the kingdom which they consider themselves to be great in I'm not sure you're worthy to come in. Jesus is considering our hearts again. And in this context where their pride was shining forth, who's the greatest? Jesus knew that they needed to be convicted of their heart condition. He needed to tell them. He needed to let them know they needed to learn how to love their neighbor. Whoever that was. Jesus could have said it this way. You need to receive all that I send to you. These will include those you may think are inferior to you. They don't have the doctrine that you have. They don't know so much about God the Father as you do. They don't know about the church yet. Because Jesus knew they might be thinking too much of themselves. Jerry Bridges, who wrote that book about the respectable sins, rights of pride this way. It's moral self-righteousness. It's placing yourself on a pedestal above others to look down on them, just like the Pharisee was looking down on the tax collector. Because he was morally superior. At least that's what he thought Jesus was saying to the disciples, I will send to you those who do not appear to meet your standards. But your standards don't really matter. And so he's calling them to love their neighbor and receive them James actually illustrates this idea very well, for if a man wearing a gold ring in fine clothing comes into your assembly and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in and you pay attention to the one who wears the fine fine clothing and say, you sit here in a good place and you say to the poor man, you stand over there or sit down on my feet James continues and tells them that they've become judges with evil thoughts. I said, God has chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith. And so Jesus is saying you need to receive those who you think are weak. Jesus receives the weak. Isn't that what he was saying? Wasn't Jesus saying, I receive the weak? Isn't that what Paul wrote in his letter to those in Rome? For while we were still weak, at the right time, Jesus Christ died for the ungodly? He receives the weak. For while we were helpless, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. He brought them into his house, into his family, as brothers and sisters. You were once one of the helpless. One of the weak. And he received you. One who was unworthy of his time and his effort and his love. And yet he welcomed you. And Jesus was asking the disciples, are you willing to do the same? And the question applies to us today: are you willing to do the same? Are you willing to receive the weak? Those you might consider on the outside to be unworthy. To welcome the poor, the childlike, the uneducated, the sick, the oppressed, the helpless. That's what he was asking. It's a question that we need to be asking ourselves. Are we willing to open our homes to welcome in whoever the Lord gives to us? To receive the weak, the helpless. In order to do so, you must cast off your pride. We shouldn't be like a lawyer who asks, Who's my neighbor? Because Jesus is saying, even these little ones. Are your neighbors? Love them. That brings us to our third point. Humility receives the weak. In verse ten, Jesus says very clearly, see that you do not despise one of these little ones. And then he uses that analogy about that sheet that's gone astray and leaving the ninety-nine behind and going in search of the one who has run off the stray one. And then rejoicing over it. He ends this by saying, It's not the will of my Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish See, the idea is Jesus retrieves the weak. Yes, he receives the weak, but he also retrieves the The weak, and that's the concept, that's what he's talking to his disciples about. Go after the weak. It's the idea. of retrieving the idea of taking the time to go, the effort to rescue, to retrieve, to go to the undesirable places Where the straying one is strayed and bring them back. You see, that's what Jesus did. He left heaven And came into this world of wretched, filthy sinners He went to that undesirable place, a despicable place, full of despicable people. so that he could retrieve all of the straying sheep, the lost, the wandering, the filthy, the injured, the half dead, the unworthy sheep. Yes, the Spirit of the Lord God was upon him because the Lord has anointed him to bring good news to the poor, to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captive, to the opening of the prison to those who are bound. That's what Jesus did. He went to the undesirable place. This seems to be the last step, so to speak, in becoming humble. This call, this command to run after, to go in search of the one that went astray. The last step. In becoming a humble servant of the living God, to retrieve these little ones, to participate actively in seeking a loss, the straying sheep, and then to rejoice Because they've been found pleasing the Father. It's not the will of my Father who is in heaven that any one of these little ones should perish. What's your response when you're invited to participate in evangelism? Or to participate in an activity which seeks the lost. That's really what evangelism is, isn't it? Let me ask that a different way. What is it that prevents you from actively seeking the lost? From actively going out. This picture presents an active going out and seeking the one who's straying. What are the obstacles that prevent you from going? Let me suggest this morning that it's your pride. You say I'm too busy. Well, how's that an indication of pride? Because the things that you have planned are more important than the soul that is strayed from God Straying sheep is not so important to me as are my other obligations, my other plans. That's pride. That's what Jesus was saying. You need to cast that off so you can go. And search for the straying sheep. Because that one's more important than these 99 back here. Isn't that what he was saying? This one's more important than these other things you have planned to do today Or maybe I just don't feel comfortable going. That's out of my comfort box. Why is that? It's because of your pride. It's because you're unsure of how your efforts will be received. It's because you're unsure of how that one you're seeking will respond to you. It's because you're unsure of whether you talk about Jesus or someone, how that will make them see you. How will how will I be received if I really talk to somebody about Jesus? I would say our pride is the primary obstacle that keeps us from really seeking the lost. Well that should cause us to ask the question: how do we do that? How do we become humble? So that we can retrieve and receive the weak ones Jesus said, you must turn and become like children. How do you dismantle the pride which you've inherited, which is a significant aspect of your sin nature in Adam? How do we do that? Isn't it by setting our thoughts upon the things above? Isn't it by setting your thoughts upon Jesus Christ? See, the disciples' thoughts were earthly, they were worldly, they were fixed upon themselves. But as you meditate upon Jesus, upon his person, upon his nature, upon his beauty, you begin to understand your littleness. Let's just take a moment to think about the beauty of Christ, the unbounded holiness of Jesus. Holiness is difficult to define, and yet we know it involves the concept of being utterly separate, meaning that there's none like Jesus. He's so set apart, so holy, so pure, so innocent, so godly, that he's in a unique and singular category all by himself as the God man. None other And so as we think about Jesus, as we meditate upon him, we should be thinking about his holiness, his separateness And that's defined by his love for the Father. So great was his love. That nothing, nothing could separate him from the love that he had for his father And so we read that verse which calls for us to love the Lord our God with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength, our whole being completely given over, devoted, and fixed upon seeking his will, and that's what Jesus did Every day, every moment of the day. That's the beauty of Christ. He's constantly seeking after his Father's will, not just seeking it, but doing it, loving it. wanting nothing else other than to do that. And he pursued it and he accomplished it, even when it meant his own separation from the one whom he loved with his entire being On the cross, as your sins were poured out upon him Even when it meant receiving that punishment, the eternal wrath of God for your sins, even when it meant all of your filth on him. Your insubordination, your wretchedness, your rebellion, your hatred, your wickedness, that's how much he loved his father. That's the beauty of Christ. And if you begin to even grasp or have an inkling of that purity of his love for his father, then you begin to grasp the littleness of your own being. That's humility because you've set your thoughts upon Jesus You see, John the Baptist said his thoughts upon Jesus. Remember there was a time when people were flocking to John the Baptist because he was baptizing and This was something new and different and people were going and and being baptized and there was a stream of people coming to John and then he tells his disciples That the bridegroom has come and this joy of mine is now complete. He must increase and I must decrease. See, John saw the beauty of Christ. He had come to prepare the way for him And he was gaining and gathering the attention of the entire region. And yet he recognized that that wasn't to be the case. And so he calls out to his disciples and says, he must increase and I must decrease. That's the idea. That's the concept, isn't it? That beginning of a humble and contrite heart. That's how you become humble. Yes, it's by and through the work of the Spirit. Absolutely. But he's the one who guides and directs you to set your mind and heart upon Jesus Christ. And so how frequently do you do that Isn't that what this passage is getting at today? Yes, it's intensely about salvation. And it's also about the building up of the church. But it's a call for you to set your mind and heart upon Christ and meditate upon his beauty, his love for his Father. And as you do, you'll come to the conclusion with God that he must increase and I must decrease. Yes, unrepentant pride leads a soul away from salvation in Christ and is a great hindrance to the building of the kingdom. The Pharisee was full of pride. He was headed to hell. The taxi collector. Recognized his sin, which included his pride. And as he confessed it, he was justified. Christ, Christ Jesus is calling each of us today. Cast off your pride. Set your sights, your mind, your heart on Christ. He must increase. I must decrease. Praise be to God. Father in heaven, we are so weak. Pride is so invasive. And we need the Spirit. Holy Spirit help us. Help us to kill off this pride. That we might receive these little ones. That we might retrieve these little ones. That Father, we might be engaged in the work of the church and building her up, Father. We know that This pride will only be a hindrance and will only lead us to damnation. Help us to repent. Work powerfully, Holy Spirit, that we might be those who are zealous for the church of the Lord Jesus Christ and welcome these little ones