Uh continue to stand. Turn to the book of Mark. Mark chapter 14. Not Corinthians today. But Mark chapter 14, where one of the i places where the Lord's Supper is spoken of. We'll begin reading at verse 12 and continue on through verse 26. Let us hear God's word. On the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where do you want us to go and prepare that you may eat the Passover? And he sent out two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him Wherever he goes in, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with my disciples, and he will show you a large upper room, furnished and prepared. There, make ready for us. So his disciples went out and into the city, and they found it just as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover. In the evening he came with the twelve. And when they sat and ate, Jesus said, Surely I say unto you, One of you who eats with me will betray me. They began to be sorrowful, and they said to him one by one, Is it I? And another said, Is it I? He answered and said to them, It is one of the twelve who dips with me in the dish. The Son of Man indeed goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had never been born. As they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them and said, Take, eat, this is my body. Then he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they all drank from it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many. Assuredly I say to you I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives Thus for ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Well, very shortly we will be celebrating the Lord's Supper. And it has always been an intriguing thing for me to wonder how something that seems and appears to be so simple as the Lord's Supper has gotten so complicated How could it be that the collected wisdom of mostly believing men are not able to understand what is happening in the Lord's Supper? But the fact is that even those who believe in the inspired word of God have argued over the meaning of certain aspects of the Lord's Supper. There are no less than four major ideas regarding the presence of grace in the sacrament. And how that grace is conferred. What kind of grace is it? How is it present? How is it conferred to the participant in the Lord's Supper? Add to that question the matter of what does it mean to be a worthy participant in the Lord's Supper? And you have many different issues revolving around the celebration of the Lord's Supper, some of which have gone to the level of dividing the the true church of the Lord Jesus Christ Today, as we look at these verses in Mark chapter 14, let's try to take ourselves out of this environment And put ourselves with the apostles that first night when the first Lord's Supper occurred. Let's try to see the celebration of the Lord's Supper completely with new eyes, as if we had never done it before. The setting. The setting of the First Lord's Supper occurs, it occurs After Christ eats the Passover with his disciples It occurs after that. The Passover occurs first, and then the Lord's Supper follows that And when you understand what Passover is As one of the great themes of God redeeming his people that was celebrated in the Old Testament, what you've got now is the gathering together of the Old and the New. This is all happening in one brief period of time The old celebration is now being connected with the new celebration. You have uh You have coming together at this table, this big table where Jesus is with his disciples. You have coming together the very climactic moment of redemption. Because after this, Jesus is going to be crucified. You have coming together all the promises of the Old Testament now being fulfilled. in the New. You have all the shadows of the Old Testament being replaced with the reality. You have sacrificial lambs of the Old Testament superseded by the sacrificial lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. The one who takes away the sins of the world. There's a lot going on here. This is an amazing moment in time. And what is even more amazing for you, the believer, is that you live in the fullest of times. You live in the newness of times. You live in the new era of God's redemptive completion, the completion of his redemptive work. You live in what is called the era of the last days, the era of the fullness of time. Where Christ's death and resurrection has made all things new. And all creation waits. The final act of God's redeeming grace when Jesus returns And so the Passover has been eaten. The disciples have no clue what's coming next. And Jesus institutes what has become the Lord's Supper. In verses 22 and 23 we read What he did. It says he took bread, he blessed it, and he broke it, and he gave it to his disciples. And he said, take, eat, this is my body. And then he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, and they drank from it. In an instant, the eleven disciples, Judas is now gone. In an instant, the eleven disciples Have gone from Passover to Lord's Supper. Some of the elements of both sacrifices remain, or both celebrations remain. The bread, for example. Some of the elements are gone. There's no bitter herbs. There's no roasted lamb that went along with the Passover celebration. All the elements have undergone a transition in meeting. They've gone from shadow to fulfillment. They've gone from Cloudiness to clarity, intensity and finality now rule the game. Now are part of this celebration. Christ begins by blessing the bread. He offers up thanksgiving to God, who provides all things to his people. It says he blessed the bread, and after blessing it, what did he do? He broke it. He broke the bread. And the symbolism of breaking that bread, what was at one point whole, is now divided. What was at one point altogether is now meant to be shared To be shared with others. There's one bread of provision through which Christ shares something with his people. All of the disciples, all the eleven disciples get a part of the bread. They all share in the one bread. They share the same blessings of that one bread No one gets less, no one gets more. Everyone needs the same bread There aren't any second-class Christians here. They're all needing the bread that Christ gives to them. He breaks the bread. And as I just said, he gives it to them. And that may seem like a small thing But they're not taking it. He's giving it. Just as we stress That salvation is a gift of God, even the very act of giving this bread to his disciples is a is Christ gifting them with this bread. This is God's provision for his people. He gives to us, not we to him. And then he invites them to take and to eat. An invitation that Jesus extends to his disciples to unite with him. A free and gracious offer of food, food that sustains and nourishes God's people, and at the same time is Is connected to Christ because what Jesus says next, after blessing it and breaking it and giving it, he says This is my body. This is my body. In the Lord's Supper Bread does not somehow become Jesus' body. There is no magical trick here. It it it did it wasn't it was wasn't something it wasn't bread and then somehow it became Jesus' body. No It already is Christ's body. This is my body. Now, of course, when he says is Some interpretive tools need to be appreciated here. Um the word is, you know, a small word. Uh Christ will say, for example, in John 10, verses 7 and 9, he says, I say unto you, I'm the door of the sheep. And he says again, I am the door. If any man enter in, he shall be saved. He go out and find pastures. When Christ says he is the door, What he's saying is, is I am the way to open salvation. I am the way to salvation. Jesus is not saying I am a door. But he uses the word is. So is means it represents something. So when Jesus says, this is my body, the bread represents Christ's body. And those of you who know what I'm saying here know that there is one group in Christendom that believes that the bread of Jesus that the bread somehow becomes magically during the Lord's Supper somehow becomes Jesus' body. You know, it's it's out there. It's there. But that doesn't seem to be what Jesus is saying. It's not that it's it's not he doesn't say that this bread becomes my body. He says it is my body. It already is Now he is comparing the bread to his body. In bread, you know, when you eat bread, it nourishes, it sustains. When you partake of Christ, it nourishes and sustains. It's not a physical nourishment, it's a spiritual nourishment It's not, it sustains life, spiritual life. This isn't the only time in Jesus' ministry that bread Plays an important role in Jesus' ministry. It comes up repeatedly in the Gospels. Think about the feeding of the 5,000, and then the feeding after that of the 4,000. You know some of those stories Those two feedings are recorded in all four of the Gospels John 6 and its commentary is especially important. But before we get there Let me just share with you Luke chapter 9, something that Jesus says in Luke chapter 9, leading up to its story of the feeding of the 5,000. If you turn to verse 12 in Luke chapter 9, we'll read, When the day began to wear away, then came the twelve And said to him, Send the multitude away. They may go into the towns and into the country around about. Find lodging and get victuals, victuals or food. For we are here in a desert place. But he said to them, Give ye them to eat They said we have no more but five loaves and two fishes. Should we go and buy meat for all these people? Again, the disciples could not provide the food for these people, but Jesus easily provided food. Easily provided bread for five thousand. He did it out of five loaves and two fishes. He noticed In the Luke account in verses 9, verse 16 of chapter 9, it says, he blessed and he broke it. Same language as the Lord's Supper celebration in Mark 14. He blessed and he broke it as he gave it, Luke 9, verse 16, to the people. All the people, the 5,000, were fed, they were satisfied, and they were filled. All of which points to the fact in that feeding of the 5,000 that they were abundantly provided for by Jesus Christ. Even as Christ abundantly provides for sinners in his sacrifice. His sacrifice is To cover a multitude of sins for a multitude of his people In John Six, Jesus links his body the bread to manna. Mana which God gave to Israel during The time as they left Egypt. And he talks about that. And he's talking to Jews about that experience. If we pick up now in John chapter 6 and verse 32, Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, Moses gave you not the bread from heaven, but my father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven. The bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. They say to him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. And Jesus said to them later in verse 35. I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall never hunger, and he that believes on me shall never thirst. And if you skip down to verses 49 through 57, Jesus continues on this theme of him being the bread of life. He says, your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and are dead. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, that a man may eat of it and not die. Verse 51, I am the living bread, which comes down from heaven. If a man eats this bread, he shall live forever. The bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. The Jews therefore shh- shh. st strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? Jesus said to them, Verily, verily I say to you, except you eat the flesh of the Son of God, drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whosoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood hath eternal life, and I will raise him up the last day. My flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood dwelleth in me and I in him. This is language of belonging, being in God, in Christ, being with him in the most profound of ways. Having a relationship that gives life with Christ that comes only through faith. It comes only through faith in Christ. I was struck In this John 6 passage, we were talking about this the other week in session meeting. In verse 35, Jesus says, I am the bread of life. Verse 35 of John six. And then again, in John um fifty, uh John six and verse um Verse 51, I am the living bread which comes down from heaven. That is, that on the surface, that looks so innocent. I am the living bread which gives life. Or I am the one who comes down from heaven. When when Jesus uses the words I am there That's the same I am that that Moses asked in Exodus who Shall I say, sent me? And he says, I am who I am. And Jesus is saying, I am The living bread. I am God in all of his fullness, in all of his glory, is living bread. Is life. I am eternal life. That's the importance of this bread. Now Now you look at this spread over here and it isn't it isn't nearly, I mean, this isn't e I mean, this isn't eternal life But it represents by faith, it represents eternal life. It represents Jesus, the one who gives his whole life to us that we might live. Do you get that? Can you get your mind around that? Can you comprehend the very thought that If you're a believer and you're going to take the Lord's Supper today, that God Himself, in the person of His Son, gave Himself for you. That you might live and not die. That you might turn from your sins Not be enslaved to sin forever, but have eternal life You're not going to get there. You're not going to get there unless you believe in who Jesus is. Thus you believe. And God must give you that belief. God must give you that belief. I can't give it to you. I can only point out to what it says. God will give the increase if it's meant to be. Now This isn't the last thing Jesus says to the disciples. He proceeds from the bread To the wine or to the cup, and what's in the cup. Verse 24 of Mark chapter 14, he says, This is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many. Verily I say to you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. Now the the wine in the cup, or the the the fruit of the vine in the cup, takes on the ultimate meaning just as the bread does. It is the, it represents, it says it is the blood of the new covenant, but it represents the blood of the new covenant. It is not just any old blood, but it's my blood. It's Christ's blood. It is I am's blood. It is I am's blood that is shed for your sin It's not, you see, as Passover represented, the blood of bulls and goats. It's a better blood. It's a far greater blood. The old covenant blood was weak. As Hebrews 10, verse 1 puts it, it was a shadow of the things to come, of the good things to come, and not the very image. But it could never make those sacrifices which they offered every year continually make the comers perfect. The old blood is needed repeatedly. It is needed to be offered over and over again. But it could not save. It could only remind the people that they were sinners. It was weak in that sense. But blood, the blood of Jesus Listen to how it is described in Hebrews 10. 10. We are sanctified through the offering of the blood of Jesus once for all. Now you can you can readily start to understand why that blood is sufficient for your sins. If you stop and think about it, if it really is the blood of I am God Himself in the person of Christ. If it is that blood That covers a multitude of sins. You see, God's blood is covering your sins in Christ. And that's there's nothing more valuable. There's nothing more precious. There's nothing more important. Than God shedding his blood for his people. You know, I might, in some sort of heroic act, die for one of you, or you for me. That isn't going to take away your sins. I might save your life, but I didn't save you spiritually. Only God can do that. And that's what he does in the celebration of the Lord's Supper. So as I said earlier See, this is a very interesting moment in time with the with the disciples. As they're there's tran they see they're they're transitioning from the old to the new And all that was promised and all that was wrapped up in the Passover now has become real. Now has been fulfilled And we celebrate the Lord's Supper. We take this this this here, these elements today, as we partake. We don't see magic in them. We don't see eternal life in these elements or in partaking. But they represent God with us. And they represent God with us in his sacrifice for our sins. It's that which we believe. He died that we might live. He died that our sins might be paid for. and forgiven. He died. That and and we're trusting, we're believing That Jesus' blood covers a multitude of sins because he is God. He is God with us. The same God that appeared to Moses is the same God that we worship is the same. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.