If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Numbers, continue our study there tonight from this morning. In chapter 9, I believe that's on page 139 of your Pew Bibles. I'll be reading beginning at verse 15. Numbers chapter 9, beginning at verse 15. Let's give attention to the very word of God. On the day that the tabernacle was set up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, the tent of the testimony. And at evening, it was over the tabernacle like the appearance of fire until morning. So it was always. The cloud covered it by day, and the appearance of fire by night. And whenever the cloud lifted from over the tent after that the people of Israel set out and In the place where the clouds settled down, there the people of Israel camped. At the command of the Lord, the people of Israel set out. And at the command of the Lord they camped. As long as the cloud rested over the tabernacle, they remained in camp. Even when the cloud continued over the tabernacle many days, the people of Israel kept the charge of the Lord and did not set out. Sometimes the cloud was a few days over the tabernacle, and according to the command of the Lord they remained in camp. Then according to the command of the Lord they set out. And sometimes the cloud remained from evening until morning. And when the cloud lifted in the morning, they set out. Or if it continued for a day and a night, when the cloud lifted, they set out. Whether it was two days or a month or a longer time. The cloud remained over the tabernacle, abiding there, the people of Israel remained in camp and did not set out. But when it lifted, they set out At the command of the Lord they camped, and at the command of the Lord they set out. They kept the charge of the Lord at the command of the Lord by Moses. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come once again to a passage which is unfamiliar. The tabernacle, the supernatural event of the pillar of cloud and fire. Camping, moving. Help us, Lord Guide and direct our hearts tonight that you would fill us not only with your spirit, but as you fill us with the Spirit, that you'd guide us in understanding and applying this, your word, to our Make our hearts tender and receptive tonight for all that you have for us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you following Jesus or someone else tonight? It seems to be the question that's being asked by this particular passage in Numbers And if we were to have asked Paul on his second missionary journey from that portion of scripture we read tonight from Acts, Paul would have said, I was following Jesus. As he is seeking to spread the good word, the good news of God, of Jesus Christ. We see in Acts that they were prohibited from speaking the word in Asia. As they go to Bithhnia or an attempt to get into Bithynia, the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them to go in. It was directing them, constantly directing them as to where to go. And then Paul received that Macedonian vision. And they were convicted, they were convinced that this is the place that God had called them to preach the gospel. They were constantly being led by the Spirit. directed by the Spirit as to where to proclaim the Word of God. And in a sense, that brings us to our text tonight. Here in Numbers. As we learned this morning, the people had been counted. They have been listed. And now they were about to begin moving. Everything was in place. for them to go and enter into the promised land. They were about to begin moving 603,550 men ready for war. The Levites had been separated. The tabernacle was constructed. They were ready to carry it about. They were keeping guard. They were watching. The Israelites, excuse me, the Levites have been cleansed, and now this headline, so to speak. Of being led by the cloud of pillar and fire. In a sense, that brings us exactly where we want to be tonight, exactly where the Spirit would have us tonight in this passage. Everything is ready for the Israelites to move to the promised land, their resting place. But before we get there, we see this passage of how they're to be directed, how they're to be guided step by step, every movement. Being informed and directed to them by God As he commands them by and through the movement of the pillar of cloud and fire. I might sum up this passage tonight and even apply it to our hearts this way. Those who follow Jesus Christ willingly wait upon and watch for his movements. Those who follow Jesus Christ willingly wait upon and watch for his movements. We'll see that in three heads tonight. First, the followers of Jesus are waiting. Secondly, the followers of Jesus are watching. And finally the followers of Jesus are willing, waiting, watching, and willing. As we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question, am I following Jesus or someone else? Well, first the followers of Jesus are waiting. Consider this passage. The Israelites had Been in Egypt four hundred years waiting on a deliverance by God. And they've been delivered. We're in that period of deliverance. And now they're waiting to get into the promised land. And now we see they're waiting on the pillar of cloud and fire, they're waiting to move on. Everything's in place. The Levites have been instructed as to their tasking. The priests knew what to do. The the cultic rites in in sacrificing animals were set forth in Leviticus. The tabernacle was constructed and now they're ready to move on. Ready to move into the promised land. They were at the foot of Mount Sinai. They'd been given the Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments were now placed in the ark. It's in the Holy of Holies. They're ready to move. And they're waiting on the pillar of cloud and fire. It may seem arbitrary But this movement of the pillar of cloud and fire was based upon the promises of God. They were waiting on the promises of God. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession. Genesis 17 They're waiting for that promise to come to pass. They're headed in that direction, but they're waiting on the fulfillment of this promise. And so they're waiting on the pillar of cloud and fire to take them to the promised land. Waiting on the trumpet to sound. The commands, the charges were not pointless, they were not mere vain directions, purposeless or directionless guidances of this supernatural pillar of cloud and fire, each movement, each command was bringing them ever closer to fulfilling God's promise. Everlasting possession. God's promise, his decree, was being fulfilled through his works of providence. That's why we read those two sections from the Confession of Faith, one on the decrees and the other on Providence. That's exactly what was happening to The Israelites, they were waiting on the providential hand of God, God working out his decrees through his providence to save a people for himself. And so the Israelites were waiting. Waiting is critical for the followers of Jesus Christ, isn't it? Indeed, waiting is a mark of the true believer. Jesus said that heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. Concerning that day and hour no one knows He was talking about the day that he comes back. He's talking about the day of his return. And so he continued, therefore stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming. Just like the Israelites waiting on the pillar, on the movement of God, through the pillar, taking them to the promised land. When would they get there? When would the pillar move next? The Christian, the follower of Jesus Christ, is called to active, patient, waiting on the movement of God in this wilderness where he's placed us. For the return of his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. The day when each child of God will be taken to glory will enter into eternal life with him. This is your awaiting if you're trusting in Jesus tonight. This is part of your work today. Consider if if you're not waiting on Jesus Christ this evening, What are you waiting on? In truth, everyone is actually waiting on Jesus Christ, even if you deny him. Even if you're in rebellion to Jesus, for he will return. And this time when he returns, he will return to judge. He will sit in his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people from one another as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. If you're not following Jesus Christ tonight, if you're not believing upon him as the one who suffered for your sins, if you're not repenting of your sins, you are waiting upon him to judge you and he will send you to hell. Call out, cry out to Christ tonight, plead with him For the saving gift of faith, so that you can wait upon Him to take you home But if you are following Jesus Christ this evening, you're called to active waiting He's king, he's sovereign lord. He sits on the throne, he's directing and disposing and governing all creatures, actions, and things, from the greatest even to the least, according to the will of his Father It was likely hard for the Israelites to wait. As the tent was being set up again, how deeply should I set this tent peg this time? How long will we be in this place? Isn't that our problem? We don't want to wait upon Jesus because we want to know When are we going? How long are we staying here? Which direction are we headed in? But the Israelites had to wait on the pillar of cloud and fire. As David was under attack, he pens Psalm 27. And toward the end of it, he writes this, wait for the Lord, be strong. And let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. You see, even under attack, especially under attack, David is saying, be strong. Take courage. To wait on the providential movements of the Lord Jesus Christ in your life, just like David, requires you to be strong. To be courageous. And yet, even Jesus The very and only Son of God waited on the mercy of God as he hung on the cross. What courage did our Savior display? What strength Pray for that. Pray for strength. Pray for courage as you wait. You're waiting upon Jesus Christ. Brings us to our second point. Followers of Jesus are watching. Not only waiting, but also watching. In a sense, this entire passage that we read tonight is a headline of the lives of the Israelites as they moved through the wilderness. A place where they would live in the presence of the living God to worship and to commune with Him. How would they get there? Where was it? How would they manage to negotiate their way through the wilderness? How are they to enter? How would they get in? It's by watching and following the pillar of cloud and fire. The entire nation was consistent in responding to the command of God through the pillar of cloud and fire. When to camp, when to stay put, when to move, watching, staying put, packing up, moving on, being directed and guided to the very place the pillar of cloud and fire would stop, seemingly, according to this text strictly obeying by the Israelites, the entire nation, the people of God. It's an extraordinary passage. Six hundred thousand men, just the warriors, with their wives, with their children, with their livestock, their sheep, their goats, their rams, their camels, their donkeys. Everyone and everything following the command, the charge of God, strictly, obediently, seemingly, without question. The passage is full of watching. You have that picture, don't you? The pillar of cloud and fire. Must have been huge. For the Israelites to be able to see it. Six hundred thousand camped all around Watching. Whenever the cloud lifted from over the tent after that, the people of Israel set out Watching whether it's a few days here, remaining from evening until morning, or a week or a month. Every aspect of the lives of the Israelites was guided and directed by the pillar of cloud and fire. Every single man, woman, and child, their daily lives constantly dependent. upon the position and movement of the pillar of cloud and fire, watching for the movement, watching for the resting, and then following. A pillar of cloud and fire began to move, a trumpet alarm would sound, and the tribes on the east side of the tabernacle would set out first. Watching, listening for the command. And once it began its movement Off to another location in the wilderness, the trumpet alarm would sound, the tribes on the east would pick up and move following the pillar. The camp was never permanent. They're always ready to move. Each one knew that the trumpet alarm would sound when the pillar of cloud and fire would begin its movement. They'd strike the tents. They'd pack, they'd put out the fires, they'd stow the pots and pans, they'd roll up the beds, they'd take down the tents, and they would move. At the command of the Lord, the people of Israel set out, and at the command of the Lord they camped. There's certainly a sense of readiness, isn't there? Readiness in unity, of oneness of being together as the people of God, of waiting, watching, listening, and then moving together in unity, following the command of the Lord God, together as one people, as a congregation, as the assembly of God, moving at the call of God together as one. Do you see that picture? There was one leader, one head, the pillar of cloud and fire. Giving us that image, the picture of the church with its single head, the Lord Jesus Christ, being guided and directed and led by Him, the head leading the body, the Head leading the assembly under His kingship. Following his soul lead, his guidance, his commands and his charges. Is not that the picture of the church or what the church should be? Isn't that a picture of the beauty of the church? Consider the words of Jesus Christ on more than one occasion as he called his disciples. Take up your cross and follow me. Deny yourself. Take up your cross and follow me. How does that happen? How does this unity happen in this perfect movement of the body? The Israelite picture is so striking. See, but in our Adamic corruption In Adam, we have no desire, no will to follow Jesus. Everything within us is opposed to following Jesus. Our hearts, our minds are bent toward sin, not toward righteousness. And our corruption, our desire is to do that which opposes God, not that which is according to the will of God. Isn't that what we see in the rich young ruler? Sell what you possess, give to the poor, come follow me. And the young man heard this, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. You see, there are two paths set before us. The first path is lusting after the world and worldly pleasures, and the other path is following Jesus. So how does it happen? This kind of unified following that we see in the Israelites That only happens as hearts are changed, isn't it? From stone to flesh. That supernatural work of the Spirit, enabling one to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and then desire his will, not yours. Because the heart has changed, completely changed, such that it's no longer inclined or leaning or bent toward sin or held captive by sin and opposing God, but it's inclined and leaning toward and bent toward righteousness. toward Christ. So what is it to follow Jesus? It's so easy, so clear to see what it meant for the Israelites to follow the pillar of cloud and fire. It's very tangible, very physical. But following has always been a matter of the heart, hasn't it? It's always been spiritual. Think of the Pharisees. They were physical followers. That's all they did. The outward was what the Pharisees were all about. Physically, seemingly, keeping the word of God, and yet never keeping God's commands within their hearts. So we know what it looks like in the Old Testament, at least in this passage, to follow the commands of God. But what does it look like for you to follow Jesus within your heart? It's a question each of us should be asking tonight. The Sermon on the Mount gives us so much in terms of following Jesus. That message that he he gave to his disciples was really all about following Jesus. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. He was telling his disciples what your heart needs to be looking like, what you need to be doing. But if we focus on just one verse, we could say that following Jesus looks like this. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Those two things. Following Jesus is moving toward the kingdom, isn't it? As you're commanded and guided by the Spirit. And following Jesus is pursuing righteousness as you're being sanctified. Both of those things suggest change, don't they? They suggest movement. Just like this passage. It's full of movement. Opportunities to move. And we're given opportunities to move, aren't we? Opportunities to change our position. To move to another position where we're better able to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. He may be moving you from the comfort of your home to a place outside the four walls of your house where you can tell others about Jesus, what he's done in your heart. He may be moving you into an affliction. Which may be used to sanctify you. But you see, that's what Jesus does He calls you to follow. He calls you to change. He calls you to move. So the call tonight is to be prepared. Prepare for that change. Prepare for that movement. Because you're not fixed. Sometimes we think we are. But the call tonight is to ready your heart. Prepare. Prepare to move. And as you do, as you deny yourself, as you take up your cross, you see those are precursors to following Jesus As you're seeking the kingdom, as you're seeking his righteousness, prepare to move, knowing that you're not at home, knowing that this place is not permanent, that everything around you is temporary. So look for those opportunities. The times when Jesus is calling for you to move. And to be ready. To be ready for it. Part of readiness is being convicted that this is not your home. Part of readiness is being ready to release your grip on worldly things and possessions. You see, you can't truly follow Jesus if your heart is tent-pegged permanently to this earth, to your possessions. You must be ready to give them up in order to pursue the kingdom. And pursue his righteousness, he's calling you to prepare your heart to be ready to move as you watch him and wait upon him. Brings us to our third point. The followers of Jesus are willing. Waiting and watching and yes, willing. If we look at the last verse here that we read tonight, verse 23, it's chalk full of obedience. At the command of the Lord they camped, and at the command of the Lord they set out. They kept the charge of the Lord at the command of the Lord by Moses. They didn't stray to the right or to the left. They didn't stray at all. That's what this passage indicates to us. It's a pristine picture of submission. Constant submission. Beautiful submission. singular, straight path, set forth by the pillar of cloud and fire, moving in concert, in harmony with the very will of God. They were submitting To God's will every single day. Every movement of the pillar of cloud and fire, they were submitting. God's will was being revealed, and they were actively submitting to it. No hesitancy upon their part. To submit to the singular will, the holy will of God, conveyed and revealed to them through and by the pillar of cloud and fire. Now we can't know If they were sincere. We can't know if this was mere outward submission or inward true heart submission. We do know that in a few chapters They would determine not to follow the will of God as they would refuse to enter into the promised land. But here at a minimum we have this glorious picture of at least outward external submission. The alignment of their wills with that with the will of God. That's submission, yielding to power or authority. That's how Webster defines it. And God is the ultimate authority. He's the ultimate power. As we traveled to New Zealand, sometimes we would come on a two-way street to a small bridge that only had room for one car to pass at a time. And so there was a sign on one side of the street that told you to yield to the oncoming traffic. And on the other side, it said you can just go through. That's an illustration of bending your will, isn't it? I'm gonna wait. I'm gonna yield to the car that's coming at me. Or else face collision. Jesus spent his will, didn't he? My food is to do the will of him who sent me to accomplish his work. In the Garden of Gethsemane, as Jesus' soul was very sorrowful, he prays to his father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. That's submission, that's true obedience, that's the bending of his will to align it completely and wholly with his father's. See, the world is calling you in a different direction. It's just the opposite of submitting to the will of God. The will of the world is proclaiming to you, do your will, seek your will, pursue your will. It's exactly what Satan told Eve in the garden. You will not surely die. Pursue your will, Eve. Be alive. Eat the fruit. Be happy. Happiness is found in pursuing and achieving your will. Sadly, we've been convinced by the world that we know best. Like Eve. We know what we like. We know what makes us feel good. And as a result, we head in that direction. Away from suffering, away from discomfort, toward physical pleasure. We desire those things, those events, those people which we believe will be know will be good for us, meaning bring us pleasure. That's the corruption that we're dealing with, each and every one of us. Our desires, each one, are mixed with sin. Our path is a path of corruption. Until it's changed by the power of Christ. Brothers and sisters, submission is a blessing See, the Israelites were protected and provided for along the way, 40 years in the wilderness, as they followed The pillar of cloud and fire. They were led by God's providential hand, by his infallible foreknowledge, his free and immutable will. And what was the result? I've led you forty years in the wilderness, your clothes have not worn out on you, your sandals have not worn off your feet. Do you see the blessing of submission? God's holy will is pure and all-righteous and all very good and all intended to bring you into glory. That's why submission is such a blessing. By casting off your corrupt will, which you lead you nowhere but into sin and damnation. You're adopting and inquiring and aligning your desires with the perfect will of God by the work of the Spirit, which ends in your salvation. That's why submission is such a blessing. I'm not saying you're saved by your submission, but I am saying that as you submit, you are being blessed. Do you think that way? It would appear that the Israelites did, at least externally. When there was a fork in the road in their lives, whether they were going to pursue the Pillar of cloud and fire or some other direction. They always went with the pillar of cloud and fire. They knew it would be good for them. What about you? Do you think that submitting to the will of God will be good for you? Do you ask the Lord Jesus Christ to direct your heart? Do you ask the Spirit to submit your will to God's will, to incline your heart to God's? Do you seek His guiding hand like the pillar of cloud and fire? Do you lift your eyes up? And see where the pillar is headed. Where is Christ going? And listen. Listen for his word in his pages of God's word. Just like that trumpet blast, telling you, guiding you, directing you into the direction that the Lord Jesus Christ would have you to move. That's the call tonight. To be in prayer, to ask for the leading of the Spirit, to guide and direct you, the leading of the Spirit of Christ. You're not going to get a letter. You're not going to get an email. You're not going to receive a voice from heaven But you will receive an inclination of your heart as you sincerely pray and plead with God, as you read His Word. He will incline your heart as a direction in which you should go every time Brothers and sisters, seeking the will of God is a blessing even in and of itself. Yes, those who follow Jesus Christ willingly wait upon and watch for his movements. Paul certainly did. He was waiting, he was watching, he was listening to Christ as he was guided, even by that Macedonian call. We see what a blessing it was as churches were planted, as those who were saved were being added day by day. The church was exploding. Because they were following the call of God through his spirit. Brothers and sisters, what a joy. What joy is for us to wait, to watch, to be willing to follow Jesus Christ. He's laid it upon your heart. Pray. The Spirit would keep you on that path which He set forth before you, which heads to Christ. Praise be to God. Amen. Do you pray with me? Father in heaven, what a joy it is. To follow Christ, to be moved by Jesus. We pray tonight, Lord God, that you would continue to send your spirit that would move in us As we read your word, as we pray, as we commune, that just like the pillar of cloud and fire, Lord God, you'd be directing our lives until Christ returns. That we would constantly be seeking to follow him, that you would work in our hearts, that our wills would be submitted each and every time to the will of Christ as he does your will. Oh Lord, what a blessing to know we have one singular head who's leading us individually and certainly corporately. Help us to wait. Help us to wait patiently and actively upon Christ. Help us to watch. Watch his movements as he moves us. Help us to be ready to move. And work powerfully that we might be those who submit. Gladly, joyfully submit To your most holy and perfect will. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.