The passage from which I will preach this morning is from the book of Acts, continuing where I was a couple of weeks ago. I know that the uh The book of Acts is often referred to as the Acts of the Apostles, but in many ways you get to a certain point, and it's almost, and I don't mean this in a light totally light-hearted sense, but it's the adventures of the Apostle Paul. You know how the Lord uses him. And it's just an amazing and a wonderful thing to see. For the Lord to call someone who had been a hateful persecutor of him and his people. And now somebody who's used by him in a great and mighty ways. I'll read chapter nine, verses uh nineteen through thirty. And inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for approval, for correction, for training in righteousness, so that the man or woman of God may be adequate. Complete for every good work. Since that's so, let us not simply hear, let us not simply read in our Bibles, but prayerfully ask the Lord to impress this truth upon your very heart. The Act of the Apostles, chapter nine, verse nineteen through thirty And he, Paul, took food and was strengthened. Now for several days he was with the disciples who were at Damascus, and immediately he began to proclaim Jesus in the synagogue, saying, He is the Son of God. All those hearing him continued to be amazed, and were saying, Is this not he who in Jerusalem destroyed those who called on this name? And who had come here for the purpose of bringing them bound before the chief priests? But Saul kept increasing in strength and confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus by proving that this Jesus is the Christ. Many days that elapsed, the Jews plotted together to do away with him. But their plot became known to Saul. They were also watching the gates day and night, so they might put him to death. But his disciples took him by night and led him down through an opening in the wall, lowering him in a large basket. When he came to Jerusalem, he was trying to associate with the disciples. They were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. Barnabas took hold of him and brought him to the apostles and described to them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that he had talked to him, and how at Damascus he had spoken out boldly in the name of Jesus. He was with them, moving about freely in Jerusalem, speaking out boldly in the name of the Lord. He was talking and arguing with the Hellenistic Jews. They were attempting to put him to death. When the brethren learned of it, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus. This is God's holy and true word. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you took a man who was not simply apart from you But one who was of your people, the Hebrews, of your people to whom they'd been given the word, the oracles of God. And thus, when the Messiah came, he should have recognized him. He's responsible to recognize the Messiah. And yet he did not. And fought against your people and hated them. Killed them. And yet you changed him. You changed him, his heart, his mind, his will, all that he was. Became someone dedicated to you. You transformed him. You gave him the the new heart that Ezekiel spoke of. A heart of flesh and not of stone. Those dead bones did live. Oh Father, likewise happens to us. Not often as dramatic, but likewise happens to us. As we trust in you, Lord Jesus, as our Savior and Lord, knowing your word to be true, you change our hearts. We are new creations. You now have things to tell us, things that you would have us do. Oh Father, just as your servant Saul, who became Paul, was being prepared for service in your kingdom in this change. So through your word preached, pray that you would prepare us for service in your kingdom. Father, as your word is preached, but especially as it is remembered by your people here present. They leave this place in the days to come. We pray that in their memories you will edit out any errors of human wisdom that I might have said. Which were not true. And cause your people to remember that which is true from your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as we picked uh picking up from where we were a few weeks ago We have Saul well he's referred to still here as Saul. The name has not been officially changed to Paul yet. Yet He had done a 180 degree turn. 100 and you know, I and it reminds you of people that you know today. You may know someone. It may be you Or it may be someone else you know, or it may be a a newspaper account. I remember when I was first saved. I was going to an Episcopal church. And there may be some godly Episcopal churches left, but I think most of them have changed their name to Anglican and people have left those churches. I remember when I was first saved and I was in the choir, and I sort of felt a commitment to stay there Just because I made it just simply the choir, sort of stays with the choir a year, as it were. Uh you know, and sort of helping out the choir. Not that I was the star base or anything like that. Uh but I remember remember looking forward looking forward to change, looking forward to being somewhere else and uh being out of that place because it felt so empty of real belief. uh by views and positions and attitudes toward things that God says in his word, these people showed that they did not, they were following a different shepherd. It was another's voice they heard And so I remember when I when I there were a couple of people at the church who were believers and it was like they were the ones who understood what I was saying. And then I discovered a PCA church that had evening service. So I went Sunday evening These people, they knew God. They understood him as as the Bible presented him. I mean, which is the only way that you really you know God Oh. And it was just it was just a transformation. It was delight. It fed me. I didn't feel alone. I mean I knew I w I had the Lord and so I there's a sense in which I knew that was sufficient, yet You want to be with brothers and sisters in Christ. You want to get together with them. Like-minded people. You can pray for their needs, pray for their concerns. I can remember in particular when I was young listening to the radio And there were some odd preachers. But there also there was a show called Unshackled. And it had this wonderfully hokey what I think of as a roller rink organ. Um just this weird old-fashioned organ sound on it, make melodrama. But it was true stories of people whose lives were changed, who were saved. And the go and you they're telling the story. You had people reading a script, playing different parts. It was radio theater. And it was wonderful. And what especially got me was the fact that These weren't just marvelous stories. They were true. I believed I think they were legitimately they took people's stories and made them into little dramas of what had happened. Because just like Paul, when Saul Paul had been Saul with 180-degree turn, at least 175 degree turn. Likewise, anyone who's saved, there's a way in which it's radically different, radically changed. And that's what we have here with Paul. And here we have somebody who wants to kill Christians. And what's it say in verse 20 of our text? Paul says he is the Son of God, talking about Jesus. That's one of only two places in the entire book of Acts that referred to, that have the phrase Son of God. The phrase just doesn't happen to be used a lot. Well, almost not at all. And of all, I mean, he's going full bore. Jesus is not only the Messiah, he's the Son of God. Which is true, but oftentimes people just say he's the Messiah, the Redeemer. And, you know, he didn't know much Christian theology yet, no doubt. Although he knew his Old Testament, so once his mind was changed, it could now see the connections and see what what what was right. But he knew that Jesus was the Son of God. And verse 21, I mean, it imagine you'd been there. And you'd heard about some guy chasing after Christians, attacking them. And all of a sudden, I mean we live in a polarized time where if the you know one group of people is if say the the president says it's a beautiful day, they'll say no, it's it's a bad day. It's a horrible day. Just be and if he says it's a lousy day, they'll say, No, the sun's out. Or whatever. I mean people on opposite sides will think the worst of each other. And so imagine people at that time, they knew what Saul had been like. Word God, people hadn't heard of him. And here we have the people amazed at what and what had happened to him. In fact, the literal translation of the word amazed is where the is the word ecstasy, meaning ecstatic. It was that kind of just you know exaggerated reaction. And You know, Saul being converted was an amazing thing to watch. You know, come and come and hear Dr. Saul of Tarsus, the converted Pharisee. I mean he says, well, what in the world is he going to say? You don't expect it. This doesn't make any sense. And, you know, here it says Saul kept increasing in strength and confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus. By proving, not just asserting, but by proving that this Jesus is the Christ. I mean it is the opposite of what he what he'd been before. His thing before was because people had asserted that this man was the Messiah He'd rose risen and he was and he was the Son of God, they should be killed. And now he himself is saying it, and going through scripture, no doubt. And remember, at this time the only scripture is the thirty-nine books of the Old Testament. That's what he's proving it from. Just like Jesus on the road to Emmaus opened up the prophets and you know Moses and the prophets. Well every Christian goes through three stages. If you're saved in your youth or adulthood. First, this is easy, then this is difficult, then this is impossible. You're basically your eyes get more and more open to what what's what's ahead of you. And Saul's in the first stage. You know, if you've been there in Damascus You know, we probably would have just heared him on and said, you know, keep going, we'll be praying for you. Um but Saul was not yet ready for frontline ministry at long stretches. He had learning to do And in fact the Lord had a long program of preparation in store for him, longer than we would have imagined. God still had work for him to do to get ready for what lays it lies ahead. And if you look at verse 916, Jesus speaking to Ananias, who is the one who got the apostle Paul, he says, I will show him, Paul, how much he must suffer for my name's sake. Jesus had teaching to do with Paul. So what we see here is time we see we see time with we see time with with God, we see time of trial, and then time with the brothers. The first thing we have here is time with God, preparing Paul for service, just like we all need to be prepared for service. And it's verses 19 to 22. He takes food and strengthens. Very humdrum little thing. He gets strengthened by food. Well, he had not eaten and drinking for three or drunk anything for three days, remember? We were just so stunned by by what had happened, the conversion experience. We were just in a daze, as it were. And Then it says in verse in verse 22, uh he kept increasing in strength, confounding confounding the Jews. But the last half of chapter 9 shows how God prepared Saul for service. And it highlights three essentials of the preparation. And it shows how he prepares us as well. And the first step is found between verses 22 and 23. Saul kept increasing in strength, confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus. Then in verse 23, when many days had elapsed. If you turn if you turn with me now for a moment to Galatians chapter one Verses 15 to 18. Remember, Galatians is not written by a guy named Galatia. It's written by Paul. Two people who lived in a place called Galatia, which is actually in modern the western half of modern-day Turkey. But first Galatians chapter 1 verses 15 to 18. Paul's writing about himself. He does this about two or three times He says, When God who set me apart even from my mother's womb and called me through his grace was pleased to reveal his son to me, yeah, on the road of Damascus, talking to him. So that in other words, why did he do it? So that I might preach him among the Gentiles. He says, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood, nor did I go to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me But I went away to Arabia and returned once more to Damascus. Then three years later I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Cephas and stayed with him fifteen days. Three years later. Most interpreters believe that the this three-year period between Arabia and Damascus comes between verses twenty-two and twenty-three, right here. So it's sort of an understatement when it says, after many days. That many days, that's over a thousand days had elapsed. And the first step in God's preparation of Saul was a lonely stint in the Arabian wilderness. And this is this may well have been the Sinai wilderness. We're not told a lot about it. We're told very little about it. Uh but if you think of it, just to the eastern side of Egypt is this little bitty, what looks like a tiny little peninsula, and it's the Sinai Peninsula, called because at the very bottom of it is Mount Sinai. But it's you know sort of far eastern Egypt, as it were. Um and you know what associations that would of course have for any believer. Any Jew. Under the shadow of Sinai, the great lawgiver of the people to whom he belonged, has spent forty years of preparation, as Moses. It was the same district that Elijah the prophet had appeared out of the same area, out of the desert of Arabia. And these two people, Moses and Elijah, the lawgiver and the reformer. had spoken upon the mount with Jesus. Remember the transfiguration? And these men had received the training of the desert for their ministry among the multitudes. Remember the fact also, where did Jesus go after he was baptized? Into the wilderness. A wonderful song I know by a Christian singer named Michael Card called In the Wilderness. I'm talking about there's a sense in which we're all need to be in the wilderness at various times and things like that. But that's what God does there. He sends He sent Saul there And his time in Arabia is shrouded with mystery, but we can we can see some things that happened there. His two questions that he lay on the Damascus Road often it often accompany new faith. And somebody comes to saving faith in Christ. For me it was interesting. When I was saved, I mentioned before I was reading a book by N uh J. R. Packler called Knowing God. I was 29 years old. I don't like going to church. I liked going to church. In fact, when I was a little kid, I hung around to hear the sermon. Sounds sort of nerdy, but I mean I I really enjoyed it. And so I was very used to church. I knew the story. I knew all these things. And yet it's almost like going from black and white to color when I was safe. Um although I think to me the biggest change was that, you know, I was his and I had to do what he said. I really understood that. I thought before it was true, but now not only did I think it was true, but because I knew it was true, I had to follow him. I had to do what he said, and not do what he said not to do. And so his two questions on the Damascus Road are often brand new questions for new believers. First one is, Who are you? Who are you, Lord? I believe you exist. And if you as you're saved, you believe a certain little cluster of things about Jesus and about God. But that's that's not all that you can know. And the second question is, what shall I do, Lord? You know, what am I here for? And even unbelievers, all unbelievers, you know, and for any who grew up as an unbeliever, and you hear it in the world, what is the purpose of life? What is the meaning of life? Is and even unbelievers will often say, is there any life after death? I mean these are these are human existential questions. What is this world for? There should be some reason for things. I mean, why am I here? What's this for? Even the people who who are who are rioting and want to burn and destroy things have a view of what life is about. Or they know that they don't. But people have thoughts and ideas. They have, I mean, you want to find a purpose. So it's like, who's God? W who are you, Lord? And second is what should I do? I mean what you know, if if you made me your own, that's wonderful, but what does that mean? What am I supposed to do? So in answering these questions, we find out who God is and by implication what we are, who we are, and what we're meant to do. And Saul undoubtedly received divine instruction along these lines. The first thing he learned was who Jesus is. He was already convinced that Jesus was the Son of God. But I think that I think that in Arabia the the depth of that truth no doubt broke over his soul. Wave after wave. I mean, as John puts it in John seventeen three, this is eternal life. In other words, what what does it mean to have eternal life with God as one of his people? That they may know you, you and you and you and you and you, that we may know the Father, the one true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. See now that prayer was being answered for Saul. He knows he knows God the Father. Again. Jesus is the first Jewish person to come along as referred to God as Father. It was not a Jewish term of term. It was not a Jewish concept. It was Jesus' term. And he's telling us, when they said, how the disciples didn't say, Lord, how do you pray? Teach us how you pray. And he says, my Father. No, he says, how do we pray? He's telling them, us, we should say, our Father. We should look at God as our Father. So that's a big deal. It's different than it had been Most world religions today do not refer to God as in this personal kind of loving sense. And we're supposed to because Jesus tells us. And his experience of knowing Christ fills him with such a thirst, where in Philippians, again a letter by him, Philippians 3, he says, I want to know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. Being conformed to his death. And he certainly knew how Jesus had died. I mean, like whatever it is you would call me to, I will do. I am yours. You saved me from damnation, which I deserve. You saved me from hell, which I deserve. And so I and in spite of my sins. It's not like I didn't have any. In spite of my sins. And it's like, whatever you want me to do, whatever. So Jesus, when he says, I am Jesus whom you are persecuting, you know, led Paul Saul to a new understanding. Christ identified with his people so that when they're persecuted, he's persecuted. So who Jesus is, the second one is Saul had to learn who he was. Saul was like, who am I? Just like you can ask yourself, Lord, I'm yours. You saved me in spite of my sin. What would you have me do? What does that mean for me in my life? I can't I mean I could I could have lived twenty-nine years in a certain way, certain habits, certain patterns, certain desires, certain hopes And I can say, great. And I have the same old certain habits, certain desires, certain hopes. Well, no. I have to change them when they when when God has told me that I should now have new hopes, desires I mean I have to see if what he says is good, I recognize it's good. If he says something sinful, even though I w before I would not have agreed with him I need to agree with him. He's not asking me my opinion. He's not asking me, well, you can do it your way. I'm just letting you know what I think, God said But that's up to you. No, God's not saying He's letting us know what is. What is good, what is bad. So when we see truly see God, we see when we see ourselves before God, the first thing is seeing ourselves, often consciously or not, the first thing that's happening when you're saved is you're convicted of your sin You're just you you realize your sinfulness. And I've often thought that if the if the Lord and the Lord pulls the cur it's almost like he changes the lens on our being able to look at ourselves from very foggy to a little bit clearer But I've all I've often thought that if we got a full insight into our sin the way it truly looks, we'd all die from strokes and heart attacks instantaneously. We'd be so freaked out by what we saw. It's like we'd feel and we see and we'd hate it. You know. I mean rationalizing and making excuses for doing those things would just get fl blown out of the water. We you know, we'd be thrown out. We we'd be like Isaiah In chapter 6, verse 1 of Isaiah, he says, He saw God sitting on a throne lofty and exalted, his train of his robe filling the temple. And what does Isaiah say? Whoa, you must think pretty highly of me to let me come up here and watch No, Isaiah doesn't say that. He says, woe is me. I and I just, um, you know, turning his face. Wo woe with me? I'm ruined. I'm a man of unclean lips. Basically, I'm a sinful guy. It's not like it's just this talk. A man of unclean lips. He saw himself as he was as God saw him. Again, only so much, I think, really. And Saul needed experience. He needed to get over being Saul. You needed to get over being a sinner. You gotta you know it's like it's like the you know the cliche of some big lug of a husband who doesn't change any of his habits after he marries. Well you knew what you married. That's what I'm like. Or something like that. He said, Cleche. No, no, no, no, no, no. If you're become a believer, we're now we're we now follow God's program. And he happens to have told us lots of things. You know, it's not something a bunch of men wrote wrote and stuff. This is God-inspired stuff. This is his word speaking to us. And so, of all people to get humbled, Saul had been named after Israel's first king. He's proud and he was a Benjamin Benjaminite. And they were the tribe that always went into battle first. So he's like, whoa, I'm I'm I'm hot stuff. And he was the Hebrew of Hebrews, he described himself. And he looks back shaking his head probably thinking of that. Um he was a Pharisee of the son of a Pharisee, and he was a proud man and he needed to get over that. And he was now yoked to Christ. Remember when I was saved, one of the I had this image in my head of almost like a a giant bird or eagle with its talons in my shoulders. I was now God's. Like he had a claim on me. And I was I was not my own. That was one of the you know And here, and that's like a kind of yoke, it reminds me of the yoke. Jesus says, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I'm gentle and humble in heart. But remember, you're his, you're doing his work, he has his yoke on you. You are his. You are you are we are you know oxen for the Lord as it were there. And uh And Saul had to learn the humility of of that. Somebody once said, when God wants us to do an impossible task, God takes an impossible man and crushes him. Makes him then will able to do that impossible task. And that's what happened to Saul. God always takes us to the end of our cells before he uses us. Third thing he learned was what God wanted to do. He learned he was chosen to be a mighty hunter for God, trying to be a fisher of men, as Jesus had said. Jesus told Ananias that he would show Saul how much he must suffer for my name's sake. So Saul had now received his His uh teaching in the desert, and he was moving towards service. But there were more steps in his preparation. Look at verse 23. When many days had elapsed. Again, this is when he reunites with God's people. And his ministry in Damascus met resistance, and we have the Arab governor remembering what Saul had done before, witnessing to Christ. Um tried to get him and he winds up that he was gonna ambush him at the city gates. So somebody lets him out over the walls in a basket. And there's a way in in the way this may have been exciting for Saul, um in fact there's a interesting quote from George Washington saying about this Whi bullets whistling past him and he said, indeed it is a beautiful sound. And uh King George was heard to say, he said he must not have been in many battles And Churchill once said, there's nothing so exhilarating as to be shot out without result. Not get hit. But But here we here we have Saul uh rescued by God's people. So uh Saul comes into town after being one-on-one with God and the Sinai. And he p spent qu plenty of quality time with the Lord, obviously. And he probably went off to the desert. He probably had some scrolls with him. The Old Testament scrolls. I mean that's their Bible. They didn't have neat little books like this We'd have a bunch of scrolls. So we're going to keep on referring to it. And the Lord no doubt led him to know the kinds of things he needed to know, just like Jesus with the disciples on the road to Emmaus, opening up the scriptures. Saul was le Saul was led to know that as well. Um so and apart from the fact that the Jews in Damascus um We're being mean to Saul. And of course the gospel itself is offensive to people. Think it's nothing I can do in myself. I can't earn or merit my salvation. Um If Paul had started off his career being continually successful, he obviously could have become insufferable. He could have been proud, but puffed up. And if goals were reached too easily, he would not have written marvelously encouraging passages like 2 Corinthians 4 7. We have this treasure in earth and vessels, so the surpassing greatness of the power will be of God and not ourselves. So, you know, somebody once wrote, God ruthlessly perfects those he royally elects. So if we uh uh always remember if you see something about election, it simply means God's choice of his people. That's what it means. God's God, the people that God chose. So this is true without exception. A humiliating failure can become marvelous preparation for us if we let God use them in that way. Learn from them. Well third third thing is he has times with brothers, times with brothers in Christ. Verses 26 to 30 And he's rescued, he's brought to the apostles. They described what he what he'd seen in the Lord on the road, how we talked to him at Damascus, he has spoken boldly in the name of Jesus And obviously they could have been scared, wondering is this some kind of, you know, spy, some double agent or single agent, whatever it is, um you know, who's who's representing the Pharisees but trying to delude people into thinking that he's now a Christian So we can know exactly what their hideaway is and that kind of thing. I mean they obviously could have had good reason to be scared. Um And he you know he could have been rejected, and you would understand that in human terms. But obviously if he was chosen by God, God was going to make sure that these men would be persuaded. He would lead them to realize, yes, this is of God. He has chosen this man. Verse 27, but Barnabas took hold of him. He spent a little time with Barnabas, and Barnabas knew, no, this this this he's the real deal. This man really knows the Lord. Um I mean somehow the Lord led him to know this was the real thing. It's interesting, Barnabas of all people, it makes sense. What does his name mean? Some may remember, son of encouragement. This is the wonder a wonderful thing. Son of encouragement. And you know he he he he he learned of the genuineness of Saul's faith, and this is the bet beginning of a beautiful friendship um between them And uh the Greek implies that Barnabas took Saul by the hand and led him among the apostles. And so Barnabas is an interceder, uh a reconciler, and an enabler, and he was able to forgive and put aside the past. to trust Saul despite his past sins. And remember, there are people here who may have lost loved ones, family and friends, because of the work that Saul had done before, before he came to save in faith. Reminds me of the story there was a woman in World War II, uh a Dutch woman whose family hid some Jewish people in in Holland, I think it was. Her name was Cory Tinboom. Uh she lived until I think the nineteen eighties uh to an old age. Uh but she and her family would would would help save some some Jewish people who were being exterminated methodically by the Nazis. And after the war she actually I remember hearing of some account of of of her meeting and forgiving some Nazi guards. um you know, the Lord led her to to have that ability to forgive them. Uh it reminds you Jesus said, forgive them they know not what they do. Here's someone, you know, she she is forgiving that And so here we have the disciples in this early experience. No doubt Saul had been used by God to attack them. So Barnabas Barnabas was used by God here. And the results of Barnabas's care Was that Saul got to know others there? He got to know James, the Lord's brother, he spent two weeks in Peter's home. Think of the healing and encouragement that came out of this. And we're often prepared for effective service by the counsel and care of other believers. You know, how beautiful is the ministry of Barnabas! Giving a word of encouragement, confirming others' gifts. I mean, beloved, please, you know, do that. I mean, I can think of all the times I am uplifted by the unexpected positive statement to me or encouragement Or or you know, especially encouragement, you know, if you're through you're struggling or you're working in in the midst of something, you're working to learn something, do something different, have a loved one say that uh I'm praying for you Or, you know, I hope you're doing okay, or commending you for something. That sort of thing. When you believe it's true, say those things. Because you don't just assume the person knows. uh say those things. And you're not looking for you're not looking for a particular response, but you want to be a blessing to that person. And I can remember, you know, there used to be an old old woman in our congregation uh was in her nineties and every time I went to visit she was saying, I want you to know that I'm praying for you. And she wasn't saying that because she I would think, Oh Marion, Marion Harris is such a wonderful woman. No I was encouraged. I was humbled. Lord, you have someone you have someone I can think of this particular person. There may be others. It's like what what a w like Lord thank you so much. It caused me to thank God, which is ideally what anything like this should be. So here's Barnabas giving a word of encouragement, reconciling one believer with another believer. Taking a risk for Christ in human relationships, promoting the ministry of someone else, rejoicing in somebody else's success. Reminds you of John the Baptist. I must decrease while he must increase. He knew his role. I'm the one who's announcing the Messiah coming. He's come. Now it now it's for him. So Barnabas is just pointing towards someone else and God uses men and women like Barnabas for his glory. Verses 28 to 30 tell us how Saul's ministry was relaunched and how it wasn't smooth sailing. He's in Jerusalem speaking boldly, talks and argues with the Hellenistic Jews, those are the Greek-speaking Jews. That's what Hellenistic means. Uh and they were attempting to put him to death. I mean that that's real success there. I mean obviously he must have been telling it truly for them to be that upset with him if they aren't going to believe. Uh so then the the brethren brought him down to CSRE, which is a town on the coast, the Mediterranean coast in Israel, and then he wound up going on going on to Tarsus. So during Paul's ministry years, their successes and sometimes their failures, and they were quiet times. And We don't hear from Saul again for eight to ten years. Literally. That's actually the case. Until Barnabas comes to ask him for help in the work in Antioch later on. But the foundation for ministry was was well laid. Uh and Saul would eventually shake the world. This is what saw what happened with him. And various components of which that we see happen with each one of us As the Lord sets us apart, He saves us, He causes us to know who we are before Him. And then He lets us know, You have work for us, you know, I have work for you to do. God is telling each one of us. So that in these three closing applications, I want to say, first, God does everything possible to do away with the energy of our human flesh. So that he can teach us that without him he can do not we can do nothing. We need him for everything. We need him for everything. everything. We need to be asking his his blessing upon our planning, our thinking, our choosing, our deciding. Ask him to bless and affect and move our feelings, our desires, our hopes, our urges. Ask it as the Spirit to put a put a lock on our on temptations, keep us give us the strength of will to stay away from temptations. All these things. But we we n we're not going to have this if we don't ask As it says later in the New Testament, you do not have because you do not ask. He wants to bless us with the ability to follow him. He wants to bless us with being able to glorify him. But he doesn't it's not like learning a book by putting it under your pillow at night. And it just float up into your head while you're sleeping. Likewise, God doesn't change you know, let go and let God. is an interesting phrase, but the problem is there are things we need to do and we need to ask him. Now we don't know all the particulars of what we're asking for, because we don't know who he's leading us to necessarily Well so we ask in a more general sense, but we ask. See, without him we can do nothing. God loves to renew and re-enable the person who comes to such a point. We need him for all things. You know, dead end today, greatly used tomorrow. Second thing is, in the service of Christ, no one is indispensable. You might think we're the only ones who can fill a certain hole. The pastor, teach a particular Sunday school class, training others for door-to-door evangelism. Or maybe you know, maybe yours is what a food ministry or the electronics ministry, things like that. And the church will go and find um The church could go on fine without you or me. And it's interesting. I heard an expression once of a piece of advice about this thing. When you think you're indispensable Um go stick your hand in a pail of water and then pull it out to see how much of a hole you left. No particular change on the water. You know, we are not indispensable. We might pray the Lord would use us. We might pray the Lord would cause us to be a blessing in a particular sphere, in a particular corner, particular thing we're doing in the world And we knight we might not know till glory if he tells us then what impact we had here and there. But what he calls the what he calls us to be is not successful, but faithful. Now he may give success, and there may ways that it you might have success, good things happen from God's perspective, but you'll never see it. You don't know that you did it in this lifetime. The person who led me to Christ through the book she recommends that I read, uh, died about a month ago. A month and a half ago maybe. And I want to write a letter to her husband. Um that we'd never met. But just saying that, you know, I said I want to you know, just you know, I think of I think of her with thank thankfulness because she was a vehicle used by God uh to leave to lead me to you. And give him a give him a sense of I mean the ache of his loss will be there for quite a long time. And some to some degree until until he goes to be with the Lord Yet nonetheless, to hear that kind of thing could you know could be a blessing. But I mean she she had forgotten about me mostly, I'm sure, over the years. We've been nowhere near each other and that's okay. So the church goes fine is fine without us, but sometimes God lets us know that by you know, even by putting us on the shelf for a while as we look at our own lives He prepares us for further and even greater service. So without him we can do nothing, and we're not indispensable. But third, It takes time for each of us to build a life and to ask the Lord to do so that is usable in the program of God. There are things we need to do, work we need to do, scripture we need to read, Bible studies we're with with others, talking with others, time in prayer, learning from hardship. That sort of thing. Don't undervalue times that are that that seem more quiet. That seem seem different. Seem set apart. Seem boring. These are times to recharge or rest or become further trained. You don't know what the Lord is leading you to next. But he'll be leading you to something next if you're praying to him, Lord, lead me to something next. It's not just simply natural that you're floating down some stream and the Lord will lead you to such and such. We ask him, he said, you do not have you, you do not ask. Ask him, Lord, I want you, please use me in your kingdom. You saved me. I'm a sinner. I know that. And I came to know that your son Jesus came as the Messiah, was punished for my sins. which I kn I see from your word deserve to be punished in hell. And yet you chose to save me from that. And and he took my punishment. Why would he do that? But he did So he has done that. And so now it's a c now it's a case of what would you have me do? Brothers and sisters, as we leave here this morning, let us walk out of here with thankfulness and gratitude to the Lord for what he has done in changing our hearts and saving us. But then be focused, be dedicated, to be in conversation with the Lord in prayer. To ask him, what would you have me do? Next, in this body and apart from it. Because he wants to glorify himself through all of us