Remain standing and hear the Word of God as we find it in Matthew chapter 20, beginning at the 20th verse and reading on through verse 28. Familiar verses spoken about this passage many times, but I want to bring it to our attention. Again today. Hear the word of the Lord. Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to him with her sons, kneeling down and asking something from him. And he said to her, What do you wish? She said to him, Grant that these two sons of mine may sit, one on your right hand, and the other on your left, in your kingdom. But Jesus answered and said, You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink? And be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. They said to him, We are able. So he said to them, You will indeed drink my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with. But to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it is prepared by my Father. And when the ten heard it, they were greatly displeased with the two brothers. But Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them. And those who are great exercise authority over them. Yet it shall not be so among you. But whosoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. For whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your slave, just as the Son of Man did not come to be served but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please now be seated Our lesson today has morphed several times as I've been preparing it and um and in some ways um In some ways we we wonder you know what what is it about being Presbyterian that deserves the attention of a sermon And I I I you know I I I want us to look at this message and this particular passage. And see connections in this passage from Matthew with the whole issue of how Jesus sets forward How he expects his leaders in the church to rule the church. Because after all Presbyterian is a form of church government. It's a form of leading. It's a form of ruling in the church. Now, as we think about this together today, um there's there's many, many verses that we could bring to our uh discussion. There are several key ones, and there's some that are incidentally supportive of the view that God does have a particular idea or a particular concept of how He wants his church governed. God has not left this matter open for our speculation or for our decisions. God has, I believe, clearly declared what it is he expects the church Of God's people, how he expects them to be ruled. And I frankly believe that it is the Presbyterian system. Now, what is Presbyterianism, first of all It is rule in God's church by a group of qualified individuals. By qualified, I mean they have certain spiritual gifts That God says leaders of his church must have. And as they rule in the church, they carry out activities and oversight particularly related to your spiritual welfare. So it becomes a very important matter. If your spiritual welfare is involved, it becomes a very important matter how you're ruled. Or how God has determined the church to be led. Now clearly in the passage that is before us we don't find the word Presbyterian, we don't find uh any really statements so much about uh uh rule by elders. Uh but I think this passage in Matthew uh lays the groundwork For the Presbyterian system of government. And I I'll talk about that i in my message Now, the word Presbyterian comes from the Greek word presbyteros, which literally means Old. Old person. Elderly person. And it's not and and more and more that that's becoming a category that I must embrace. But uh uh but it it doesn't mean so much elderly necessarily chronologically. It means Old in terms of maturity. When we get down to talking about church leadership, it means old in terms of spiritual understanding and maturity. God wants his church to be led by men who are spiritually tour. And a group of men. A group of men. Not one man. Not every man And you can see that the very fact that God gave to the church in two different places 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1, a list of qualifications for these men called elders. of his church. You can see that those qualifications taken collectively imply that These men will be believers who are not new to the faith, but they've been believers who've been around for a while, who have developed certain mature characteristics in terms of how they model before people uh uh uh the uh the the fact that Christ has been at work in their lives for quite some time. It's not so much just that they have certain theological understandings But it's also that those theological understandings have positively impacted the way in which they live. So that their life is a presentation of consistently conforming to the Word of God. Now, they're not going to be perfect. No human being is perfect. They're going to make mistakes. They're going to sin. But it is the idea that God has a very definitive idea about how he wants his church governed. And he gives these qualifications that speak about the type of person. You can look at them, you can read them at your at your level at your leisure. Now in addition to giving those qualifications, the Apostle Paul, who was the the one of the leading figures of the early expansion of the church. It was going around to various different churches and start excuse me, various different towns and cities and starting new churches, the Apostle Paul had as a regular practice the ordaining of elders In the cities that he visited. You can see that in Acts chapter 14 and verse 23. He and Barnabas ordained elders in every city that they visited. You can also see that in the church where the of Jerusalem, where the church actually was focused at this particular time, you can see that they have Many of the apostles there, the ones who were eyewitnesses of Christ, Acts chapter 15, but they also had elders. They also had elders who were part of that gathering. If you look at Acts chapter 15, which was a grand um uh assembly of the early churches, some that Paul had ministered to up in up in Galatia and some that were localized into uh the area around Jerusalem, uh you can see that uh they came together to discuss a theological question The question is without doubt the issue of how is it that Gentiles can become Christians? What must they do to be saved? And the and there were people who were opposing Paul. Paul was saying it was It was a matter of repentance and faith that they need to come to salvation just as we do by the grace of God, as God gives us repentance and faith. And then there was another group that was opposing Paul. And they were saying that, no, these Gentiles have to conform to some of the customs of Moses. They have to be obedient to the word of God in addition. They have to be obedient to the word of God in addition to believing in Jesus in order to be saved. Now we know from everything the Apostle Paul has said that we cannot be obedient to the Word of God. We don't have that ability That cannot be a prerequisite for us having saving faith. In other words, salvation is not believe in Jesus, plus do the best you can to be holy. It's not that, it is pure and simply by grace you have been saved, not of works, lest any man should boast. Right? So um so the church got together and they they heard these two parties duke it out, you know, and and and there was a it the text says there was a great discussion among them. And that was a participatory discussion. The apostles were involved and the elders were involved. Paul even brought elders from Galatia down to this little conference in Acts chapter 15 in Jerusalem. And they were all involved in making this important decision. The whole gospel of Jesus Christ was on trial here. If they didn't get it right, we'd all be trying our best to save ourselves. And Jesus would be of a forgotten memory. So in that passage, Peter stands up and he gives he gives the result of the deliberations of the Church, elders, and apostles, and he says, Why do you want to put on the backs of these people what our forefathers could not bear? Why do you want to put a yoke of slavery to the works of the law in order to save yourself that our forefathers couldn't do? He said, No, it is by grace through faith In Jesus Christ alone, that you are saved. And the church had that as a key mark. The early church had that as a key mark of believing. And and so The church spreads, new churches crop up. The Apostle Paul says, for example, to Titus, in Titus chapter 1, verse 5, he says I want you, I'm going to ask you, I've got to leave I want you to have the elders set in order the life of the church. And Titus is in Crete at the time, at the church. I want you to use the elders there. So this whole idea of eldership in the various different churches becomes widespread. And you have Paul establishing elders at Ephesus, a place where he ministered for two years, longer than any place else he was. And we see him in Acts chapter 20 calling for the elders to come to meet him as they're not going to see him anymore. He's going away He's not going to be with them anymore. And he talks to them and he says to them and he starts setting out what these elders are to do. They're to Shepherd the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, there to minister to the the needs of the people. They're to be shepherds. They're to protect the flock. Because Paul says, I know that when I'm gone, savage wolves will come and try to ravage the flock They're protectors. They're and he's talking to elders. They're shepherds. They're elders. They're even, he even calls them bishops. You're to oversee, oversee the welfare of the church. And that idea of being a bishop comes forward from Jesus when he talked about several times in the Gospels about the overseer of the Master's house. Elders are overseers of the Master Jesus' house And when the master comes back, the master needs an accounting. How well did you take care of my house? How well did you feed my people with truth? How well did you protect them? Now, they have all of these different elders have all of these different aspects Of their ministry among the people. Their overseers, their shepherds, their teachers. They're pastors. All of those things they do. Now, the question is Where did Paul get this idea? Before I answer that question, I should also remind you that Peter had something to say about elders too. In 1 Peter chapter 5, Peter writing to a whole different group of Christian churches talks about elders. He says, I am a fellow elder. A sum presbuteras, as the Greek word puts it, a fellow elder. And I encourage you to take on the responsibility of an elder not because of compulsion Because you desire to. Not for filthy gain. He calls it filthy lucre. Not for money. Not out of compulsion. Not for money. But because you're willing. And he encourages the elders to shepherd the flock of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you didn't know any better, you would think that the Apostle Paul had written 1 Peter chapter 5. Because he's saying in Acts chapter 20 the same thing Peter is saying in 1 Peter chapter 5. But where do these guys get this idea that the church should be ruled by elders? Maybe it would be better for the church to be ruled by one man. Maybe it would be better for the church to have all authority reside in one man. My friends, that would be a huge disaster. First of all, no man but Jesus is able to do this work faithfully. Doesn't matter how many people you have in the church, there are always going to be issues. There's always going to be sin. There's always going to be problems. There are always going to be needs. One man cannot bear that load. But one man should not be given that power. Because with power comes corruption. And with corruption comes ultimately the name of the Lord being blasphemed When you have rule by several elders You can still have corruption. You can still have the name of the Lord blaspheme because after all, we're sinners and we make mistakes. But you have a certain degree of checks On the excesses of sin. See that? It's the same thing in our and how our constitution is set up. A system of checks and balances. Where supposedly the three branches of government are supposed to keep watch over each other so that one branch doesn't think itself to be king or supreme. The framers recognized the sinfulness of man And they recognized because they had been under a system where there was one man rule, and that was the king. And when you get all that power into one man, corruption is there. And the devil is right around the door trying to make his case to destroy the church. Always. But where does where do they get this idea? Well, you could argue that there's some precedent for it in the Old Testament. You can see Moses in Acts chapter 18. Excuse me. Exodus chapter 18. You can see Jethro telling Moses when Moses was saying, I'm going to be judging the people. You could see Moses saying Jethro, his father-in-law, telling Moses, uh-uh, the work's too big for you. Divide it up. Have others involved in the judgment You can also see it, though, in in the fact that it seems that that system of multi-talented or equipped leaders called elders was also in the Jewish communities. In Ruth chapter 4 in verse 2, we find Boaz coming before the elders of the community to present his case. Regarding fulfilling the kinsman redeemer with regard to Ruth. He was speaking to the elders, not elder You see. And then in the New Testament, during the times of Jesus, multiple times when there is opposition to Christ, there are, who are the groups? The scribes, the Pharisees, the chief priests, and sometimes the elders of Jerusalem are mentioned as well. It is a system, you see, that has biblical precedent. It's they're just following what has always been there from the past. Now, how does this passage in Matthew chapter 20 dovetail with the concept of elders? Jesus said to his disciples He said to them, when they wanted to sit at his right hand, they obviously wanted some position of acknowledgement and leadership. Right? They wanted to be leaders in Jesus' kingdom. And Jesus said to them, it's not mine to give. He said to them, Furthermore, um, can you drink the cup that I'm about to drink and undergo the baptism that I'm about to undergo? And of course they foolishly said, Yes, we can. Because Jesus was talking about his crucifixion at that point. But he says, you will do that, and that predicts their suffering and their martyrdom in the future for the faith. But then Then the other ten disciples are upset. They're mad. They're mad at the two brothers. And, you know, they're mad at Well, they're probably mad that they thought dared to ask Jesus' question when they wanted to ask it themselves But anyway, Jesus responds. You know that the rulers of the Gentiles Lord it over them. And those who exercise great and those who are great exercise authority over them The them-being people, the rulers of the Gentiles is who? Most likely, the Roman Emperor The Roman Emperor. One man rule. You know, the rulers of the Gentiles do what? They lord it over them. Lord it over them. That means that there's a there's a um There's an attitude and there's a perception on the part of there's an attitude of the leader and there's a perception of the leader and a perception of the people that The the the the the the ruler is the king, the emperor, the one-man rule, the absolute power And you are the slave. You are the subject. You are completely um Under his lordship. If he says live, you live. If he says die, you die. If he says breathe, you breathe. If he says don't breathe, you don't bre It's that kind of absolute lordship and absolute power. And Jesus says, you know, that's how they are. But it is not supposed to be how you are. This is not the concept of lordship. This is not the concept of rule that I want you, my disciples, to who are going to be the pillars and foundation of my church to lead the church. I do not want you to rule this way. It's not one-man rule. And even as you rule collectively, it's not the perspective Of dominance, authority, absolute, despotic, dictatorial power. Instead He didn't leave it there. Instead, he went on to say, he who is first must be last, and he who is uh wants to be great must be a servant. Of all, a servant of all, and he even threw in slave as well, for good measure. Now That's how he has addressed his disciples when they ask the question, how does great, how is greatness determined in the church, in your kingdom? Greatness is determined by being a servant. You've heard me say that many, many times. I know, because I've said it many, many times. But here's how this gets translated into the work of elders. Obviously, you can say, well, elders are not to be lords. But elders are to be servants. If they're to be leaders and great in the kingdom of God, if they want to be great and serve God's people, If they want to be great, they must serve God's people. They must humble themselves before God and project the image of being a servant. A servant of God, and that means a servant of his people, whom God loves so much. And so, why? Why I believe that that servant image gets placed on the disciples As they are going to be starting new churches, founding new churches, as the understanding of how you lead the body of Christ. You lead by example. You lead by serving God's people. And by serving God's people As the elder does that, he puts before the people of God not himself. But he puts before them the great servant Jesus Christ. Over and over again, in the lives of God's faithful elders. There should be this servant attitude, and that should remind the people of Jesus Christ. I tell you, that is not easy. But I tell you, it is far easier to do that with a group of individuals who are gifted and seeking to serve the Lord, then it is for one person who is functioning as an absolute totalitarian dictator. That is not how Jesus, even though he is an absolute total, he is an absolute dictator, that is not how Jesus rules you. Right? And so Presbyterianism is God's way of keeping before you the person of Jesus. The king who is a servant. May God bless this congregation and all of his congregation. with such faithful elders who are servants and display that. Servants of Jesus and display that before the people. Amen.