Now will you please uh be seated? We're going to hear again from uh God's Word, uh reading now from the book of Acts. Acts chapter 27. Uh we're going to read verses thirteen uh through thirty-eight. And uh Luke is describing for us uh Paul's journey to Rome. You may remember that Paul long desired to uh visit the city of Rome. He's on his way to Rome now. He's accompanied uh by his good friends uh Aristarchus and Dr. Luke who is recording uh the account of Paul's journey Uh he's also traveling as a prisoner in the custody of uh centurion Julius because Paul is on his way to Rome to stand trial before Caesar. It's late in the uh traveling season and Paul, who is perhaps the most experienced traveller on board the boat on which they're traveling Uh Paul's a bit concerned uh about uh the wisdom of setting sails so late on in the uh sailing uh the traveling season. What power does Paul have as a prisoner to influence that. However, while Paul may have very little authority as a prisoner, He has great power as a witness to the Lord Jesus. And as we read God's word this morning, we're going to see how the Lord used the power of Paul's uh witness, his quiet trust in the Savior. So then, Acts chapter twenty-seven, beginning at verse thirteen, listen. This is the word of God Now, when the south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete close to the shore. But soon a tempestuous wind called the Northeaster struck down from the land. And when the ship was caught and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along. Running under the lee of a small island called Cada, we managed with difficulty to secure the ship's boat. After hoisting it up, they used supports to undergird the ship Then, fearing that they would run aground on the surface, they lured the gear, and thus they were driven along. Since we were violently storm tossed, they began the next day to jettison the cargo, and on the third day they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope of our being saved was at last abandoned Since they had been without food for a long time, Paul stood up among them and said, Man, you should have listened to me and not have set sail from Crete and incurred this injury and loss Yet now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship For this very night there stood before me an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I worship, and he said, Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand before Caesar. And behold, God has granted to you all those who seal with you. So take heart, man, for I have faith in God that it will be exactly as I have been told, but we must run aground on some island When the fourteenth night had come, as we were being driven across the Adriatic Sea about midnight, the sailors suspected that they were nearing land. So they took us landing and found twenty fathoms A little farther on they took a sounding again, and found fifteen fathoms, and fearing that we might run on the rocks, they let down four anchors from the stern, and prayed for day to come. As the sailors were seeking to escape the ship and had lowered the ship's boat into the sea under pretense of laying out anchors from the bo bow. Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved. Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the ship's boat and let it go As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued in suspense, and without food, having taken nothing Therefore, I urge you to take some food, for it will give you strength, for not a hare is to perish from the head of any of you. And when he had said these things he took bread, and giving thanks to God in the presence of all, he broke it and began to eat. Then they all were encouraged and ate some food themselves We were in all two hundred and seventy-six persons in the ship, and when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea. And that is the word of our God. Let's pray that He will give us understanding. Our Father, we come to you now with these words in our ears, and we pray. We pray that you would cause the truth of your word to be written on our hearts. Indeed, Father, we ask that you would open up your word to us in such a way that we would see the Lord Jesus. And that our hearts might be glad that you would give us a hope in the Savior in whose name we pray. Amen. So it is a beautiful day for a Mediterranean cruise as the ship sets seal in verse thirteen of our passage. There's not a cloud in the sky. Uh the voyage is a short voyage. The ship is going to uh hug the southern coast of Crete. Uh they're going to uh make a northward turn around the headland and they're going to find themselves in a harbor where they can safely weather the winter storms. It's a distance of about uh thirty miles or so, just a few hours of sailing. And uh as they set out toward that sheltered haven where they can ride out the winter storms, there's not a cloud in the sky Uh there's not a sign of a storm. And how quickly things can change. Because what started out as a few hours voyage along the Mediterranean uh southern coast of Crete turned into a weeks long nightmare in which more than two hundred and seventy people were in terror for their lives. The day started out so beautifully, so calm, so smoothly, and by the end of that day and in the days following, they were in deep crisis. Have you ever experienced that? Maybe not the Mediterranean voyage part of it, but the day that starts out so promisingly uh where everything seems calm and by the end of the day the storm clouds have appeared, the tempest has arisen, and it seems that as far as you can see there's nothing but stormy uh waves, there's nothing but uh crisis. That's what we see in these verses. And in the midst of the crisis, as Luke gives us his eyewitness account of what's going on, Luke records for us that as They went through those days and weeks of fear and anguish and terror. There was one man who rose to the occasion and who stood out because of his quiet confidence and calm. And that one man wasn't the uh wasn't the captain. The one man wasn't the uh uh the centurion. Uh the one man wasn't uh one of the professional sailors, the one man who stood out for his confidence and calm was the Christian. Because Paul, who was a follower of the Lord Jesus, had a confidence in his Savior that all would be well. And because of that, Paul was able to bear a powerful witness to the Lord Jesus in the midst of crisis. And brothers and sisters, you and I find ourselves in many a situation Where our trust in the Lord Jesus in the midst of crisis is a powerful testimony to those round about us, whether it be in our classroom, whether it be in our workplace, whether it be in our family, whether it be in the the places that we go for recreation, the Christian has a confidence in our God that allows us to be not just an example but to be a witness to those around us. We want to see that in our verses this morning. We're going to start Uh in verse thirteen and uh before uh between verse uh thirteen and verse twenty we're going to see that uh uh here are a bunch of people who are all in one uh one boat. They're all in the same boat. And then looking from verses uh twenty-one through uh thirty-two, uh we're going to see five anchors. There are five anchors. And uh in verses thirty-three through thirty-eight we're going to see that there is a single beacon of hope. So those are three things that we can uh used to frame our thoughts as we look into our passage this morning. The first thing that we uh want to see is that uh here are a bunch of people, 276 people, they are all in the same boat And uh Luke describes for us what happened. They they set uh seal, they're going out into the Mediterranean, not very far, they're going to stay within sight of the coast of Crete Uh they're going to make that short uh thirty or so mile journey to their safe haven and then uh comes that northeasterly wind. Now they're being blown out to sea, they're blown away from the uh safety of the shore. Visibility is reduced to zero. They can't see anything. Uh the clouds uh descend, the waves are whipped up. Uh and Luke describes it for us in terrifying detail. The the catalogue of disasters that befell them, the boat being uh swept overboard. They can only with difficulty secure the ship's boat and then at the spectre of a catastrophic structural failure. It looks like the ship is going to break up. They have to uh brace the ship in order to uh uh in order to strengthen it against the buffeting of the waves. And and then Luke tells us the the futility of their efforts to to trim the seals. They just can't get things under control. They're being swept out into the trackless uh center of the Mediterranean. The uh ship's gear, the equipment's being swept overboard. This is disastrous. Eventually, Luke tells us that they Uh they throw the equipment overboard with their own hands. That's an act of desperation. Uh Luke tells us that they threw the cargo over. These are the acts of people uh who are in an extremely difficult situation. Look tells us this goes on over a period of a couple of weeks. They are exhausted, they are weary, they are storm tossed, they are bruised, they are beaten, uh they are in a horrific situation and The Christian. The Christians. There are actually three of them, but Luke is focusing the spotlight on Paul. The Christian is right there in the midst of that trial. Brothers and sisters, you and I find ourselves in the same boat as unbelievers experiencing trial. Sometimes we imagine that if we're a Christian, everything will be smooth ceiling. Everything will be calm. The sun will always shine, the sky will always be blue, not so. Christians experience trials and crises the same way as do unbelievers. Now the devil is going to come to you sometimes and tell you that because you are having difficulties you mustn't be trusting Jesus properly. Or because you're having difficulties, maybe you're not even a Christian at all But Christians experience trials and difficulties the same of the same time that unbelievers do. Here's Paul, and yes, Aristarchus And Doctor Luke, they are all in the same boat as are the two hundred and seventy-three other uh unbelievers who are being tossed around in the storm. You might say, why in the world would God allow that to happen? And of course the Bible doesn't spell out to you or to me why particular trials arise in our lives, but the Bible tells us in general terms why Uh that might be uh Paul writing in Second Corinthians uh chapter one uh describes some of the crises that he's gone through. Maybe he's thinking of uh this particular crisis as well. Paul describes some of the the crises that he's gone through where he said we we felt like we were under sentence of death. It looked like we were facing death straight in were looking death straight in the eye. We felt like we were under sentence of death. And Paul says, uh 2 Corinthians 1 verse 9, this was to cause us to trust not in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead. God he raises the dead. He's done that in Jesus. And we gather Lord's Day by Lord's Day to celebrate the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And as we do so, We're reminded that in the trials and crises of life, we don't trust in ourselves, but we trust in a God who has already demonstrated his power because he has risen Jesus. from the dead. There's more. Paul goes on to uh again in that uh passage in First Corinthians, Paul goes on to tell us that as Christians go through crisis, not only do they trust Not in themselves but in God, but uh Paul says that uh the comfort with which God gives comfort to his people, that then becomes the equipment That becomes the tool that we use to give comfort to others. It's a marvelous testimony when you see a brother or sister struggling and you're able to go to them and say, Look, I know what you're going through. I've been in the pit of despair. I've been in the darkness of depression. I've been in the fear of sickness. I've been in the midst of cryo. of trial. Here's how God comforted me. Here are the ways that God blessed me. That that's something else that God does in crisis where we realize we're in the same boat as unbelievers who are uh struggling fearfully but with nothing to hold on to. And yes, of course. We're directed to the Lord Jesus. Isn't that right? When we find ourselves in those uh kinds of crises and these this is where Christians stand out from people who are not trusting Jesus. You see, uh in times of crisis our attention is drawn to the Lord Jesus, because Jesus Well, he knows what it is to be hungry. He knows what it is to be under threat of death. We he knows what it is to experience pain. He knows what it is to be uh spoken of in all kinds of mean and wicked ways. He knows he knows what it is to die. And yes As the we read the Gospel accounts, Jesus knows what it's like to be in a boat that's being tossed about in a storm. And what does the writer do? The Hebrews Tell us the writer to the Hebrews tells us that all of those experiences that Jesus has had as a human being, just like us, those experiences caused Jesus to be a sympathetic high priest. A sympathetic high priest through whom we come to God seeking grace to find help in our times of need. These are blessed privileges that you and I have. because we know our because we know Jesus, because we're Christians. And so here's Paul. He's in the same boat as uh all of these others, and yet he's the one uh who who knows that he has a savior who comforts him in crisis. But we want to move on, don't we, and and see what else there is for us to see uh in our verses. And I said that in verses uh Uh 21 through 32. We're going to see five anchors. Uh and you noticed uh well you noticed four of those anchors that are referred to Uh in verse 29, the sailors, Luke tells us the sailors fearing that they were going to be uh driven onto the rocks lowered uh five, excuse me, lowered four anchors And they prayed for dawn to come. They prayed for day to come. So here the sailors in their terror. uh in their fear, sensing that there were rocks not far off, and again looking death and destruction right in the eye of the sealers uh let down four anchors to uh brace the ship, to steady the ship and prevent it being driven uh to destruction on the rocks and They prayed for dawn to come. There are no no atheists and foxholes. Those those pagans Now those unbelievers, when they were looking death in the face, they started to pray. They start you see, everyone, not just you and me who are here today and worship uh this Lord's Day morning, everyone was created by God to worship God. And if you are not worshiping the living and true God, you're going to worship something else or someone else. And these pagan sailors, when push came to shelf, when there was nothing else that they could do, they Prayed. And you can imagine the desperation with which they prayed. There they are. The ship is being uh tossed this way and that way, and they are crying out, and it must have seemed like the The wind was whipping the words from their lips and just tearing them out and dashing them into the water and maybe carrying them away. Is there anyone hearing the Our prayers, you can imagine the terror and the desperation and and maybe even the hopelessness. Is there anyone out there? who is able to hear. Does anyone see what's going on with us? Is there anyone who is able to help us? A little bit like the prophets of Bea, listen to them on Carmel. You remember how they danced around their altar and they got into all kinds of hysterics and they were cutting themselves and and uh Elijah is taunting them. What's your God? Maybe he's asleep. Maybe he's gone off on a journey. He's not nobody there to hear Uh your prayers. He's uh he's off duty, he's outside of office. Oh whatever, there's nobody listening. And here these uh pagans in this uh storm tossed ship are crying out and their cries, their prayers are just pff Carried off out to sea. Paul. Paul has a solid anchor. Did you notice Paul in verse 29 speaking of the uh God whom I worship. Let me see. Um excuse me, verse uh twenty-five. Um Paul says, Take heart, man, I have faith in God. that it will be exactly as I have been told. Paul has faith in God That it will be exactly as he has been told. You see, uh God sent his messenger, and we read about it, didn't we? God sent his messenger to tell Paul. that he, Paul, was going to arrive safely at his destination. He was going to stand before Caesar. And now Paul In the midst of all of this crisis, and here these people round about him as shitmeus, they're crying out in terror to their gods. And Paul says, My God has spoken to me words of comfort. words of hope. Did you notice Paul describes his God as the God whom I worship and to whom I belong. Isn't that great? In the midst of the crisis, in the midst of the storm, Paul is able to say the God whom I worship is also the God to whom I belong. God was able to send his angel out into a storm In the Mediterranean Sea. Somewhere, somewhere, God's child Paul was in distress Somewhere Paul was being thrown about in stormy winds, was being thrown about by turbulent waves, was being borne toward destructive rocks, and God knew exactly where to send his messenger. Because Paul knew that he belonged to his God. And the messenger came to Paul, and the messenger addressed him by name. Brothers and sisters, God knows his people. He knows your name. He knows where you are. He knows where to find you. You don't go, you don't disappear off his radar. Uh you don't get lost in the darkness. You don't get swallowed up in the storm. God always knows where you are. Isn't that wonderful? He knows where you are, he knows what you're going, he knows your name. He knows what the crisis is. He knows what the uh what uh fearful circumstances you might be going through. And Paul Paul finding himself in that situation has a solid confidence in his God. Now let's think about that for a moment. Uh Paul had some very particular promises. God's messenger had told Paul that Paul would find his way safely. uh to Rome. And you you and I don't have that kind of uh specific particular promise. But Peter tells us, 2 Peter chapter 1 verse 4, we have uh great and very precious promises. And Paul Peter's writing those words to uh uh Christians who are they're having hard times. They're experiencing trial. And Paul says, uh Peter says to them, uh you have God's uh precious and great promises. You've got great promises. And so like Paul you and I have promises to comfort us Promises to assure our hearts. Like Paul, we have a promise that God will bring us in safety. to our destination. He's a God who watches over us. So that when all is dark and confusing and bewildering for us, God is not confused. God is not bewildered. When uh when darkness what was what we were saying earlier, when darkness fills his lovely face, I rest on his unchanging grace. When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. The writer to the Hebrews The writer to the Hebrews says, and again writing to Christians who are going through difficult. Interesting how much of the New Testament is written to Christians. who are going through difficulty. That's why it's so that's why it's so relevant to us, isn't it? That's why we pick it up and we read it and it speaks to us because it's addressed to people who are Who are bumping along and and diff who are being battered by waves and the storm winds are tossing them around and God speaks to us. And what does uh the writer to the Hebrews say as he writes to his uh afflicted uh congregation In Hebrews 6, 19 and 20, we have an anchor. We have an anchor for the soul. An anchor that extends behind the veil. We are anchored in the Lord Jesus. We have an anchor for our souls. That was what Paul had. He had an anchor for his soul. He knew that he was going to arrive at his desk. He was going to arrive in Rome. He was going to have his opportunity to stand before Caesar. Of course Uh you and I don't have that kind of specific promise, but we do have this specific promise that as we trust in the Lord Jesus, we will arrive at our destination. Isn't that great? We uh heard those uh sailors in Psalm 107. They were being tossed around in the storm, they cried out to the Lord, they were at their wits' end. And uh God brought them to their desired haven. God has put the hope of heaven in the hearts of his people. And God is going to bring his people in safety through to that destination. Nothing, says Paul. in Romans chapter eight. Nothing can separate us from the love of God shown to us in Christ Jesus. Not uh trial, not persecution, not famine, not nakedness, not sword, none of those things separate us from the love of our God shown to us in Jesus. We have that solid, firm anchor for our souls. And we are assured that we will arrive home in safety. Be encouraged by that. One last thing that we need to see in our verses, and we'll see this in verse 33 through 38 Uh Paul Paul lights a beacon of hope uh for them. Oh, there's all uh kinds of despair and anxiety and distress and fear, and Paul is uh very uh very calm in the midst of it all And uh these sailors, uh they're they're hopeless. They're like the uh sailors in Psalm uh uh one hundred seven, verse twenty-seven, who were at their wits end. And these uh shipmates of Paul's they're at their wits end, and Paul uh Um very calm, very hope filled. And remember again what Peter says to uh Christians who are experiencing crisis along with other people, uh along with unbelievers. And uh Peter, first Peter three verse fifteen says we're always to be ready to give a reason for the hope that is within us. Paul had a hope. And in the midst of that ship being storm-tossed at sea with the rocks out there somewhere and disaster Looming. Paul is very calm and uh Paul assures his shipmates that they're going to be safe. Yes, the ship's going to be destroyed, but they're going to be safe. And Paul says you need to eat some You need to eat you need to take some food. You're going to need your strength. uh fight their way to the shore. They're gonna have to be able to uh swim or hold on to pieces of uh debris until they can get swept up onto the beach. They're gonna need their strength. And uh Paul says you need to eat something something. He's he's thinking very clearly. And uh uh Paul well it's uh uh very very practical of Paul and very Like the Lord Jesus. Paul takes the uh food uh and uh the bread and he gives thanks. We can't help but think of the the Lord's table. Uh now someone has said this is uh not a celebration of the Lord's Supper that's taking place on this uh ship uh that's uh close to uh shipwreck. It's not the sacred one commentator says it's not the sacred meal, but it is a sacred moment because at that time Paul shows the confidence that he has And uh Paul gives thanks. He gives thanks to his God. Uh he's he's got a hope, he's got a confidence that rests uh in in his God. And uh What a practical thing, nevertheless, for them to do to eat. And yes, as we come in a few minutes to the the Lord's table. That's a very, very practical thing for Christians to do. Sometimes we think that the Lord's Supper is something we do every so often and it's a kind of a a ritual that Christians do. It's actually very, very practical. Because just as uh Paul realized that uh and understood those shipmates of his needed to have their physical strength uh in order to be able to get to uh safety on dry land. You and I need spiritual strength. We need spiritual strength. And Jesus provides that for us in the Lord's Supper. He strengthens our souls through the nourishment that comes from the uh the uh realities that are represented by the bread and by the wine. It's very, very practical and uh you may sometimes be tempted to say it's too weary to drag myself out to to to worship to sit with God's people at the Lord's table where I'm so distracted and so discouraged and so frightened and fearful and anxious The Lord Jesus says, you need to need to eat. You need to sit with me at my table and eat the food that I provide for you. So that you can be strengthened in order to go through the trials that may yet lie ahead and find yourself safely in the presence of the God. Whom you worship, who's watching over you. And Paul he takes uh he takes the food, he gives thanks. Paul uh Paul practices what he preaches. That's one of the things I love about Paul. That's kind of a little bit scary for me as a preacher. But Paul always practices what he preaches. And uh you'll remember how in uh First Thessalonians five Paul says, Give thanks in all circumstances. Here's Paul doing that very thing. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances. This is God's will for you. What's God sometimes we spend a lot of time wondering what's God's will for my life? God's will for your life is that you give thanks in all circumstances, that you pray without ceasing. That that's a part of God's will for Christians. And Paul uh does that very thing because uh Paul is confident in his God. And as Paul displays that confidence in his God and his readiness to give thanks, Even in the midst of trial and crisis, Paul bears witness to the fact that his God is a God Paul uh writing again to the Corinthians in Second Corinthians chapter four says, These brief and momentary afflictions. Uh they're brief and momentary they prepare for us uh a great and uh lasting weight of glory because these afflictions they are transient. They They pass, but glory remains, and Jesus has secured that for us. The anchor that unites us with Jesus is the anchor that secures us to our inheritance in heaven. You can think of uh the Savior as a we're pulling in that uh anchor cable and drawing his drawing you uh into uh the destination that he has prepared for you. Jesus, uh the uh I guess Isaac Watts writes, Jesus my God, I know his name. His name is all my trust. He will not put my soul to shame, or let my hope be lost. That's the confidence that we have in stormy times. We we can be Christians in the midst of a storm and we might feel very weak and helpless, but that kind of witness is one that the Savior uses. Let's pray that it will be so. Our Father, we thank you for this word of yours. What a precious word it is, what a rich word. How sweet it is for us to hear such precious things as these we ask That your word would be written on our hearts. And we pray that we would have a hope that would allow us to shine out as lights in the darkness. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.