And if I could, I'll direct your attention to the Word of God as it's found in 1 Timothy chapter 4. And we'll be reading verses 6 through 16. My comments will be focused on verses 15 and 16. 1 Timothy chapter 4. Verses six through sixteen. If you instruct the brethren in these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ. Nourished in the words of faith and of the good doctrine which you have carefully followed, but reject profane and old wives' fables And exercise yourself toward godliness. For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things. Having promise of the life that now is and of that which is to come. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. For to this end, we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God. who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. These things command and teach. Let no one despise your youth, but be an example to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, in purity Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Do not neglect the gift that is in you, which was given you by prophecy With the laying on of the hands of the eldership. Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them that your progress may be evident to all. Take heed to yourself and to the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this you will both save yourself and those who hear you. Thus far the reading of God's Word. Well, it does seem like for the last couple of weeks maybe months as we've been going through Timothy. We have been uh noticing that Timothy, Paul, as he speaks to Timothy, has a familiar theme, and that familiar theme revolves around the subject of being a good minister of the Lord Jesus Christ. And along the way, the Apostle Paul has reminded us that being a minister of Christ is not defined exclusively by the amount of academic training a minister has Nor is it defined by having great speaking skills, nor by being able to tell funny stories. nor by how much enthusiasm the minister may convey in his ministry, nor a matter of how pious he is It's not even determined exclusively by how much of the Bible he knows. Many of these things are involved in ministry. But you can't isolate one or two and then over-emphasize those one or two and say that if a minister has these things, he's a good minister. We have seen that Paul speaks on this subject quite a bit in 1 Timothy. And in general, he sees being a good minister involves some some quite a bit. And for example, in chapter 3, remember we went through chapter 3 and all the qualifications? A good minister has to fit certain qualifications of the Word of God. In chapter 4, verse 2 We see that a good minister is described as one who is proactive with regard to the spiritual welfare of God's people. He steers people away from deceptive spirits and doctrines of demons. He protects the people by warning them not to follow those who are teaching falsehood, who are teaching a salvation by works instead of by grace. Paul also says that a good minister warns the people. Don't get caught up in profane and old wives fables. which I think he means religious-sounding phrases that seem to be pious but are not really from the Bible. Such as God helps those who help themselves. A good minister warns people to reject such ideas He exercises himself in the ways of godliness. He provides to the congregation an example. To them in his understanding of the word of God, in his walk before God and the people, in his display of love. For God and for the people. He demonstrates his faith before them, that he is committed to the gospel. And he lives a life of moral purity. He gives himself to the reading of God's Word and the study of God's Word. He also is responsible to other members of the eldership. He submits himself to be accountable to them, as Paul mentions in verse 14. In our words today, we see that Paul says that he must be making spiritual progress in his walk with the Lord. That's hard to imagine with all these things that the Apostle Paul could ever be accused of not trying to protect the ministry of the Word of God. And not trying to make it very clear that only those who are part of the sacred ministry, that those who are part of the sacred ministry should have their focus on showing Christ to the people in their in their in their messages and also in their life. So we come now to verse fifteen, where Paul exhorts Timothy, this young minister. He says, meditate on these things. And of course, I think that these things are all the things Paul has previously been talking about about what it is that makes a good minister. Remember, Timothy is a young man. He's just starting this ministry by himself. The Apostle Paul is no longer around. But he has to carry on a ministry wherein he earns the respect of the people that he ministers to. Let no one despise your youth, Paul has said. And in order to do that, he must meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them, he says, that your progress must be evident, may be evident to all. Keep thinking about these things. Keep thinking about these things as I have shared them to you in God's Word. Meditate upon them. But another word that is used to translate this word meditate is the word cultivate. Cultivate these things in your heart. When you cultivate something, you are doing All that you can to make sure that the seed that you have planted in the ground is going to take root and is going to produce. So he is commanding Timothy, cultivate these things, meditate on these things Give yourself over to them. Let these things be. He it really it it's it's it's it's it's a form of the word to be. Be in these things. Give yourself to these things. Let these things define your life. Let your being, yet let yet yet let your life be absorbed With meditating on the gift of the gospel of Christ that you have heard, even as you preach the word As you use all the gifts that God has given to you through the laying on of hands by the Presbytery who has ordained you and called you as ministers. Meditate upon these things. Meditate on God's word Cultivate God's word in your heart. And I chose that we would read from Joshua earlier because God tells Joshua on that momentous occasion where he takes control of the whole nation of Israel, where he is the spiritual leader Of that nation. God says to Joshua, this book of the law, which at that point would have been the five books of Moses This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. Don't let it depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night. that you may observe to do all according to all that is written in it. For then you shall make thy way prosperous, and then you shall have good success. You know, I I I'm relatively confident that Joshua did that as he led the people of Israel. The problem was the people of Israel weren't following Joshua's example. Um Psalm One, verse two One of the opening phrases of the book of Psalms says about the blessed man. In God's sight, it says, his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law does he meditate day and night. Psalm 119 verse 15, I will meditate on thy precepts and have respect for your ways. So our text. Says to Timothy, Timothy, you young man, you minister of the people of God, make sure that you take time to meditate on God's word. To Have that word a part of your very understanding and your life. Because if you do, he goes on to say. That will result in progress. Progress. And your progress, he says, will be evident to all. In other words, it will be evident to those whom you're seeking to minister to. as well as those who are outside of your church or your group or congregation. You will be progressing. Now I I think it's pretty obvious that when he says progressing here, that he is referring to a spiritual progression. He's referring to prosperity in your spiritual walk that will be apparent to everyone. In other words, he will be a faithful Christian. Not just in terms of what he says, but also in terms of his walk, in terms of his lifestyle. When the word of God is preached, and if it's preached truly By the minister, it not only exposes the people to that preaching, but it should expose the minister to that preaching as well. It exposes him to eternal truth that he needs for his life as well as for the people who he's caring for. It's not the case with Paul That he's saying to Timothy, Timothy, I have now put you in the position, the Presbytery has ordained you, you've studied the Word of God. Now you're a minister, and now you have arrived. There's nothing else more you need to do. You're the expert. You are ready to take this responsibility. Well, maybe he is ready to take the responsibility, but it seems very obvious that Paul is talking about something more that is essential, and that is what he terms progress. Spiritual progress. You're not staying static in what you understand about the Word of God, but you yourself, minister, are growing in your understanding. And growing in your love for the Word of God. You see, progress denotes If one has said you're to have progress, that says that you've not yet arrived. You have not yet arrived at the end of or or at the point where you don't need to progress anymore. And um you've stopped having the need to grow in grace. You've got enough knowledge. You've got enough holiness. No, Christians as well as the pastor are here put on notice. that we are in a state of never arriving, always striving in this life for glory. For the Lord's glory. Being the minister isn't the end It isn't all that matters. It's really the beginning. It's really the beginning of a new phase of understanding It always used to baffle me when I would read Philippians chapter 3, verses 9 through 14, and where the Apostle Paul says this. And he's speaking about himself, his own testimony. He says, that I might be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law. But that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. That didn't baffle me nor did this next statement, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death That didn't baffle me either, but it's this next statement that Paul made that really I used to wonder about. He says, not as though I had already attained, or were already perfect. But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which I am also apprehended of Jesus Christ. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. And reaching forth to those things which are before, I press on. Toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Jesus Christ. Isn't it interesting that the Apostle Paul who is, you know, we would all probably acknowledge, is one of the more sanctified people in the Bible, made it very clear that he didn't see himself that way. He had room to grow. He needed to progress more in his understanding. The progress is to be evident to all, so that all might be able to see the Christian minister And say, as Paul says in Philippians 2. 15, that you might be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of light life That I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Meditate on these things. Continue to progress. And then he adds in verse 16, take heed to yourself and to doctrine, to the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this you will save yourself and those who hear you. Take heed to yourself and to the doctrine. Both are needed. Holiness before the world, but truth, too. They aren't exclusive. They aren't antithetical to one another. They they actually, there's kind of a symbiotic relationship between them. They keep informing one another. They keep pressing one another on. More doctrine, more holiness. More ho grow in holiness, it's because you've understood something, maybe a little more clear from the Word of God. There will be an effort Is being called for. Take heed to yourself. And doctrine. Continue in them. Continue in them. That's an action word. Um remain in uh remain in uh uh a uh evaluating your your spirituality and uh uh holding on to the doctrine, growing in the doctrine. Never say you can rest on past accomplishments, thinking that you have now made it. You can always improve on your love for Jesus, can you not? But what is At stake here. What is the payoff for the minister of God following what Paul is saying here? Why meditate in the Word? Why continue to grow in it? Why continue to hold on to the doctrine? Why continue to pursue holiness? But we hold on to the word because the word itself is salvation. John 6, verse 68, Peter said to the Lord. Lord, where shall we go? You have words of eternal life. Eternal life cannot be found anywhere else but in here. Romans chapter 10, verse 14. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? How shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? How shall they hear without a preacher? How shall they hear without a preacher How shall they call even on God without someone to proclaim? Truthfully. Jesus himself said in John 5. 24, about his word, verily, verily I say unto you, he that hears my word and believes on him that sent me has eternal life. And shall not come unto condemnation, but he has passed from death to life. Paul is reminding Timothy with these words of instructions that they're very high stakes. Involved for the people you minister to as a minister. He literally says their very salvation is involved. Ministers' salvation is involved too. They must realize that they are responsible for bringing the word truthfully and faithfully to God's people. Over in 2 Corinthians 2, verse 16, the Apostle Paul says to the Corinthian writers Who is sufficient for these things There is something you can do for ministers, for Timothy, but for all ministers, pray for them. Pray specifically that they would capture what Paul is talking about here regarding ministry. Pray that your pastor might have an unending quest for excellence in all areas of his life, for godliness in his walk. And for depth, height, breadth, depth, and length of Christ and His Word And last but not least, that your pastor would faithfully preach Christ to himself and to you all. Amen. Let us pray. Lord our God, we thank you for the Apostle Paul's words here to Timothy, but more so, Lord, to the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. For all ministers in the church, Lord, we pray that ministers might hear these words and might for the love of God and for his greatest glory. Strive to embrace and live by these words. We pray it in Jesus' name.