Please continue to stand. Turn to Romans 9. Romans chapter 9, beginning at verse 10, and continuing on through verse 29. Romans Nine verses ten uh through twenty nine Hear God's word. And not only this, but when Rebekah also had conceived by one man even our father Isaac. For the children not yet born, nor having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand Not of works, but of him who calls. It was said to her, the older shall serve the younger. As it is written, Jacob I have loved, but Esau I have hated. What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? Certainly not. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion. So then, it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy. For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may show my power in you, and that my name may be believed in all the earth Therefore he has mercy on whom he wills, and whom he wills he hardens. You will say to me then What does he still why does he still find fault? For who has resisted his will But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Will the thing formed say to him who formed it, Why have you made me like this? Does not the potter have power over the clay? From the lump to make one vessel for honor and the other for dishonor? What if God, wanting to show his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long suffering the vessels of wrath prepared for destruction? And that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for glory, even us whom he has called Not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles. As he says in Hosea, I will call them my people, who were not my people, and her beloved, who was not beloved. And it shall come to pass in the place where it was said to them, You are not my people, there they shall be called sons of the living God. Isaiah also cries out concerning Israel. Though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, The remnant shall be saved. Or he will finish the work and cut it short in righteousness, because the Lord will make a short work upon the earth And as Isaiah said before, unless the Lord of Sabbath hath left us a seed, We would have become like Sodom, and we would have been made like Gomorrah. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. Well certainly that passage is a powerful passage as passage that focuses on on uh a number of key important aspects of um uh of who God is and also addresses uh the question of what it means to be reformed. And I'd like to talk about that this morning to you about being reformed. And do that by referring to a number of places in scripture Including Romans chapter 10 that we read, but other places as well. Have you had this occurrence? Person comes to you and asks you, where do you go to church? And you say, I go to Trinity Reform Church, and it's an Orthodox Presbyterian church. And as soon as you say that, it's like there's this blank stare over people's eyes, and they're wondering, what in the world are you talking about? First of all, what does reform mean? And what does orthodox mean? You ever had that uh those those those questions posed at you? Um If you've been stuck for an answer, I hope this message will help you give an answer. Now the strange thing about reformed, the word reformed, is you can't find a passage of Scripture That gives a detailed theological definition of the word reformed. But neither do you find such a definition for the word Trinity. In fact, neither word, neither of the two words have a definition. And in fact, neither words occur in the Bible. And yet we use the concepts all the time. We use them because they express a summary Of what are crucial things about what the Word says, about who God is and how He relates to His people. To begin with, reform is a foundational concept, and it is a theme. a theme in which that is woven throughout the Bible itself The Reformed word comes into usage during the time of the Protestant Reformation. Now I know that uh many of you don't like history, but I do, so you'll have to indulge me a little bit. The Protestant Reformation occurred in the 1500s to the uh 1600s primarily. It continued after that, the after effects. And not only um It began before that, but it really got its steam when a fellow named Martin Luther in 1517 nailed 95, what are called the 95 thesis on the church door of the gates at Wittenberg University, where he was a teacher Martin Luther was a Catholic monk, an Augustinian of the Augustinian order. And These thesis came about as a result of his study of the Bible. And as he studied the Bible, he began to have conflict He began to notice that there were a number of areas in which the church, the only church at the time, the Roman Catholic Church, He began to notice that there were a number of places where the church and the Bible differed. And the more he studied, the more areas he found difficulty. So He tries to bring this matter to the attention of the authorities, and boy, did he get attention. This event from Luther, but it it wasn't just Luther, it was also others Who were thinking like Luther in various different parts of Europe, this event brought about The Catholic Church feeling threatened by what Luther was saying and what he was teaching. And Instead of supporting what Luther was saying, and what he was saying was biblical. Instead of supporting the Bible, they began an effort to squash what Luther was saying. A Counter-Reformation was spawned where Luther and many others were placed on trial. Now they weren't placed on trial Uh they you know th they they they were brought in to the the civil courts. Luther was brought into the uh the the the very parliament of the Holy Roman Empire. And there before the Emperor Charles, he was grilled about his views. And he was asked to defend his views. And he did. He defended his views based on what the Word of God said. And finally, they asked him to recant. Your views are in conflict with the church, let alone Never mind that they're what the Bible teaches. But they asked Luther to recant his view. And at that point Luther made a speech, and at the end of his speech, he said these words. Here I stand. Here I stand. I will not recant. God help me. But I will not recant. Here I stand. I stand on the Word of God. And those words, maybe one of the most powerful speeches in history. history. At the time it flame. Those words flame throughout Europe. And the pr what was called the Protestant Reformation was started. Reformation, reformed. So one of the things that you might understand about um the what it means to be reformed is It's kind of following what Luther said. And others, particularly John Calvin, in the more Presbyterian uh system of things. It's usually John Calvin. Now what are some of these fundamental teachings that came about as a result of the ref of the Reformation? Some of the things Luther pointed to, and some of the things that were added to by others later in history. At the at the and these are things that define what it is to be reformed. At the heart of the issue is that we believe that the Bible teaches that God is the creator. And God, the Creator, is sovereign. That means He's in control. He's in control of all things. You know there are there are times there are times in the world in which we live today where you wonder who in the world is in control of what's going on Well, I tell you, even the chaos, even the confusion, even the difficulties that we see everywhere fit into God's eternal plan. That he is in control of these things. And he has a grand plan for how how these things fit into ultimately bringing him glory and praise and honor. We may not understand it. We may have struggles with what's going on. But I tell you God has a plan in which you and his name are going to be vindicated through everything. And it sometimes is difficult to see. But we start with God as the Creator, and that means you are not. Simply said, you are not. As we just read in Romans, does the Clay had the right to say to the potter, why did you make me like this? We ask God all the time, why, why, why? But the reality is we don't have a right to do that. Yeah, if you're going to get this concept of the reformed, what reformed is, you're going to have to get it through your through through your head. I was gonna say your thick head, but I can't say that. You're gonna have to get it, the idea That God is in control, and you are not. That's so fundamental to this discussion of what it means to be reformed You start there. Now um he has a plan I said, he has a plan, a plan of salvation, it's called, or a plan of redemption. The God who is the Creator has revealed Himself to us You say, where? Where do I see him? Well, number one, you see him out there. You see him in the stars. You see him in the beauty of the fall. You see him in the various creation that God has made. And with our sinful hearts and our darkened minds, what we do with what we see is we deny We deny him. We refuse to honor him or give him thanks. So, Romans chapter 1, which we didn't read, tells us he gives us over to Stupidity. Our foolish minds and hearts are darkened. We have all kinds of foolish thoughts. We have all kinds of sinful actions that flow from our foolish thoughts and our rejection of God. So We see him there, but that doesn't help us because we're too stupid to understand it. Too foolish. Our hearts are gripped by sin So what does God do? Well, brothers and sisters, he doesn't leave us dark. He doesn't leave us stupid. He gives us this. His word. And in his word, he spells out very clearly who he is, who we are, and what he has done to overcome our foolishness. And he has brought to us a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. Now, the Reformation was also characterized going to get this done. This was a big choice today. The Reformation is characterized by something called the Three Solas S O L A. Sola is a Latin term, and it means only. Okay? Or alone. The three solas are Sola scriptura, sola grazia, and sola fide. In English, sola script, only the scriptures Only by grace and only by faith. This is describing how People come to know God. How they come to a saving faith of God. The three scriptures, excuse me, the three solas assume An extremely high view of the Bible. It assumes that the Bible is the Word of God, that it is not simply a book that contains the writings of men about God But that it is the Word of God given to holy men, moved by the Spirit, who wrote the Word of God. As 2 Peter says. It is God's word. It's God's word and it reveals his will for our life. It also happens to reveal to us. The way of eternal life for us poor foolish creatures. It has given us the person and work of Jesus Christ. Christ, the Son of God, who comes, God with us, God in the flesh, to dwell with us and live among us. And to save us from our sins. And to make us no longer foolish, but to give us hearts that love God. And begin to understand him, but not just him, this whole world in which we live. Because it's his created world Now, um the Bible is it we believe is an errant. That means it doesn't have errors, and it's infallible. It means that what it tells us is true. It's inerrant and infallible in its teaching. And it calls us over and over again to believe in Jesus Christ, to repent of Our sins and to believe in Him who is God's gift for our salvation. So important are the words of the Bible to a Reformed Christian or to a believer. That the Reformed Christians stak their very life on the truthfulness of the Bible. We marvel, for example, to hear Peter say in John 6 Verse 67 these words. Jesus said to the twelve, Will you go away also? And Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words. Of eternal life. We believe and are sure that you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Being reformed means that sola scriptura, only the scriptures that you have a similar commitment to there being no place for you to go for eternal life. but to Christ and his word. Again, Luther in his situation Confronted, you know, when he was in he was on trial and they weren't gonna just slap him on the wrist and uh and give him thirty days in jail for what refusal to recant, they were going to kill him. And in the midst of that reality, asked to recant again Luther demonstrated his sole allegiance to the Word of God when he said, Here I stand, I can do no other. God help me. Solo scriptura solo Faith is important to the Reformed Christian. That he believes the Bible's teaching When it says in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6, without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that seek him. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. Well, how can I have faith if I'm not smart enough to figure all this out? Or if it's not just intelligence, it's a question of will. If my will in my natural state is to not believe God and not believe what he's revealed in Scripture and ignore what he says in the Word, How in the world can I have faith? I said, remember, God has a plan and God is in control. What does God do about this dilemma? He draws us to himself. He works in our minds, in our hearts. To overcome the darkness and the foolishness and the sinfulness. He does that by his grace So that salvation, you see, anybody who comes to Jesus Christ truly knows him is by faith. By grace through faith. It is not of our works, it is not of our ability, but it is by his drawing. Why does that happen? Why is it not by our works? Why is it not by our ability? Well, if what we say about man is true, that he's He's sinful and he's totally sinful, then we can't do this. So God draws us. He's the one who's responsible. So that all the praise, all the glory for a person being saved goes where? Goes to God Doesn't go to me. Or it doesn't go to Mia. And you know, we'd be the first ones in line to say, look what I did Look how smart I am. There's other people they can't figure all this out. But look at what I figured out. No, I didn't figure out anything If I'm standing before you as a redeemed Christian and as a reformed Christian, it's because God did it. God brought me to him. Out of the darkness of my sin. And he said, here, here's my son. I've given him for you. Now, that's sola scriptura, sola fide, sola grazia. All of it. Is buttressed by what the Word of God says. Supported by what the Word, the inerrant Word of God, says. And so excuse me. Another way to understand reforms is to uh is to appreciate what Titus chapter three says about our salvation Not of works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saves us. But another way of understanding reformed is from something that has happened after the Reformation, a popular term has been coined to bring together certain ideas of the Reformed faith. That term is in the form of a flower. A tulip. Tulip is said to summarize what the Word of God teaches about salvation. And man. Man, according to the T is that we are totally Depraved. Now that doesn't mean that I'm as bad as you, or you're as bad as me, or I'm as bad as whoever did some heinous crime on the streets, but it does mean the total refers to my being. That every part of the human what constitutes a human being Is impacted sinfully by sin. My will, my desires, my intellect, my heart And it's supported by such verses as Genesis 6. God saw the wickedness of man. It was only evil continually. It's supported by Romans 3. There is none righteous, no not one, not even one that does good. So from the T, they went to, and there's so many more verses that we could throw at you, but those are some of the primary. From the T, we go to the U We go to the U, and that's called unconditional election. Unconditional points to the fact that there's nothing within us that God sees. That merits his choice of us to receive eternal life. Election means Just what we read in Romans 9. That Esau, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. That God has made a choice That God has made a choice to save some. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4 says that choice was made before the foundation of the earth. You might not like God's choice. You might wonder, if you're a believer, why me and not somebody else? But that doesn't mean God didn't make the choice. If God is sovereign and knows all things, it follows. God chooses some. In Christ. To be his people. To no longer not be my people, but to be the people that I love. Now, think about that for a minute. If as Ephesians 1 points out, this choice was made before the foundation of the world. However, you want to understand that, God made a choice to save some before the world even existed. And he chose that to do that in Christ. That means before the world even existed The idea of the necessity of God's son dying for the elect was part of God's plan. Jesus was committed to die for you if you're a believer before anybody walked the face of the earth, before there even was an earth. That's heady stuff. That's hard stuff. Jacob I loved. Esau I hated Unconditional election. It's God's choice. Like it or not. It is what it is. And that's why I said early on. The whole idea of the Reformed faith comes about from your view of God. Is He sovereign? Or is he some God who created all this and then went away and left us to figure it all out? Is he God who can be manipulated by our pleas? No, he is God. He is Jehovah. He is awesome. He's the creator and the redeemer. The L of the tool that stands for limited atonement. Or definite, it comes, it doesn't come out right if it's definite atonement, two dip. Or or particular atonement, two pip Now that came out tulip, limited atonement. And what that means is the atonement, which is what the price Jesus paid for your salvation Pays for the sins of all who are God's people Who are God's people? Anyone who decides to believe? Can't do that. That's not possible. God's people have to be those who are the elect, whom Christ has chosen. The limitation is not on the ability of the atonement to pay for the sins of everybody. The limitation is on whom it applies to. What was God's intent when he determined Jesus to die? We know what it was. It was to save the elect. The I stands for irresistible grace. Once a believer hears the gospel, once one of the elect hears the gospel, even if they're an unbeliever, they may be able to resist it for a while, but eventually God will draw them to himself And they will believe. The P stands for the perseverance of the saints. That each person whom God has called will continue in faith by God's gracious provision. until the day when Christ returns. Or until the day they die and go to glory to be with Him. Now I'm halfway through the sermon. As you can see, this is a major subject. But it's not a theoretical subject, and it's not a subject that is too academic for us to think about. It's so important that you get that first principle right. Who is God? It starts there. And who is God am I. That's where it starts. And if you get that principle right and you start investigating what the scripture says, you're going to find. But the word of God is true, and it and it does what God intends. And this is important for you because you don't have a God who is weak, but you have a God who is powerful. You don't have a God who is arbitrary in terms of, well, gee, what must I do today to make me in his good graces? No. You're in his good races not because of anything you've ever done, but because of what Jesus did And it's also the source of comfort and encouragement when you're in a situation where there's hard times that have come in your life. And you're and it's difficult. Even a as a believer, you know, you you do scratch your head and you wonder, God, what are you doing here? Why why you brought this on me? You know, I'm one of your children Don't forget, the Bible says that God has reasons for this and that all of his children endorse suffering. They go through trials. They go through difficulty. Why? So that their faith might be refined. So that they might become more and more holy. Because at the end of the day, you're going to need holiness to be in God's presence, because He is holy. Right? Be holy for I am holy. 1 Peter 1:16. And if you're a child of God, you long for the day when you're in God's presence. presence. And God is working in your life now through his Spirit to make you more and more like His Son, Jesus. These are just a few of the ways it matters. If you have a view of God in which You know, he he he's just some he's just some entity who's out there and he's not really very much concerned about me and he's not really interested in me. If if if you know I'm the one who made the quote unquote decision to follow him And um and uh and therefore I'm the one who's in control of whether or not I do what's right in order to please him If you're of that persuasion, you need to look at what the Bible says about that. Because it's not what you think This is part of what it means to be reformed. This is why this is called Trinity Reform Church. Because we embrace these views. Not because we like them all the time, not because we love these kinds of things. But because they're true. And we want to stand for what is true. Because when you stand for what is true, God gets the glory. Amen. Next week may be part two. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father We thank you for your word, for the treasure that it is. Forgive us, O Lord God, when we Have failed to fully appreciate it. Forgive us, O Lord God, when we have gone our foolish ways. How we thank thee, O Lord, for Jesus, for the grace of salvation which you have displayed unto us through Him, for His mercy. and his kindness, that he, that he would consent before the foundation of the world to die Not for his friends, but for his enemies. But some of them might have eternal life We bow before you and we lift up our hearts in praise and thanksgiving. To God be the glory. Amen.