In preparation for our sermon today, let's turn to Genesis chapter 17. Genesis chapter 17, and we will read the entire chapter. Let us now hear the word of the Lord. When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am Almighty God. Walk before me and be blameless, and I will make my covenant between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly. Then Abraham fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be a father of many nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but you shall be Abraham, for I have made you a father of many, many nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come from you. And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you in their generations for an everlasting covenant. To be God to you and to your descendants after you. Also, I give to you and your descendants after you the land in which you are a stranger. All the land of Canaan is an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your descendants after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you, and your descendants after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised. And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a sign of a covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male in your generations. Who is not your descendant? He who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money must be circumcised. And my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant Covenant. He has broken my covenant. And Abraham said to S excuse me, and God said to Abram, As for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her Sarai, but Sarai shall be her name. And I will bless her, and I will give you a son by her. Then I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations. Kings of peoples shall be from her. And Abraham fell on his face and laughed. And said in his heart, Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. And God said, No. Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will bless, I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant and with his descendants after him. As for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly He shall beget twelve princes, and I will get make him a great nation. But my covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you At this time next year. Then he finished talking with him, and God went up from Abraham. So Abraham took Ishmael, his son. And all who were born in his house, and all who were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abram's house, Abraham's house, and circumcised the flesh Of their foreskins that very same day as God had said to him. Abraham was 99 years old when he was circumcised. Circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. That very same day, Abraham was circumcised And all the men of his house born in the house or bought with money from a foreigner were circumcised with the him. And thus far as the reading of God's Holy Word, please be seated. Like to follow up from last uh Sunday's sermon on being reformed. And for those of you who were not with us last Sunday, apologize for uh having to make a review Um and uh apologize for having jumping in at uh at half my sermon uh where I left off. But let me just say that um just by way of review that um when we talk about being reformed um several uh several key ideas emerge um And need to be understood and appreciated. We uh the the idea of being reformed comes from um The uh work of Martin Luther in the uh 1500s, uh the uh the uh fact that he had been studying the scriptures and began to notice Some things that were different from what he had been taught by the church. And he was trying to bring those differences to the attention of the church. to provoke discussion. But these these core ideas that Luther was was uh focusing on um prompted the church to react and to fear its um its hold on uh uh people would be somehow detrimentally uh influenced if they listened to what Luther was was trying to do. So the church uh rather than listen and and have a discussion, determined to support the already existing dogma, even though that teaching was against the the clear teaching against the word of God. Luther was placed on trial, others as well. They were on trial for their lives. This was a This was a life and death matter. And um he uh he emerged uh alive to continue his labors, but not all of the reformers did. So many of them uh were killed uh for holding these ideas uh which we believe in, which the church has be believed in since they uh since what is called the Protestant Reformation. At the very center of understanding what it means to be reformed is the idea that God is sovereign, that He is creator, that we are creatures, we are not. Sovereign, we are not in control. God is in control of all things. The world in which we live moves according to his decree, to his solemnity. decree and um uh and it accompl and things are accomplished according to his purposes. When Luther uh uh began to focus more and more on uh the uh the ideas that uh he was uh uh learning from the scriptures. Uh they they kind of fell into three different areas where he had Considerable difference with the with the Church, the Roman Catholic Church. Those areas were with regard to Scripture, with regard to the idea of salvation Salvation by grace and with regard to the idea of salvation by faith. Luther was uh uh was was uh against the idea that uh the teachings of the church were on par with scripture. Um Or even above Scripture, that uh Luther believed that Scripture uh was the only infallible and inerrant word of God. God. And um and therefore uh he came into conflict with the uh teaching of the church that no the church is the final arbitrary her in all matters of what the the Word of God says and uh and papal authority uh exceeds Church, the Bible's authority. He talked also about the idea of grace, namely that we are saved by grace. Grace, not of works lest any one should boast. How many times have we spoken of that passage from God's Word? We're not saved by works, by any effort on our behalf, on our part. For God to choose us. God has determined who will be saved from the beginning of the foundation of the earth. And he works in history to bring his elect children to everlasting glory. We do not save ourselves. Any good works that we do are are in response to God's grace in welcoming us into His kingdom as His children. through Jesus Christ. We live to glorify Him. And we are created in Christ Jesus unto good works. To glorify God. So we're saved by grace, not by works, and we're saved by faith. Again Not by works, say by a faith in Christ Jesus which God gives to us. Faith itself, true saving faith Is a gift. It's a gift wherein God's people rest, where they receive Jesus and rest in Jesus alone for their Salvation. They're not trusting in anything else to save them. No other gods, no other works, nothing. Trusting in Jesus Jesus alone, as he is revealed in the Scriptures, as the Son of God who came to earth to take away our sin. If you think about it, that very fact that God Himself took on human flesh flesh to save his people, and that they cannot save themselves is the hallmark, distinguishing characteristic of true It's what sets historical Christianity off against every other religion. Every other religion in the world demands that you say yourself by your efforts. Only Christianity, properly understood, says you can't do that And that was kind of where we were the last time because one of the other things that came out uh subsequent to the Reformation of Martin Luther and John Calvin and other men that swept through Europe in the 15th century and sixteenth cent uh fifth uh sixteenth and seventeenth centuries was this idea of of what do we call a tulip. And I that's kind of where we were the last time. That the tulip speaks, it's a it's uh it stands for something that the Bible consistently teaches. Remember I told you the T stands for total depression. Total depravity that we are so overcome by the effects of sin that we can't do anything good We can't do anything good as God would describe good. We can't even make a choice for God. Well, yeah, we'll make choices for God, but it isn't the God of the Bible that we're choosing. We'll serve all kinds of gods, but not the God of the Bible. Total depravity does not mean that you're as bad as you could be. But it means that total means that your entire being as a human being has been corrupted by sin. Your mind. Heart, your actions, all of it is negatively influenced by sin. So, if that's the case, you can't save yourself. Where's the good work? If you do a good work, why are you doing it? Are you doing it for God's glory? Or are you doing it for your for s some sort of better standing in the eyes of someone else. What's the motive? God doesn't just look at the act, He looks at the heart when something is done. So that's total depravity. The second is unconditional election. And unconditional election rests upon what we read in Ephesians chapter 1. one and verse four, where we are chosen in him, that in him is Christ, before the foundation of the world. Chosen before the foundation of the world. For what purpose? To be holy and blameless in his sight. God decrees in before, and I believe before the world is even created That if you know Jesus, he decreed that you would know Jesus before this world existed. That you would come to saving faith. Before this world exists. Isn't that incredible? And not only that, not only that, but it put Jesus on notice that he was going to die Because that's the only way you can be saved. Right? And our Savior was in total agreement with God. There isn't a disagreement. Agreement among the Trinity. The Savior was willing from the beginning of the foundation of the world to die for your sins, so that you might be holy and blameless in God's name. sight because we have rebelled against God. Totally depraved. And we talked about limited atonement. This is where we left off the last time. That the design of the atonement, when we talk about the atonement, we talk about the blood of Christ being sacrificed at the cross What was God's intent? What was his purpose for that blood in terms of how that blood saves? Who does it save? And there are two primary thoughts. It saves everybody who makes a decision for Jesus So it makes salvation possible for everybody. The other idea is it saves only those who are the elect. But it doesn't make salvation possible for them, because they can't make that decision. It makes it certain. It makes it Certain. It guarantees, the blood of Christ guarantees, that those for whom God elected, they will come to saving faith. And God marshals all of his energy toward accomplishing his plan. He brings everything to bear in your life as you go through life. To cause you to come to the point today that you're sitting here believing in Christ. All the little events that occur in your life are in accord with God's providence. They are designed deliberately by him to bring you to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Because you see He's the creator. He's in control of all things. All things work together for good, for those who are called for his purposes. And everything works together for his glory. Not for ours. So after that you have irresistible grace. Those who are God's children will definitely hear the message and will be irresistibly drawn to God. How will that happen? It happens by none other than God doing it. you might recall. In John chapter six, Jesus makes these statements. Two of two times he makes the statement, no one can come I think sixty-four and forty-four of John six. Might be off a verse or two. But he makes that statement. No one can come to me unless the Father draws it. Again, if you're here as a redeemed Christian And the Bible's teaching on total depravity is true. I mean, you you ought to be s jumping up and Down and shouting, hallelujah! I'm here because God loves me in Christ and He drew me to Himself. When I wanted nothing to do with Him, How does the scripture describe you before you became a believer? Enemies of Christ. Not friends, not buddy-buddies, but enemies Children of his wrath. God drew in Christ children of his wrath to himself for eternal wrath Salvation. That's you, brothers and sisters. And then the last idea of P is personal Perseverance, perseverance of the saints, that those who are God's people, through the effort of God Himself, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit Will eventually make it to eternal glory through all the trials, through all the difficulties, through all the joys, the ups and downs, the struggles God will see to it, because what he has begun in Christ, he will complete. And the idea is for you not simply to be chosen as a child of God, but to become holy and blameless in his sight. And God gives us his Holy Spirit to accomplish that purpose. The Holy Spirit works to create, to help us to become more and more like Jesus. In his image. More and more displaying the love of God. More and more displaying the fruits of the Spirit, as Galatians chapter 5, and verse 22. twenty three uh point out. Jesus Ironically, need one of the strongest statements about our eternal perseverance in Him At a time when his enemies were encircling him and threatening to kill him. And listen to what Jesus said in John 10, verse 28. As he speaks about his people. He says, I give them eternal life. They shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father, which gave them to me, is greater than all. And no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand. What confidence, what an encouraging statement. Remember, he says that when he himself is encircled and about to be um uh uh uh people wanting to kill him. Uh and he says, mm, you know, my father's in control. My father loves my sheep And he will take care of them. He will preserve them. No one can take you out of the Father's hands. No power on earth can remove you from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. You can run away in prison for the rest of your life And you may die there for your faith. But God is with you And God will take you home to glory. Bank on it. God says it. That's why you can count on it. That's why you will persevere. Being reformed can also be understood by a number of the confessions, from a number of the confessions that were written during the 15th and 16th century. sixteen hundreds. In a response to uh the uh the new ideas that were coming out uh from the Bible that these uh these reformers were teaching they realized that a lot of the people that were coming to know the faith had all of this Wrong dogma associated with their lies. They had heard other teachings that were false. So their desire was to write down in these confessions the truth, the truth about what God's Word says. Men got together to write these confessions. The Westminster Confession is the one that we Presbyterians use, probably the most widely used confession But there are other confessions that were just as uh were were written at this particular time. The Baptists have their confession. And aside from a few areas where the They disagree with us on certain issues. Those early confessions were very solidly reformed as well. Of course they've been modified over the years. Um the the um the uh other possible confessions you may have heard about, the Heidelberg Catechism, the Synods of Dort, uh the um um The Belgian Confession. All of these. And then there were others. Every uh uh there's can there um Autumn's father did an interesting thing in which he put together a series of reformed confessions in a in a in a volume. So you have the Hungarian Confession. For example. It was all over Europe they were doing this. So what's important about these documents is that they they set the stage for understanding uh the the the the Bible from the Reformed perspective. And the Westminster Shorter Catechism which we use uh regularly to Instruct ourselves and our children. Thank you, our Sunday school teachers, for that faithfulness. The Westminster Shorter Catechism Starts off at an area which I think is the genius of the catechism. Question and answer number one. Question and answer number one. If you get question and answer number one one, down in your heart and in your mind you will understand the gospel, you will understand the reformed faith. Which I think is the closest human approximation of what the gospel actually is. Question and answer number one: What is the chief end of man? Man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. To glorify God and enjoy him forever. This is a profound statement. And it lies in the face of everything you see from the world. What is the world's answer? What's the most important thing? To glorify man, to glorify me. And enjoy Me forever or to bring enjoyment to me. This is a profound, this is a this is like an earthquake, an earthquake shift. in in human thinking. See, it it is a it is an acknowledgement that the Bible teaches that God is the creator. And we are the preachers. God does not serve us. We are called to serve him And to bring praise to his to his name. Man is not God. We are the the creatures. And we are a fallen creature whose only hope in this life is to be redeemed by the gracious grace of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And why do I mention that, other than the fact that it's important? Well, it forms the basis for why we want Want to serve our Creator. Not simply because He is the Creator, not simply because He deserves our worship as the Creator. But also we have a profound reason For worshiping him. It's out of gratitude. It's out of gratitude for the love that he has shown us in Jesus Christ. In gratitude for the mercy of salvation in Christ, the redeemed Person devotes their life to serve and honor God for his saving gift of Jesus. Question and answer one. adorns our understanding of what it means to be reformed. Finally, being reformed can be understood also by saying it involves it involves A particular or special understanding of how God has acted throughout history To save you, or to save his people. This particular understanding is expressed in the idea of covenant. idea of covenant. That God has established a covenant of redemption with Abraham. Who is the father of all who believe? He establishes a covenant of redemption or a covenant of grace with Abraham. He's the father of all who believe. Listen to Galatians 3, verse 29. Remember we read Genesis chapter 17 and we talked about the covenant. That God was establishing with Abraham. Listen to Galatians 3. 29. If ye be Christ's, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Covenant involves fallen men, sinners, being invited by God to join him. In a special relationship. A relationship where God says to sinners, I will be your God, and you will be my people. Relationship in which God says to you, I am your father. And you can call me Abba Father. And Jesus says to you, I'm not ashamed. To call you my brother or my sister. That's special. And that's Almighty God whom you have this relationship through Jesus Christ. He is the seed of Abraham. In Genesis twelve, fifteen and seventeen The scriptures record that in the seed all the nations, in Abraham's seed, all the nations of the world would be blessed. Galatians 3, verse 16 says: that seed is Jesus. It reads this way, now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He said, Not, and to seed Seeds, plural, as of many, but he said as of one, to thy seed, which is Christ. When God made that promise to Abraham That in your seed all the nations should be blessed. Those millennia prior to the actual coming of Jesus, God was talking to Abraham. about Jesus. The same Jesus that he had before the foundation of the world said that you should Shall be chosen in him to be holy and blameless in his sight. God is now with his people because of the life, death, and resurrection of this Jesus. The promise of a seed for relationship. The promise of the seed who would establish this relationship is essential to covenantal understanding. It's a prom and covenantal understanding is a This seed of course has been filled in Jesus Christ. Angel was talking to Joseph and Mary about Jesus. He said, You shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. And Emmanuel is with you individually as his Holy Spirit comes. to dwell in your heart and in your mind. And he's with us together as his people. We are his body, his people, his temple, his church. The church owes its very Allegiance to the Triune God and is called to worship, to bring glory to his name. As 1 Peter 2, verse 5 picks up this amazing Idea of us being the temple of the living God. It says this you as lively stones are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices. Is acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. You are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a particular people That you should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. In times past, you were not as people, but now you are the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. So when I think of reformed, this is what I have come to understand what reformed means. It means redeemed sinners whose faith is grounded in multiple undeniable biblical teachings. One, an unshakable belief that the Bible is the inerrant word of God. Two, a belief that we are fallen creatures who are not God. And our sin has grievously offended an infinitely holy God. Against whom all sin is punishable by death. It is our mandate from God, as His creature, that we be fruitful and multiply, to have dominion over the earth and subdue it. Today, that mandate is fulfilled every time that you, as a believing Christian, share the gospel with someone who is lost. The believers being reformed means that the believers only hope of eternal life is because God has mercifully and graciously saved you in Christ by faith in the beloved Son. Being reformed is an understanding that believers are now and will forever live with God in Christ. And are being called to serve Him in His holy temple and love Him by glorifying God in all we do. Glorifying God means to give God your best every day of the week. In everything you do. Being reforms means joyfully coming together to worship Jehovah on the Lord's day. singing his praises, hearing his word, exhorting and encouraging one another. We're not here to be entertained. We're here to glorify God. Being reformed means learning to live together as other members of Christ's body. Living together in love and helping Helping one another to love God as we serve the Lord Jesus by proclaiming his saving name to the lost Living such a life with such principles is at the heart of what it means to glorify God, and that's why we're called Trinity Reformed Church. This is the understanding of our lives that exists here at Trinity Reformed Church. It is also our understanding of God and the Bible We are called to explain, preserve, preach, protect, and defend. May God give us all the grace to continue being unashamed. Biblical, declaring God's gospel light to the world which is being reformed. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, let us not think that because you have been so gracious and merciful to reveal these things to us us that we are somehow exalted or special. Let us not project that to us others. But let us project the image that because, Lord, we are your people, that we are profoundly grateful and humbled by the power of your electing mercy in Jesus Christ. That we, O Lord God, are not above any And that we solely desire for you to be glorified in all ways. And that more people will come to glorify them, that they will see their Christian faith as their very lifeblood. And that all of us will fall down and serve you together. For your exalted glory, we pray these things. Amen.