Timothy, chapter four, and reading verses six through eleven. As we continue to work our way through First Timothy. Hear now the word of the Lord. If you instruct the fathers in these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished in the words of faith. And of the good doctrine which you have carefully followed. But reject profane and old wives' fables and exercise yourself toward godliness. For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the new life that now is and that which is to come. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. For to this end, we both labor and suffer reproach. Because we trust in the living God who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe, these things command and teach. Let no one despise your youth, but be an example to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Do not neglect the gift that is in you, which was given to you by prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the eldership. Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them, that your progress may be evident to all. Take heed to yourself and to the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this you will both save yourself and those who hear you. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. And tonight our focus will be on verses 12 and 13. of this uh of the of this these this word of Paul to to young minister Timothy. The verses which we have here tonight are obviously a part of the general study that we've been having in Timothy. And they're primarily focused on Paul giving Timothy instruction about what it means to be a good minister of the Word of God. And from the previous verses that we've looked at, we have been able to see that God's word through Paul to Timothy is revealing little by little a profile of a good minister. He's one who instructs the flock about the existence of deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. as verse one of chapter four records. He makes sure that the people understand that those deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons are lies, verse 2. And he speaks about some of those lies uh which which he he he names some, forbidding to marry and abstaining from certain foods. Verse 3 In addition, the good minister encourages the flock of the Lord to reject profane and old wives' tales. fables, uh slogans, sayings that have may have have the appearance of having some piety or religious value, but in reality they are not consistent with the truth. A good minister also is concerned about his own walk. Verse 7: He exercises himself unto personal godliness. And in verse 10, we find that according to Paul, the good minister suffers reproach for believing in Jesus Christ. And while he suffers, he also reminds the Lord's people that they may expect the same kind of treatment. And so the verses tonight continue in this theme of what it means to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. And verse 12, however, seems to take us on a slight detour from this discussion, but in reality, the Apostle Paul brings verse 12 into play. as to uh uh how men ought to look at Timothy in particular as a minister He says, let no one despise your youth. Let no one despise your youth. Now, Timothy was a young man. There's no misunderstanding about this. He was mentored by Paul. He had been with Paul at Ephesus where this text is being written. But you recall, the Apostle Paul said, I'm leaving Ephesus, and I'm leaving you behind, and you're going to take over in my place. It's like following Vince Lombardi at Green Bay, you know, for a for a football analogy. Uh it you know, it's uh It must have been a rather frightening thing for Timothy to begin the uh the reigns of the minister, uh as the minister to this congregation. And the fact that he was young brings with it a number of issues associated, which we normally associate with youth. And the Apostle Paul However, Tox first of all commands Timothy, let no one despise your youth, because he's about to introduce to Timothy Some important ideas that Timothy needs to be aware of so that People will not despise him. In other words, if he does these things Paul is suggesting to him, people won't even notice that Timothy is a young man. in the ministry. Now of course when he says, let no one despise you, that's a very strong word. And you might recall that this particular word is used in a number of places, usually with a very negative connotation Matthew chapter 6, verse 24. No man can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. We can't serve God and mammon. Over in 1 Timothy 6, verse 2, he uses the word despise again. They that have believing masters, let them not despise them. Because they are brethren, but rather do them service because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort. But Paul is here also suggesting that there's something about Timothy that he has to be concerned about. And that is once again. his youth. He is younger than some of the people he's ministering to. And that is That has some real issues associated with it. Furthermore, one might legitimately point to the very qualification, some of the qualifications that Paul gave for elders in 1 Timothy chapter 3, especially the one that says, not a novice. Lest being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Someone may in their mind think that the phrase not a novice automatically means he cannot be young And I think the Apostle Paul may well have had that thing in mind, that qualification in mind, when he gives uh really an extended treatment about how young ministers uh uh uh Ought to present themselves, ought to carry themselves in the office of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Well, what is it that might cause someone within the body of Christ to despise a young pastor? Well, obviously, if people are quite a bit older, you know, they may legitimately wonder what this whippersnapper is all about They haven't seen as much as they as he hasn't seen as much as they have seen. He doesn't have the practical experience, nor does he appear to have the wisdom that they have. Whether or not they despise him for that, well, that's that's a question that's up in the air. But Paul wants to give Timothy instruction so that he can prevent those who are older in the church from despising a young minister People might despise a young minister if, for example, they were guilty of serving God and mammon, that it could be demonstrated that they had two competing loyalties. After all, whether they're young or old, if that kind of situation happens in your minister, you would have questions And the fact that they're younger only aggravates those questions. What else might cause someone in the congregation to despise a young minister? I think it is, uh judging from what Paul is going to say very shortly, I think it is the general topic Of what I would call consistent inconsistency. Consistent inconsistency. Notice what he says in 1 Timothy 4, verse 12. But don't let them despise thy youth, but be an example to the believers. Be an example in word, in conversation, and I must add that King James English He's not talking about speech there. That is a word that means your character. Or what you would say, what constitutes the person's walk. That's how we would understand the word. What's his conduct like? What is his behavior like? So be thou an example of believers in word. In conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, and in purity. There is a big agenda there. And every minister should be held to this standard. But younger ministers are especially vulnerable here. Because they have not the benefit of wisdom, nor of experience gained through age. Hence, it is a clear call to younger ministers to compensate for their lack. Of experience by being circumspect, being careful about all their interactions with others For they are always, as all ministers are, and ruling elders and deacons are too. And Christians in general are too. We are all under the microscope of the world's lens. And the pastors are even more so They are to uh they are uh Paul is saying you're not to be inconsistent in these broad areas which I have just revealed to you You're going to always be, as a minister, you're going to always be interacting with other people. And like it or not, they're going to form impressions. And so it behooves you as a young man to make a good impression, but it's a good impression not for yourself, but for the Christ who is in you. So what might be a little bit inconsistent? What might be examples of inconsistency in some of these areas? It's a funny thing. When you come out of seminary Usually you're young and your head is full of the great things that you've learned at seminary and you're zealous to communicate that to others. The problem is most people are not where you have been. Seminary is like a three-to-four-year boot camp in the Bible. In which intensive study is going on. Most people in their life don't ever get that luxury And so as you come out of seminary or whether or maybe even Timothy's case is you come out of a mentorship with the Apostle Paul as your teacher. You might be full of all kinds of knowledge and all kinds of practical things that you want to see happen. Information about the church, doctrinal understanding, speaking about uh the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ being being really uh excited about such things as Ah, millennialism and premillennial dispensationalism and uh infra versus super lapsarian. These aren't where people are. for the most part. They're nice theoretical discussions you have with other seminarians, but most people aren't there. So if you come in with guns ablazing trying to spout off about all the things you've learned, people are going to wonder why is he doing that? And some are going to reach the conclusion that he just wants to impress us with his knowledge. It's not being wise. It's not sitting back and waiting to see where the people are before you go right ahead and start doing something like this. I I remember in my own congregation in Winter, South Dakota, I probably told this story before, but you have to understand most of the people there who were older people had been farmers all their life and ranchers all their life. Very few of them had more than a high school education. Now some of the younger people had gone on to college. But I came out of seminary thinking that, well, you know uh John Murray's writing um on um Uh Redemption Accomplished and Applied, his little book. Uh that gee, this is a little book. They ought to be able to grasp this. We can go through it in Sunday school class and uh everything will work out just fine. Well, it was like introducing I thought it was a great idea, but I didn't know the congregation at that point. Um other times uh people get uh have struggles with youth because Even in the ministry, youthful pastors sometimes project the image that they know everything. And they are a know-it-all. That they can't learn from anybody else. They've already had some of the greatest biblical instructors in the world teach them. What can you learn from a farmer who's been walking with God from thirty years? And so being a know-it-all, once again, they're trying to impress others with their infinite knowledge that probably doesn't have much connection to reality. Where the people in their congregation really are. Not only might people despise men for doing that. And that that that can happen all along the line in ministry, but it's a particular problem for younger men. It's if you project the image that you not only think you know it all, but you're unwilling to learn. From others. That's a very deadly thing in the body of Christ, because the body of Christ is not one person. It's all of God's people, and all of God's people have something to contribute to the effective working of the Lord's church. So Paul tells Timothy, do not let anybody despise your youth. Be an example. And I've said kind of the things of what not to do. Let's look at what Paul says, the areas in which Paul says these are what you should do. Be an example. Things that in a sense is that that phrase is contrasted with let no one despise your youth. Here, Timothy, here is how you be an example. You be an example, number one, in word. In word. And word is the word, the word the word word there is the Greek word lagos, which is Used for both the Word of God and for Christ Himself. As John 1 in verse 2 says, In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. When it encourages Timothy and other young men to be an example in word, it means that One's understanding of the Word of God should be highly developed, should be well informed And I'm not talking about just being able to cite chapter and verse. Or to cite long passages of Scripture, not that that isn't valuable and good, but the understanding is such that we should know how This particular concept applies how it fits into the overall understanding of who God is and into his plan of redemption. Be an example in conversation. Well, it might be good to be an example in how you speak, but again, that's not the way this word is used. It means what is your conduct? Be an example in your Christian conduct. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 12 through 13 says Our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience is that in simplicity and godly sincerity Not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conduct in the world, and more abundantly also with you. In simplicity, godly sincerity, not with worldly wisdom, we have conducted ourselves For we write none other things to you than what we read or acknowledge. In other words, we're careful about what we share with you. And particularly, we want you to understand what the Word of God says, not what Some Roman theologian or some Greek philosopher has to say about the existence of God or any other subject 1 Timothy, excuse me, Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 3, Apostle Paul also speaks about the Christian walk. He says, I therefore, prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the calling wherewith you were called. What is worthy walking? He goes on and tells us with all lowliness and meekness. Long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace Very wonderful exhortation, wonderful words. And at heart If you start boiling all of that down, your vocation must be such that you present yourself to others as one who serves them. On behalf of the fact that you serve God The writer of Hebrews joins into this profile of world of worthy walking When the writer says in Hebrews 13, 18, Pray for us, for we trust we have a good conscience in all things, willing to live honestly. Willing to live honestly. Imagine, you know, a minister who was dishonest. Imagine how that would be taken within the church. People are perceptive. And and they can they can spot dishonesty. They can spot lack of integrity. Peter writes in 1 Peter 1. 15, but as he who has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of Conversation, King James, but in all manner of your walk, presenting a holy walk. 2 Peter 3 verse 11, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of person ought ye be? in all holy conversation or walk and godliness. Again, you cannot miss the point That what Paul says, what Peter says, what Hebrews says is that one's walk and their life interaction with others must be like that of Jesus Christ. Who interacts with others. Okay, so he says to Timothy, demonstrate. Let no one despise your youth. Demonstrate in your understanding of the word that you're not as young as you may look. Demonstrate in the way in which you walk that you're serious about living for Christ. Demonstrate in the way in which you love Again, we are reminded from no one other than the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians. That love is a, and again this is agape, that having that sacrificial love Oftentimes is very much appreciated by God's people. Because it's so different from the world in which we live That love which puts yourself out for the benefit of another can't be faked. Has to come from the heart. It has to come from a heart that has been loved by God, so that you might love others who perhaps are where you were years ago. Hereby we perceive that we love God because He laid down His life for us and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. Show your maturity also in spirit, in spirit. I don't believe this is a reference to the Holy Spirit. I think it's a reference to one's human spirit. What is your general outlook, your general way of behaving? What is evident about the minister's life? What is his attitude? What are his feelings? Does he demonstrate that he is committed to God, that he is committed to the gospel of Christ, that he is committed to uh uh seeing the Holy Spirit work. Do you see the minister striving for the kingdom of God to be manifest in the lives of the people? He's also the demonstrate faith. In faith, it says Jude 3 writes, Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write to you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write to you. And exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered for the saints He believes, you see, in the death and resurrection of Christ. He believes it so much that he says it is the only way. There is no other way to God. It's not just that he believes that, he's experienced that, and he reads that the scriptures say that as well. And he's not ashamed. to declare that to others and contend for that principle before the world. He has wholeheartedly embraced and supported God's plan of salvation in Christ. And then the last thing, well, almost the last thing that Paul says in terms of how do you show this uh this mature young man this mature minister who may be young Demonstrate your purity, your moral character. Does your moral character Is it consistent with God's Word as it speaks about matters of holiness? Verse 7, excuse me, the next uh section, verse 13 uh places also some additional aspects about How it is that a young minister can avoid having people despise his youth. And you notice in verse 13 alone, there are uh three uh uh additional uh things that the young minister can do. It right starts off till I come One, give attendance to reading. Be a student of the Word of God. Two, Give attendance to exhortation. Now, at this point, one might think that that means preaching However, the Greek word that is used here is not the word for preaching or teaching. It is the word paraclesis. And that is the word that is used of the Holy Spirit, the paraclete, the one who exhorts, encourages, and comforts. So I think that when it uses that word in this connection here, the Apostle Paul is saying, give attendance to encouraging. Comforting, helping God's people through trials and through life. And then last it says, give attendance to doctrine. Now you can you can readily imagine uh this Young man, let no one despise thy youth. You can readily imagine with these nine clarifications that the Apostle Paul has put into the understanding of what it means to be more mature, it would be a benefit to the young minister to hear these things But it clearly speaks of a man who, though he may be chronologically young, if he does these things, he will be spiritually mature. And that there will be no good reason to despise his youth, because you will see in his youth the work of God being plainly displayed. In a man of God. So Timothy, the Apostle Paul is saying, be humble, rely on the grace of God in Christ. And do these things. And you will be an example of a minister that no one can despise you for your use. You will certainly not be a novice in the sense that you've not had any experience with the word of God or you've not built into your life good patterns of behavior, of study, and of compassion for the lost and for the Lord's Block, they vet