Please turn to Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11, and we will Read verses 39 and 40, the subject of the text this morning, the sermon. And uh let us now hear the word of the Lord. And all these having obtained a good testimony through faith. Did not receive the promise. God having provided something better for us, that they should not be made perfect apart from us Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. We end our discuss our series of sermons on Hebrews chapter 11, the various examples of faithful men and women throughout history. We close this chapter with an ever, I hope, with an ever-deepening appreciation of the redemptive work of God that's been going on through history. Throughout history. This chapter is a wonderful testimony to that saving grace of God through Christ Jesus at work. This is a special story of how God chooses people for himself and accomplishes their redemption in Christ Jesus. You cannot, with these last verses, you cannot miss the fact that the author is making an obvious connection between Old Testament believers in faith. And New Testament believers in faith. There is a unity among all of God's chosen people who have the same God-given faith. Though the people in the Old Testament lived at a different time, then they had a different culture than the one we are familiar with, their God is the same as yours. And you, like them, are given faith by God to believe in him. And you persevere throughout your lives, just as they did. Sinners, yes, but by the grace, through faith in God's Christ, we are overcoming sin. Their lives are just like yours, or yours are just like theirs. They are a part of the great multitude of God's people throughout all ages. Who by grace believe in Jesus Christ, to believe in him as the Son of God, the only way to salvation. Now I grant you that the Old Testament believers here mentioned in this passage and throughout Hebrews chapter 11 I grant you that their knowledge of some aspects of salvation was incomplete. Their reception of blessings and promises of God's covenant was partial as well. But God gave them faith in Christ, and by faith they persevered. And we too are given the same faith. By the same God, who is the only Savior of all men and women. One God who is making all of his people Fit for dwelling with him forever. All because of faith. God-given faith in Jesus Christ. Christ The believers' experiences in the Old Testament In many ways are experiences that are like yours. Their history is your history They are part of the Catholic body of Christ, made up of all who already have And those who will forever believe that Jesus Christ is the only Savior, the only Redeemer of sinful men, the only Seed of the woman who crushes the head of the serpent. The only seed of Abraham in whom there is eternal life. They believe in God's promises that God made to Abraham. In Christ. He is the author and perfector of all of our salvation. The verses today emphasize your connection with these people. And, might I say, your spiritual union with them. We are all, by God's grace, through faith, believers in Christ. Now, the verse 39 highlights two things about all who have been previously named in Hebrews 11. Let's read the verse. And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. Well, on the one hand, we have the commentary of Hebrews, the divine inspired commentary of the writer of Hebrews. saying to us that all these individuals who were named by faith in Hebrews chapter 11, all of them obtained a good report. They had a good witness. That's the verdict. That's the divine verdict on these individuals. They had a good witness. Their lives were lives lived for God and his promises. The fact that their witness, the word witness there, the verb is in the passive is Pointing out the fact that the witness didn't just come from them. It resulted from their union by faith in Christ. All those named in Hebrews 11, cited for their faith in God and his promises, especially the promise In Genesis 3, and the Abrahamic promise, and the Davidic promise, all those great promises, which really are not three promises, but one Says they live their life by faith, believing in the God who makes promises. And fulfills those promises. But then there's this curious statement. But they received not the promise But they received not the promise. They believed in the promise, but they didn't receive it. And the only way I can think to understand that is to point out that as these various individuals live their lives, they experienced, and I I I hate to use this, but I have to, I don't know how to say it. They experienced a a partial or incomplete fulfillment. A partial, incomplete fulfillment of God's promises that He has made to His people. With regard to the land, for example, some of them lived in the promised land But that was not the ultimate fulfillment. The ultimate fulfillment is more expressed in Abraham's actions. The one who looked for a celestial land or a heavenly city. A place where he, Abraham, had hoped to dwell, because there was the builder and maker of his faith. There are other aspects of the Hebrah promise, as well as the promise before then, about To the woman that in your seed, not in your seed, that the uh the seed of the woman shall uh crush the head of the seed of the serpent. There are other aspects of those promises that were partial or incompletely fulfilled. For these people, they were cloaked in shadow. They were revealed in type. Some of these people had an idea that God was going to redeem his people from sin. How full of understanding that was, we don't know. But you know, those promises were attended by historical actions and prophecies For example, the Passover. The Passover is the closest thing we have in the Old Testament to what we call the the sacrificial work of Christ, which we're about to remember here with his with the Lord's Supper. But I would say that the Lord's Supper surpasses the Passover. They have some idea of what it meant for God to say, I will be your God, and you will be my people. That's part of the Abrahamic promise. Israel, for example, as it came out of Egypt, experienced God with them, the pillar of fire. Later on, Israel experienced God with them again in the tabernacle and in the temple. But the reality, the reality of God in the flesh, or of Emmanuel Occurring. God with us does not occur in the Old Testament. It certainly was a frightening thing to come into the presence of God, as we see on numerous occasions. But the idea that God would indwell with us, as promised through Ezekiel chapter 36, the indwelling of his spirit, that his spirit would give us a heart of flesh, and that his spirit, you see, would help us to love to keep God's law. Those things hadn't yet been experienced in fullness and in completeness. The Holy Spirit predicted the coming of, excuse me, the Holy Spirit is predicted to come in Ezekiel 36. It's depicted to bring about a moral renewal within our sinful hearts So that we will be the new people of God, that we will love God and our neighbors, that we will love God's law, and we will increasingly be able to say, not that my will be done, but thy will be done. Also, that's not yet fully realized. What about the promises to Abraham that in his seed all the nations would be blessed? Did we see that during the time period of Hebrews 11? We do see a few nations blessed. We see Rehab, we see Ruth, we see Naaman, and perhaps others who are unnamed. But we don't see all nations yet less in Abraham's seed They do not yet have the fullness of revelation about God's promises in Jesus. Nevertheless, these people, by grace through faith given to them Live a remarkably glorious life for God. Which explains why they're here in Hebrews chapter 11. Elect and living by faith But so here we are, we say they've obtained a good report, they have a great witness But they haven't received the promise. I hope you can understand from what I've just said what was what's meant by that. But then we move on to verse 40 And we want to look at what it says here, that God has provided a better thing for us. A better thing for us. God having provided some better thing for us that they should not be made perfect without us. Well, this is a little bit tricky. But again, one thing is sure about verse 40, just like it is about this section. One thing for sure, it connects every New Testament believer who ever read Hebrews chapter 11 with this group of believers in Hebrews chapter 11. It connects us to them. They are with us, and we are with them. We are Christ's body of believers. We are and they are together. His chosen people Part of the struggle with trying to understand what's being said in this important verse. Part of the struggle is the phrase that they should not, they without us should not be made perfect. And I submit to you that the problem revolves around being made perfect This came very forcibly to my attention as I looked at the Greek behind the words that are used For being made perfect. Now, when you hear the word being made for perfect, what do you normally think of in Christian terminology? What do you think of? You think of justification, right? And you think of sanctification. Being declared holy, being made holy. You think of moral holiness And that's exactly what I thought this was the f was going on here in this passage. But The word that's used here for being made perfect is neither the word for justification nor the word for holiness or sanctification in the New Testament. is instead the word, and I'll pronounce it, it's called teliao. And this word means to complete or to finish or to be perfect. To complete, finish, or perfect. It doesn't have a tinge or a hint of moral holiness about it. Okay? The verb is passive as well, which isn't too significant, but it means that We are not completing ourselves, but we are to be completed. It's the goal of God's plan. That all of his people will be completed. That his salvation work will end with a body who are his people. This is not to say that God doesn't want his people to be holy. He surely does. He surely does. 1 Peter 2, verse 9. You are a chosen generation, a holy priesthood. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a particular people, and show forth the praises of him who called you out of darkness into this marvelous light. That's talking about holiness. And 1 Peter 1, verse 5 says God has called you holy, so be holy in all matter of conversation, because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. This need for holiness, moral holiness, in order to see and be with God is indispensable. No one will see God without holiness. Isaiah knew that And when he saw God in the vision, he cried out, Woe is me, a man of unclean lips. And God removed his uncleanliness. All of us by nature are totally depraved sinners. We need salvation. We need the blood sacrifice of Christ to turn God's wrath away from us and remove our sins As far as East does from West, and redemption is followed by justification and sanctification in the normal course of events in a believer's life. But let's get back to this word. God having provided something uh some better thing for us that they without us should not be made perfect. It tells you, the reader here, a New Testament believer, that God has something in store for you with these people's witness. God has made to you better promises Because there are no more shadows and the no more types, but the fulfillment Christ has come. The incarnated God Has come to justify, sanctify, and redeem his people. These elements were partial. Partial fulfillment in the old. Are you saying they were unbelievers? No. No, I'm not. I'm just saying they don't have the fullness of revelation to understand and guide them. They're being guided by that which is incomplete, and yet they live righteous lives. All that was missing from Abraham's promises in the Old Testament have now been fulfilled in the work of Jesus. By the once-for-all sacrifice of Christ and by the further indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Hebrews 10, verse 14 sums it up beautifully. For by one offering he has perfected forever them that are being sanctified. But what then is this something better God has in store for us? with the subjects of Hebrews chapter 11. What is it? That they without us should not be made perfect. The use of this word teliato instead of dikayao, which is justification, or hagnizo, which is sanctification, the use of this word Completed means that God Has provided a better thing for us in the sense that these witnesses are added to your body. To your redeemed body in Christ. They are added to you, the faithful church, which is Christ's body. In God's work of having a holy people for himself, the believers of Hebrews 11 are the better thing for us. Because they, along with us, are one step closer to being completed in Christ. Their testimony of faith is a tremendous blessing to you. Their efforts to live by God-given faith centuries, even millennia before Christ, helps us to be more complete and more faithful. As the body of Christ, their compelling witness is awesome because our God is awesome and all-inspiring. As his redemptive plan in Christ continues to witness to us, these people were not superhuman. Many of them were just ordinary individuals, living their life, forced to make decisions and choices, and by grace they chose for God And for his promises, All of us should thank God for giving us Hebrews 11, the story of the faith and of the faith The story of faith and the faithful that cannot be extinguished, cannot be erased from the records of mankind's consciousness. Oh yeah, mankind might not pay much attention to it. But God pays attention to it. And they are linked to you. This is the story of the faithful, whose God-given testimony is joined with your name and with your testimony. Christ is with them. Christ is with you. And we are all with Christ in his death and resurrection By faith being completed. Amen. Let us pray. Oh, O Lord our God, um We pray that your Spirit will work now in our hearts and our minds and help us, Lord, to take in These precious truths of your word as they've been proclaimed this morning. And we ask you, Lord, that as they are put into our minds, that we will not be um cavalier and respond with kind of a so what. Rather, Lord, you will help us to think about the fact that you Your promises are eternal. They are, and Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. And that, Lord, you are the one who has been building your body from day one. And Lord, that we are blessed to be chosen as a part of that body. Help us, Lord, to To be thankful that we bear the name of your son. And it's not just we as individual, I know that sounds funny, but it's not just us as individuals, but it's us as a body. The body of the Lord, the worldwide body of the Lord, the seed of Abraham, composed of believers from every generation, from all time, till the end of time, all around the world Fill us, Lord, with a deepening appreciation of what that means to us right now. I ask it in Christ's name. Amen.