Let's continue to worship the Lord by reading the sermon text from 1 Corinthians 2, verses 1 through 5. 1 Corinthians 2 and verses 1 through 5. Let us hear the word of the Lord. And I, brethren, when I came to you, did not come with excellence of speech. or of wisdom, declaring to you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. I was with you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling. My speech and my preaching were not with persuasive words of human wisdom, but in the demonstration of the Spirit and of power. That your faith should not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word, and please be seated. If you've been with me the last couple of weeks, uh you know that God has just revealed, or excuse me, Paul has just revealed to the Christians at Corinth The stunning point that God has not chosen many of the wise or mighty or noble of this world unto eternal life in Christ. Instead, Paul says in verse 27 of chapter 1, God has chosen the foolish things of the world. to confound the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. And God, he goes on, and God has chosen the base things of the world and the things which are despised. And the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are. And then he concludes and says God has done this so that verse 29, no flesh, no human should glory in God's presence. If you're in God's presence, it's not because he chose you because you were wise or powerful or noble It was because he just touched you out of his own good pleasure And in some ways, those who are in those categories of the wise and the noble and the powerful Those who are in those categories without knowing God, they look down on God. And they look down on you They look down on you and wonder how you can believe such silly things as Christ being crucified for your sins. And Christ resurrecting from the dead. Now All of what Paul is saying is to remind sinners and to remind his audience, the church at Corinth, the believers at Corinth. That all of God's acts in saving sinners run counter to the thoughts and the values of this world. As Isaiah chapter 55 says about God, my thoughts are not your thoughts, and your ways are not my ways, says the Lord. So having established this point, the point of how God works to save the people, Paul next invites the church at Corith to examine his ministry, the ministry which he performed before them, the ministry which he had in their midst to them. And the sea, the sea of what Paul has just had just said about how God chooses some to eternal life and whom God chooses to eternal life, to see, isn't that what they have witnessed in Paul's ministry to them? And so we begin by looking at verse 1, where we read, and I, brethren, when I came to you. Came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring to you the testimony of God What a candid admission on the Apostle Paul's part. He says to them, I wasn't such a great speaker. And what I had to say wouldn't qualify with what the world thinks is wisdom. I wasn't a great orator. I wasn't really saying anything the world would consider profound. In November of eighteen sixty three When the military cemetery at Gettysburg was dedicated, a man named Edward Everett. widely regarded as the finest orator in the country, was invited to be the featured speaker. He spoke for two hours. And he compared the Battle of Gettysburg to some of the great battles of the past. And he also spoke of how the opposing sides in previous civil wars Such as the War of the Roses or the Thirty Years' War. He spoke of how the opposing sides were able to reconcile their differences after the war. Everett's oration was followed by the now far more famous Gettysburg Address of President Lincoln. Two hours, Everett spoke. Two minutes, Lincoln spoke. Everett Deeply impressed by what Lincoln said, wrote to Lincoln these words. I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near to the central idea of this occasion in two hours as you did in two minutes. The Apostle Paul begins by saying, I'm not a great orator. And I'm not about the wisdom of the world, but I do have something to say And I can say it in a short amount of time. I can say it in less than two minutes. If you really want to know, I can save it, say it in less than two minutes. And if he was to say it in less than two minutes, he would simply say something along the lines of repent and believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. You shall be saved. That was his message. That was what was so profound. That was the wisdom of God. That the world, the wisdom of the world cannot fathom, can't get its mind around all of this, can't understand So Paul candidly admits I'm a simple preacher I would never measure up to the standards of this world for public speaking. I'm not a great orator like Everett or even Lincoln. But I do tell you this. I came to you not with excellencia speech. Or of wisdom, but I did declare to you this. Look at verse 1. I declared to you the testimony of God. What I have to say is the testimony of God Actually, the word testimony there, it's never translated this way, but it is legitimate to translate it, mystery. Mystery of God. What I have told you, Corinthian church, is something of the mystery of God. And when you when you understand that phrase, you begin to appreciate This way in which Paul operated at the church at Corinth He says, I declare to you the mystery of the word. And when he says word, what's he talking about? It's talking about this thing here, the Bible. I declare to you the mystery of the Word of God. In which are hidden all the mysteries of God And don't think that if you just read the Bible, that you'll get all the mysteries. Gosh, there's so many more. My experience is, and I don't know if it's yours, but my experience is the more I know about the Bible, the less I really understand who God is. But I do know more about who he is, but that opens up whole new worlds and whole new avenues of understanding that I never had thought about before. To say that the Bible is mystery in some ways piques everyone's interest. We all like good mysteries. What Paul focused on as he ministered there in Corinth. Was the Word of God. Was the Word of God. And you see To do that tells you that Paul has full confidence in God's word. Paul doesn't have to do other things in order to get people to listen to what he has to say. Uh he he doesn't have to have a campfire roast where they're where they're where they're making s'mores and roasting hot dogs in order to get people to listen to it He isn't interested in adding to all this. He doesn't have to add liturgical dance to his ministry. He doesn't have to add Healings and supposed healings of people. He doesn't have to speak in tongues. What he has to do is to speak the word. And he has confidence in that that will work if you want to do it pragmatically. He has confidence that as he speaks the word, it will have God's effect upon it. It will cause those who are given to hear to hear the message, and those who are not given to hear will not hear the message. Because in the end, you see, it is not the messenger that converts the sinner. It is God, and He works in one way only. And that's through His Word. And that's through His Word. Whether you hear it in a Bible study or whether you hear it at church, whether you hear it over the airwaves. If you're hearing the word of God, you're in the right ballpark. You got some hope that you're going to understand who God is and what it is that God desires of you. You're going to hear some things that you don't want to hear. You're going to hear that you're a sinner. And because you're a sinner, you're under judgment, the judgment of God. But you're also going to hear some other very nice words, some very wonderful words. Simply, Jesus, the Son of God, took your judgment. When he died upon the cross in obedience to his father. He took away your sins. He removed them, as Psalm 103 puts it, as far as east is from west. He fully drained the Father's wrath upon you for your sin. He propitiated your sin. That's the Father's wrath. Turned it away. Turned it away. Turned it away from you and turned it on himself I know what I'm saying is not easy to understand, especially if this is the first time you hear it But that doesn't make it wrong, nor does it make it untrue The truth of the matter will be verified if you simply look at the word and read it and meditate on it. Think about it. If you need help understanding it, there are many here in this church who who would who would die To help you, who would be glad to help you understand. We may not understand everything and we may not understand it right away when you want to understand it but at least we'll say if I don't know I'm going to try to find out for you I mean there are things that we can't we just can't know. There are some things beyond our understanding. About God's kingdom. So again, Jesus Was appreciative of the truth of the Bible. Excuse me, Paul was appreciative of the truth of the Bible. And he understood. that the word of God was the means to which the gospel is brought. Now, notice something else about this word of God that Paul apparently focused on in 1 Corinthians. Look at verse 2. He says, I determined to know nothing, no, excuse me, I determined not to know anything among you. Save Jesus Christ and Him crucified. As Paul went about his ministry What he wanted to know as he talked to people, do you know Jesus? Do you understand that he was crucified for your sins? Do you know that you can be saved from the wrath of God only by Him? That was his focus. Anytime he opened his mouth, any word that he preached He linked it to knowing Jesus. And he offered that message to the people to whom he was speaking, to the Corinthian people. You might not like the idea, and I remember the first time I fully got this point. It was in seminary. And we were that my professor was talking about the text we read earlier about the parable of the sower. And Jesus It tells this parable and the apostles come and they say, what does this mean? And of course, Jesus explains it to them. For to you it's given to know the mysteries of God, but to them it's not. To them, they will go on seeing but not see. They will go on hearing but not hearing. And boy My world was shaken at that point when I first heard that and began to grasp what that means. Hey, friends, what that means is that God deliberately allows some to hear and others not. There's no other way around that For his reasons, which we don't know. Nothing in us, though, some will not hear. Some will not understand, but others will. And it's in that confidence, you see, that Paul ministers. That's what care he knows the Word of God Is the way. Jesus Christ is the focus. But God must give the increase God must give the understanding if people are going to come out of sin and they're going to start living for God, which ultimately will mean freedom from sin. And life eternal for God's people Referring to himself candidly, again in verse 3, Paul says, I was with you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling. I mean we're getting the little picture of Paul as he ministers the Word of God. We know what he's saying We know why he's saying it. We know Christ is the center. We know he's depending upon the word and God to give hearing to the word. But now he says I'm with you in weakness and in fear and trembling. And I admit to you, my first reading of that, and my first thought about that takes me back To the first time I ever preached a sermon. Some of you know this story. The first sermon I ever preached The church right across from Westminster Theological Seminary, where I went to seminary. In the church. Where people, some of the names you won't remember, but others you will know of. In the church that day was my New Testament professor, Richard Gaffin, my Old Testament professor, O. Palmer Robertson. My systematics professor, Norman Shepherd, my the librarian at Westminster who was no slouch of theology, Arthur Kushke the president of the seminary, Edmund Clowney. And then there were luminaries from the denomination. The head of the Foreign Missions Committee, John Galbraith. The head of the stewardship committee, John Mitchell. All these names probably don't mean much to you. But then let me tell you, there was Cornelius Van Till. In the audience, and I was scared I was in weakness and I was in fear and trembling. You see, I didn't have, at that point in my life, I didn't have the commitment to the Word of God that Paul has. Because I don't believe Paul was afraid at all of the people at Corinth. I think he was focused on the fact that His fear and his trembling and his weakness was an acknowledgement of the awesome position he was in before. For God. The position of sharing the words of life to people and making sure You didn't make a mistake. Because this is life. And it's also death This is serious business. And you don't become a preacher or a pastor. understanding the impact of that all at once. But over time, you do. But it's not my desire that I would say something that would turn you away. Unnecessarily from the hope of the gospel in Jesus Christ. It's not Paul's desire either. I'm not always perfect about it. I still from time to time get those twinges of fear of men. But I must fear God more than men, because I must say what the truth of God's word says, as best as I understand. And I think that's what Paul means in verse 3, when he says, My speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. But in a demonstration of the Spirit and His power Preaching in the Spirit and in his power. I mean, you can say, it's an amazing thing about the Word of God. You can say what the Word of God says. And you can do it not in the Spirit and not with the Spirit's power. It can be done. Can I just ask you to do something if you don't do it already? On your way to church on Sunday morning. Could you pray? One of you in the church in your in your uh don't the driver doesn't close his eyes, but somebody pray That the pastor would pray, would preach in the Spirit and in the Spirit's power. Could you do that? Please do it. It will be a great blessing. To me, but more importantly, now to your next pastor when he arrives And it's a good exercise for you. It's you see, it's for your benefit. Because as Paul continues to go on in verse five, he says that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. The audience of the ministry of the preacher will hear the message Or may hear the message in the wisdom of men or in the power of God. You don't want the wisdom of men. You want the power of God. One, you see, one faith, the wisdom of man. Faith in the wisdom of man is dead and is dying. Well, faith in the power of God is alive and living. One, the faith in the power in the in the wisdom of men Glorifies men. The other glorifies God and Christ. We should be about glorifying God and Christ in all that we do. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, um We ask you, Lord, now that you will do your work in our lives. Lord, many here have heard the message. Many here, Lord, believe. In the message, many here, Lord, live in accordance with that message, for which we give you all, collectively and individually, the praise and the glory. And pray, O Lord, that we would always seek to be growing in knowledge and understanding of your word, with Christ as the central focus of that word. Lord, to those yet who do not yet know you, we pray, O Lord, for your word to work in your way, in your time. Give us patience, Lord, to wait upon you. But, Lord, we pray for a powerful working of the Spirit in the hearts of those who yet do not know. And believe in the saving grace of Jesus Christ. We pray these things now in His name. Amen.