Let's remain standing and turn to the book of Hebrews, chapter 12, verses 1 through 6. Hebrews 12, 1 through 6. Last Sunday we looked at verse 1, and today we'll be looking at part of verse 2. Hebrews 12, 1 through 6 6. Hear now the word of the Lord. Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before Him endured the cross. despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls You have not resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin, and you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as to sons My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. For the Lord loves, for excuse me, for whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he loved receives. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. As I said last week, I'm really glad to be back in Hebrews and uh and uh I I very much enjoyed uh uh uh uh the the the series of sermons I preached prior to that about the work of the minister. Uh but uh uh uh I just I just like to preach exposit expository preaching rather than topical preaching. Uh it's just the way I am and I I r I really was geared up for last week and I'm geared up for today So without any further explanation, let's get going. Last week I introduced the thought that every Christian is running a long-distance race. It's an endurance race. You might even compare it to a marathon. And we're running that race because we're united by faith in Christ. As Christians run this race, we are told in verse 1 that a great cloud of witnesses are watching. And I believe that it's no accident that in Hebrews chapter 11 we have a whole bunch of Christians from the past whose faith is on display. And I believe they're part of the witnesses that are watching and witnessing the race that we are running. They witness in the sense of how we are running, but they also witness to us by saying, I made it, I got there. I won the race, you can too. And of course, when I say I got there, I won the race, you can get there too, it's not really us who wins the race. It's our Savior who ran the race. It's our Savior who endured the suffering. It's our Savior who finished the race. And won that race of salvation for us. And that comes out somewhat in verse 2 today. on a number of different levels about the Savior running the race. And just imagine, just imagine, we're all running this race And just imagine, the whole cloud of witnesses are watching, and they're saying to you Fellow believer, brother and sister in Christ, in Christ you will win Former sinners. All of them. All of them in Hebrews eleven No matter how great they became, they're all sinners. Everyone in heaven is a born-again sinner. Like everyone here on earth who knows Jesus as Lord and Sinner, a Savior We can finish the race. It is not an easy race. Verse 1 tells us it's filled with obstacles. Obstacles that we are to cast aside. And then it relates those obstacles to the sin that so easily entangles us. There are potholes in the race. And if you get stuck in the pothole You know what happens when you hit a pothole on the streets of D. C. It can be rather devastating and expensive. We're not talking money here, though. Talking about struggles with your own human existence and your own faith in Christ. It won't be an easy race to run Now, however, verse 2 points to the help that every believer has in this race. Look at what it says. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Brothers and sisters, I approached this text this morning, or when I was studying, I said, this is an interesting verse. And I said, I'm probably going to have to add verses three and four because they're also, and all the way through six because they're also, they're all one thought. But I only got through half of the first verse. In fact, I only got through the first phrase of this section. I'm going to be coming back to this in the near in the next sermon, so kind of hopefully wetting your appetite. There is a massive amount of important material here That we hear, that we must hear. So, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith We are to have our eyes focused on Jesus. And it's not simply looking at him, but it's fixing our eyes with trust. upon him. That's the flavor of this word. Another place where it's used, this particular word, is Philippians 2, 23 and 24, where Paul is speaking about his uh his hope that he's going to send Timothy to the Philippian church. And he says, pre presently, I I hope to send Timothy present presently So soon as I shall see how it will go with me. But I trust in the Lord That I also myself shall come shortly. Even in Paul's life, you see, with that particular section, second verses He says, one, number one, I want to see how things go with me. But then the very next word he says, but I'm trusting in the Lord. Two verses, the concept of trust comes forward in the one we're looking to. And that's an important thing. Trust is an important thing, isn't it? Can you can where can you find trust in a sense that you're guaranteed you're guaranteed a reward You cannot find that with absolute certainty in this life. Wherever you go, wherever you turn, wherever you do You cannot count on the word of men. And that's kind of what we have to do because we're men and we live in this culture But the only way you're going to finish this race is if you have trust in Christ. Because again, it isn't going to be easy. And you're going to have to do some things. You're going to have to abandon sin. Cast it away. It'll hurt you. Run in the race. And the sin is not necessarily, it's your sin, but it's not necessarily limited to you. It entangles you. It entangles you in an unbelieving world in which we live. It entangles you with family relationships. There are all kinds of ways sin entangles us And the the one sin that we think we commit, and that's all we commit, it suddenly has ramifications that are far greater than that one sin Right. Looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter or finisher of our faith. Trusting in Jesus. This idea of looking to Jesus, the first time I read that, you know what I thought? Psalm 121. First couple of verses, we read, I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence comes my help. My help comes from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. Do you know there's another psalm that talks about I will lift up my eyes? There is. Starts off the same way. It's a 123. Listen to how it it writes, or the words there, what they say. Unto thee. I will lift up my eyes. Thou who dwellest in the heavens Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress. So our eyes wait upon the Lord our God until He have mercy upon us That's how we live, isn't it? We lift up our eyes upon the Lord. I mean, you know, that's how we live ideally. It's not often how we live. You know, we get in a little bit of trouble as when we're running the race when we think that we can run the race all by ourselves With our solutions. We also get in trouble when we try to shortcut the race. How many times have you read recently where someone in the Boston Marathon s skip running part of the marathon to finish early. It's happened. It's happened. They people want people want the victory. They don't want the suffering. Well, am I am I saying we should all say, God, give us suffering, man, pour it on. I really need some suffering No, I'm not saying that, but it's going to happen because you identify with Christ. There's going to be trials. It'll come from outside. It'll come from inside It'll come from family. It'll come from heck it'll even come from within the church sometimes But we fix our eyes upon the Lord. Until he has mercy upon us. He is depicted here as the author of our salvati uh of our of our faith. The author of our faith. Uh in one in uh you know how it's interesting in in in English could say one word and in Greek it may mean five or six different things. And this is one of those words. Uh and it it's really get has a a rich uh uh uh amount of meaning. The word brings to our mind several associations because this word is translated variously leader, ruler, prince, originator, or founder. And each one of those things speaks about Christ regarding our faith. The leader is the one who leads from the front. That's what a leader does. A true leader doesn't let everybody else go before him and then walk behind him and say, well, look how I led you. You don't have any re do you have any respect for that kind of leader? Of course not A leader leads and leads by the character of his force of his character, but also of the rightness of his cause. And the charisma of his of his uh of his uh of his being. But it also can this word leader uh uh uh uh Looking to Jesus, the author, it also can mean the ruler or the prince. Imagine the prince or the ruler as leader is like Christ is likened to the king. Who leads from the front and inspires his troops in battle See, when you hear author, that doesn't that doesn't compute to to the leader or king, does it? But that's the flavor, part of the flavor of this word. Not only, you see, but when the king leads in battle, what happens? Well, he's often shot. Or he's often killed. He's often one of the first casualties. Isn't that Jesus? Two. Isn't that Jesus? The race that Christ runs, this word, looking to Jesus, the author, that has overtones of the one who originates the race. He's the one who designed the course. He's the one who planned the event. He's the one who knows where the event starts and where it ends. And all of us are simply playing follow the leader when we run the race. And then this word author also means the founder, which is close to the word originator. But I would look at the word founder a little bit differently. It's his plan. He is the one who founded the plan. He has a reason for this race. You may not understand the race. My golly, you may not even like it. Like I said before, I hate to run And I can imagine myself running a marathon without any success. You know, I'm not sure I could do a mile over the 26. 2 miles of the marathon. Others of you might say, yeah, I can do this. I can do this thing. But but you see, you know, because the race As we looked at last time, was run with patience and endurance. Okay? We're to run it with patience and endurance. That means there's gonna be a lot of Struggle. There's gonna be a lot of hardship along this line because you're gonna have to wait for things to work out. They're not gonna work out always the way you want it to work out. Or always the way you think it has to work out right now, right now. But it will work out Because Christ is the founder of the race, and he knows why it's good for us to be running the race. We are to look to Christ as we run. Nowhere else do we look. He has completed the race. He has read it perfectly. It says also, just another small matter of Greek, that Christ is the uh The finisher, the author and the finisher. That particular word is a very also a very important word and interesting It means, as close as I can translate it, it means the completer or the perfecter. It's part of a family of words in Greek that signifies the end of things. Um all is complete. Nothing else needs to be done. Because it is all perfect as Jesus has done it. It is complete the first We look to Jesus because of his work. His work alone. Me, his work put me on the marathon path to win, because Jesus finished the race. Jesus finished the race. As he said to his disciples, I am the way, the truth. and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. And as he said from the cross, when he had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and he gave up the ghost. The word, it is finished. I'm stealing this right now from D. James Kennedy. Learn this by reading evangelism explosion. But I think it's an amazing point. The word, it is finished, in Greek. means to bring an end, to finish and to complete something. It is in the same family of words that we see in our text this morning For the perfecter, the completer, the finisher. It's the same family of words. Now let me tell you why that's a significant word. It is a word that is used frequently in Greek for making an accounting. It has like an accounting background to it. Okay? And I'm not an accounter. I'm even worse of a mathematician than a long-distance runner. Okay. But but yeah, I got problems, don't I? Uh uh but anyway, um Anyway, when you do accounting, I think I've got this right. Part of accounting activity involves a ledger. And on one side of the ledger, you have liabilities, and on another side, you have assets. Okay? In Christ's, or when this term is applied to Christ as the perfecter or the completer of our work, As he uses the ledger, liabilities are our sins. Assets Are Christ's victory. Our sins have been overcome by Christ's perfection And his substitutionary atonement applied to us. The benefits of that atonement applied to us So the race course itself is finished. There's nothing more that needs to be added. Than what Christ, the author and finisher, planned. Christ's victory is complete. It is perfect And the liabilities are counter our liabilities are counterbalanced by the perfection of Christ And the fact that There is nothing else that needs to be done is reinforced by the latter part of verse 2. When it goes on and it talks about Jesus and says, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has set down. At the right hand of the throne of God. That language sat down. Is critical because it conveys so much. Christ, as he has won the race, the author of the race, as he has perfectly finished the race. Has won the right to set down. He has won the right to set down as your great high priest. All the other Old Testament saints, as they do their work of ministry, as they offer sacrifices, wherever they are, they're standing Christ alone is seated. And he's not just seated anywhere. He is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. So you have the vision of the combination of the great high priest finishing his work, who is at the same time now the king of kings. who is seated eternally in God's presence. And as we studied in Hebrews chapter 5 through 7, what is he doing there? He's interceding. Interceding for you, interceding for his people To Christ alone God says, as Hebrews opens up in chapter 1, verse 13, to which of his angels did he say, Sit at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. What a more powerful image of a king having his enemies paraded before him To become simply a place to rest his feet. You know that quote is quoted seven times in the New Testament with reference to Jesus. He is seated. Our Lord Jesus is seated because his redemptive work is done. And it was done once for all. Never to be repeated again. Never to be added to How can you add to what is complete? How can you add to what is perfect? How can you add to what is finished No one can add. Nothing can add to it. And so it is That we who are his people, for whom this is written, surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, who are watching us go through this The same race they ran. We start this race in union with Christ in his death. Trusting, confident that in him, the race he has given is the only race that we need to run. Confident in Christ's finished atonement. It's like we know we know what the end result is before we run. But we're running anyway. We don't run the race because we're we're confident in Christ's atonement. We are not running the race because we need to do something more to help Jesus save us. It is finished. Even if you finish the maritime marathon race, that doesn't save you. We continue the race to the end. Thereby join the great cloud of witnesses in heaven because we are at the same time as running being perfected in our union with Christ. We who now live in Christ dwell with the Holy Spirit in our hearts. We will finish the race because Christ is the resurrected Holy Spirit. He will perfect us even while we run the race. And looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, we have the greatest and most merciful God who planned this race for all his people to run. No greater sacrifice, no greater atonement was made, no greater helper, no greater hope than Christ, who helps us to the finish line. You have no one on earth who can help you but Jesus Who is in heaven helps. And because of him, you will win the marathon and join the great cloud of witnesses. This morning I have not even touched on who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising its shame. At the very least, these words should reveal to us, they do reveal to us, Christ's attitude in running his marathon with all the sacrifices. and trials that he endured. Notice that word, 2D. He endured He endured as he lived his life and at the cross, the sacrifices and trials. You run the race with endurance. Latter part of verse 1. It says patience, but as we talked last week, it also means endurance. Christ endured, you were on the race with endurance. Christ ran the race with the cross in his vision with joy. Joy For our salvation and for making his flock and redeeming us from sin. But brothers and sisters, that's not Christ's greatest joy You are not his greatest joy. You are his joy, but you're not his greatest joy. He ran the race with joy because He wanted to please his father. And Christ gives glory to the Father as he executes God's eternal plan of redemption. He is the only obedient man. Jesus finishes his race for the joy of giving his eternal Father the greatest pleasure. This is how Jesus ran the race with endurance and joy. Let it be that we might run the race with joy as well. Give joy to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Run with your eyes focused on Christ and His completed work. Run with limited joy. For the Trinity's pleasure. Amen. Let us pray our holy God We are grateful, O Lord, for your continuing word that Reminds us of our Savior and His faithfulness. And Lord, we pray that In your way you will speak these words to the hearts of your people, and your spirit will make application, Lord, which will be for their edification, for their building up in the faith. All these things we continue to marvel at, because, Lord, of the the wonder and the greatness of your saving work in Jesus. In his name we pray these things. Amen. Our final hymn.