And again, please remain standing. This time we'll turn to the New Testament, the book of Romans. The very last chapter of the Epistle to the Romans, chapter 16, Romans chapter 16 Romans chapter 16, and we'll be reading 16 verses out of Romans chapter 16. This is the Word of God. I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant of the church at Sincrea, that you may welcome her and the Lord in a way worthy of the saints. and help her in whatever she may need from you, for she has been a patron of many and of myself as well. Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who risk their necks for my life to whom not only I give thanks, but all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks as well, read also the church in their house. Greet my beloved Hipponidas, who was the first convert to Christ in Asia. Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you. Greet Andronicus and Junior, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners. They are well known to the apostles, and they were in Christ before me. Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord. Greet Urbanus, my fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Steches. Greet Apellus, who is approved in Christ. Greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulus. Give my kinsman Herodian greet my kinsman Herodian. Greet those in the Lord who belong to the family of Narcissus. Greet those workers in the Lord, Trithina and Triphosa. Greet the beloved Persis, who has worked hard in the Lord. Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, also his mother, who has been a mother to me as well. Greet Asyncritus. Phlegon, Hermes, Patramus, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them. Greet Villalogus, Julia, Narius and his sister, and Olympus, and all the saints who are with them. Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you. Thus far the reading of God's Word, please be seated. And let's ask the Lord's blessing on this passage. Father, we thank you for your word, your inspired, inerrant, infallible word, which you tell us is profitable for teaching and for reproof and correction and training in righteousness. that we, your people, may be complete, equipped for every good work which you have prepared beforehand, that we should walk in the these good works that you've prepared. And so now this morning, Father, we ask for the Holy Spirit who inspired these words to illuminate these words for us, to open the eyes of our spiritual minds and the ears of our spiritual hearts to hear and then to obey and do your word. And so, Lord, we want to meet you in your word this morning. We ask through the power of the Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name, Amen. Once a month, every month, your elders, that's the members of the Session of Trinity. hold a special meeting and we pray for each and every one of you. So we have a list. It has all the names of all the church members and to that list we add names of visitors. And some other people, we have some discussion, and then we pray for all of you, each of you individually, every month, regularly. So here in Romans chapter 16, Paul gives a list of church members. Members of the church at Rome. It's probably not a complete church directory of all the church members, but it's a long list, isn't it? It's a very long list. He gives greetings to 26 individuals. And of those 26, 24 he names. He gives their personal names. And there's two more. He says, someone's mother, someone's sister. And you have to think that Paul had a really good memory to keep all these names in his mind. And this was a church, the church in Rome, which he had never yet visited. So how did he know these people? Well, he may have met them sometime somewhere during one of his three missionary journeys in Asia Minor and Greece. People did travel in those days. The Mediterranean was a good way to travel on a boat. Or he may have known these people from others who were familiar with the church in Rome. No matter how he knew them, he really had a keen interest in people. and a deep appreciation for people and for their service in the church. Now, Romans The Book of Romans is a monumental book, a treasure of a book in the Bible. It's been called the fullest, plainest and grandest statement of theology in the New Testament. It is a popular book. I think we all love this book. And yet, when we come to chapter 16, We tend to kind of neglect it. All these names, and they're hard to pronounce, and they're names of people about whom we o know almost nothing. And yet, every word in Scripture is inspired and profitable for teaching. So as we take a closer look at this passage My hope is that we will gain insights into the life and the heart of the Apostle Paul as he ministered to them. And also insights into the characteristics of the early New Testament church and its members, insights which apply to us in the church today. Now, how to approach this passage with its grocery list of of names Well, one way is to just walk straight through it. And every time you come to a name, comment, and then you go to the next name, one after another in succession. There's another way to approach this passage, and that is to take slices through it. And each slice then gives a certain perspective. Let me give an example. Look through this list and just find the ways that Paul expresses his affection for the Christians in Rome. Well, in verse 5, he refers to someone as beloved. In verse 8, he refers to someone as beloved in the Lord. Verse 9, again, beloved. And verse 12, the beloved. And this is the way that we Christians should feel about one another. Because Christ first loved us. And it's certainly the way I feel about you all. So let's adopt this slice approach. And look at this passage in terms of slice categories. Number one, family relationships. Number two, varieties of people. Number three, personal characteristics, and number four, all-around applications. And I'll explain each of these as we come to them. So first of all, family relationships within the church. And from this list We see various types of family relationships. For example, in verses 3 and 4, husband and wife. Prisca and Aquila. And this couple, I think you've heard of them before because they appear in the New Testament six places. Here in Romans, Paul, 1 Corinthians, 2 Timothy, and then in the book of Acts, three more times, written by Luke. And you may be more familiar with them as Priscilla and Aquila, which has a nice rhyming quality to it. Prisca is the short, familiar version of Priscilla. So instead of calling me James, you call me Jim. And Paul knew these people so well, so he called them her Priska. She is the wife. Prisca, Priscilla. And this apparently was a marriage made in heaven. So here you have two hearts, and they're going in the same direction, they're pulling in the same direction, and they accomplished so much for the church. Because we know from Acts, when you read those references, that They had been in Rome, they had been expelled from Rome by the decree of Emperor Claudius to throw all the Jews out of Rome. They landed in Corinth. Their occupation was to make tents Now Paul arrives in Corinth. And yes, he's a preacher, he's a missionary, but he has a secular occupation that he supports himself. He's a tent maker. They meet each other. They like each other. He moves in with them. He lives with them. He works with them. And making tents takes a little bit of space. You lay out the canvas. You're sowing that and so they must have had a large room which could accommodate worship services for the church that then developed in Corinth. And when uh Paul moved on to Ephesus, they went with him. And again, they hosted a church in their home. These are these are exactly the kind of people you want to have in a mission work church plant, like in our presbytery. Paul says they rest their lives for my life. He doesn't say when or where, but possibly in Ephesus, you remember there was this big riot. The silversmiths uh rioted against Paul uh because they loved this pagan goddess Diana, greatest Diana of the Ephesians. And Paul thanks them for what they did, and also all the other churches as well. And they were also Teachers. They instructed people. And you can imagine they instructed new believers in the church and also inquirers who were interested in the Christian faith. But also there's one instance in Acts 18, where they bring a man home and explain to him the way of God more perfectly. And this was Apollos. Apollos was a Christian already. He was a Jew from Alexandria, Egypt. And already he was very competent in the scriptures, Old Testament scriptures. He was already preaching, he was quite eloquent, but he only knew the gospel up to the baptism of John the Baptist And so Priscilla and Aquila instructed him in the way of God more accurately. So we have husband and wife family relationship in the church. Then if you look at verse 7, greet Andronicus and Junior my kinsmen. So we have a kinsman relationship in the church. Kinsman Could mean one of several things. It could mean fellow Jew. A Jew just like Paul. They would refer to him as a kinsman. Possibly even fellow countrymen, say from Paul's hometown of Tarsus, or even a blood relative, perhaps, of Paul. And down in verse 11, also Herodian, my kinsman. So either Paul had a lot of relatives who had become Christians or whatever this means. They were well known, Andronicus and Junior, well known to the apostles. In other words Their work in the church was very highly esteemed, and they had a terrific reputation among everyone. Paul also says they were my fellow prisoners. So they were in jail for the Christian faith. And then one last thing he says about them is that they were in Christ before me. They were converted before Paul was. So while Paul was still ravaging the church of Jesus, dragging men and women out of their homes, committing them to prison, even to death. They had already been converted and they were Christians. And you have to wonder, did they suffer under Paul's persecution? Did they pray for Paul to be converted? Which is something that we should be doing as well for those who despitefully use us kinsmen of Paul. That's an interesting family relationship. And then in verse 12. Greet those workers in the Lord, Trifena and Trifosa. Aren't these lovely names? They're so similar you might think they're sisters, maybe even twin sisters. And Trifena, Greek name means delicate. And Triphosa, Greek name means dainty. And you almost have to smile at the irony, whether it's intentional or not, of Miss Delicate and Miss Dainty being hard workers in the Lord, rolling up their sleeves and sweating. For the Lord. Bless them. Then there's a brother and sister family relationship. This is verse 15. Narius and his sister. Paul says nothing about them, but he does mention all the saints who are with them. So very possibly Nerius and his sister are members of one of these house church groups in Rome. And then in verse 13, a very interesting one, Greek Rufus, which by the way means red hair. Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, also his mother, who has been a mother to me as well. Very interesting. Chosen in the Lord. Well, every Christian is chosen, is elect unto salvation. So this must mean something a little different. And in fact, in the New American Standard, it says a choice man in the Lord. So Something in his personality, in his behavior, how he acted and spoke and thought was very choice and displayed the fact that he had been chosen unto salvation in Christ And then his mother was a mother to me, Paul. And Paul never got married, so this was, I'm sure, much appreciated that someone kept an eye on him, made sure he had decent meals and s tried to sleep enough and maybe, you know, fixed his cloth clothing now and then and so forth. But there may be something more going on here. Paul, when he was converted At that point, did his family, his parents, shun him and have nothing more to do with him? If you'll allow me a personal reference, my father-in-law, who was one of the founding ministers that established the Reformed Church in Japan, uh was born and raised in a upper class samurai family in Japan, in the very city that is the headquarters of the pagan Shinto nationalistic religion of Japan. And when he became a Christian His family threw him out. And the church essentially became his mother. And one wonders if Rufus' mother did the same thing for Paul. Paul was converted. He was brought over to Antioch to work for the church, but he had this link baggage re reputation as a terrible persecutor of the church, and people must have been a little wary of him at first And so to have this mother woman come up and embrace him and draw him in and vouch for him. And maybe in your lives you've had people like this who have men and women mothered you in the faith, nurtured you and taken care of you in the faith. Now that's all that Paul says about Rufus and his mother, but there's a little more that we might be able to draw out. And I admit it's speculative, but it's based on certain things that we know, especially from the book of Acts. And uh this is came from Professor William Barclay. First of all, in the Gospel of Mark, when Mark describes the crucifixion of Jesus, Mark 15 verse 21, the Roman soldiers compelled a passerby, Simon of Cyrene. who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross. So why did Mark throw in this curious little detail, the father of Alexander and Rufus? Mark was primarily written to the Roman Church, to the saints in Rome. Did he know that they knew who these two men were, Alexander and Rufus, the sons of Simon? And at this point, Professor Barclay kind of wants to speculate a little bit. So Simon and Sagarine was forced by the Roman soldiers to carry this cross, the cross of a condemned man out to Golgotha. These hated Romans. I'm sure that was a detestable experience. And you might imagine he got as far as Golgotha and he threw it down and left immediately. But what if? Something about Jesus impressed him, attracted him. And he stayed around and he witnessed the crucifixion And he listened to what Jesus said, the seven last sayings from the cross, and especially what Jesus said to the thief crucified next to him, today you shall be with me in paradise. And what if he was converted and then went back home, told his wife and family about this, and they became Christians? Okay, now we connect another fact that we know, Acts 11, verse 20, where Luke writes that men from Cyprus and Cyrene, Cyrene. Traveled to Antioch and were the first to preach the gospel to the Gentiles there. Now The church in Jerusalem heard about this. And the Holy Spirit was moving in a big way up there in Antioch. And so they sent Barnabas to go check it out. And Barnabas realized, I need some help. He goes over to Tarsus, recruits Paul, brings him to Antioch, and did that point at that point did Paul meet Simon and his family. If Simon was one of these men from Cyrene who had gone to Antioch. And then also in Acts uh Acts 19, a few chapters later, Paul is in Ephesus. I mentioned the big riot. And what it says is that they kept Paul back because the mob was after him, but a man named Alexander stepped out in front and tried to face down the mob. Was this the son of Simon? And then apparently Rufus and his mother finally went to Rome. Maybe they helped start the church there. We just don't quite know. And I admit, this is speculation, but it's very intriguing. And if it's true, here you have the result of an apparent chance meeting between Simon of Cyrene and Jesus on the way to Calvary. Of course in God's providence, there is no such thing as chance. So we've talked about family relationships within the church. Let's move on to another slice through this passage. the category of varieties of people. And if you go through this list, you see a lot of different types of people, indeed. In the world, in the non-Christian secular world, there are a lot of barriers that cause divisions, ethnic, social, racial, gender, political, cultural, and you could probably name a few more The Church of Jesus Christ is not so. The Church of Jesus Christ is not that way. Galatians 3. 28, there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male or female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And you can read the same thing in Colossians 3 verse 11 and also in 1 Corinthians 12 and other places. The church has real unity. and diversity at the same time. So let's look at this list and we see both Jews and Gentiles. If you look at this list, there are Jewish names, there are Roman names, there are Greek names. And let me just pick on one in particular, verse 12, where Paul says. Greet the beloved Persis. Persis, that name means Persian lady. So she came all the way from Persia and has now landed in Rome. And Paul refers to her as not just beloved, but the beloved. The NIV translates that as my dear friend Persis. What a lady. Jews and Gentiles, but also slave and free in this list. Now we don't see that explicitly here, so let me try to work it out Twice, Paul has an interesting greeting. For example, in verse 10, he greets the believers who belong to the family or household of Aristopolis. And in the next verse, greet those in the Lord who belong to the family or household of Narcissus. He does not greet Aristobulus or Narcissus, about whom we know nothing in the Scripture. But in Roman history, if you read the textbooks, at this time, and this is Professor Lightfoot who noted this, At this time, there was a man living in Rome who was named Aristobulus, and lo and behold, he was the grandson of King Herod the Great, big friend of Emperor Claudius And when he died, his family, his household would have then become the property, moved over and become the property of the emperor. his slaves, his possessions, everything, but it still would have been referred to as the household of Aristobolus. And white likewise a narcissist There was a person living in Rome at this time named Narcissus, and he was the secretary to Emperor Claudius. Now what does the secretary do? Well they arrange an audience with the emperor. If you'd like to talk with the emperor about anything, he schedules your appointment. And it probably meant that he collected a lot of money and bribes for people that wanted to see the emperor. But anyway, here we have twice over. Kind of an upstairs, downstairs situation. Upstairs, Aristobolus and Narcissus, probably not believers. Downstairs among the servants and the slaves, Christian believers. How wonderful. And then there is Ampliatus. This is verse 8. Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord. And again, other than those few words, nothing in the New Testament, no other references to this man. And again, if you go into the Roman history books, We learned that archaeologists discovered down in the catacombs under the city of Rome, where the Christians were hiding, there was an early Christian cemetery named after a lady called Domatella. And in that catacomb cemetery, there is a tomb with a name on it, Ampliatus. It's a single name, so it's probably a slave. Free people have multiple names, apparently, and it's the same name as this person here. It could be the same person. And let me just continue this a little more The history books also tell us that Domatella, after whom the cemetery is named, was a real person, and she and her husband, according to the history books, became Christians. And for that reason her husband was executed and she was exiled to some island somewhere. And they, before that happened, they had a personal steward, a chamberlain, someone who managed their household whose name was Narius. Could that be the Narius of verse 15? Could it be that the gospel came into this household through the witness of their servant Narius? Again, interesting speculation yet. Now, look at verse Nine. Greek urbanist, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Stakes. And when you look at these two names and figure out what they mean, You realize we've we've got here kind of an odd couple. Urbanus. Okay, from that you can see the connection to the word that we have today, urban. Which means related to cities. Washington, D. C. is a great urban metropolis, so he was probably a city dweller. And there's also the word urbane. If you know that word, it means kind of well-educated, sophisticated. So we wonder Urbanus, was he born and raised urbanely in the great urban city of Rome, city dweller? And then there comes Stacus. And this name means ear of corn. Why don't you like to be named Year of Corn? Was he born and raised in the country? Was he a farmer? And you know how it is? Uh so often city dwellers and country folk Don't get along too well. They s have suspicion of each other. Not so in the church. And in fact, the reason you know Paul mentions these two gentlemen together. And possibly they were a team in the church. They worked together in the church, city and country, all varieties of people. And there's one more thing in terms of varieties of people that we we must pay attention to, and that is male and female. So Paul sends greetings, as I said, to 26 individuals. Nine of them are women. Now nine over twenty-six, that's thirty-five percent, uh, and I grant you it's not half half. But in this male-dominated society of the New Testament era, 9 out of 26 was pretty good. Pretty good indeed. And as we read through this list, you noted that four times Paul commended certain people for being hard workers in the church. And lo and behold, all four of those persons are women. He really appreciated the work that they did. And Persis is one of those, Mary, Trifina, Trifosa, and Persis. Concerning Persis, he says she has worked hard in the Lord. Could it be that she was now elderly, kind of past her most hardworking days in the church? We don't quite know Something else interesting as we're talking about men and women, back in verse 3, greet Prisca and Aquilah. Prisca is the wife, Aquila is the husband. Why, especially in this day and age, is the wife mentioned first before the husband? Why is that? And in fact, as I said, they're mentioned six times in the New Testament. Four out of those six times, she is mentioned first. Very interesting, and people have speculated about this. Was she converted to Christianity first? Was she more active in church service? Was she a woman of some social standing in the community? Did she have a more outgoing personality? The Bible does not give us the explanation. But I will say this, that for any or all of the same reasons, my wife should always be mentioned before me So Paul, for some reason, recognizes some kind of leadership in Priska, Priscilla, and puts her forward. And then, lastly, who heads the list of names here in chapter sixteen? It's a woman, Phoebe, a servant of the church at Sancria. And Paul does not greet her, he does not send a greeting to her, because he is sending all of the greetings through her. She's the one who hand carried these this epistle from Corinth, where Paul wrote it, to Rome, which was a bit of a trick. hundreds of miles, sea going, and so forth. So uh she is from Sancria, which the church at Sancria, which Sancria was the seaport of the great city of Corinth So you can imagine the Corinthian church planted a daughter church in Zacria, and that's where she was from. Paul describes her as a patron. a patron of many and of myself as well. Patron suggests that she was a woman of some means, and that she may have used her wealth to support the church and Paul himself. And of course, that reminds you of someone else, Lydia in Philippi, when Paul came and her heart was opened. the Lord under the ministry of Paul. And then she opened her house as well. She hosted the church. She was a seller of purple goods, a woman of means, and apparently the same thing here with Phoebe. Now, she must have been a very reliable person, because in this day and age there were no copy machines. And what she carried in her hands was the only copy of the Epistle to the Romans, which we considered such a treasure, such a precious book. Someone has said that in her baggage on the way to Rome was the Reformation Martin Luther struggled and found Romans 1 verse 17, the just shall live by faith. And suddenly, of course, by the Holy Spirit, the light came on And he realized the truth of the gospel, and that started the Protestant Reformation, and we have the benefit even today Now, another slice through this passage in terms of personal characteristics. We learn a lot about the early believers, and I'm just going to make a quick list of Characteristics of the early believers. One is that they had mutual love and affection. And we've already looked at the terminology that Paul uses about them, beloved, beloved in the Lord, and so forth. And if you look at verse 5 in particular, and we just call this out, my beloved Epineetus My beloved Epineetus, who was the first convert in Asia, Paul wants to say something here Converted under the ministry of Paul, perhaps? He's too humble to say that. Ministers remember people who come to the Lord under their ministry. And especially the first ones. And apparently this is the case here with Paul. So the early Christians had mutual love and affection. They provided practical help. Paul says, when Phoebe arrives, welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints. Help her Help her in whatever she may need from you. Because they loved each other. Also, the early Christians honored those who suffered for Jesus Christ. Andronicus and Junior were imprisoned for their faith. Apelles in verse 10 is said to be approved in Christ. And another translation, if you look in the uh NIV, I think it is, tested and tried in Christ and therefore approved. The early Christians also honored those who served the church in a variety of different ways. A servant of the church, a patron of the church, and so forth. They honored those who were hard workers in the Church of Jesus Christ. They respected seniority in spiritual life Paul's already said Andronicus and Junior were in Christ before me and in our church today. We highly respect older, more mature believers. We watch them, we try to pattern our lives after them as they pattern their lives after Jesus Christ. And also the early Christians, they felt they were part of a single Same spiritual body, family. Now, it's interesting that the word church is never used in the Epistle of Romans until chapter 16. And you see it for the first time in this entire epistle, in verse 1 of chapter 16, a servant of the church. And then it's used four more times in this chapter. And it's not the only way that Paul refers to the body of believers. He also calls them brothers and sisters. He calls them saints, fellow workers, friends, a mother, those who are in the Lord. Now there are names in this list about whom Paul says nothing, absolutely nothing, who were asyncratus. Flagan, Hermas, Petrobas, Hermes, Philologus, and Olympus. We know nothing about them. No other references in the New Testament. And yet we we surely they loved the Lord. Surely they were beloved in the Lord. And that's why Paul remembers them, includes their names, and now their names are canonized in Scripture. You know, i in the church today we uh we easily think of distinguished Christian leaders Pastors of big churches, those who write excellent books and videos and so forth. But we should also remember the rank and file. in the Lord's army, right? Remember those who work behind the scenes. They are so very, very valuable. There's an interesting episode in 1 Samuel chapter 30. King David goes to war, and at the point of battle, uh soldiers go out, but some men are left behind to guard the baggage. The victory is won, the soldiers come back, and they say, uh, those uh luggage guarders, they don't get any share in the in the victory plunder. And King David said, no, absolutely not. It was the Lord who gave us the victory. It was the Lord who gave us these possessions. Share and share alike, everybody. Okay, the last slice through this passage is all around applications. I struggled with this title. All around in the sense of these things apply to everybody. And Paul says, greet one another, verse 6, 16, greet one another with a holy kiss. All Christians. greet each other with a holy kiss or today it would be a handshake or a hug right and uh you know we greet each other verbally but also we we want to give a physical sign of affection. And so we reach out and touch each other. And as you shake hands with another Christian There's just not the two of you. There are actually three parties involved. Because as you shake hands, the Lord Himself is putting His hand of blessing on your handshake, and that makes it a holy handshake. Then there's something else, and that is, Paul says, all the churches of Christ greet you. Again, all around, all the churches of Christ greet you. In Japan, the Reformed churches have the tradition that at the end of a worship service, visitors are invited to stand up and introduce themselves. And whenever I did that, I always included a greeting from the Christian brothers and sisters in the churches in America. And Paul here is speaking representatively, because again, in Acts, it's uh chapter 24, verse 4, Paul at this point in Corinth was getting ready to set sail for Jerusalem. Accompanied by a group of men, delegates from the churches in Berea, Thessalonica, Derby, Lystra, and Ephesus, and they were escorting the offerings that had been collected to be brought to Jerusalem to help the Christian Jews there who were in dire financial hardship. And so Paul is speaking on their behalf. And we speak on behalf. Whenever you visit a church, give greetings from Trinity. And finally, diversity in the church, yes, but there is a fundamental unity. And you can see that in Paul's greetings. Four times he refers to people here in the list as being in Christ. And five times he refers to persons in this list as being in the Lord. Now 4 plus 5 equals 9. There are 26 greetings. But really, the sense of this list is that either of these descriptions applies to all of these people. They're all in Christ and in the Lord. Because as we read in Deuteronomy, God says, you are my people. You are my treasured possession. Treasured possession, indeed. Someone has said that Romans chapter 16 is Paul landing the airplane. And I had to think about that for a minute. Okay, in chapters 1 through 15, Paul is flying, so to speak, at a very high altitude. describing lofty theological concepts. And now at the end of the book, he comes back down-to-earth. And surely the people mentioned in this list, they're down-to-earth people. We don't see any celebrities here. Powerful people. No. They're just ordinary people like us. Just ordinary people like us. And You know, Romans is the closest thing to a textbook on systematic theology that we have in the Bible, but it was not written for professional theologians or at least not alone, although they love it, it was written for ordinary people, like the people in this list. And another personal story if you don't mind. My my mother-in-law At the end of her life, she received the diagnosis that she would only have a short time to live. And the one thing she wanted to do was read once more a certain book of the Bible. The book of Romans. And I knew that she had read Romans many, many times before that, because in her Bible she had a habit that when she read a chapter, she would put a mark. 1, 2, 3, 4. Boop. 1, 2, 3, 4. Boom. 1, 2, 3. There were many, many marks. She had read this treasure book many times before. So, yes, there's solid doctrinal teaching in Romans. Which we so much appreciate. But it's fitting that this epistle ends with an emphasis on people and an emphasis on mutual love and affection. And a reminder that humble servants of God perform such valuable service in the church, often behind the scenes. Speaking of people at my age, I've gotten very interested in reading obituaries, especially people that I know about. And, you know, obituaries in the newspaper or online, they might say something like, uh so-and-so was a well-known inventor. Best-selling author, uh he she was a powerful politician, Nobel Prize-winning scientist, billionaire company founding founder, what if what all kinds of things that Things that make you famous in the eyes of the world. Now, I ask you, what would you like to have as your obituary? So I I went to a burial service recently in a cemetery. And when it was finished, out of curiosity, I was wandering around reading gravestones and what's written on them. And may I suggest that chapter 16 of Romans has some really good things to use as an epitaph on your gravestone. Things like servant of Jesus. Hard worker in the church, imprisoned for the faith, approved in Christ, chosen in the Lord. Or if you just want a one-word description, saint. Because when Jesus returns, these are the people to whom he will say, Well done, good and faithful servant, well done, beloved in the Lord, enter into the joy of your master. Let's pray. Lord, we love your kingdom. We love the house of your abode. We love the church that our blessed Redeemer saved with his own precious blood. So, oh Father, we love you because you first loved us. And help us, Lord, each of us, to say that for me to live is Christ, and my life is the church. Would you please preserve and protect your church, your people, as the apple of your eye? And would you keep our names graven on your hand? And would you write our names in the book of life We pray this in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen.