Let's remain standing now for the New Testament reading, which comes from the Gospel according to Luke, Luke chapter seven. Luke chapter 7. In my Bible it's titled, this passage is titled, A Sinful Woman Forgive It Luke 7 and beginning at verse 36. This is God's word. One of the Pharisees Asked him to eat with him. And he, Jesus, went into the Pharisees' house and took his place at the table. And behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner When she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment And standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and wipe them with the hair of her head and kissed his feet and anointed them with the ointment. Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, If this man were a prophet He would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner. And Jesus answering said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you And he answered, Say it, teacher. A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred denari and the other fifty When they could not pay, he canceled the debt of both. Now, which of them will love him more? Simon answered, the one, I suppose, for whom he canceled the larger debt. And he said to him, You have judged rightly Then turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house, you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears. And wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in, she has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little loves little. And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at table with him began to say among themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. Please be seated. And let's pray. Our Father God, we thank you for your inspired word, which you've given to us. Your law is precious, your law is righteous, and it refreshes our souls. And so we ask that we would hear your voice coming from your word this morning. And by the power of your spirit, would you enable us, please, to listen with the ears of our heart? And to understand with our minds and then to live out in obedience what we learn from your word. We ask, Lord, that the words of our mouth and the meditations of our hearts this morning, all of us would be acceptable in your sight because Lord you are our rock and our redeemer. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may have seen people, perhaps younger people, who wear wristbands or have necklaces. With the initials BFF, where BFF stands for Best Friends Forever. And it's it's wonderful to have friends, people with whom you get along very well, people who care for you, people who help you. And you help them, you care for them in return. And then there are best friends, people whom you really trust, with whom you can share really personal things. and to whom you go for really wise counsel. And if you're married, I hope that your wife or your husband is your best friend. uh my own best friend and we've stuck together for better or for worse in sickness and in health. I think she is live streaming the service this morning. Christians enjoy each other as true friends because we have a light, precious faith. The aged Apostle John in his third epistle finished it by saying Peace be unto you. The friends greet you. Greet each of the friends by name. And we find examples of friendship in the Bible. Job, horribly suffering, and his friends decided, we have to come and be with Job. When his three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, they each came from his own place. They made an appointment together to come and show his sympathy, show him sympathy and to comfort him. And also in the Bible we have an example of best friends, David and Jonathan. Now that could have been a very unlikely friendship. Jonathan, a prince, in fact the crown prince, David, a shepherd boy. Jonathan is the son of King Saul. Saul tried to kill David several times. And Jonathan knew that he was not, he himself was not going to be the next king. Because Samuel had prophesied David would become king. And yet, and yet, we read, 1 Samuel 18, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. They were best friends. And also in scripture we meet a BFF A best friend truly forever, the Lord Jesus Christ. Because he is our best friend for now and for eternity. Now this passage that we've read in Luke 7, right before that, we see, Luke records, that Jesus embraced being called a friend. The Pharisees called him that, and it was not a compliment. It was an insult because they sneeringly said, oh, he's a friend of tax collectors and sinners Tax collectors. They took your money, they gave it to those hated Romans, and then they overcharged you, and the overcharge went into their own pockets. Terrible people. And sinners, well, that's a a euphemism, just a polite way of referring to prostitutes, women who sell their bodies. Not so wonderful people. And Jesus associates with these people. They're shocked. They're so shocked. And yet And if a Pharisee were walking down the street and he met a tax collector or a sinner, he would cross to the other side, he would look away. But Jesus associates with them. In fact Jesus deliberately chose a tax collector as one of his twelve disciples, a man named Levi. Who had another name, Matthew, and yes, he was the author of the gospel according to Matthew. And Levi slash Matthew was so overjoyed to have this relationship with the Lord. But he held a great feast at his house, and he invited all of his guests. They were other tax collectors. And the Pharisees thought, what in the world is going on? He chooses a tax collector as a disciple. He goes inside the home of a tax collector. He eats with a tax collector, many of them. What in the world is going on? They were shocked And they asked, why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? And Jesus replied, those who are well have no need of a physician But those who are sick. And then he changed the metaphor. I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentance. So here in Luke 7, Jesus is invited to another feast. And this time, the one who invites him is a Pharisee. Well, Jesus was open to being with all sorts of people. So here he is at this home of a Pharisee. And uh we learned the Pharisee's name was Simon. Simon apparently was a little curious about Jesus. Maybe he had heard that Jesus was being called a prophet by the people, and he wanted to check it out for himself. Now, in this passage there's a spotlight on three people. Jesus Christ, of course The Pharisee named Simon, and then this woman of the city who was a sinner, and we don't know her name. But as we read this passage, we see very clearly that Jesus demonstrates he is her best friend forever. Because he accepted her, he defended her, he forgave her, and he blessed her. So let's look at these in turn. Number one, Jesus accepted her Dear friends, when I read this passage and I see how gracious Jesus was to this woman, it it makes me get emotional. And I wonder, are there passages in Scripture that really emotionally touch you? We read Psalm 23, The Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. It's a touching passage. The book of Ruth, the love story with Boaz, it just may bring a tear to your eye. Isaiah 53, despised and rejected a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief The parable of the prodigal son, all four gospels when we read about Jesus' death and resurrection. Maybe Romans chapter 8. There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. These are really touching passages. And this These verses in Luke 7 just really, really get me. Charles Spurgeon, a very famous 19th-century English preacher Said about this passage in Luke 7, he said, This narrative is not one which I can well preach upon. I had far rather weep over it in private. And yet, and yet he went on to preach eleven sermons about this one passage So Jesus accepted this woman in spite of who she was, and in particular he accepted her adoration, which consisted, as we see in verse 38, of four things. Washing his feet, drying his feet, kissing his feet, and anointing his feet. Very feet-focused I remember once my wife and I invited a family with young children over to our house for lunch on Sunday after church. And we were at the table eating toward the end of the meal. I felt something touch my feet, and I was a little startled. And I looked down, and one of the young children had quietly slid off his chair and gone exploring under the dinner table. Now, this woman, the sinful woman, did not need to get under the dinner table. Because in this day and age, people reclined to eat. They kind of lay on their left side after taking their sandals off and they ate with their right hand. So Jesus' feet were spread out behind him and very accessible. Why was she here? I doubt that she was one of the invited guests with her notoriety And you might even wonder, how did she get in? How did she get into this house of a Pharisee? Well Apparently it was the custom in these days that when you had guests over for a meal, you allowed other people to come in and they would stand along the wall, around the table. And they would listen to and learn from the table of conversation and occasionally even be allowed to ask questions. But as for why she was here, it's pretty clear she was here out of gratitude. to Jesus because she brought this alabaster flask of ointment. Alabaster is a uh soft translucent stone, light comes through it, and it was used to make small jars to contain like perfume. And to get at the contents you would actually break the neck of the jar and then pour it out. Alabaster flask of ointment, which was perfumed oil, very expensive, very, very expensive. And possibly she intended to anoint Jesus' head, but she never got past his feet So Luke records that as she approached Jesus, she began weeping. Now in the movies, trained actors can artificially produce a few tears on their cheeks. Various scenes. This was no act, and this was not a few tears. The word weeping, according to the commentaries, means a gush of tears, a waterfall. And so her tears soaked Jesus' feet. She had no towel. So she undid her long hair and wiped his feet with her hair, meanwhile kissing his feet and anointing his feet Another question, why this heartfelt display of deep emotion? We don't know if she already knew Jesus. We don't know if she already met Jesus Maybe she had been in the crowd that heard him teaching, and the Holy Spirit had grabbed her heart and changed her life, and she is so grateful, but she knows Jesus is here and she comes in This was an extravagant gift, this ointment, from a woman who had experienced extravagant forgiveness And while she is washing and drying and kissing and anointing, Jesus did nothing. Jesus said nothing. He didn't react. He just accepted her adoration. He accepted her. Now this is in Luke seven. Later in his ministry, in fact two days before the crucifixion, in Matthew, Mark, and John is recorded another anointing of Jesus. with oil by a woman. It was Mary, the sister of Martha and Lazarus. And Mary anointed Jesus' head, not his feet. It was done in the house of Simon the leper, not Simon the Pharisee. And there was one other little detail that we learned, and that is one of the disciples, Judas Iscariot. protested, complained that all that money spent to buy that expensive perfumed oil could better have been given to the poor By which he meant himself, tour me, because secretly he was stealing from the disciples' common purse. So twice Jesus is anointed. Jesus is the Messiah. Hebrew Or in Greek, Jesus is the Christ. Christ, Hebrew, uh Messiah means the anointed one. And in the Old Testament and in the New Testament, anointing was Being set apart and consecrated for holy service, and being equipped and empowered by the Holy Spirit. And at Jesus' baptism, the Spirit came down on him. There was the form of a dove. And during his earthly ministry, he is physically anointed with precious oil twice, both times by women. And then right after this episode in Luke chapter 8, we read that there was a group of women who accompanied Jesus And the twelve disciples as they went through cities and villages proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. So they they served, they ministered to Jesus and his disciples Probably preparing food, arranging lodging, taking care of clothing and all sorts of other logistics kinds of things Three of them are named, uh the others, they say, many others. And could it have been the case that this sinful woman After anointing Jesus' feet, joined this group and went on to help take care of Jesus and his disciples. And we know also at the crucifixion there were women there. There was a group of women So Jesus accepted this woman, just remarkable. Jesus defended her as well. What she did, this washing, drying, kissing, and anointing Caused quite a stir. In fact, it was downright scandalous. Simon recognizes her now. She is a woman of the city, a sinner. What is she doing in my house? I'm scandalized that she's touched my guest in a very intimate way. She's kissed my guest on the feet And she let down her hair, she loosened her hair, which goes against all the social precepts for Jewish women. He didn't say anything, but he's thinking to himself, ah, ah, now I know. This fellow Jesus is definitely not a prophet. Because if he were a prophet, he would have realized who this woman is. She's a big sinner, and he would have pushed her away, which is what I Simon would have done. And now Jesus comes to the defense. Simon, he announces, I have something to say to you. And Simon answered, say it, teacher. Not much interest, a little reluctance. Yeah, go ahead. Spit it out. And Jesus tells a parable An earthly story with a heavenly meaning, Jesus frequently used parables in his teaching. In fact, we have this statement here, Mark 4, 34. Jesus did not speak to them, the crowds, without a parable. But then privately to his own disciples, he explained everything. So here's this parable about the two debtors. One owed 500 denarii, the other 50. A denarius was a complete day's wage. And neither one could pay because these are huge debts. And so the money lender, the banker, canceled the debt for both. Simon, who do you think would be more grateful of the two? Well, Simon said, the one I suppose for whom he canceled the larger debt. It's kind of a grudging answer. I suppose. Jesus overlooks his uncaring attitude and says, Yes, you have judged rightly. And then he says Do you see this woman? You have judged her wrongly. She is not a vile sinner. She is a forgiven saint. He knows Simon's thoughts. They're recorded for us even. He knows this woman's heart. He is truly a prophet, therefore. Now, in our day and age, when you invite some guests over to your house for a meal, you meet them at the front door, the first thing is troubled, you shake their hand Now in this day and age, uh they would give a kiss. That was their way of greeting someone. And If you go to Europe, there are still countries where they do that. I used to go to France for business and there'd be an air kiss on the right cheek and the left cheek. And in the Middle East, countries in Africa and elsewhere, a kiss is still used for a greeting. Here in America, we greet fellow believers with a holy handshake. So the guest comes to your front door, you greet them with a handshake, you bring them inside, you give them an opportunity to wash their hands You bring out some refreshing drink or snacks, you seat them at the table in a place of honor. That's what we do Psalm 23, we read verse 5. David, who wrote that Psalm said, the Lord has prepared a table for me. and invited me to this feast as an honored guest, because he's anointed my head with oil and filled my wine cup to overflowing. What's this oil business? Well, Palestine was a dry, hot place. And putting some oil, especially on your forehead, the parched skin, would be really refreshing. And the host also had this obligation basically to bring out water and a towel and have the feet of the guests washed because they'd been walking on dusty, dirty, unpaved roads Remember at the Last Supper, Jesus himself got down on his knees and washed the disciples' feet to teach them humility because none of them wanted to do it. So he says to Simon, Do you see this woman? Do you really see this woman? But a better question is, do you see yourself? Take a look at yourself. You're a poor host. You haven't done any of the common courtesies that are expected for guests. This woman did them instead. And if you'd seen Simon at this point, was his face red with embarrassment? But was his heart hating Jesus? for being exposed. His failings are exposed in front of all his guests. Jesus accepted her, he defended her, and then he forgave her. No This is the most controversial thing of all that occurred. Jesus said, your sins are forgiven. Your sins were many. You are much forgiven. And Simon is aghast. And the guests are aghast. Who is this that even says, your sins are forgiven? Not long before this, Luke chapter 5, Jesus had said this very same thing to a paralytic man. So here's a man, he's paralyzed, he can't move, he has friends, they carry him, and they want to approach Jesus, but they can't, because there's a big crowd around Jesus Ah, brainstorm. We're going to take a short circuit. They go up on the roof of the building where Jesus is. They open a hole and they lower the man right in front of Jesus through that hole. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said, Man, your sins are forgiven. And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone? And they were right. They were right. But what does that say about Jesus? Well Jesus then said, To prove that I have authority to forgive sins, I'll heal this man. And he did it right on the spot. What an extraordinary proof of his divinity And did Simon and his friends here, Simon the Pharisee, not remember this earlier episode, what Jesus had done, what Jesus had said? Jesus came to seek and to save the lost, and this woman had been very lost. with many sins, but much forgiven, on the basis of the atoning death that Jesus would soon suffer. Much forgiven, and therefore she loved much. Ah. But on the other hand, the one who is forgiven little loves little. And did Simon the Pharisee realize that was aimed right at him? Right at him. Jesus applies this parable, a devastatingly direct application, right to Simon. Did Simon think that he didn't owe God anything? He didn't have any sins to pay for. Or if he did admit to having some sins, oh, they're little sins. I can handle it And did he focus all of his attention and all of his condemnation on the one who owed 500 denarii? Because for sure that's the sinful woman. But what does the Westminster Confession tell us? 15. 4. You might want to look this up. There is no sin so small that it does not deserve God's judgment and condemnation. But at the same time, there is no sin so large that it cannot be forgiven. Yes, indeed. And so for a second time, to reassure this woman, he says to her, your sins are forgiven. And you can imagine her heart must have just welled up in gladness and thankfulness. And maybe she went into a second round of weeping, weeping for joy. And maybe there was a song in her heart, something like this one written by Francis Ridley Havergale. Nothing to pay, yes, nothing to pay. Jesus has cleared all the debt away, blotted it out with his bleeding hand, free and forgiven and loved, you stand. Hear the voice of Jesus say, Verily, thou hast nothing to pay. Paid is the debt. The debt are free. Now I ask thee, lovest thou me? Yes, Lord, I love you. You know that I love you. And then finally, Jesus blessed this woman. He dismissed her with this just a few simple words. Go in peace. Now the Jews of this day, in fact even today, when they greet each other, they say shalom. And that's the Hebrew word for peace. and well-being and prosperity and security. Shalom. That's what Jesus said to this woman So I mentioned that Charles Spurgeon preached eleven times on this one single passage. And one of those sermons was focused entirely on this parting blessing, go in peace. And Spurgeon pointed out that saying go in peace was like Jesus telling her, her case is legally dismissed from court Simon's thoughts accused her. Simon was like the prosecutor. But she had legal defense. Jesus was her advocate. And also Jesus was the judge who decided the case in her favor. And so this virgin said Go in peace is like saying your case is dismissed, there's nothing against you, the court clears you, go home in peace. In peace What a mercy it is when the Lord speaks thus to anyone, Spurgeon said. Christ has given us our dismissal from the divine court of justice. So we can go in peace. And that's the peace that we look forward to when Jesus comes back. One more comment In this incident here in Luke 7, we can see ourselves portrayed either in Simon the Pharisee, or in this sinful woman. And I trust you do not see yourself in Simon the Pharisee. A little curious about Jesus. Kind of checking them out, but then offended that Jesus associates with such low-class people, and really offended that Jesus' words expose you, expose your sin. I trust that instead we see ourselves in this sinful woman who had faith in Jesus, who thanked Jesus, who loved Jesus And we should be the same way, thankful and loving Jesus because he accepts us no matter who we are. He holds out his arms and he says Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden. I will give you rest. And also because he defends us The devil accuses us. The world accuses us. My own heart accuses me. But who shall bring any charge against God's elect? Romans chapter 8. Well, it would be God, but it's God who justifies. And who would condemn us? Well, it would be Christ Jesus, but he's the one who died, who was raised. And at the right hand of God is interceding for us. And we should love and thank Jesus because He forgives our sins. If we confess our sins. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And finally, we should love and thank Jesus because he blesses us and gives us peace, being justified by faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, what a friend do we have in Jesus, all our sins and griefs to bear. Jesus said to his disciples, greater love has no one than this, that someone will lay down his life for his friends, and that's exactly what he did for us And so, dear people of God, as we come to the Lord's Supper this morning, this table that He has prepared for us in the presence of our enemies. We should know and we should believe that the Lord Jesus Christ most definitely is our very best friend forever. Let's pray. Lord, in our hearts we bow before you and we kneel at your feet with gratitude and praise and thanksgiving and love. And each of us says, thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. Thank you, Lord, for making me whole. Thank you, Lord, for giving to me your rich salvation. So full and free. What a Savior we have in Jesus. What a friend we have in Jesus. Saving, helping, keeping, loving. Jesus is with us to the end. We thank you in your name. Amen.