Perhaps you can tell from the hymns that have been sung and also from the passage that was read earlier, the uh focus tonight will of our message will be on the uh on the word of God as it uh comes to us uh from uh a passage in Amos chapter eight verses seven through twelve. And uh in just a minute I I'll be reading that. The uh title of the sermon has uh It was incorrectly entered. The title is Bitter Judgment with Famine. Bitter Judgment with Famine. Now, let's turn to Amos chapter 8 and to the 7th verse and let's read God's word. As we continue in our study of the book of Amos. The Lord has sworn by the excellency of Jacob, surely I will never forget any of their works. Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that dwelleth therein? And it shall rise up holy as a flood, and it shall be cast out and drowned as by the flood of Egypt. And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord God, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the clear day. I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation. I will bring up sackcloth upon all loins. And baldness upon every head. And I will make it as the morning of an only son, and the end thereof as a bitter day. Behold, the days come, says the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water. But of hearing the words of the Lord. They shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east. They shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord, and they shall not find it. In that day shall the fair virgins and young men faint for thirst. They that swear by the sin of Samaria and say, Thy God, O Dan, liveth, and the manner of Beersheba liveth, even they shall fall and never rise up again. This is reaching to the culmination of the Lord's judgment upon the northern kingdom Israel. Amos the prophet uh giving these words uh to uh uh the Hebrews uh in the northern kingdom because they have been um uh uh full of ungodly activity, as we have seen. Uh they um uh they uh were uh guilty of uh worshiping false gods They were guilty of uh being unjust and uh dishonest uh business people. Uh they would The measures of food they would sell were less than advertised, and yet they sought to get more for less product. They were also people who oppressed the poor and the downtrodden. and um and uh made uh great deal of uh of material wealth, uh very rich uh materially at this particular time and yet totally um um uh totally uh rejecting God's word, uh totally without any spirituality, um, without any true spirituality. They they had a lot of false spirituality A lot of uh feasts, uh religious holidays uh that had no they w uh of which they had no meaning To them. Amos comes and speaks God's word to them. They don't listen. They don't hear. Amos is one of several Old Testament prophets. urging Israel, the northern kingdom, to repent of all of these sins, and he is completely unsuccessful. in in getting the nation to turn from its sins. There are, however, a few, a few people yet who, as Elijah found out, uh were among the 7,000 people who hadn't bowed the knee yet to Baal. There still was a remnant of God's people in this northern kingdom. But be that as it may, the judgment is coming, and it will come. It does come, historically speaking In 722 B. C. , the Northern Kingdom is wiped away as the invading armies of the Assyrian Empire destroy the Northern Kingdom. Now, as we again, we have been looking at this building and building of God's judgment. and promises of judgment to the people uh for their sin. And in our text tonight, uh we have several uh passages and several ideas that are brought forward regarding God's coming judgment. As Amos declares the word of the Lord in verse 7 He tells the people of the northern kingdom. He says, the Lord hath sworn by the pride of Jacob. Surely I will never forget any of thy works. the pride of Jacob here and the excellence of Jacob refers to Everything that Israel has put its trust in. All that they have uh found um to be their life's uh uh importance, their great wealth, their beautiful capital city of Samaria, uh their great military strength, all these things the men of Israel are trusting in. And the Lord has said, I'll swear by your pride. The things that you are taking great pride in, I'll not forget your works. And it isn't a positive statement when he says, I'll not forget your works, as if they were good. He's not going to forget them because they're all bad. They're all sinful. You're he he uh he is uh essentially uh uh telling them that you are so proud of all that you have done and all that your culture and your wealth has uh has uh has uh uh uh uh uh built up for you. Um And yet you refuse to believe or refuse to understand that everything you've built is built upon your idolatry and the abuse of your neighbors um your pride, all your power and glory and wealth that you have gained by yourself. That will be gone in a minute. Your self-centeredness, your lack of love for others, God is not going to forget these things. and your failure to repent. And we see how it is that God is not going to forget them. He is going to bring a series of uh of physical calamities that will come to uh the land of Israel. Starting in verse eight, he says Shall not the land tremble for this? Shall not the land, even the land, suffer because of your sin? Everyone, and and this will cause everyone to mourn who dwells there. He talks about the land. The land itself, remember, mostly a semi-arid land. uh a lot of sand, lot of desert. He talks about it rising up like a flood, as if the the the land itself uh suddenly i is is uh uh uh uh uh Is becoming um uh uh above its normal elevation, uh like floodwaters. Um And and i i it shall it shall drown people just as the floods of Egypt, uh when the Nile floods can drown people. This is a form of a judgment that God is bringing. The land trembling will tremble as a result of this. And this is very abnormal. If we were to see our land right here before us now suddenly out on the parking lot rise five or ten feet For no apparent reason, we would certainly be in somewhat fearful of that. This will cause extreme fear and it will cause the people to mourn and to wail. at uh what uh this judgment that that God is saying is coming. Verse 9, he continues uh this idea of judgment using the physical elements He says in verse 9, It shall come to pass in that day that the Lord said the Lord God, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon. I will cause the sun to go down at noon. And I will darken the earth in a clear day. Now, just recently we had the eclipse. Remember? The total eclipse? And um and I I I don't know if this was exactly a prediction of an eclipse, but I can tell you that that for some reason people were nuts. about the eclipse. The people wanted to see this eclipse and they would travel lots of miles to see the sun uh darkened during the the noon day. This is a this is an unusual phenomenon Whatever we experienced here isn't going to happen again in any of our lifetimes. We're not going to see a total eclipse again. um a very rare phenomenon. And I and I'm not sure that it's really talking about a total eclipse, but surely it's talking about the effect of great darkness. In the middle of the day. And whenever great darkness hits in the middle of the day, even to this day, whether it's an eclipse or whether it's a big thunderstorm, we know that something different is about to happen. We know that something ominous is in the works. And that's what God is using uh the elements of nature, the things that he has created, he's using these things to tell to people that um This is going to be the judgment is going to be so ominous when this day occurs It could be that um uh the reason that the the sun is darkened And the sky is darkened, it could be that even though it was forbidden to worship the sun Deuteronomy 4 verse 19 makes that clear, not to worship the sun, the moon, or the stars. Nevertheless, we find out that Israel did that. We find out in Amos, for example, over in chapter 5, verse 26. God Amos through Amos the prophet uh criticizes Israel for making that their tabernacle of Molech and Chyun. and calls it the star of your God, which you made to yourself. These were, this was worship of the sun. This was worship of the stars. Um and and I I uh it's it's interesting that uh they're worshiping these things. And if they had only worshipped the true God of the heavens, they would be okay. But here's this sin-based twist. That men do when they see the things of creation and yet decide to worship a false god and reject the true God who reveals himself in the in the greatness and in the power of the sun, the stars and the sky, and all those things. Israel does not worship the true God, but she worships a false facsimile, a false uh uh prophet, a false uh a false god. Darkness descending upon Israel recalls to our minds that it was one of the plagues that God used against Egypt. Exodus chapter 10, verses 11 and 12. God will bring judgment on Israel like he brought upon Egypt before he led the people out. It's very clear that the scripture says in verse 9 that the Lord God will cause the Son. The Lord God will directly intervene in the in what we call the laurel laws of nature and the sun And everything else in nature will do his bidding. From the land to the stars to the sun, and that is because God is Lord of all creation. That is because God is in control of this world in which we live. He made it, and he uses his power over creation to implement his will. Just as the disciples remarked when Jesus calmed the winds and the waves of that storm on the Sea of Galilee. So the sun, the great and powerful sun of our universe, of our solar system, does the bidding of God, and does the bidding of God to rebuke Israel and her foolish idolatry. It is rather amazing to appreciate That this whole idea of God using the creation to signal his anger with his people is used repeatedly. And it's used even, as you well know, in the New Testament, it's used to signal uh the l uh um uh uh um um the Lord's coming. At the end of time. For example, 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 10, the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night The heavens shall pass away with a great noise. The elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up Well, Revelation chapter 6, verse 12. And I beheld, when he had opened the sixth seal, lo, there was a great earthquake, the sun became black. as sackcloth of hair, and the boon became as blood. Those things which are so familiar in our world so familiar that they are almost normal kinds of things. The sun shining, the moon uh giving its light in the middle of the night, uh one will become black, the other will become uh blood um and uh and this is because the Lord is signaling his day of judgment You might also recall that when our Savior was being crucified, that darkness descended over the land in the middle of the day. And um and n and so you have God saying to Israel, there's there's m There's judgment coming, it's coming in multiple forms. He's been saying this, of course, but now he starts taking the creation itself and using the creation to bring forth a type of judgment upon uh the people. The this will result in verse ten of God saying, I'll turn your feasts into morning. Now by feasts He's not referring to uh the buffet at the local Chinese restaurant. Uh he's referring to their their religious feast They're festivals. I will turn them into mourning. And the reason he will do that uh is I think associated with what he says in Isaiah chapter one verse thirteen, speaking to a different group of people, not the northern kingdom, but the southern kingdom. He says Bring no more vain ablations, because and your incense is an abomination to me, the new moons, the Sabbaths, the calling of assemblies I cannot away with. It is iniquity, even the solemn meeting, your new moons, your appointed feasts, my soul aches. They are trouble unto me. I am weary to bear them. And and essentially the the reason for it is that um Israel is just going through the motions. They're not they're not worshiping God through through these feasts. Uh uh they are uh just uh having them and they mean nothing of any importance to them I'll turn your feasts into mourning. They are abomination to me. Your songs into lamentations. A lamentation is a is a is crying. Uh the your your your songs, your songs of joy at your at your feast will be uh songs of crying. I will put sackcloth upon your loins. Now I'm not sure exactly what sackcloth is, but I don't think it's fun to wear Um and certainly uh the people of this particular time w had riches, they were able to afford the best of clothing Um, instead of ha wearing the best of clothing, now they're wearing the roughest uh of clothing uh and um This is so different from what they uh in enjoyed. And uh their mourning will come, they will mourn. I don't mean A. M. mourning, I mean sadness, mourning, their mourning will come and um but it will be too late There will not be another opportunity for repentance. I will make it as the morning of an only son, he says Uh there would be I I I I would imagine uh uh those of us who have children, whether it's a son or daughter, if you have an only child uh and that something happened to that child, you would certainly have a great deal of mourning, a great deal of sadness. There could probably be no greater loss than the mourning uh of the loss of an only child. And um and and this is how God is talking about how great the sadness will be in Israel when that day comes He he says the end thereof uh is as a bitter day. A bitter day. Uh and you can imagine all these things happening. Morning, uh um uh the creation uh going wacky and doing all kinds of strange things uh uh uh mourning uh and uh these are part of bitter consequences. Hebrew uh Proverbs chapter five verses one through four. My son It says, My son, attend to my wisdom, bow thine ear to my understanding, that you may regard discretion, that thy lips may keep knowledge for the lips of a strange woman drip as a honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil, but her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as any two-edged sword Things might appear to be sweet, but they won't be in the end. All these things you think are blessing you are not your great blessing. Now, when we come to verse 11, we come to another of God's judgments and the greatest of all the plagues that he is about to unleash upon Israel for their sin. He says, Behold, the day shall come, says the Lord, that I will send a famine upon the land. Well, famines are not unusual in Israel. Um being a an arid climate, uh you know it doesn't take uh uh too much for uh lack of rain to not allow the crops to be produced. And you you read from time to time of famines in Israel For example, Joseph and his children went down to Egypt because there was a famine in the land. And only Egypt had grain. In 2 Kings chapter 5, 6, verse 25, there was a great famine in Samaria. A great famine in Samaria. It's the same group of people that we're talking about right now. There was a great famine in Samaria. Samaria was the capital city of the northern kingdom that Amos is prophesying to. Behold, they besieged it. And they is the armies of the Syrian king, whose name happened to be Ben-Hadad. They besieged it Until an a donkey's head was sold for four pieces of silver. Not sure how much four pieces of silver is, but I don't think a donkey's head was all that appetizing either. So uh uh but that gives you the um the indication of how severe the famine was And he goes on, and it gets more graphic. He says the donkey's head were sold for four-score pieces of silver. Excuse me. I read it long, wrong. That would be 80 pieces of silver. Probably a pretty high amount of money. And a fourth part of a cab of doves dung for five pieces of silver. Yeah, not not pleasant, is it? But apparently that's how severe the failure was. So the point I'm just saying Famine isn't unusual to Israel. But this is not a usual famine. As God goes on to say, this is not a famine of bread nor a thirst for water. They will still have bread. They will still have all the water they need to drink But the famine is of the hearing of the word of God, the hearing of the words of the Lord. God's judgment on their sin is that they will not be able to hear the word of the Lord. I cannot think of any more uh uh devastating uh famine uh when the word of God, which Remember, early on, the word is a lamp to my feet, a light to my path. Remember, sweeter than honey. And the hunt and the honeycomb are the words of God to me. The words of God give us instruction, they give us direction, they give us training in righteousness. uh on and on and on how important the word of God is to our life. And now, now, because of the people's sin, God's bringing this last judgment, you will not be able to hear. And uh it'll be so scarce that um that uh that they they will be unable to find it, even though they begin finally to start looking for it. Um it's he says um um in in in the next verse uh and in uh in in verse uh twelve they'll wander from sea to sea from the north to the east um and they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the Lord and shall not Find it. Verse twelve. Nowhere. It's not there. Um the Lord is withdrawing. The Lord is withdrawing his word. Now you could say, well, maybe they could go to the temple and find it there. But the priests are no longer in uh talking about God's word in the temple. They've corrupted the worship of God. They've made salvation not a matter of God's grace, but a matter of of individual work. It wouldn't be too much of a stretch to suggest that given the fact that this this culture is so interested in material things that they may have associated true spirituality with the acquisition of material things. Kind of a pros what we might call a prosperity gospel They're not going to find it in the tabernacles. They're not going to find the Word of God. They can wander from the north to the south. They won't find it. They can go to the Mediterranean, to the Great Sea to the west, or to the Red Sea and the Dead Sea to the East. They're not going to find the Word of God That is a horrible, horrible judgment to bring upon a group of people whom the scriptures have referred to as the people who were entrusted with the oracles of God. We, as people who are um called uh Americans, citizens of the United States, uh we uh don't know what it is to experience a a physical famine Uh your grandparents, uh if you're old enough, may have told you stories of um of uh the Great Depression, uh where there was no work, uh no food, no money, uh people were lined up in soup kitchens, uh, and people lived from hand to mouth And uh tried to help one another survive. That was a physical famine, but even during the Great Depression here in the United States, there was still the Word of God. You could still hear the Word of God. In fact, you could probably hear it a lot clearer than you can hear it today in many cases. The famine that comes to Amos will be like any other, like no other that has ever been seen to the people. Not a famine that makes one physically hungry, but a famine of hearing the Word of God. Starving for food from God while living at the same time a life of luxury. Living a life of luxury. If there is no God, excuse me, if there is no word, if you can't find the word of God, it also needs to be accented. You can't find God Salvation either. And so that's an unintended consequence of the Lord withdrawing the word. Even though these people may be quote unquote very religious, their religious activity is not one that God appreciates. It's corrupted by false worship, and it's corrupted by ungodly living. And we've already detailed some of that. The people are pictured as wandering and running in order to find the Word of God, but too late. They will not find it because nobody is proclaiming it, nobody is teaching it, and God does not want them. To find it. It's not time for the Lord to show mercy. It's time for the Lord to bring judgment. Let us uh let us pray that God will always be merciful to us And that He will never send upon us a famine of hearing the Word of God. That that will never be our lot. That we will repent while there is still time. And believe Let us pray. In some ways, Father, as we We come to this section of your word, we see in the people of the Northern Kingdom, we see a people who are very prosperous. in many ways materially as prosper prosperous as we we also see Lord We also see, Lord, that there's a diminishment in interest in you and in worship you worshiping you and a turning away from you and worshiping all other things. But Father, we trust that we can come to you and ask you, Lord, to In the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to continue to keep feeding your people, continue to keep The light of the gospel burning, continue to encourage God's people to share that light with the lost in this world. And to do so, Father, in a way that always points people to our great hope, your Son, Jesus Christ. Father, there's that hymn that we sing sometimes titled Bread of Heaven. Bread of Heaven, Feed Me Till I Want No More. And Father, we pray that you will continue to feed us with the good word of your scriptures. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.