If you open your copy of God's Word once again to Proverbs. We'll continue our study there tonight in Proverbs three. Last Sunday we took the first eight verses, and tonight we'll take just two, verses nine and ten, but I'm going to read uh from verse one to give us context. Let's give our attention now to God's Word. Proverbs chapter 3, beginning at verse 1. My son. Do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments, for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce. Then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline, or be weary of his reproof. For the Lord reproves him whom he loves, as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. As far as the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in Heaven We thank you for your word. I pray once again that you would add your blessing to the reading of it. And that tonight you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see, that you'd work by your Spirit, that you'd teach us all, Father, that you have ordained for us to receive tonight. That none of us would leave here without everything that you planned for our hearts. Help us, Lord. We're weak, we're frail, we're tired, but we need your word. We need to be lifted up tonight. We need Christ. Help us. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. In Haggai, the prophet begins by Recording what was going on after the exiles had left their captors and had returned to Jerusalem. Well they had to return to rebuild the temple. And Haggai records That the people had not yet begun. They built houses for themselves Indeed, Haggai records, thus says the Lord of hosts, these people say the time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the Lord. But they had built paneled houses for themselves. Even while the temple lay in ruins. And then Haggai records that the Lord had withheld from them They're harvest. You've sown much and harvested little. You you eat but you never have enough. You drink, but you never have your fill. You Clothe yourselves, but no one is warm. He who earns wages does so and puts them into a bag with holes. God had cursed his people because they failed to honor him with all that he had given them. They built paneled houses and neglected the temple. But then Haggai does something Very interesting. He reminds them that the Lord was with them. Work, for I am with you, declares the Lord of hosts. My spirit remains in your midst. Fear not. He reminds them that the protective hand of the Lord was with them. And the Lord says, the silver is mine, the gold is mine, the latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former. See, even though the people of God had failed to honor the Lord with what they'd been given, the Lord was calling them back to himself. Encouraging them to pursue the temple, to reinstitute worship. To honor him with their wealth, It seems like what's going on here in two verses of this proverb, Proverbs chapter 3, verses 9 and 10. Again, we know that Solomon has written the majority of the Proverbs, and we believe that he's written this chapter 3 as well. The one who's been given wisdom above all others, the one who's filling the role of king of the nation, is now giving God's word to his people. Tonight in these two verses, verses 9 and 10 of Proverbs 3, I want us to see that the faithful in Christ are privileged and blessed. As they use their wealth to honor God. The faithful in Christ are privileged and blessed as they use their wealth to honor God. Three points tonight. The problem of keeping, secondly, the privilege of honoring, and finally the promise of blessing. There's a passage in Acts chapter 20 as the Apostle Paul has gathered the elders from Ephesus before he goes to Jerusalem. And he's recounting what he's done. He says, In all things I've shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak, and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. As we go through this passage tonight, I would like you to be asking yourself that question. Do I believe that? That it's more blessed to give Well, first then the problem of keeping. The idea is the problem of keeping your wealth In these verses, verses 9, 10, 11, and 12, we seem to have two specific examples or selections by the king that he has set before his sons. Honor the Lord with your wealth, verse 9. And then verse 11, my son, do not despise the Lord's discipline. These are two commands or calls upon the lives of the sons that seem to flow out of the first portion of the Proverb. My son, do not forget my teaching. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. Trust the Lord. These seem to be two specific teachings. Two examples of what are referred to. Do not forget my teaching. Find them. And so the proverbial writer, Solomon, is saying, here's two examples of what I've told you not to forget. Two specific commands. Recalled and rehearsed. With regard to wealth, we we see in Exodus twenty-three, bring the best The best of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring into the house of the Lord your God. This is not a new teaching, but one that's being recalled and rehearsed with regard to discipline We read in Deuteronomy chapter 8. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you. Again, these are two calls, two commands that are set before the people of God, the Israelites, the sons of the king that he's rehearsing with them that are flowing out of this call to Remember not to forget my teachings. Bind these around your neck. Tonight, tonight we'll deal with the first. Of these two, honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of your produce. Lord willing, next Sunday we'll deal with the second one. Do not despise the Lord's discipline. So that's the table we've got set before us tonight. Well this first command or this rehearsal of one command that's been previously issued appears in now parallel construction here. From King Solomon. Look at again verse 9. Honor the Lord with your wealth. And with the first fruits of all your produce. Your wealth and your produce are set side by side. They're in parallel, referring to the same thing. And the first fruits are really a description of that first portion of your produce. In Deuteronomy 15, we read this: all the firstborn males that are born of your herd and flock you shall dedicate to the Lord your God. That was the idea. And the first fruits, the firstborn Was a symbol of the strength of the one who bore the firstborn. So the firstborn male in a family received uh the majority of the inheritance because he he was seen as the strength of the father. And here the firstborn of of the Herd and of the flock are seen as the strength of the flock, the best of the flock, so to speak. But it goes beyond that. These were to be without blemish. Deuteronomy 15 goes on, but if any has a blemish, if it is lame or blind or has any serious blemish, you shall not sacrifice it. To the Lord your God. It shall not be given to the Lord. There were two things, the firstborn, and then it had to be perfect. In Malachi, the Lord is speaking To those who have offered blemished sacrifices. And the Lord speaks, if I am a father, where's my honor? If I'm a master, where's my fear? Oh you Priests who despise my name, and they ask, How have we despised your name? By offering polluted food on my altar. You offer blind animals, lame, sick. Is that not evil? First fruits The best. No blemish. Perfect. That's what was to be offered. That's this adjective we have that's added to produce. Your wealth, your produce, and the first portion of that produce, the best portion Why do you think the first fruits are mentioned? Very simply, because we want to keep it for ourselves. Seemingly that's exactly what Cain did. As Cain comes in the course of time and brings to the Lord an offering, what's he bring? He brings an offering of the fruit of the ground. Well, that sounds good. But Abel Abel brings the firstborn of the flock and their fat portions. Abel brought the best. He brought the best of the best. Cain, there's absolutely no description. We know that Abel and his offering were received by the Lord, but Cain and his offering were not. God had no regard for Cain's offering. And so I think we can assume from that passage that he didn't bring the best. He didn't bring the first fruit. And that's why King Solomon adds the first fruit And so right away we've got this problem that's being revealed to us, to our hearts. We like the first fruits. We like the best. We like to keep it for ourselves. Isn't that what we see in the rich young ruler? As he comes to the Lord Jesus Christ and asks him about eternal life, what must I do? And the Lord Jesus goes through some of the commands with him. And the rich young ruler knew that he still lacked something. What else? And Jesus tells him If you would be perfect, go. Sell what you possess, give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Come follow me. And you know the account. The rich young ruler goes away. Sorrowful That's the problem of money, isn't it? That's the problem of wealth. That's the problem of our tie our desire for the first fruits. And that's exactly why King Solomon placed it here. Brothers and sisters, we have to be clear. There's nothing wrong with money or wealth or produce or first fruits. They're not evil. There's nothing wrong with having wealth. Indeed, it's a good thing. In 1 Timothy, we read: if anyone does not provide for his relatives, especially for the members of his household, he's denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. The problem is in the wrong heart attitude Toward your wealth, toward your money, toward your first fruits, toward your produce. Scripture is full of the problems of that heart attitude. Remember, as Jesus teaches the parable of the four soils, the soil, the seed that was sown among the thorns. Gets choked out. And Jesus was teaching that the cares of the world, the deceitfulness of riches Choke the word, but it proves unfruitful. The deceitfulness of riches In 2 Timothy, Paul writes, the people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy. Do you see where lovers of money is lumped in? Proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient, ungrateful, unholy. And then we read tonight out of 1 Timothy chapter 6, those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, a snare. Into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. That's the problem with a heart attitude that is ungodly, unbiblical. Toward money, toward wealth, toward first fruits, toward produce. Love of money is the root. of all kinds of evil. Paul doesn't write that money is the root of evil. He writes that the love of money is the root. Indeed, we see that unbiblical view of wealth in the rich young ruler as he leaves Money bags in hand, so to speak, but sorrowful. That's the problem of keeping. The rich young ruler held on, but not to Christ. He clung to his wealth. He kept it. He would not use it to honor the Lord. Remember what the Lord told him, go sell your possessions and give to the poor. That would have been honoring the Lord with what he had, and he refused to do it because he believed that the greater blessing would come from keeping rather than giving. So he goes away sorrowful. This passage causes us to ask the question: what will you do with your wealth? You may be thinking to yourselves, well I don't have a lot. This passage is not about having a lot. This passage is about what the Lord has given you. The question is, what are you going to do with it? That's the question that really stands behind this command. Honor the Lord with your wealth. What will you do with it? Regardless of how much you have. It does assume that you've been given wealth. There's no value, there's no amount placed on it, but it assumes that you have wealth That the Lord has given you. Even even the poor widow, as Jesus sees them putting coins into the plate, so to speak, as they're entering into the temple. She's giving all she's got. She had wealth It wasn't much. The command assumes that the reader has been given wealth produced by the Lord. Remember, the Israelites were brought into the promised land, and when they arrived, it was flowing with milk and honey. They had nothing to do with it. It was already flowing with milk and honey. They didn't plant the fields, but it was full It was a bountiful place. And this was written by King Solomon in a time of prosperity and peace. They were enjoying that in the land. And so the command that stood behind, the question that stood behind this command was, what will you do with all of your wealth? Considereth the abundant prosperity that the Lord has brought you into. And we can apply that same assumption here. What will you do with all that the Lord has given you? Seemingly there are only two answers. First is to honor yourself, to revere yourself. The second is to honor God. Brothers and sisters, we are either for God or against God. In the garden as Adam and Eve sinned against the Lord, and as the Lord is speaking now to the serpent He says, I will put enity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. The Lord is saying there will be these two lines that will be divided. And we're in either one or the other. We are either participating in the building of the kingdom or we are participating in opposing the building of the kingdom as we build our own Jesus Christ said so very clearly, whoever is not with me is against me, whoever does not gather with me scatters. We are either using our money, the wealth Given to us by the Lord for his honor and thus for his kingdom, or we are using it to build our own personal kingdom and thus opposing his kingdom. There is no middle, there is no third way to use your wealth. Is this passage pulling on your heart tonight? Is the Lord Jesus Christ through his spirit convicting you concerning your use of the wealth? That he's given you? Are you being led to see the way in which you have failed to use your wealth to honor God? Brothers and sisters, that's a question we all have to ask ourselves tonight. Seek the Lord's leading. For the command is clear. That brings us to our second point, the privilege of honoring. There's a call to honor the Lord in this passage. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of all your produce. What stands behind that? That call? I uh I've read scripture which which w predates this scripture You might say, well, it's that scripture. That's not my question, really. Why honor the Lord with your wealth? Why honor the Lord with the first fruits of your produce? Well, let me give you some reasons tonight. First, the Lord owns all. The earth is the Lord's, and all it contains, the world and those who dwell in it, it's his. He made it. Everything. There's not a thing that exists that God didn't make. For every beast of the field of the forest is mine, meaning the Lord's, the cattle on a thousand hills, Psalm 50. Psalm 89, the heavens are yours, the earth that be also is yours, the world and all that is in it. You have founded them And not just the Old Testament, the New Testament, 1 Corinthians 10, for the earth is the Lord in the fullness thereof. He is the maker, he is the sustainer, he is the possessor, he is the owner. We think we own things. In reality, everything is God's. Second, God has given you all things that you have As the Israelites were about to enter the promised land, Joshua is told, every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given to you just as I promised Moses. It would have been a mistake for the Israelites to think, well, we've captured this place. We have earned our right. No, no, no. God had given it to them Just as he promised. Everything we have. Everything we have, he gives. He bestows upon you whatever you call your own tonight. More than the physical things that you need to survive food, clothing, shelter. The Lord has given you your very breath. Genesis 2, then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living creature. Everything you have. Comes from God. Third, those who are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight, the living God of hosts, the creator of all things, has loved you from before time began. And in his eternal Son has given you eternal life. It's exactly what we read in Ephesians, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. He has granted you life when you deserved death. He's freed you from the dungeon, from prison, which you had earned as a life sentence for your sins. But he sent Christ. He anointed Christ to bring good news to the poor. That's you tonight if you're trusting in Christ. He sent Christ to bind up the brokenhearted. That's you if you're trusting in Christ. He sent Christ to proclaim liberty to the captives, to the opening of the prison, to those who are bound. That's you. That's you if you're trusting in Christ tonight. The Lord Jesus has broken your chain to sin and defeated death for you. How could you not use all things that the Lord has given you for His honor? Well, you might be asking that question, what is it then to honor? Webster's has this. It's a testimony of esteem, an expression of respect. High estimation by words or actions. I think that's what we want to get at tonight. Actions. Reverence. Veneration. To revere is to regard with fear mingled with respect and affection. All of this is caught up in honoring the Lord with what He's given you. So, how do you use your wealth to honor? That's what we're called to do. That's the clear teaching of this verse. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of all your produce. What this doesn't mean is that God needs your wealth. But he's in heaven tonight with Christ at his side, when I wonder what Trinity Church is going to give me tonight. The living God is self-sufficient. He needs nothing from you. He's self-sustaining. He's able to build his kingdom with or without your help, indeed, without anyone's help. So then to honor the Lord does not mean to give back to him because he's in need. It's the use of your wealth, the use of your first. It's the use of the best to esteem God, to revere God, to venerate God, to submit yourself to the Lord. So let's just begin with that. Using your wealth to submit yourself to the Lord. First, to provide for yourself and your family. You're submitting yourself to the Lord when you use your wealth to provide for yourself and for your family. Anyone who does not provide for his relatives, especially for the members of his household, is denied the faith. See, submitting to the holy will of God is submitting to His Word, using your wealth to actually do so, to give tithes to the church. The Lord has commanded us to do that. You shall take some of the first of all the fruit of the ground which the harvest from your land that the Lord your God has given you, shall put it in a basket. And you should go to the place that the Lord your God will choose to make his name dwell there, bringing in the offering, using your wealth for the Church. Malachi tells us, bring the full tithe into the storehouse that there may be food in my house. Paul writes to those in Corinth, whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, whoever sows bountifully will reap bountifully. Each one must give. Each one must give. As he says decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, given to the church. It's in a key in accordance with God's will, his word. And then giving to the poor and needy. Remember what Jesus told the rich young ruler? If you would be perfect, go sell what you possess, give to the poor. And you'll have treasure in heaven. James. If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to him, Go in peace, be warmed and filled without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? Give to those in need. It's in accordance with God's word. That's submission to Him. That's honoring the Lord with your wealth. To keep the Word of God is honoring Him, it's revering Him to do His will. And then think of this: use your wealth to point others to Christ. Use your wealth to support the church. Use your wealth to provide for those who are serving the church. Use your wealth to uphold and provide for those in the church who are seeking to make disciples, to fulfill the Great Commission. Go! Make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you. We have missionaries that are going out. Are we supporting them? With our wealth. And then to demonstrate trust And acknowledge and give thanks. Every time we use our wealth to honor the Lord, that's exactly what we're doing. We're demonstrating trust. We're taking the first fruit, right? If we were Farmers, we're bringing in the best of the crop. If we were sheep herders, we're bringing in the best sheep, the first sheep, the one that's not blemished, the one that's of such great value, we're bringing in saying, here Lord, use this I want to honor you with it. I could really use it. I could really use it for my family. But Lord, it's better for me to give it to you. It's demonstrating trust. And it's acknowledging and giving thanks. Let me ask you, do you do you think it's a privilege to use your wealth this way, to produce the first fruits An initial public offering. Correct me if I'm wrong. It's when the stock of a corporation is offered to the public for the first time. And many times, as we hear of these things in the news, there there are select few that are offered offer to buy the stock at the initial public offering. And usually when they do, they they buy the stock and then right away the stock goes up and so they've got this Profit. It's a great privilege to be able to buy at the initial public offering. It's for a privileged few. But do you see tonight the privilege of being able to use your wealth to honor the living God? See, that privilege doesn't belong to everybody. You may say, well, anybody can give it to the church. Well, that's true But not everybody can honor the Lord with their wealth. Honoring the Lord is only for those who can actually please him. You can't honor the Lord if he's not pleased with it. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. Hebrews 11:6. So it's only the faithful, only those who can say that I trust in the Lord Jesus Christ sincerely. I've placed my soul in his hands I know that he's bled for me, he's died for me. Only those can truly honor God through using their wealth for him and for his kingdom. That's a privilege. Investing in the eternal kingdom, investing in the church, the bride of Christ, investing in the church to whom the great commission has been given. So that more will come to know the Lord Jesus Christ savingly. What a privilege. That not everybody has. But you do. If you're trusting in Christ tonight. That brings us to our third point, the promise of blessing. That brings us to the second part of this these two verses. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of all your produce, then your barns will be filled with plenty, your vats will be bursting with wine. This is a conditional promise, isn't it? It's an if-then statement. If you honor him, meaning the Lord. With your wealth and the first fruits, then your barns will be filled with plenty, your rats will be bursting with wine. If you do A, then God will do B. It's a basic idea. The promise is not complicated. It's not difficult to grasp this image. Indeed, the image is clear. Think of the Israelite who was working the land. The farmer would appreciate this promise. Crops are subject to blight, pests, weather. And now, if he honors the Lord. That produce of the crops is not varying from season to season. The barn's full. It's filled with grain. Outstanding year of crop production. The vineyard worker would also appreciate Vats overflowing with wine. Clear images, simple to grasp, even for the non farmer. Even for the non-vineyard owner. The blessing of the Lord is abundant and abundantly shown here. Those who have used that wealth, those who have trusted in the goodness of God so much that they have given the first fruits of their produce because they've received the eternal love of the Lord, they're overjoyed that the Creator God would think upon them. So that they open their hands wide and say to the Lord, Whatever, whatever you've given to me is yours. Take it, use it for all of your holy purposes. And the Lord, as he sees this expression of faith, he opens the windows of heaven and pours out blessings. As we consider that, as we consider those images, I I also want you to consider the opposite. The opposite is implied. If you do not honor the Lord with your wealth and with your produce, then what? Moses already told the Israelites. If you will not obey the voice of the Lord your God or be careful to do all his commandments, cursed shall you be in the field, cursed shall be your basket, your kneading bowl. Cursed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground. Jesus told a parable about the rich man whose land was producing plenty. And what's he do? He's concerned that he's not going to have enough barn space to store all his grains, so he tears down the barns, puts up new ones, fills them. Look at this abundance that the Lord had given him. And he said to himself, soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, be merry. But God said to him, fool. This night your soul has required of you, and the things you have prepared, whose will they be? So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. That's the opposite. Curse versus the blessing. What about you tonight? You might be thinking, I don't have any barns. I don't have any bats. What does a promise mean for me? If I'm faithful, if I'm serving the Lord Jesus Christ, if I'm seeking to use my wealth to honor the Lord because of my faith. What's the promise mean? This image of abundance We know that God provides according to our needs for eternal life. Let me say that again. He provides for our needs according to that which is needed for eternal life. He alone knows them. Think of Job, whom he gave much wealth to, and then took it all away. Think of Moses living a life of luxury in Egypt, and God brings him. To be his suffering servant, leading his people out of Egypt through the wilderness. Think of the Jewish leader and Pharisee Saul. Who seemingly had everything, leader of the church, and transformed him into the Apostle Paul. The one who went without food and clothing and freedom. What does this promise mean for you tonight? This abundant imagery of barns full of grain, baths overflowing with with new wine, as the new American standard puts it, it must mean something other than than the definitive material or physical blessings which it pictures. In abundance. Some may certainly receive abundant material blessings. Job did after after the Lord brought him closer. But this promise is not stating or guaranteeing that all will receive abundant material blessings. So what is it? This amazing promise is spiritual And we see that in part from the prophet Joel. Joel begins his his prophecy by saying that there was this plague of locusts that came in and destroyed everything, and the plague of Locusts was going to be uh like that end time when people would be devastated by the wrath God would bring upon the world But then Joel speaks of the refreshing of the Lord. He speaks of the protection of God's people. He speaks of the time when when God would visit his people and the threshing floors will be full of grain, the vats overflow with wine and oil. And my people shall never be put to shame again. You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel and that I am the Lord your God and there is none else See the connection between the threshing floors being full of grain, the vats overflowing with wine and oil, because they were devastated, and the presence of God. Him dwelling in the midst of his people, and him being the only one. That's the key. That's the key to understanding the promise that's set forth here in Proverbs 3 verse 10. Brothers and sisters, the blessing is Christ. Let me say that again. The blessing is Christ, the abundant blessing, the overflowing that the silo is filled. It's Christ. We have to go back to the rich young ruler to really grasp this. What was it that the rich young ruler sought? Eternal life He came and asked, what must I do to have eternal life? And what was it that Jesus offered? Himself. He offered himself. Sell everything you got. Give to the poor. Follow me. Do you see if you use wealth, the first fruits, to honor the Lord, he has changed your heart already. As a result of that change, you come to faith in Christ. And then as you give back, as you honor the Lord with your wealth, you've already received that abundant blessing. It's already there. Because it's Christ. Because in doing so, in honoring the Lord with that which he's given you with your wealth, you are following Jesus. That which the rich young ruler was blind to. He was blinded by the wealth of the world. He was unable to see Christ, the one who was standing right before him and offering himself to him. The abundance of Christ was there and he rejected him Christ is the blessing. He's the abundant blessing. Just think of that. Just Meditate upon that for a moment as I read just a portion of Ephesians chapter one. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us in Christ. with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him in love he predestined us. for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will. Do you see the blessings, the abundant blessings there in Ephesians, all in Christ He is your abundant blessing tonight Yes, the faithful in Christ are privileged and blessed as they use their wealth to honor God. The exiles returned and focused on themselves. They honored themselves and not the God of creation. Brothers and sisters, the call tonight is that as you believe upon Christ Jesus, as you're being faithful, as you're following Christ, And as you have already received that abundant blessing, as your vats are overflowing, as your barns are filled with Christ. Honor the Lord with your wealth. Build the kingdom. Praise God. Amen. Father in heaven, convict us, Lord God, if we are standing sitting here tonight And using our wealth in ways that are not honoring to you. Help us, Lord. Bring us to our knees. Convict us of sin. Help us to repent. And see the abundant blessing that you've already bestowed upon us in Christ Jesus. We thank you and praise you for this passage tonight. We ask all this in Jesus' name.