And here now is the passage that the short sermon is going to be based on, Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. Here now another account, this time from the Gospel writer Matthew, about the birth of Jesus Christ, the circumstances under which it happened, and some of the other things that happened surrounding his birth. Now in Matthew chapter 2, verses 1 through 12, we now hear this account, which is God's Word. Listen to the reading of God's Word. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold. Wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, He inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. So they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Then Herod, when he had secretly called the wise men, determined from them what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the young child, and when you have found him, bring back word to me, that I may come and worship him also. When they heard the king, they departed. And behold, the star which they had seen in the east went before them. Till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. And when they had come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented gifts to him, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Then, being divinely warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed for their own country another way. Thus far the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it. You may be seated at this time. Well, it's an interesting question to consider here in this text. Who is it Who is able to recognize Jesus for who he is when he's born? Who is it who is able to recognize who Jesus is? in his verse here in our passage. Who's able to recognize who he is? And who is it who is not able to recognize who he is. Did you notice first of all who it is who is not able to recognize who he is, this one who has been born King of the Jews In the first place, the first person who's not able to recognize Jesus is the one who is the king. The one who is the king over Judea. He is named in our passage Herod. Herod the king. Herod the one who is king over Judea in these days. Now this king Herod, who is he? And what should his his um response be to the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ and how should he recognize And the Lord Jesus Christ. But we understand this king Herod is the one who is king over the people of the Jews. He is the one who is king over God's people at this time. He is king in the region of Judea. He sits in the city where David had his throne. He sits in the city of Jerusalem as a king over the people of God. But what does this make him in relation to the coming king, the one who has been born the king of the Jews? Well, Herod, as a king in Jerusalem, as a king who sits in the city where David had his throne is merely at his best a placeholder. He's a placeholder for the coming king, isn't he? After all, Herod is not the promised king Herod is not born in the line of David. Actually, Herod is not even born into any of the lines of the tribes of Israel. Herod himself is not even a Jew by birth. Herod is not the promised king, but the fact that he's sitting there in Jerusalem, there in the city where David had his throne, until the son who is born of David should come. Means that Herod at his best is simply a placeholder. Yes, in the history of uh Greco-Roman society, the the Roman Empire, Herod is actually described as a client king. That means he's sort of put into this role by the overseeing governing empire, the Roman Empire, has given him the authority he has over this region of Judea And he's been put there mainly due to his political connections, mainly due to using his political connections for the sake of political convenience and expediency. You see, Herod, though he sits in the city where the throne of David has been, Herod is not the promised king Herod at his best is a placeholder. He is a placeholder until the promised king shows up. But guess what? It's during Herod's reign. That the promised king arrives. The promised king is born. And Herod has the opportunity to meet this news. In the way that many of God's people should have met that news with. How should he have met that news? It should have been a day of rejoicing for Herod. The one who has come has finally arrived. Yes, even though Herod was not a Jew by birth in terms of his racial heritage, he was nonetheless in some way a practicing Jew religiously. And so, from what he knew from the Bible, from the scriptures, and from the promises, he should have been able to rejoice. The one who has come to replace me is here. Praise God. The king we all need is here. That's not how Herod responds. How does Herod respond? We see him respond in verse three of our text. Notice how he responds in verse three. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled. He was troubled. Now, why is Herod the king troubled? Rather than rejoicing that the promised king is here to replace him, he is envious He feels threatened. If somebody else is recognized as king of the Jews, someone else has been born king of the Jews, they're about to take away his position, they're about to take away his title, and this is something that threatens Herod. Now in history, um Herod the Great, this king, was actually known for being um fairly irrational and erratic Especially when it came to his jealousy. Um he was someone who was very interested in maintaining his own power and protecting his own power. Now we actually see that in the text of Matthew chapter 2, because later on in this section, Herod is on this quest to so extinguish the one born to replace him That he goes and kills a bunch of kids, ages two and under. That happens around verse 16 later on in Matthew chapter two. And what we read there is actually very consistent with what history tells us about this man, Herod the Great, in the histories of the Roman Empire and in the histories of Herod the Great. Um he has the reputation for being sort of a tyrant, one who is cruel, one who is easily jealous, and one who is always ready to knock down those who are standing in his way, one who is al always looking to oppress those who would seek to usurp them. And so we see Herod. Herod the one who's a placeholder until the king of the Jews should come, the true king. The true promised king. How does he respond? Doesn't respond the way he should. Instead of rejoicing that the true king is here. So that he can give way to this true king. Let that true king come and have his rightful place. Herod instead seeks to snuff out that king. Herod is troubled. And the way in which he's troubled there in verse 3, again, leads him to target the child with cruelty and with murderous intent. So we see who is it who recognizes Jesus in his birth? Who is it who doesn't recognize him? Well, in the first place, Herod doesn't recognize him. Herod tries to kill him. Herod targets him with cruelty and with fury. Who else doesn't recognize Jesus in his birth? Well not only is Herod troubled by the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, the one born king of the Jews, who else is troubled by the birth of this king? Again, we see in verse 3, it's not just Herod the king who is troubled. But it's also all Jerusalem with him. Now, that's kind of a funny thing. We understand why Herod might be troubled by the birth of someone Born king of the Jews, born to take his title over. Why should all Jerusalem also be troubled Now surely, you know, Jerusalem knows Herod as their king. Um Herod as a king, as we understand him to be kind of an erratic and irrational kind of king, a guy who probably is a little despotic. Why should Jerusalem be sad that a king is born who might possibly replace Herod? Why should that trouble them? Wouldn't we think that they ought to be um glad to hear? Here is the possibility that we may be delivered from the kingship of Herod by one who is a coming king. And indeed, since that king is the one in the line of Judah, is the one in the line of David, Shouldn't we have all the more reason to rejoice? Again, the people in Jerusalem are the people of God. Shouldn't they find reason to rejoice? The king has come. And he can actually save us possibly from the tyranny of someone like Herod. And yet the people are troubled. Why should they be troubled? Why should they be troubled Is it possible that sometimes when it comes to uh God's people that sometimes God's people are um sometimes afraid? Sometimes they're more comfortable with what is known. And maybe the fact that Herod is the king whom they know. Maybe there's some fear there of going outside of what's known to the one who is unknown Even though they don't know who this Christ is, perhaps they are are um somewhat fearful, perhaps they've grown comfortable with Herod as their king And they're somewhat afraid of of uh seeing him replaced. And so also the people of Jerusalem miss their opportunity. They miss their opportunity to see and to recognize the one who is the Christ, the one who is the king. In the line of Judah. But not only does Herod miss who Jesus Christ is, not only do the people of Jerusalem miss who Jesus Christ is. There are other people in our text who miss who Jesus Christ is. Notice who else it is. Now, they don't really miss who he is in a way. Because they're the ones who actually tell Herod, or you know, uh tell Herod where he's going to be born and where he's supposed to be born, and they're able to point the way. Now it's these chief priests and these scribes in our passage Now again in verse 4, you notice how Herod is seeking out the king. Again, he wants to snuff out that king. But Herod seeks the chief priests and the scribes. He seeks them, he says. Oh, well they know the scriptures. They'll be able to tell me where this king is found. And yet, once again, what we see here is the tragedy of another missed opportunity. He asks them, where's the Christ going to be born? They know where the Christ is going to be born? They're basically admitting, yeah, this is probably the Christ. He's born right down the road from where uh they are. Basically, Bethlehem is not that far from Jerusalem. And instead of going and doing what they should have done, going and worshiping, they kind of just point the way and say, yeah, that's where he is Again, chief priests and scribes, these are men trained to know the scriptures in and out, so well trained that they are able to engage in debates over the meaning of those scriptures. They are able to point straight to the place in the scroll. of the prophet Micah, and find the reference immediate to Micah chapter 5, pointing in the direction of Bethlehem, this lowly country town in the countryside of Judea. And yet, with all that knowledge of the the scriptures and their contents, the moment comes when the one that those scriptures point to is born right down the road from them. And they simply uh they they don't go and worship him. They don't do what they have the opportunity to do. So again, we're faced with um quite a bit of irony here in this passage. Quite a bit of tragedy, you know, quite a bit of missed opportunity. The people of God. You know, the people you think should be the people of God. The Jews in Jerusalem. The one who's the king in Jerusalem. The chief priests and the scribes who have the Old Testament, who have the scriptures. They miss their opportunity. Here Christ is. He's not far from them, and he's been born in their midst. Who is it who recognizes who the Christ is? Now again, it's very ironic. It's very unexpected. Um, you know If you hold to anything concerning an understanding of the Old and New Testaments in terms of promise and fulfillment, if you think about how The covenants of the Old Testament point the way towards the New Testament and towards Christ the Savior. You would think, wouldn't you, that those who have the scriptures and the true worship of God under the Old Covenant Should be best prepared to receive the coming Messiah. Yet isn't it kind of unexpected then what we see, the ones who actually recognize Who Jesus is when he's born, the ones who actually respond the way that all the rest of them should have responded. Who is it? Wise men from the east. People who are probably from Persia, probably some kind of royal officials. Probably some kinds of even possibly people ga engaged in some form of astrology. People possibly even following the signs of the heavens. People who may not even be very well acquainted with the Word of God, maybe not even at all acquainted with the Word of God. People who, even when they come to worship Christ, might not have even come intending to worship the true God or knowing that they were worshiping The true God. These could be people who are just following a star and they know it has something to do with a king in Judah. So they've come to see what it's all about. But in the end, who is it who's able to give the right response? It's them. It's them. And it's not because they are somehow More holy in themselves? Certainly not. We know that's not true. Again, um the the the the things that point um in the direction of who these men are sort of shows us that um they might not have had any interest in the true God necessarily at first. Nonetheless God leads them to himself by means of a star. God brings them into the presence of his son, his son born a baby. And as he brings them there, God by his grace allows them to answer in the right way, the way that they should. They see the young child. They fall down. They worship. Indeed, they have said they have come to worship in verse 2. But here they are. They're worshiping the one who is the true Son of God. And they've been brought. Yes, even though they don't come from a place that um where you might expect them to understand who the Christ child is, nonetheless, these are the ones whom God allows to recognize. And to respond in the way that they should. Now, what does this passage really show us? In so many ways, we see the outsiders recognize the Savior. Well, those who you you would think should be insiders miss the boat. Totally miss it. Well, isn't this really a picture of the reason why Jesus was born? To bring salvation to the ends of the earth. Doesn't this show us that God's purpose in sending his son into this world was not so that salvation would remain among those who are in his covenant community? But in order to send that salvation to the ends of the earth, to those who are strangers, to those who are outsiders, indeed to each one of us. Isn't that how we have come? Aren't all of us really in the position of the wise men in some ways? Not necessarily born into the the um uh into the covenants of Israel, for example, certainly not born among that covenant people, and yet nonetheless those who are idolaters by nature Those who are not prone to worship the true and living God, and yet God has called us. God has drawn us. And He has brought us to this Son of His. The Son of His was born to save us, and through this Son we come to the knowledge of Him And we come to worship him just as the wise men did. Well, let's remember that Jesus Christ came not to call those whom you might expect. are the obvious um heirs of the promises of God always. And we see this again in the rejection and the the fact that all these people who could have understood or had the opportunity to understand really missed it. They missed what was right in front of them. And yet these these wise men who come from far away, they come, they're brought, they're led, and it is God who opens their hearts so that they're able to Let's remember that that's really who all of us are. That's really who all of us are. And even um those in our text, like King Herod, those in Jerusalem, and the chief priests and the scribes. They all need the same grace of God that the wise men received. That's really what they needed. They too needed to come recognize Jesus Christ They too needed their eyes opened and their hearts opened to recognize Jesus Christ. And actually, that's all of us. And that's actually all of us. All the time. All the time we need our hearts more opened to who Christ is so that we are more profitably set upon worshiping Him. Because none of us at every moment of our lives and in all moments of our lives is what we should be and worships Christ the way we should be. should. And so let's remember that we need the grace of God. Let's remember that He supplies that grace. He has supplied it abundantly. It comes to us through the one who was born, the one who was born to die for us in order to bring us to God. Well let's live in his presence, let's live before him, let's join in that worship that the wise men began for us, even as they began, as they fell down in worship. Let's also, especially during this Christmas season, worship the one whom we worship, Jesus Christ, our Savior. Amen. Well, let's pray. O Father, again we do give praise to you this day that you've gathered us together to remember the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ, that He is the Son of God come in the flesh. That you have opened our hearts to recognize your Son. Lord, apart from your work and the work of your Spirit, we are in darkness and in blindness. We too would be just as blind as people like Herod and the people in Jerusalem, and also the chief priests and the scribes. We too would be blinded to the true glory of Jesus Christ, the Son of God Yet we thank you that you have opened our eyes, that you have drawn us. And we pray that you would continue to draw us, you would continue to open our eyes and our hearts to recognize the glory of the one um whom we see in our passage, the Lord Jesus Christ. Grow us in your grace. Grow us in the ability to worship Him well. We pray that our hearts would more and more be properly tuned to His praise. We ask all these things in His name. For his sake, Amen