If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Leviticus, you should find that on page 96 of your Pew Bibles. The third book of the Bible just after Exodus. Tonight I'm going to begin reading actually at the end of Exodus, chapter 40 at verse 34, and then read the first two verses. of chapter one of Leviticus. Let's give attention to the reading of God's Word. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the clouds settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out until that day that it was taken up. For the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and the fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys. The Lord called Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting, saying, Speak to the people of Israel. And say to them, When any one of you brings an offering to the Lord, you shall bring your offering of livestock from the herd or from the flock. Would you pray with me? Oh Lord God As we come to begin studying this book, we ask again for help. Lord, there are many things in this book which are difficult for us to grasp And yet we know, Lord God, that the Spirit will teach us all things. And so we ask tonight as we begin this study that you would use this first to bring glory to yourself. To exalt your Son. But also, Father, that you would open our eyes, that you'd give us rich understanding And that you'd use this even to draw us closer to our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. We ask all this in His name. Amen. As we begin our study tonight of Leviticus, it's good for us to actually go back. And see a progression in these first five books of the Bible, which we refer to as the Torah or the Pentateuch, or in English just as the law. In Genesis, we we see, we read of the creation, we know of the covenant of works that was entered into with Adam. Can recall the fall from grace as Adam took the forbidden fruit and ate of it. You can recall the covenant of grace which was entered into. Even before Adam and Eve left the garden, we remember that they were excluded from the presence of God, kicked out of the garden. And then we began to see this gathering of the family of God. Ultimately, at the end, the family of God being Joseph's twelve sons. Then saved from famine and delivered into Egypt, and that's where Exodus begins. A people gathered by God for his own. Jacob's family increases in Egypt. And then they were placed in bondage. A picture of being in bondage to sin. And God delivered them from the Egyptians. As we read through the ten plagues, they were delivered through the Red Sea. They were delivered to worship. And they were a people who were headed to a new land because the old land, the garden, had been defiled by the sin of Adam. God had told them as he was delivering them that he would be their God, that he would redeem his people, that he would bring them into the land that he swore to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And then as they begin their wilderness wanderings, God presents himself. He descends upon Mount Sinai. He came down to the top of the mountain, showing his desire to meet with his people, to be with his people, to dwell with his people. And ultimately, as Exodus proceeds through, as it's recorded by Moses, we see that the people were given a place to meet with God. As they dwelt in the wilderness, the tabernacle, as God gave Moses detail after detail about how the tabernacle was to be constructed, a picture of glory, a picture of heaven on earth God called for the people to build a sanctuary where he would dwell in the midst of his people. And as we read through Exodus, we saw that the tabernacle was carefully constructed over time. And finally, at the end of Exodus, we see that the tabernacle was erected. That place where God was going to meet with his people had finally been established in the midst of the camp of 600,000 men, plus women and children and flocks and herds. Right in the center, the tabernacle was finished God was going to dwell there, and we read. As he descended, the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, but there was just one problem. Moses was not able to enter. The intercessor The one who had been interceding for the people of God was unable to enter. The tabernacle ready. God had filled it, and now his people, even through their representative, was not able to enter I'd ask you to keep that in mind as we study this book of Leviticus. Because, in a sense, all of Leviticus is saying, this is the way. This is the way to enter into that tent of meeting. This is the way to enter into the presence of God. Tonight, as we just take a look at these first two verses of Leviticus as a means of introduction, I want us to see that in order to approach the living God in worship. His just wrath must be appeased through an acceptable offering. In order to approach the living God in worship, his just wrath must be appeased through Through an acceptable offering. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, the need to approach. Secondly, the need for appeasement. And then finally, the need for an alternate Or substitute. Well let's begin then. The need to approach. Verse 1 and 2, the Lord called Moses and spoke to him from the tent of meeting, saying, Speak to the people of Israel, and say to them, When any one of you brings an offering to the Lord, you shall bring your offering of livestock from the herd or from The flock. Why was there a need to bring an offering That should be our question. That should be on our minds tonight. Why was there a need to bring an offering? Why did Cain and Abel bring an offering to God? We see that just after the sin of Adam and Eve, and Adam and Eve are removed from the garden, and they have their first children, these children are grown up now men. And what is the first things we read about Cain and Abel is them bringing an offering. Noah. Noah provided an offering to the Lord after the flood was over, after he was removed, he was taken out of the ark. And what is the first thing we read of Noah doing? Before the Lord, and that is making a offering. Abraham made offerings to the Lord. Jacob made offerings to the Lord. But in the short account that we had of Adam and Eve before the fall, we read of no physical offering being given. Why then immediately after the gate to the garden has been closed by God, as a result of sin, do we read of these offerings being brought by the first children of Adam and Eve, by Noah, by Abraham, by Isaac, by Jacob? Something has changed. And it seems fairly obvious and straightforward that sin had entered into the hearts of the men, and as a result of sin There is a new requirement that has arisen in this relationship between God and men. So as we begin in our study of Leviticus, we must know and remember that the bringing of offerings acceptable to God has been part of the history of redemption. Dating back to the first children of Adam and Eve. So the need to approach. Standing behind these two verses is the truth that the Israelites needed to come before God. That's assumed. That's implied. They needed to approach their creator. They needed to bring an offering to the Lord or Jehovah. And the way to bring it clearly suggests that the people needed to come before this one. There's a sense in which the entire book of Leviticus can be summed up with this headline, men, women, and children need to approach the living God. And all of Leviticus is detailing and setting forth a way for the Israelites to approach the living God. To come into his dwelling place, to come into that meeting place that he has prepared. Well, what is the need for closeness to God? What is the need for this intimacy? What is the need to approach First, God is life. And how can we as creatures exist without him, without being near to him, without being close to him? We can't God breathed life into Adam, and he was granting him not only the ability to physically move As he breathed, yes, his heart would beat blood throughout his body. His lungs would provide oxygen needed And his organs, all of his other organs would work and function in the way that God had purposed and designed as he breathed into him, but that's not where that l breath of life stops. We would only be like the beasts of the field if that's where it stopped. But it didn't. Because as God breathed life into Adam, he also breathed into him a moral soul. That would exist forever. The breath imparting the very image of God into Adam. And so just like Adam, our existence. is completely dependent upon this life-giving ability of God, the only one who can give life Indeed, our existence is completely dependent upon his sustaining us as his creatures made in his image. Outside of God, there can be no life, no true life. And so we need to be with him. Think of this silly example. It's much like a flashlight. A flashlight functions as that which projects light. The bulb is illuminated, and as it's illuminated, it sheds light on whatever's in front of it. And the bulb will come to life only if the batteries are installed and charged. If there are no batteries. Or if the batteries have run out of power, there's no way for the bulb within the flashlight to illuminate. It will continue to exist. But in an unillumined way. It's the same with every human being made in the image of God. Without God sustaining and empowering us, Without God continually giving us life, we may exist, but our existence will be like that battery, excuse me, like that flashlight, existing without illumination. And so we need to approach God. We need to be close to God if we are to have life. Even wicked Cain recognized the need to be near to God. Remember after he had sinned by killing his brother. And God punishes him. Cain says, My punishment is greater than I can bear. Behold, you have driven me today away from the ground, and from your face I will be hidden. His punishment was greater than he could bear. He recognized there was a need for him to be close to God. Secondly, God is Father. We see that in the garden, don't we? The closeness, the intimacy that Adam and Eve had with God. They walked with him. They understood what it meant to hear him walking in the garden because they had walked with him in the garden. They were close. They knew him as the one who had made them directly If you're trusting in Christ this evening, He has brought you into His family. God has taken you through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to be his own son or daughter. As Father, he's watching over you daily. We read that this morning in Matthew. He knows the very hairs on your head. He cares for you. He watches over you. And as your true heavenly Father, you long to be in his presence. As a child who loves his father, there's no other place for you to be than close to the one who has loved you from eternity past, so much so that he sent his only eternally begotten Son to bring you home. Where else could you be? Your joy and happiness is so closely connected to being with your Father that it is non-existent outside of his presence. So you must approach. You must be with him. And then thirdly, that you're made to worship God. Consider that. Why were the Israelites made? Why were you made? Why were you created in the image of God? Why are you a moral creature? Was it not to be with God in worship? Isn't that his purpose in making you? We see that throughout the scriptures. We were made to worship God. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you. Psalm 22. Psalm 66, all the earth worships you and sings praises to you. Psalm 86, all the nations you have made shall come and worship before you. Isaiah 66. From Sabbath to Sabbath all flesh shall come and worship before me, declares the Lord. Revelation fifteen. Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy, all nations will come and worship you. It's throughout Scripture. Now the world turns this on its head. The world takes this, God's plan for his people, and the world turns it and twists it. And the world worships creation and not the creator. See, one must truly strive with every fiber within his being to move away from worshiping God to worshiping the creation. We seem to think it's fairly easy. for that to take place, but in reality it's very hard on the soul to turn away from the living God and worship that which is no God at all. Therefore we must come near. We must come near to this one. This one who made us, this one who sustains us, this one who is life itself, this one who is our Father. This one who we were made to worship. And so this picture of approaching God is so necessary and appropriate to our existence. In a sense, all of redemptive history is moving from being separated from God by our sin to being enabled to dwell in his presence through Christ. And if you wondered why Leviticus is here, just ponder that. Just meditate upon that. That it's through Christ. And Leviticus is pointing us to that every time we open it up That brings us to our second point, the need for appeasement. We've seen the need for approach and Now we also see the need for appeasement here in these first two verses. Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When any one of you brings an offering to the Lord, you shall bring your offering of livestock from the herd or the flock. Now to appease, according to Webster's, means to make quiet, to calm, to reduce to a state of peace, to still, to pacify. It's a bit of the idea. And it may not be crystal clear here in these first two verses, but it may not be evident on its face, but it's there. See, it was set forth in Exodus. As we read of the grumbling and the murmuring of the people, as we read of the golden calf. That the people made and worshipped. As we read of Moses being unable to enter the tabernacle, something was needed for the Israelites to approach or come near to God. These two verses speak of bringing an offering, bringing a sacrifice. And thus these verses reference the problem of sin. The wrath of God and the need for appeasement of that wrath. Well, sin is separated, hasn't it? It's created a gulf, a separation. That division between God and his people, which obviously has a significant effect upon the possibility of worship. We see it so clearly at the end of Genesis 3, after Adam and Eve have fallen from grace. In a sense, it can't be any clearer. The Lord God said, Behold, a man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat forever, therefore the Lord God sent him out. From the garden. And again, he drove the man out And finally, he placed a cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. Three times we're told in those few verses that they were removed, extracted, separated from God, and they had no way back in And the garden was defiled. No longer was it a place where God could dwell with man. As Adam, through his sin, had defiled himself and had defiled the land. So where do we see that? Well We see it in Genesis 3 again. Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. The land was defiled. He ruined the dwelling place that he had with God. He, yes, he brought about a separation between himself and God, but he also defiled the garden which God have prepared as a common dwelling or meeting place. If God was to dwell with man again, not only would sin The sin of man needs to be dealt with, but another dwelling place would need to be prepared. As God is holy and perfectly pure, he cannot, will not come into the presence of that. Which is sinful or impure or defiled. Our sin defiles us in the sight of God. And it separates us from God. Thus making our worship impossible without a divine solution. But there's more For in the garden prior to Adam's sin, God told Adam that there would be a consequence, that there would be punishment for his transgression of the law. You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. God was promising justice if Adam chose to disobey. God would be honored whether in obedience or in disobedience. We must see that. That God will be honored. God is a just God. The rock, the work is perfect. All his ways are justice. The God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is he. This righteous justice or judgment is expressed throughout Scripture as the anger or wrath of God. We tend to equate men's unrighteous anger With God's wrath, and we have got to stop doing that. Because there's no similarity between The unrighteous anger of men and the righteous wrath of God. Just think of this as Jacob blesses his sons at the end of Genesis Simeon and Levi are brothers. Weapons of violence are their swords. Let my soul not come into their council. O my glory be not joined to their company. For their anger, for in their anger they killed men, and in their willfulness they hamstrung oxen. Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath, for it is cruel. It's just the opposite of God's wrath. God's wrath is his righteous and perfectly just response to our unrighteous disobedience or sin. And so as we tempt to approach this living triune God, whom we have eternally offended by our sin, his eternal wrath must be understood. His justice for our sin must be satisfied. There must be either an appeasement of his wrath or justice or a personal suffering of that justice. Either his wrath is appeased or satisfied by someone or something else, or the very one who approaches will suffer his wrath And so consider this. God's desire is to have his people gathered before him. To have his people in his presence, to have his people gather for worship. And as the wrath of the justice must be satisfied, for God is righteous and his justice must be fulfilled, our triune God has made a way. for his people to come before him by and through appeasement. And so we see here this offering, which had to be brought by the Israelites. An acceptable offering which would provide an appeasement of sorts for his wrath. A satisfaction of sorts for his righteous judgment. That which had kept Moses out of the tabernacle would be addressed. So that God's desire to be worshipped by his people And to have his wrath satisfied would become a reality. Yes, the need for appeasement. That brings us to our third point, the need for an alternate. We've seen the need for approach. We've talked a little bit about the need for appeasement. We're going to be seeing these things throughout Leviticus. And then we also see here in these first two verses the need for an alternate. A better word is substitute. When any one of you brings an offering to the Lord, you shall bring your offering of livestock from the herd or from the flock. Here, as Moses begins this book, he records the way in which the people will be enabled. to approach the living God. Indeed, throughout these first seven chapters, we're going to be reading about very detailed ways in which the people can approach. And none of them, none of them are people coming by themselves. All of them All of them involve bringing an alternate, bringing a substitute. They were not called, they were not able to come before the Lord in their own skin, so to speak. No, the command from God, the requirement, if they were to be forgiven, if they were to have access to God, if they were to approach Him, it would require another. It would require one to come in their place. The Israelites would need a substitute. And here the mention of livestock from the herd or from the flock, the first mention of substitute. Clearly, an offering in and of itself speaks of bringing something other than yourself to give. Neither Cain nor Abel offered themselves. Noah offered up an animal that had been carried up on the ark as a burnt offering. Up to this point in the history of redemption, offerings were brought in place of the person. It's the picture of someone or something else being given in the sinner's place. In the sinner's stead. The livestock from the herd or from the flock was picturing a substitute. It was a substitute, but it was ultimately picturing the substitute. For each of these would be required to give up their blood. If a grain offering were offered, it would be consumed And so if God's desire for having a people that would worship him would come to pass, then another, a substitute, would have to be offered in the place of his people. The people would need to be spared if they were going to come before him and worship. An acceptable offering would need to be made in the place of the people, and this brings us to Christ. You might say that the whole book of Exodus is all about Christ As we study the book of Leviticus, we will come time and time again to see Christ. He is the atonement. He is the sacrifice. He is the perfect and only true offering. He is the alternate, or more accurately, he is the substitute. Through all this, he is the one who does all to bring the children of God into his presence Through Jesus' sacrifice, through his once-in-time offering up of himself, he has taken the full wrath of God for your sins tonight if you're trusting in him. He has satisfied the full perfect justice of God for your sins. He has appeased God fully and completely for your sins. He's opened the way for you to worship. Behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook, the rocks were split on the day that Jesus offered himself. You see, these descriptions in Leviticus Of the offerings to bring will be so helpful to us because they're going to be teaching us About Christ and about his offering up of himself, the perfect work of our Savior. In order to approach the living God and worship, His just wrath must be appeased through an acceptable offering. Even Cain and Abel knew that an offering was needed. And through faith, Abel's offering was well accepted by God. And through faith in Christ Jesus, you have been and will be well received to worship the living God. Amen. Our Father, we thank you for this book. And Father, as we have only touched upon these first two verses, we pray, work in our hearts powerfully. Point us to Christ. Help us to learn more about Christ. And even tonight, as we see the need to approach you and the need for appeasement, and Lord God, the need for an alternate or the need for a substitute, we praise you that you have desired us to come before you in worship. And Father, even tonight, you have enabled us through the one has torn the veil into And so we praise you. We praise you for Christ. We praise you for his person. We praise you for his work. Oh Father, we're so very thankful. Help us to use all these things for your glory throughout this week. We ask this in the precious name of Jesus. Amen.