Return your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel. Continue our study there. This morning in chapter 27. I believe you'll find that on page 992 of your Pew Bibles. Begin reading, just for context, at verse 50. Let's give attention to the very Word of God, Matthew chapter 27, beginning at verse 50. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook. And the rocks were split. The tombs were also opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised, and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to many. When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place, they were filled with awe and said, Truly this was the Son of God. There were also many women there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to him. Among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Joseph and Mary, excuse me, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee. When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who was also a disciple of Jesus. He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him. And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a linen, in a clean linen shroud. and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there sitting opposite the tomb. The next day, that is, after the day of preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate and said, Sir, we remember how that imposter said while he was still alive after three days, I will rise Therefore, order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people he is risen from the dead, and the last fraud will be worse than the first. Pilate said to them, You have a guard of soldiers, go. Make it as secure as you can. So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard. As far in the word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we thank you for this your word. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would now work in our hearts. That you would plant this deeply, that you would open our eyes, open our minds. We might understand all that you have for us this morning. That we'd know more of Christ. Lead us, guide us. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. Are you doubting this morning? In John's Gospel, after Jesus was resurrected and had visited the disciples. If you know the account, Thomas was not present with them And as Thomas rejoined the the disciples after the visit from Jesus, he told them that unless I see in his hands the marks of the nails and place my finger into the mark of the nails and place my hand into his side, I will never believe. Thomas confessed that he wouldn't believe their testimony. He actually had to see Jesus. And touch him, confirming that this was the one on the cross, and that he had actually risen from the dead. Thomas needed to see. And when the Lord Jesus did, in fact, appear before him, he said to him, As Thomas then did, touch him. Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not yet seen and yet have believed. We have proof this morning of the death and the burial of Jesus Christ. But are you doubting? It's exactly what we have before us this morning. Jesus has been tried, he's been mocked, he's been crucified. And he has taken his last breath. He's yielded up his spirit. The curtain of the temple has been torn in two from top to bottom. The earth has shook tombs have been opened. The Gentile centurion has declared truly this was the Son of God. Brings us to our text this morning, which is rather straightforward. There seem to be two events going on which are related. First, we have this plethora of witnesses. To the burial of Jesus Christ. Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee, who are James and John, all looking on from a distance. Hearing him cry out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We have Joseph from Arimathea, a disciple of Christ, a witness to the lifeless body of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have the guards who secured the tomb. I'm assuming prior to sealing the tomb that they had checked to ensure that the body of Jesus Christ was actually inside. And they stood outside, to the peril of their lives, guarding their prisoner. All witnesses of the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we have that attempt to restrain the resurrection. From the perspective of the chief priests and the Pharisees, an attempt to keep Jesus dead As they go to Pilate and make a plan to seal and guard the tomb, seeking to keep Jesus silent. And thus we have a contrast between the witnesses and those who seek to cut off the appearance of Jesus Christ. You might sum up the teaching here and seek to open two doctrines. First, that the death and the burial of Jesus must be believed for one to be saved by his resurrection. And I'll open that up in two points. First, only fools doubt the death and the burial of Christ, and secondly, only fools attempt to restrain the righteousness of Christ. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourself this question, am I doubting? Am I doubting? No, first, only fools doubt the death and burial of Christ As I said earlier in this passage, we have several that are identified as eyewitnesses of the burial of Jesus. Verse 55 begins this way. There were also many women there looking on from a distance. And then we get certain ones who are identified. The two Marys. Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and then the mother of the sons of Zebedee, and then Joseph of Arimathea, and then the guards posted the tomb. All were witnesses to the burial of the body of Jesus. And the inspired Matthew records them as such. And we might begin our consideration of this passage by asking the very simple but relevant question, why? Why do we need eyewitnesses to the burial of Jesus? Well, the Lord must know that we need them. As he inspired Matthew to record them, to include them in this account of the burial. He doesn't merely record, and he was buried in a tomb. No, by the work of the Holy Spirit moving Matthew to record these details of these eyewitnesses, specific eyewitnesses, mentioned by name Such that those who initially received this gospel would be able likely to identify these eyewitnesses with particularity. Not just any Mary, but Mary Magdalene. And Mary, the mother of James and Joseph. Not any mother, but the mother of the sons of Zebedee. Not just any Joseph, but Joseph of Arimathea, a wealthy man, a disciple of Jesus. Well, that's fair enough. But why? Could not God have videotaped or recorded the death of his son? See, that's ridiculous. But it's not, is it? That would have been a witness. So why the people? Why the women? Why Joseph? Why the guards? Eyewitness testimony is not always reliable. So why did the Lord, why did Jesus Christ, the Word, choose human eyewitnesses to record the fact of his death? Why not merely record and Jesus' body was buried? Well the answer is actually very simple This is the means chosen by the Lord to convict you. Even today, and Jesus did die. And that Jesus was buried. You see, the Lord uses heralds, doesn't he, proclaimers, to reveal himself, to reveal his son, and to reveal the gospel to those whom he desires. This is the means chosen by God to accomplish his purpose of redemption and salvation. God has chosen heralds, he's chosen proclaimers. Here he's chosen eyewitnesses to tell of what he's done so that you will believe and be saved. Could God have chosen merely to stay and Jesus was buried? Yes But in his wisdom, in his pure, perfect, holy wisdom, he's chosen to use these women, these Marys, this Joseph, to herald and proclaim the death and burial of Jesus so you would believe. Isn't that what John writes in his gospel at the end? But these are written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Well, how is it that they were witnesses? If this is the means that God has chosen to convict you that Jesus has died, that Jesus was indeed buried How is it that they were witnesses? It has to be more than merely seeing a body, a lifeless body, being placed into a grave For that body that they saw could belong, could have belonged to anyone. It could have been one of the two thieves on either side of Jesus. In order for these Marys, for the mother of the sons of Zebedee, for Joseph, to actually be witnesses of the burial of Jesus, they had to know Jesus. Even as his body was marred, possibly so marred that without their intimate knowledge of Jesus, they wouldn't be able to recognize him. Remember his physical appearance. Jesus was scourged before the crucifixion. That means that he was beaten. savagely, his skin ripped open, and as a result, blood just pouring out of his body. Remember he had a crown of thorns placed or embedded into his head. That blood, that Jesus bled even before his crucifixion must have nearly covered his body. Then there was the fact that he had been hanging on the cross by three nails, piercing his hands and feet, lacking food and water for hours, as he attempted to support the weight of his body. Which was suffocating before he breathed his last. Jesus must have been, with a loss of blood and hydration, withered in his physical appearance. Then there was the physical not only the physical but the spiritual strain We know that spiritual strain often results in a physical effect, doesn't it? The anguish of his soul must have appeared in some form or fashion upon his physical appearance. As the weight of God's wrath bore down upon him If there were actual photographs of Jesus days before his trial and just another prior to his burial, I doubt we would be able to say with certainty that this in fact was the same person. Yet, because the Marys and the mother of the sons of Zebedee and Joseph knew Jesus intimately. As his followers, as his disciple. They were able to recognize his body and thus witness his burial. They were able to confirm and testify. That Jesus was dead, truly, physically dead and buried. Can you Can you testify this morning to the death and to the burial of Jesus Christ? You may be thinking right now, well why? Why would anyone want to know from me if I could testify or tell them about the death and burial of Jesus? I was not a physical eyewitness. I didn't see the crucifixion. I didn't hear Jesus take his final breath. I was not present as the body was given to Joseph. I was not sitting on a rock outside as he placed the body in the tomb. I didn't see the stone as it was being rolled over the entrance to the tomb. I could not testify to these things. Why would one want me to testify? But that's not actually the question that you would be asked, is it? You see, in order to tell others about your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, you don't need to be an eye-witness. But you do need to believe the eyewitnesses, don't you? You see, this is such a central part of the gospel, isn't it? Not only that Jesus died Not only that he bled, not only that his body was broken, but he actually was buried, not alive. But dead. Without question. Dead. Our creeds include this specific event. The Nicene, the Apostles' Creed, and Jesus was buried. And you see now you become the herald. You become the proclaimer. You become the testifier. You become the one who proclaims the death and burial of your Savior. Because the Lord has used his word to powerfully convict your heart. Yes. You see, that's part of your faith, isn't it? If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus this morning, it is part of your faith Such that you're able to proclaim with confidence and truth and passion, even with tears in your eyes, knowing that he was buried in your place. Knowing that the tomb was made dark and sealed with his body inside where yours should have been. So you see you can testify. Because by his death and burial you have been saved And by this testimony of the Mary's and of the Joseph, you've been convicted by the Spirit that Jesus actually did die in your place and was buried for you. Do you need the death of Jesus? Absolutely. Without it, there is no salvation. Without it, there's no redemption. But with it You have been saved from experiencing the very thing yourself. And not only do you need it But all those around you need it as well. Your neighbors, your friends, your your sons, your daughters, your Fathers your mothers. Those who are lost in darkness. Each and every one needs The death and burial of Jesus. And you may not be a preacher, you name may not be called to proclaim this from the pulpit. You may not be called to proclaim the good news, but you are called to show forth the death of the Lord Jesus Christ in your life today. And so there's the question, isn't it? Are you? Are you showing forth the death and burial of Jesus Christ in your life today? Can others See the death and burial of Jesus in you. Jesus told his disciples, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself. Take up his cross. Follow me. Have you denied yourself? To the point that you're carrying your cross before the world, that they can see in you. That you're a proclaimer, a testifier, a herald of the death and burial of Jesus. You see, in order to do that, you need to know Jesus, don't you? Just like the Marys, just like Joseph. You need to know the body of Christ, the body of Jesus, if you will testify to his burial. You need to know him as the only God-man, the only mediator, the only redeemer, your only Savior. Who is laid in the tomb for you? You need to know Jesus that way, just as Mary and Joseph and Mary knew him and were able to identify him even in his bloodied estate. You see, the world can't recognize him today. But if you trust in him, truly trust in him, You do recognize him and you can testify to him and you can say that, yes, this is the one who hung on the cross for me. This is the one who died for me. This is the one who was buried for me in the darkness of the tomb. I know this Jesus Oh, may the Lord give us strength to be those heralds, those testifiers, without a doubt. That brings us to our second point. Only fools attempt to restrain the righteousness of Christ. Then we see a second group of individuals mentioned in this account of Jesus' burial. Verse 62. The next day, that is after the day of preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate. Now this is a interesting and actually very strange gathering. It's a strange combination. The coming together of individuals who would have opposed one another in all things other than Christ. And so because of Christ, they come together. Because of the death and the burial of Jesus, they come together. And notice that this is the day after the preparation day, which would be the Sabbath. Imagine that, chief priests, Pharisees, those who held the law so high, supposedly, so concerned about keeping themselves clean. That they would be able to observe the Sabbath, now come into the presence of a Gentile Pilate. And as they did, they would have made themselves unclean for worship. So important was their coming together with Pilate against Jesus that they were willing to make themselves unclean on the most important day of their week, supposedly the Sabbath. Their hatred for Jesus. was so great that they would make themselves unclean. In a sense, they were shaking their fists at the living God, the creator of the universe, and telling him that they would do things their way from here on out. It's quite an amazing passage and quite telling the blackened hearts of these religious leaders, so to speak, of the day. So they attempt to restrain the resurrection, don't they? That's why they come together. Well you'd say obviously they they came together to seal and guard the tomb. Therefore order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people he's risen from the dead. They desired the tomb to be guarded in such a way that the disciples would be unable, without being observed, to step in and remove the body. Thereby deceiving all regarding his supposed resurrection. And Pilate responds and tells them, Go, you have your own guards, make it as secure as you can. So what were they doing? Ultimately, they were seeking to restrain the resurrection, weren't they? Ultimately, they were seeking to stop or prohibit that which Jesus said was going to come to pass, his rising from the dead. Ultimately, they were seeking to restrain the very word of God. Which said that there would be a resurrection. And so they asked, would you seal and guard the tomb? What does this tell us about the hearts of those who love darkness and hate the light? I think it tells us several things. First, it tells us they they denied the power of God. They denied the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. They denied the true identity of Jesus. They denied the love of God for his son. And finally, they denied the power of righteousness. Thought that they, by sealing and guarding the tomb, that they could restrain each of these things, and especially The righteousness of Christ. So let's focus on that last one just for a moment. Their attempt to restrain righteousness by sealing and guarding the tomb. Well why? Why would these desire to restrain righteousness? Isn't that what the chief priests and the Pharisees, even Pilate, were actually seeking to do as they sent guards to seal the tomb and to have them watch over the body, the buried body of Jesus? In essence, their most basic purpose, the chief priests, the Pharisees, and Pilates, were seeking to restrain, encapsulate, capture, and do away with righteousness. That's exactly what Jesus embodied in his person, wasn't it? The righteousness of God. Jesus was and is the righteousness of God, isn't he? And so the chief priests, the Pharisees, and Pilate hated righteousness so much that not only did they seek to do away with it, meaning Jesus on the cross at Calvary. But they also sought to bury righteousness such that it would never be heard from again We must see the contrast at this point between those who would proclaim Jesus and his righteousness, meaning the Marys and Joseph, and those who sought To silence the righteousness of Jesus. Well let's consider the chief priests and the Pharisees. Just for a moment. What did they seek to trap or to contain or silence forever in the tomb? Well, obviously they sought to contain the righteousness of Jesus so that they might continue their rule and reign of unrighteousness That they might continue to use the house of God, the temple of God, for their own unrighteous purposes. That the conversion of the temple from a house of prayer to a den of robbers would not only continue, but increase to their sole profit. Well they had rejected the living God on his purposes and his plan, which is so very evident as they rejected his son, the Lord Jesus. And so what better way to rid themselves of their creator God, but by doing away with his son and the true heir to the kingdom, which they sought to keep for themselves? And so the righteousness of Jesus needed to be silenced forever. The tomb needed to be sealed and guarded until His prophecy of three days had passed, and then they would hold the kingdom themselves This should point us to those in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ who think that they have a better way. That is the way of Jesus, the way of righteousness, the way of worship that has been established by the living God is not the right way. And these believe that they have a new and a better way. Just like the chief priests and the Pharisees. And so they seek to restrain and hold back the righteousness of Jesus and promote and proclaim their own righteousness. Could that be you this morning? Maybe you're sitting at home watching this on the live stream or or listening to the recording and have determined that you don't need to be in the assembly of God's people to worship the risen Lord. Maybe you've determined that one worship service is enough for you to satisfy the fourth commandment and as soon as you leave this place the rest of the day is yours to do as you please. Whether it's work or shopping or attending a sporting event, and the day becomes part of the other six days of the week, you've cut and mangled the fourth commandment such that it no longer represents that which the Lord gave in his graciousness to the people of God. In either case, you seek to restrain the righteousness of Jesus Christ and have inserted your own thoughts of righteousness with regard To how you worship and when you worship. Are you doing that? Do you see the similarity between what you're doing and the desire of the chief priests and the Pharisees to keep Jesus and his righteousness locked behind a stone wall? What about Pilate? Why was the sealing and the guarding of the tomb significant for Pilate? Remember, Pilate knew of the innocence of Jesus. He knew of the righteousness of Jesus. He knew that he was a righteous man. That he was innocent, that the charges were false and without basis, and Pilate nonetheless sentenced him to death. The reason that Jesus was buried in the tomb was because Pilate had sent him there in Pilate's sin. So what could be worse for Pilate than to have Jesus cast off the tomb and rise from the dead and prove his sonship and his righteousness shining forth? What could be worse for Pilate than to have the righteousness of Christ emerge from his deathbed in the tomb? No. Pilate needed Jesus' body to remain in darkness, such that the light of his righteousness would never be seen again by anyone. And thus Pilate's sin would be buried with Jesus. You see, that's what we do when we're living in our sin. If you don't know Jesus Christ this morning as your Savior, if you're living in your sin and relishing it and reveling in it, Like Pilate, you don't want the righteousness of Jesus to shine forth upon your evil deeds. No, you want your evil deeds never to be noticed by others so that you can remain in them. You don't want the light of Jesus to shine forth on your works of wickedness. And so you would join with Pilate. But friend, your evil deeds, your works of sin are already known by God Jesus has in fact risen from the tomb. We haven't gotten there yet in our in our account, but he has. And he's ascended to sit at the very right hand of God. He knows your mind, he knows your thoughts, even before You speak them or accomplish that which you desire. There is no escape. There is no burying of the righteousness of Jesus. As the Psalm writer tells us, the Lord sits in the throne forever. He's established his throne for justice, and he judges the world with righteousness. Jesus will return on clouds with trumpets and angels to judge the world, and you will be called to give an account of your works, of your sin. They will be known by all. And there is no burial possible for your sins. Jesus' righteousness will be known and proclaimed, and your evil deeds and your sins will be exposed. So what can you do? You can cry out to Jesus this morning, even now. Plead with him to wash you clean in his righteousness. Confess your sin, repent of it, and run to Christ. His arms are open this morning. He's ready to receive you if you'd only confess him as Lord and Savior. Yes. The death and burial of Jesus must be believed for one to be saved by his resurrection. Thomas doubted. He needed to see Jesus. But the words of Jesus are so critical for us this morning. Blessed are those who believe without seeing. We all have doubts. We need to ask. The Spirit work powerfully in us to erase doubt. And that we would be convicted by these eyewitness testimonies that Jesus Christ did in fact die and was buried. From me. Praise be the Lord. Amen. Heavenly Father, help us. We're weak, we're frail. We stumble. Satan casts arrows of doubt our way. Oh Lord, knock them down. Break them before they get to us. Lead us away from this heinous temptation. And convict us, Lord. Convict us of the death and the burial of our Savior for us. Grant us this assurance of salvation in Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen.