If you'd open your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's Gospel once again. I think I have the page number right this time. I think it's 993. In your pew Bibles. And we'll be reading again or continuing our reading from this morning in Matthew's Gospel of chapter 28. And I'll begin reading at verse eleven. Let's give attention to the very word of God, Matthew 28. While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place. And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers and said, Tell people. His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So they took the money and did as they were directed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to a mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him. But some doubted. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we continue now to study the resurrection of Jesus Christ, we pray that you would guide our hearts That you would help us to uncover, Lord God, doubts that may exist within And that even today, even today, Lord, that you would convict us of the divine nature of Jesus and the power and the truth. of his resurrection. Guide us now. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you doubting? Today, Resurrection Sunday, are you are you doubting? Going back to that passage that we began with this morning in Matthew chapter fourteen as The disciples are in the boat and the winds and waves are rocking the boat and Jesus comes walking on the water to the boat full of disciples. Uh we know uh from this morning that they were terrified. They cried out, It's a ghost, and they were fearful. And then as Jesus calls out to them Telling them to take heart, it is I, do not be afraid. Peter answers and tells the Lord, If it is you, command me to come to you on the water. And Jesus said, Come. And Jesus sustains Peter on the water. He walked. But we also read, when he, meaning Peter, saw the wind, he was afraid and beginning to sink, cried out, Lord, save me. Now we know that Jesus does pick Peter up, so to speak, out of the water. And he said to him, O you of little faith, why did you doubt? Peter doubted. He doubted the power of Jesus Christ. He doubted the divinity of Jesus Christ. And he sank. In a sense that brings us to our text this afternoon. As we've been studying Matthew, as we've now gotten to the 28th chapter, we know a bit about what's happened so far. We know the account. Jesus has died on the cross. He's been sentenced to death because of not his sins, but because of the wretched sins of the chief priests The elders, the scribes, the Pharisees. We know that he's been buried in a tomb. We know that the guards have been set. Guarding the tomb, and we know that an angel has descended and rolled the stone away. The guards have fallen away as dead men. The Marys have come to anoint the dead body of Jesus Christ, and now they're told, do not be afraid. They've actually greeted Jesus, the risen Lord, and told, again, do not be afraid. He indeed has risen. Go tell my disciples. Seemingly, at the very same time we learn of what else is going on. As the guards now leave the tomb and come to tell the chief priest what has happened, the chief priest determined to create a lie, to create deception, to send forth the guards into the crowds of people to explain to them while we were sleeping, the disciples came and stole the body. Such a contrast that set between the Marys who are going off to tell of the resurrection and the guards who are going off to deceive people. To draw them away from Christ. And then we have the disciples making their way to Jesus. On the mountain, as he directed. And there they worship. The eleven. But some doubted. That's our text. This afternoon I'd like us to see that the resurrection of the God man, Jesus Christ, is a certainty. Which must be believed for true saving faith. The resurrection of the God man, Jesus Christ, is a certainty which must be believed. For true saving faith. We'll see that in three points this afternoon. First, save sinners believe the resurrection. Secondly, unsaved sinners reject the resurrection. And finally, doubters question. The resurrection. As we go through this text this afternoon, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question once again: Am I doubting? Am I doubting? Well, first, saved sinners believe the resurrection. We have three categories of people set forth for us. In this last chapter of Matthew's gospel. Three categories: the Marys and the Worshipers We have the chief priests and some guards, and then finally we have the doubters. Three categories. First, I'd like us to focus our minds on the Marys. We've read of them, the two Marys who so loved the Lord Jesus Christ that Had been so closely following Jesus that they would go to see the tomb and anoint his dead body. That's what we're told in Mark's Gospel. The Sabbath was passed. Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James, and Salomon brought spices so that they might go and anoint him. That was their purpose. That was why they were going. But then they heard the very word of God. The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He's not here, for he has risen. Come. See the place where he lay. What happens next? And they go and and tell the disciples that he's risen from the dead. That's what they're on their way to do. They departed when they hear the angel's words. Now remember, there was no delay here. There was no hesitation. They hear the words of the angel, the messenger of God, they believe, and they go. This was before they actually saw Jesus. That's what the text tells us. They're on their way to the disciples with this new this good news that they have received, bringing it to the disciples before they actually see the risen Lord. Their departure, their going, their running, was the product of their believing the word of God given to the messenger, the angel. They depart with fear and great joy. Then they see Jesus. Then they behold their risen Lord and worship him in fear and joy. So confident, so certain was their faith, their belief. Now as Jesus calls them to go once again, they do. We read that in verse 11. While they were going, they're off. They're obedient. They're confident. They're faithful. They're following. These two Marys of that first category, true followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, women who believe. The very Word of God, He is risen. They believe the resurrection. They believe it because the Word of God came to them and struck them in their hearts. To the depths of their hearts that they couldn't deny it. They didn't doubt it. And they couldn't keep this good news to themselves. That's the first category. Those that the living God has set his love upon, those whom he has elected, those whom he has chosen, those whom God has brought to himself through the Lord Jesus Christ in and by faith. It's categories, the elect who have or will come to faith, those who've been converted, changed, hearts. Stony hearts removed, fleshly hearts implanted, that they can come and use that gift of faith to believe. Those who know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, these will live forever. With this one who was raised from the dead. These believers, these converted, these faithful, will have eternal life. Not for anything in them, not because the Marys were good We know they weren't, just like us. But because of Jesus, because they believed upon Jesus, because they believed upon the very word of God You're given the gift of life. That's the power of the resurrection, isn't it? That brings us to our second category. Unsaved sinners reject the resurrection. Now, as I said, there are two things going on at the same time in this text. The Marys are off. Right? They believed. They believed the Word of God. They've heard the Word of God. It struck them in their hearts. So much so that they're now acting upon it. They've seen the resurrected Christ and they're off to tell others about it. At the same time At the same time we read of the chief priests. The second category We read that the guards came to them. Some. Some guards, not all of them. Some guards come. These are the guards who beheld the great earthquake. These are the guards who beheld the angel descending from heaven, who came and rolled the stone away from the mouth of the cave, that which they had sealed, and sits on it. These are the guards who saw the appearance of the angel as lightning, clothing white as snow. These are the guards who trembled and became as dead men. They've been witnesses to the descent of the messenger of God, the angel of God. They felt the earthquake. They had to. They were witnesses of the rolling of the stone which covered the entrance to the tomb, which they were guarding They witnessed these supernatural things, these events. And while the text doesn't tell us, we might gather from it, they actually heard the words of the angel, he is not here, for he is risen. If they didn't in fact see the Lord Jesus Christ walking out of the tomb So they had knowledge. They were eyewitnesses. And what do they do? At the time that the Marys are going off to tell the disciples of the resurrection. They go to tell the chief priests of the same thing, all that had taken place. Told them. They relate this entire account to the chief priests, the ones who had sent them to cover up Jesus' resurrection. These knew the tomb was empty. These knew that the disciples had not come to roll the stone away and to remove a dead and decaying body. And the chief priest received this knowledge, this information, these eyewitness accounts. And they send them off after paying them. They send them off to tell a much different, a false, a fabricated, a deceptive account. Tell people his disciples came by night and stole them away while we were asleep. My understanding is this virgin laughs at this. Says, how is that possible? Huh? You were asleep. How did you know that they came? But they were willing to take a bribe to remain silent about the things that they saw. Unwilling to tell others the truth. Unwilling, as the two Marys did, to seek out Jesus and worship him. Unwilling to deny the request of the chief priests to cast off their bride money and follow Jesus, following instead the lies, the deceptions, and the darkness of the priests And so the chief priests themselves remained purposefully, intentionally in their unbelief. Given all they knew to be true, yet they refused to believe. They refused to believe the resurrection. They cast it off, they covered it up. They remained in darkness. They loved their darkness. They cast off the light. Let's not even begin to speak about all the supernatural works that Jesus did that the chief priests knew about even before the crucifixion. Let's not even talk about the revelations of Jesus, the teachings of Jesus, the opening of the Word of God by Jesus that went beyond anything that anyone has ever heard before, that's such that the people stood in awe and crowded around him to hear more. Suggesting, proving that he was the one foretold by Moses, I will raise up a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth. And he shall speak to them all that I command him. Yes, the chief priest Cast all of that off, covered all of that up in their hearts. They would not accept Jesus as the Messiah. They would not Trust upon him alone to save them from their own sins. They rejected the Son of God as they rejected Jesus and thus they rejected God Himself and would not allow others to come and follow Christ. They represent the second category, what is called the reprobate. The unbelievers. Those who knew, those who knew God, those who knew that they were A sinner before a holy God, those who knew that the Messiah was coming, and those who knew that this one Jesus fit all of the criteria of the scriptures set forth in the Word of God. And they refused to believe. They loved their sins so much that that became their idols. They rejected Jesus, they cast Jesus off the throne of God, so to speak, and would not allow his word to penetrate their hearts. They placed themselves on his throne and would not step down. Like King Saul, who knew that David had been anointed to take the crown, to take the throne, and would not stop pursuing the death of David until his own life was taken by the Philistines. You see the chief priests and Saul are really in the same category. They loved their crowns that they had fabricated and placed upon their own heads. And they had convinced themselves that that there was no authority over them but their own will And so instead of saying, not my will, but your will be done, they told God, not your will, but my will be done. I will keep my crown. You, Jesus Christ, will not rule over me. I cast off your authority. I cast off your loving-kindness. I cast off your sonship. I cast off your kingship. And I will do everything within my power to rid myself of you. That's the reprobate. That's the unbeliever. Our Westminster confession puts it this way. God has appointed a day wherein He will judge the world in righteousness. The end of God's appointing this day is for the manifestation of the glory of His mercy. In eternal salvation of the elect and of his justice, in the damnation of the reprobate, who are wicked and disobedient. That's the second category. Those who have determined that they will not submit to God through Jesus Christ ever. The reprobate is headed to hell. They're headed to suffer the consequences of their rebellion. and refusal to receive the forgiveness for their sins in Jesus Christ. Exactly what the chief priests point us to And so they'll pay eternal judgment for their sins. This is the second category. These are the goats that Jesus speaks of in Matthew 25. As Jesus speaks of his return to his disciples, he clearly states that there will be two categories that he will separate all people into, the sheep and the goats. As he returns to glory, to eternal life, to bliss, to unspeakable happiness, these are the sheep that he will bring with him. The goats, on the other hand, will be removed from the presence of the triune God in hell. And damnation. Described as eternal fires with worms which will never die. These are the two categories Those who are saved? Sinners whom God has set his love upon and chosen from eternity past to wash their sins in the blood of Christ. And secondly, those whom he has passed over and left in their sins to suffer his eternal punishment. Only two. Jesus does not speak of a third. Everyone. On the day of judgment, when Jesus returns. will be either in the category of a sheep or a saved sinner through faith in Jesus Christ or a goat Or an unsaved sinner who refused to believe upon the Lord Jesus. That brings us to our third head. Doubters question the resurrection. Now I want to speak about the third category. You should be thinking at this point, well I thought you said there were only two. And that is correct. There are only two. On Judgment Day, the day of the Lord, there will be only two categories, two peoples, one division, one group saved, the other group unsaved. So why are you speaking of a third? Well I want to point you to the text. Because we have reference to those who saw the risen Lord Jesus. And some doubted. Look at verse seventeen. Now the eleven disciples, when they went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them, and when they saw him They worshiped him, but some doubted. Eleven disciples. Judas is dead. The eleven remaining go. They see Jesus as he had commanded and called them. They worship. And yet some doubted. Now ultimately these doubters would either end up as sheep or goats. Ultimately, these doubters would be in the future either saved sinners or unsaved sinners. Since we're referring to the eleven disciples, it seems to me that they were all ultimately saved. But I don't know that. But at that very moment, if Jesus had returned at that very moment, so to speak, if he had judged the world at that very moment, those doubters would be caught up with the goats. Because they didn't fully believe. It's hard to believe, isn't it? It's quite difficult that there were those who actually went up to the mountain to see Jesus Christ, to see the risen Lord, and doubted With their own eyes, they saw the risen Lord Jesus Christ. And at that point in time they were unsure of who he was and what he had done. You see, that's what the Gospel of Matthew is all about. Who is this Jesus? And what has he done? Those are the two questions that the gospel answers, and we get to the end of this good news. twenty-eight chapters long, that Matthew proclaims that we see, we hear, we read of those who saw Jesus Christ in the flesh after the crucifixion, bodily raised from the tomb, and yet they doubt. I think we should be thinking at this point in time, how is that possible? What is it to doubt? Peter doubted because he had his eyes fixed upon Jesus Christ. He's walking on the water. And then he takes his eyes off of Christ. And he begins to think, he doubted. Oh, you have little faith, why did you doubt? The Greek dictionary defines it this way, to have doubts concerning something, a subgroup of the apostles. To be uncertain about taking a particular course of action. Webster has defined it as to waver or fluctuate, to be in uncertainty. That's it. To doubt is the question. To wonder, not be convinced. In this case, it meant to wonder who this was. Was this really the one who was on the cross, who died, who came from the tomb? Is this really is this really the God man? Is he really God? And if it's so, should I worship him? All of those could be what they doubted What they questioned, what they wavered upon, what they were not convinced or convicted of And whether they doubted that this one had risen from the dead or whether they should worship him really doesn't matter, does it? Because ultimately, at this point in their hearts, they just didn't believe that this one was divine. And that he had in fact risen from the dead and was ready to grant them eternal life in his life. And so their doubts were putting on display their current lack of saving faith. That he was indeed God worthy of worship. That he had died again and rose for them in their sins, for their eternal lives. They were not yet convicted. They were not yet believing. Their doubts indicated that they had not come to a true saving faith. And again you'd be asking yourselves, how is this possible? How is it possible that these could see, physically see the risen Jesus Christ, that these could be told Told that he has risen from the dead. And yet not believe, but doubt at that moment Well the answer to our question is actually given to us in Scripture. Think for a moment of the parable of the rich man in Lazarus If you remember, the parable is the rich man who had all his wonderful life on this earth, and yet he had no mercy on the poor man Lazarus. And they both died. And the account is, or the parable is that rich man in hell, suffering the torments of hell, and and Lazarus is now in glory in heaven in in Abraham's bosom. And the rich man in hell in his torment cries out to Father Abraham and he tells him, Send someone to my brothers. I've got five of them. Warn them. Lest they come to this place of torment. Let them hear. And Moses' excuse me, Abraham's answer is critical They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. And a rich man says to Father Abraham, no, send someone Send someone from your side to go talk to them, to tell them. And Father Abraham says, if they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convicted convinced if someone should rise from the dead. Abraham was saying, seeing is not believing. Faith is not by sight. Abraham was saying that they needed to hear the word of God. And that's where faith comes from. The Word of God must penetrate the heart. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? Or how are they to believe in him in whom they have never heard? And how are they here to without someone preaching? Paul is saying, you must hear the preached word. Now, we understand that someone can come to the faith outside of that. But that's the ordinary way. And while we might think it incredible that those who saw the risen Lord Jesus yet did not believe but doubted, this thought, this reaction fails to understand the truth. That faith, sincere faith, does not arise through physical sight. If that were the case Peter would not have begun to sunk sink. Excuse me. Are you doubting this afternoon? Not every doubt means or suggests that one is an unbeliever. But in this context that we have before us this afternoon, these doubts seem to go to the essence of who Jesus is and what he has done and what that meant for those who doubted. One cannot sincerely trust in Jesus Christ for salvation if he does not know and believe that Jesus is God Himself. One does not have a saving faith if one doubts that Jesus paid for the sins of the children of God on the cross at Calvary. One cannot have a saving faith if you doubt that Jesus was raised from the dead and thus gives eternal life to all the elect. A shorter catechism puts saving faith this way. Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace whereby we receive and rest upon Him alone. For salvation as he's offered to us in the gospel. If you answered yes to the question, are you doubting? Then listen. Listen. You have a problem. A grave problem. Literally, your sins will place you in an eternal grave from which there is no hope. The place of the goats, of the reprobate, hell and damnation. So what can you do? Are you concerned that your sins have offended a holy God? Good. They have. Are you concerned that your sins are a heavy, unbearable weight? That the guilt which you experience, a result of breaking God's law, is too heavy for you, you've tried to remove it but cannot remove it. Good. Because that's true for everyone. Are you concerned that your good works are not good enough to earn your way into God's favor, into glory, into heaven? Good. You're absolutely right. No one can earn his or her way into glory, into God's favor. Accept Jesus Christ. You see, this passage this afternoon tells us exactly that That Jesus Christ has indeed earned the favor of his Father, God, that He's done everything and done everything well to please his Father, so much so that he raised him from the dead. And provided a way for sinners to enter into glory. So how can you be convinced if you're having doubts this afternoon. How can you become convicted of this, of Jesus' perfect goodness, of his resurrection, that he is indeed God in the flesh, that he's done everything? So that you can be saved if only you believed upon him. How can you believe? For you have doubts. Listen carefully again. Ask. That's it. That's all you have to do Ask Jesus Christ to save you. That's exactly what Jesus Christ told his disciples in the Sermon on the Mount. Uh, toward the end of the sermon, he he tells them this: ask And it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives. And the one who sees finds, and to the one who knocks, it will be opened. What could be more important for you this afternoon, more critical, than asking for life from the one who can give it? This text this afternoon is telling you, it's calling you to ask. Ask Jesus Christ that He would cast off, remove from your heart all of your doubt, doubts. Concerning who he is and what he's done and what it means for you. Ask him to grant you the gift of saving faith in him and then listen to him. Just as Moses wrote to the Israelites, listen to him. Listen, just as Paul wrote to those in Rome, listen to the words of Jesus, listen to the words of Jesus, and be saved. That's it. That's all you can do. That's all you need to do to crush your foundational doubts and believe upon Jesus to your salvation. That's all anyone can do. That's all any doubter can do. It's gloriously simple. And it speaks so clearly of the grace of our loving Heavenly Father and the risen Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, the resurrection of the God man, Jesus Christ, is a certainty which must be believed for true saving faith. Peter doubted and sank. But ultimately the Lord lifted him up and brought him to himself and cast off his doubts. Such that Peter believed ask Ask the Lord Jesus to do the same for you. Amen. Heavenly Father, salvation in Christ seems to be so very simple. And Father, we are humans and in Adam. Our hearts and minds are corrupt and we doubt. And so we pray even now, Father, that you lead those who are in darkness, who are in doubt. in foundational doubts about who Jesus is, about what he has done, about what it means for them. Father, crush the darkness. Break into their hearts. Father, we ask that you would cause them to come to Christ and ask. Ask for true saving faith, for belief Upon the nature of Jesus Christ, the divine nature of Jesus, the human nature of Jesus, upon the power of the resurrection, upon the ability to be forgiven of sins Upon life everlasting, by the work in hearts, bring more lost sinners to yourself. All for the glory of Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen.