Well please uh turn now to Hebrews chapter 10, and uh we'll read uh there uh from our sermon. Uh text uh verses five uh through ten. Hebrews ten verses five through ten And uh when it says, therefore, when he came into the world, he said, uh contextually that uh is referring to Jesus So keep bear that in mind. Therefore, when he came into the world, he said, Sacrifice an offering you did not desire, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you had no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come. In the volume of the book it is written of me to do your will, O God. Previously saying sacrifice and offering Burn offerings and offerings for sin you did not desire, nor had pleasure in them, which are offered according to the law. Then he said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God. He takes away the first, that he may establish the second. By that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Thus far, hence the reading of God's word, please be seated. I'd like to focus your attention this morning on that brief phrase. By his will, by that will, we have been sanctified. And the verses which we're going to look at today, verses 5 through 10, emphasize an amazing truth, one that we as believers understand, that God has helped us to understand and to enjoy. And the truth that we understand and enjoy flows out of the once-for-all sacrifice Jesus Christ has made for our sins. And this truth continues to answer the question: why were the sacrifices of animals' blood deficient? What was wrong with them? And another way of saying that, why is Christ's blood sufficient? We said last week that part of the deficiency of the animal sacrifices was that they were only a reminder, an annual reminder of sin. They could not remove sin as far as east is from west. The second deficiency of the animals sacrifice in accordance with the Old Testament laws uh was that they s that that uh uh they couldn't cleanse the conscience of sin. They couldn't cleanse the conscience of sin. Reference Hebrews chapter 9 verse 14 How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? Only Christ's, once for all sacrifice, has the ability to cleanse your consciences. From sin and from death. Why is that important to you? How is Christ's sacrifice at the cross able to cleanse your sinful, your formerly sinful conscience? That's the task before us today, to try to understand how that is possible, how that happens. And our verses today provide us with the how and the why. As part as answers to that. It's preceded, the verses today are preceded by verse 4. The blood of bulls and goats could not take away sin And that serves as the lead-in to this discussion that begins in verse 5. Why? Why is it that the work of Jesus Christ cleanses your conscience from acts of sin and death? When Christ came into the world, he made, as it were, a prophetic declaration. Which was really declaration of God previously. A statement that was made in Psalm 40, verses 6-8. What is quoted here in our text? Sacrifices and offerings you did not desire, my ears thou hast opened. burnt offering and sin offering thou hast not required But then I said, Lo, this is Christ speaking, I came in the volume of the book it is written of me. In the volume of the book, in the scriptures, It is written of me, I delight to do thy will, O God. Yes, thy law is within my heart. Initially, Psalm 40, where this is taken from, is a psalm that's identified as a psalm of David. And he is one of the human ancestors of Christ. He was the great king of Israel, of whom God said he was a man after my own heart. Acts chapter 13. He was the king whom God promised an heir, to whom God promised an heir, who would perpetually sit upon his throne. And David spoke of the one who was coming, the one who would love to do the will of God. Now we know David loved to do the will of God too. But he couldn't ever do it perfectly. But David was looking for one who was coming. Who would love to do the will of God in the volume of the book, in the whole book perfectly? And that's what this text is alluding to. That one was not David, but it was David's son. Not Solomon, but his greater son, whom we know as Jesus The problem you see with all the Old Testament sacrifices also surfaced as a problem's as a problem in the hearts of the people giving them. There was not just a problem with the sacrifices. There was a problem with the in the hearts of the people giving them. And that comes forth in this section, Hebrews 5 through 10. And it's referred to afterwards. The problem was that as the people gave these sacrifices, their consciences were not impacted by those sacrifices. Neither were their consciences right as they gave the sacrifices. They have multiple problems. Not right sacrifices uh not a right conscience uh as they gave the sacrifices and The sacrifices themselves couldn't cleanse their consciences. Multiple problems with sacrifices and offer. uh regarding uh those Old Testament offerings of blood the blood of bulls and goats Their consciences were not impacted. Verses 5 and 6. sacrifices and offerings thou wouldst not, but a body thou hast prepared for me in burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, thou had no pleasure God had no pleasure with those kind with those sacrifices in which the people were not actively engaged in worshiping God while giving the sacrifices. Their consciences were off in lala land somewhere as they gave the sacrifices. They were not thinking about what they were doing, that the sacrifices had become perfunctory. They had become ritualistic They were going through the motions of what you do at when you offer sacrifices And God, you see, was not pleased. He was dissatisfied with that false heart, which was indicative of a false conscience. Or a deficient conscience before God. The heart attitude of the people making sacrifices before him Can you get it? Annually, they were making the same sacrifices. Annually, the priests went in to make On the Day of Atonement, the one sacrifice, the high holy day of atonement for the sins of the people, the people got to the point where that made no impact on them And I don't know, I don't know if you can remember a point in your life when you were not a believer, and maybe you perhaps attended church on a regular basis Now maybe they weren't making sacrifices, but perhaps they were having the Lord's Supper. And you kind of just, maybe you were young, or maybe you were there because mom and dad dragged you there Or or maybe you were there because you thought it was a good thing for you to be there socially. It looked good. Uh, you know, on your resume before the community. But for whatever reason, you could even though a pastor stands up here and warns you not to take this if you don't believe. Right? But you do it anyway. Because it's tradition. It's ritual. It's what's expected. It's a it the conscience hasn't been impacted And this, you know, in the Old Testament it's the animal sacrifices, but in the New Testament, it's Christ's sacrifice that isn't even impacting some of people's thoughts. And and their conscience. That's not due to the problem with Christ, that's due to the electing plan of God that that's going on. There's nothing deficient about his sacrifice. So we see that God was dissatisfied. He had no pleasure in burnt offerings and sacrifices that the people were giving. He was dissatisfied with the heart attitude of the people making the sacrifices. In verse 11, we hear God speaking. To what this would be, excuse me, I'm sorry, in Isaiah 1, verse 11, which Ken read earlier, we hear God speaking. To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifice? He's addressing the Jews in about 750 B. C. To what purpose Is your sacrifices, all those sacrifices you offer unto me, says the Lord, I'm full of birth offerings of rams. It's like he's saying, I'm sick of it. I am sick of it. The fat of beasts. I delight not in the blood of bulls and lambs and of he-goats. Bring me no more futile offerings. Your incense is a is an abomination unto me. And on and on it goes till you get to verse 16, and it says Wash you, make yourself clean, put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes. Cease to do evil. You know, that that that extended to their very offerings. There was no heart. There was no conscience. There was no clear conscience before God, no interest. It was a game. They were parading at church. They were playing at church That's what they were doing. The offerings at the their solemn festivals and assemblies were perfunctor. without any real heartfelt meaning. The people were offering in such a way because they had come to the spiritual disease that resides in all men's heart And that disease results in them being devoted to religious ritual and tradition without meaning, content, or substance. I can speak to that because I was there at one point in my life. I know what it is. And I know what I did. The disease further. The disease is called sin. It allows a person to think that they can offer up the commanded sacrifices And look good in the eyes of others, and then go out and do whatever I want. It's a deadly disease. All men have it. And no man has found a cure for it. Except God has a cure. Listen to God's lament about the Old Testament covenant people found in again in Mark chapter 7, verse 6. He answered and said to them, well has Isaiah said, and it's Isaiah 29, 13. Well has Isaiah prophesied of you, hypocrites, it is written, these people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. What an eternal problem. An ongoing problem. I mean we can point to the Jews because that's who he's talking about. But it's everybody. It's not just their special problem. It's everybody with regard to playing at church, playing being a Christian. Living life of hypocrisy. The heart of the people of God is a heart that is dominated by sin. It's self-deceived and deceiving others into believing that all that God wants from us is an outward show of piety. And that, you see, speaks to a conscience that needs to be cleansed And this is a heart problem. And this is why Jesus has come and brought a better sacrifice. How is it that Christ's sacrifice impacts our conscience And by conscience, you know, it's a broad term, but it's it's basically it's basically our our understanding of things It's how our heart and our spirit and soul understand who God is and what God has done and how we relate to that. It says in verse 10 of Hebrews chapter 10: By the will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Christ Jesus once for all. all. We got a problem. The problem is sin and how it impacts our conscience. And how that affects our standing before God. But Jesus is Will and conscience, we are told, is different from every other human being. Your Savior alone is spoken of in verses seven through ten as the one who loves to do the will. His conscience is not at variance with his will. And at the center of his will and conscience is I love God and his will. And I love doing it. Even as the most critical event in Christ's life and even in the life of humanity. Looms before Jesus. I'm talking about the cross. Even as the cross looms before Jesus, what does Jesus pray for in the garden? He went away the second time and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup not pass from me except I drink it, thy will be done In the well-known Lord's Prayer, in the third petition, Christ teaches his disciples, Luke chapter 11, verse 3: Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. On earth as it is in heaven. So our Savior is obedient unto death. Why does that matter to me? Why is that so important to my salvation? Why is it important to the cleansing of my conscience before God? The answer comes. Verse 10. Somewhat strange English, but he says, by the which will we are sanctified. Which is referring back to Christ. By his will we are sanctified. Christ's will. What is Christ's will? Obedient to the point of death. By his will it is it is The will of Christ is the basis upon which the Holy Spirit begins in your life the process of having a good conscience before God. By saving faith in Christ, a faith that God gives us, a radical change happens in every believer. We are encouraged to be holy as God is holy. Totally being holy. Mind, body, soul, conscience. By faith, we recognize theologically that God imputes holiness to our account. We are justified before God in an instant of God doing so. Westminster Shorter Catechism. What is justification? Justification is an act of God's free grace, wherein he pardons all our sins and accepts us as righteous in his sight only for the righteousness of Christ. imputed to us and received by faith alone We have Christ's righteousness. We stand righteous in God's sight. But God also gives to every believer the Holy Spirit And the Holy Spirit is in the business of making our minds and hearts and souls and consciences more like Jesus'. This we call sanctification. It's an it's an ongoing process. As the confession reminds us, what is sanctification? Sanctification is the work of God. Free grace. Notice justification is an act of God's free grace Sanctification is a work. It's ongoing. It's progressive. An act is a work of God's free grace whereby we are renewed in the whole man after the image of God. And are enabled more and more to die unto sin and live unto righteousness. If the confessions writers were to be thinking about the consciences at that point, they would be saying that Our consciences are becoming more and more like Christ's conscience. More and more like the psalmist who would say, Oh, how love I thy law. It is More and more Christ-like, you see We normally think of justification as an act of God's three grace and sanctification as a process or work of God's free grace. And what if you keep that understanding, you can't go wrong. You can't go wrong in understanding what's going on in your life as a Christian. But here I have to throw you all a curve. Because in verse 10a, we read again, by the which will we are sanctified. By the which will we are sanctified. And through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once and for all. And you see, the word sanctified here means the normal definition, means to be set apart, to be made holy, or to be holy. Even as the Westminster Shorter Catechism implies that sanctification is an ongoing process, But the interesting thing about the use of the word here, sanctification, is the tense. The Greek tense. Can't get away from those things, even though sometimes you might want to. And this is one of those times where The choice of the word sanctified, according to our reform theology, just doesn't seem to fit initially. And I've explained what I mean by that. The tense is perfect, a perfect tense. It means that something has been done in the past with a present effect. Being sanctified in the past with a present effect. The witch will, the witch will And the past has been sanctified with a present effect. It's also passive It's also passive, which says to us, we never did anything to make us holy, past, present, or future. Christ's death on the cross and is perfectly obedient as the perfect obedient one cleansed our consciences from act that acts leading to sin and death. His obedient life cleansed us. And here's I I see you squinting and trying to grasp this I'm going to try to make this clear. It it it it it cleanses us definitively From the beginning. And we don't think of sanctification that way But in in God's plan, all the sanctification we're gonna need is that Is in Christ from the beginning of our union with Him. And then it is progressively worked out in our lives By his will we are being sacrified, sanctified. We begin The minute true saving faith occurs, we begin with a new life principle. That indwells in our hearts. And it becomes more and more ours as we grow in grace. You now do not want to offer any more perfunctory sacrifices to God. The sacrifices that God hates. Instead, believers' consciences have been so cleansed and are being cleansed That they embrace what true offering is and sacrifice before God, as revealed in Psalm 51. Verse 17, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a contrite heart. O God, thou dost not despise that. We are driven, excuse me, the sacrifices that your God loves, a broken spirit and a contrite, repentant heart. That's indicative of you possessing a new Christ-like conscience sacrifices that are infused with the knowledge of Christ's death and resurrection. We are driven to our knees to confess our sin. We are lifting up our hearts to praise God spontaneously To praise his name. We desire to live holy lives for his glory. And we want to share his good news with others We want to proclaim the reason for the hope that is within us. The Christ-like life, dominated by the Christ-like conscience. Which you are progressively receiving is punctuated by joy. Thanksgiving. Pleasing and loving God, even as Jesus did so. We can even as James said in James 1, verse 2, count it all joy when you fall into diverse. Temptations or trials. We do not offer any vain offerings. No ritualistic piety here. Just love for God in Jesus. Very simply put The example of Christ's heart and soul loving God expressed in his devotion to the will of God has now become yours through faith. in Jesus Christ. And as a result, your consciences are guaranteed of ultimate cleansing from acts that lead to sin and death. Now you see, brothers and sisters sisters how important this is. Now you see why you need the witch will of Christ And when you have the w rip the witch will, Christ's will, imputed applied, imputed not the right word, applied to your account. And given to you by faith in Christ, that's a reason for you to have eternal hope and consummate joy inexpressible. And full of glory unto God. Come today to the Lord's Supper with the new conscience of Christ. Come with joy, come with thanksgiving, come with love, come with praise for your Savior, Savior. Amen. And let us pray, oh Lord our God. Pray now, Lord, for your uh word to do its work in our hearts to encourage and comfort your people. and to cause them, Lord, to reflect upon the greatness of the salvation which they have in Christ Jesus, that their lives would demonstrate uh an an ever increasing faithfulness unto God and love for the Savior. Give us, O Lord God, the sacrifices that you love, a broken spirit and a contrite heart. Look upon us, Lord, with your favor in Christ Jesus. We thank you for him, and we thank you, Lord, for his perfection, and we thank you, Lord, for All that we have, if there's any righteousness in us, it's all because of him. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.