Please remain standing and turn in your Bibles to the Word of God, Hebrews chapter eleven and verse seven. Hebrews eleven, verse seven Hear the word of God by faith. Noah being warned of God of things Not yet, not seen as yet. Prepared with excuse me, moved with fear. prepared an ark to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Well, as we've been w working our way through Hebrews chapter 11, uh we come to the next person in the list that is cited. We come to Noah. Noah as a man who had faith, the kind of faith that saves sinners And as I said previously, every individual I'm going to mention from this chapter, you should assume Even if it doesn't say so in the text, that the kind of faith that saves sinners is a God-given faith. It is not something that we can manufacture on our own. We want to talk about this God-given faith. And we want to see, as we go through our study, more and more of the various different aspects of this faith. For it is faith that Jesus demands when he begins his ministry by saying, repent and believe. In the gospel, for the kingdom of God has come near. And it is the same faith that the Apostle Paul was talking about. When he said to the jailer at Philippi in Acts chapter 16, verse 32, to the question, what must I do to be saved? Paul said Believe or have faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved, and your house. I believe that God is giving us the people here in this passage of Hebrews chapter 11, people who were giving saving help Saving faith in order to help us all appreciate What saving faith is composed of. And at the same time, help us all realize how indispensable saving faith is to be. our lives as God's elect people. There is, sadly to say, there are many counterfeits To saving faith. And every counterfeit is not a benign thing Because all counterfeits lead to death. Everlasting death. There is only one true faith And we want to get a good handle on it. So we all understand. And we all aren't deceived. And the only way you can get a good handle on what saving faith is all about is to read about it in Scripture. And to understand. And ask God for understanding. This is an incredible chapter of God's Word. And I again affirm the fact. We should all be praising God today. And every day, when we come to this chapter To realize not only does God give us saving faith, not only does he give us the object of our faith, but he gives us examples of people just like us. throughout history, who have he to whom he has given saving faith People that we can learn from. And today, it's Noah. It's Noah. One of the things that we learn about our saving faith from Noah is that Noah's saving faith was at work in his life It was not something that he deposited at the church on Sunday and then went about his daily routine from Monday through Saturday. It was something that was part of his existence. It governed and controlled his life. And you can begin to see that as we look through uh verse seven in um in uh Hebrews uh chapter eleven. Noah warned of God of things not yet seen Of things not yet seen. What God is warning Noah about, we read about earlier in Genesis 6, verse 13. The end of all flesh is before me. For the earth is filled with violence. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth God spoke those words directly to Noah. There was no intermediary. Consequently, there was no confusion about what was said. Can you imagine getting that kind of message? The end of man is near because man is evil Genesis 6, verse 5, which Kenny read and emphasized at all the right places. God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination Of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually As God comes to Noah, it's interesting to note what Noah doesn't do. He doesn't even Offer intercession for these people. He doesn't think in his own mind or express by his own mouth this can't be. be. This world's always been here. It'll always be here. Nothing's gonna happen. Nothing's gonna he doesn't vocalize any of that Noah said nothing. In fact, Noah is listening. And that's exactly what he's doing. He's listening. The next words that God speak to Noah also clarify his faith and show us how his faith is at work. God came to Noah in verse 14 of Genesis chapter 6 and said, Make an ark of gopher wood. Rooms you shall make in the ark, and you shall pitch it within, in other words, that black gilky tar, you shall waterproof it, pitch it within, and pitch it without. And in this fashion you shall make of it. The length of the ark shall be 450 feet long. Think about that. Four hundred and fifty feet long, seventy-five feet wide. And its height shall be 45 feet. I believe the dimensions on this building here that we're in is 40 feet long. Imagine eleven almost eleven more than eleven times the length this was this arc. I think I got my math right. And and there you know, you can But think about it. Think about you being the recipient of that word. And look at yourself and say, whether you say it or you think it God, you must be kidding. How can I make that boat? I'm just a goat herder. I have no experience at building a ship. Where am I going to get all the wood? And all those other materials. I really don't think I'm the man for the job However, the text is silent regarding anything coming from Noah. Regarding the conversation that God has just given to Noah. He's quiet. The next God gives to Noah the entire blueprint for the rest of the ship. How many decks there are going to be? Every detail is given, very precisely. And I know, thinking to myself I would have probably said, God, I can't do this. I've got a family to support. How much time do you think this is going to take This boat is a full-time job. Who's going to take care of my family while I'm out here building this boat? Again, Noah is silent. Finally, God tells Noah about all the animals. That are gonna populate this boat. Along with Noah's family. And you can hear Noah. Lord, you want me to determine the sex of the animals as I pair them up? I didn't know Noah was interested in zoology. But apparently he had more than a working knowledge of the thing. But you could just hear him. You could hear him say, do I have to bring two pythons in here? I hate snakes. Or or Lord, you want me to bring in two leopards? They're notoriously unpredictable. And Lord, what if the two elephants I find don't want to go? But again, Noah is silent I think his silence is an indication of the depth of his faith. Because I think that what is Crucial about God-given faith is faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Noah could not see how this was going to get done if it depended on Noah. Furthermore, his silence is evidence of his righteousness as well, for as verse seven concludes Noah became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. And brothers and sisters, I remind you, that is pre-Abraham. Which may seem like a an inadvertent point. But normally when we think about Abraham, we think he is the the father, as it were, the first one that understood that righteousness comes by faith. But no, you see, God's plan regarding regarding righteousness and faith was prior to Abraham. Even probably prior all the way back to the fall This was God's plan. Abraham, you see, when God took him outside and told him a rather stupendous thing Look up in the sky and count the stars if you're able, so shall you the number be as your descendants. The text says Abraham believed God. And it was reckoned to him as righteousness. Noah, you see, is the right man for God's job. He believes what God has said, and he isn't questioning it. All those unsaid thoughts and doubts were not racing through Noah's mind. As he considers the sheer enormity of the cat, the task, instead, I believe what Noah is thinking is this. I bel speaking as if it was Noah, I believe if God wants me to do this, God will provide. Even those things I can't know and understand by my mind As Sister Jones so often says, God will be in the details. And that does reflect biblical teaching As Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 7 says, For what nation is there so great who has God so nigh unto them as the Lord our God is in all things? That we may call upon him. Noah's faith is dictating his course of action. His faith is nourished by a healthy helping of godly fear. And by godly fear I mean, and that's what the text says, he reveres God. He honors God. And he willingly submits himself to God's plans and God's ideas. His faith also allows him To embrace concern for others, at this point, namely his family, because he's preparing the ark for the saving of his house God also told him that too. That they would too would have And I'm sure his desire was that if they didn't already, they would come to have faith and a godly fear for God. His faith in God has the effect of Saving some, but condemning others. Building this boat would save his family. And you know what? This was really a public thing. I mean, where are you going to hide a 450-foot-long boat? And I believe, and I will try I will absta I will try to establish this. I believe every day Noah's neighbors would walk by, and at first they would just be neighborly or nosy. Take your pill. But they would ask, what are you doing, Noah? And Noah would answer, I'm building a big boat. And they would ask, why? And Noah would reply, because God told me so. And then they would ask why again And then he would say, because God is going to destroy you who are wicked with a flood. And you know what they would do? You got it. They would laugh him to scorn. And everyday Noah was out there working And his neighbors would walk by, and they would laugh, and they would make jokes about the town wacko. Who thinks God is going to kill everybody with a flood? And I'm sure they invited the neighbors from the next community over to see what's going on with this four hundred and fifty foot monstrosity of a boat. Every day, whether Noah spoke to them or whether he was silent And just let his 450-foot long boat speak. Noah was saving his family and condemning the world. Day after day, I don't believe he built this in a year. I don't know how many years he built it. I tried to figure that out, but I I've heard it somewhere, but I don't want to repeat what I've heard because I can't find it. But it was many, many, many years he was building this boat. Day after day the people would come by and they would see what he was doing and they would laugh And day after day Noah proclaimed his faith in God, building that boat When there hadn't been any rain, and the fountains of the deep were not opened up And every day. Noah would speak if he spoke He spoke the words of the gospel They would die in the flood and never hear of the sweetness Never hear the sweet invitation of the gospel of grace Grace, repent and believe. Turn ye, oh turn ye from your wicked ways. Why shall you die? I am a hundred percent certain that Noah spoke to them. And the only way I can be a hundred percent certain is if Scripture says it. And it does. Let me turn you at this point to 2 Peter chapter 2 and verse 5. Noah was not silent. Instead, he spoke the gospel. 2 Peter 2, verse 5. God spared not the old world, but saved Noah the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. To be a preacher, you've got to speak. You've got to speak about God. You've got to speak about sin. You've got to speak about The gospel, the good news, repent and believe Noah proclaimed a coming flood of God's wrath upon the ungodly, and God sent that flood. Every day, in spite of ridicule and scorn, Noah was out there. Preaching by word andor by deed, God's truth And every day nobody nobody heard Nobody from the community came in faith to believe what Noah was saying. Only eight Noah and his family. That's it But I imagine that as the raindrops started falling in earnest upon the heads of the people And then as the waters started surging up from the ground, I bet they ran to the ark then. And they beat upon its door and they begged for mercy. But it was too late. The arc of safety, bound for the new world, had departed and left death in its wake. As far as I can tell, Noah is the first preacher. And praise the Lord for him. He told everyone of God's righteousness. He pointed the way. He might have been the first, but in God's plan, he is not the last. Many more preachers would follow in Noah's path, and we still hear them declare the same message to the world. The same message Jesus preached, repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. We still hear Those familiar words. And we give thanks that God has made them God has made us believe, enabled us to believe, and given us faith to believe. We give thanks that the greater Noah came. And he declared the very same truth to another generation of people who ridiculed and scorned him to death. Even as he hung upon the cross. True faith believes God and lives life knowing that God is in control. That God is with me or us. True faith issues in such dedication to God and to his Christ. that it will go on proclaiming the truth, doing all in their power to teach others, even while the very people they're proclaiming to Mock them and the message, even the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. True faith in God is willing to bear the cross, to deny self, and follow Christ unto death. Telling others the good news, enduring whatever scorn comes your way. Such Noahs in history have the mentality of standing for God Not becoming an ally of the world. They are, in accordance with a phrase that was operative in the third century of the early, fourth century of the early church. Believers who trust in God with true saving faith are Athenaceus contramundum. which means Athanasius against the world. It's in a different historical text. But we are not called to live in this world. And so Noah joins the list of those we have here in Hebrews eleven. Who live by faith, who are devoted to God, who deny self and deny the world in order to follow and serve Christ. And so Noah became heir of the righteousness which is by faith in Christ. Amen. Let us pray, most merciful God, our heavenly Father. In some ways it would be simple to say to your people here Have the faith of Noah. But it isn't Noah that we're the copy. Noah would have had no faith were it not for your goodness and your mercy. Mercy. Were it not for your sovereign election of him in eternity, were it not for you desiring that Jesus would die for Noah's sins And such is our lot as well. Such is the wonder of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. That there are many who believed in him before he actually was crucified and resurrected. And there are many who believe in him. Wow. He was alive and was crucified and resurrected. And then there are us. Who have believed in him after he was crucified and resurrected, and the common thread throughout history Is that God is the one who has opened all of our dark minds and shared with us the good news. And brought us, Lord, to saving faith. Some of whom may have indeed mocked and scorned the idea of Jesus as Savior and Lord. But we pray, O Heavenly Father, that it might too be said of us that by your grace Grace had so gripped our hearts and our minds that we would Live to serve you and do those things, Lord, which you call us to do, regardless Of the difficulty, the impossibility, and even the scorn that is heaped upon us. For serving you, always being reminded that the world will In Jesus' words, hate us and have problems with our existence. But our Savior said, take heart For they hated me before they hated you. It is me they are hating. And Father, it grieves us to know that there are so many who hate you. We would pray, Father, that there would yet be time to change those haters into people who love you and desire to serve you before the great judgment comes Amen.