If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, we'll continue our study there in chapter 26. I believe that's on page nine hundred and eighty-nine of your pew Bibles. And we'll start reading at verse seventeen Let's give attention to the very word of God. Now on the first day of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying, Where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover? He said, Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, The teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover. When it was evening, he reclined at the table with the twelve. And as they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me. And they were very sorrowful and began to say to him one after the other, Is it I, Lord? He answered, He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me. The Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Judas, who would betray him, answered, Is it I, Rabbi? He said to him, You have said so. Now, as they were eating, Jesus took bread and after blessing it broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat, this is my body. And he took a cup And when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. I tell you, I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. As far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come now to the preaching of your word. And Father, we have to ask who is sufficient for these things. Guide your servant this morning. That I may speak your words, that you might speak through me by your Spirit That we would be edified. And Father, we would not merely be intellectually built up, but Father, be spiritually empowered. Teach us all that you'd have us to know this morning and convict our hearts of the truth of your word and Father lead us. Lead us to be more like Christ. Help us now. We are all weak and frail. We need you, Holy Spirit, to lead and guide. Help us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. This evening we plan to serve the Lord's Supper during the evening service of worship, and the question is, how will you come to the table of the Lord? How do you come to the table of the Lord's Supper Many of us, when we were younger, were called to the dinner table by our mothers with a qualification. Wash your hands. Go wash your hands and then come sit. We were called to come with clean hands. Somewhat like what the Apostle Paul wrote to those in Corinth as he wrote about the Lord's Supper, as he wrote about the sacrament. He wrote, Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself. Then Eat of the bread and drink of the cup. There is a way to come to the Lord's table And I believe that brings us to our passage before us this morning Jesus has left the temple. We know he's on the way to the cross. Before he gets to the cross, he's been teaching and preaching. to his disciples and those who would listen about the preparation for his return It's been telling them to stay awake, to be alert, to be prepared, to labor, to use the talents, the gifts that He has provided, to put them to work so the kingdom will grow. Before he returns, and his return will be for judgment and separation and gathering That teaching is over. And now even Jesus' body has been prepared for burial as a woman anoints his entire body with that pound of pure nard. Right in the midst of the chief priests seeking to put him to death and Judas joining with them to betray his Lord. He's been prepared. So now we come to this portion of Matthew's gospel, which in a sense is a hinge in the history of redemption. It's the last Passover meal. In a sense, the last act of the old covenant is taking place here As the disciples have the Passover with Jesus. And then there's this transition from the old to the new. We have the first Lord's Supper. There's a break as they're having the Passover meal, then Jesus transitions into the first Lord's Supper. You may be asking yourselves, well, what was the Passover? That's why we read that portion this morning from Exodus chapter twelve. As we know, the the Hebrews in Egypt were in bondage. They were in slavery. God was breaking them out of that slavery, out of that bondage. And he had performed nine plagues on the nation prior to this last one, this tenth plague, which would be the death of the firstborn. Throughout the entire nation. As he passed over, he would bring death to the house of each and every Egyptian. As the tenth plague, as that plague which would then culminate in allowing the Hebrew nation, the Israelites, to exodus from Egypt. But there would be no death for the Hebrews. For they were called to take that lamb, that Passover lamb, slay the lamb. Roast its meat, eat its meat in their homes, but before they did that to take the blood of the lamb and place it on the two door posts in the lintel. So that as God passed over the houses, he would pass over the Hebrew houses and preserve life within The Israelites were called to observe the Passover throughout their generations as a memorial, but as a feast. And so that's what was happening. It was the Passover meal that they were celebrating. They were remembering what God had done. The disciples were called to go and prepare it, and all were to partake of it And even within this passage there is a significant emphasis on the betrayal that was about to occur in the midst of the Passover meal. And then Matthew transitions immediately to the Lord's Supper. As Jesus takes bread, blesses it, calls his disciples, saying, take, eat, this is my body. He gives them the trough the cup, calls them to drink of it, all of you, for the forgiveness of sins. So Jesus continues to usher in the new covenant. That's our passage. We might sum up the teaching here this way. One who partakes of the supper must do so in faith and love for Jesus. Fairly simple proposition. One who partakes of the supper must do so in faith and love for Jesus. And we'll see that in two doctrines or two points. The first is that judgment is poured out upon those who eat in unrighteousness, and then secondly, blessing is poured out upon those who eat in faith. As you go through this passage this morning, again, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, how do I come to the table of the Lord's Supper? Well, first, judgment is poured out upon those who eat in unrighteousness. The disciples ask an interesting question of Jesus, where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover? There's no question in their minds that Jesus would celebrate the Passover. He was a Jew. They were Jews. This is what you did generation after generation. It was a memorial. They were called to do it. They were not asking, hey Jesus, is it appropriate for you to celebrate the Passover? You're the Lamb How can you eat the Passover? You're the true Lamb. You're not a sinner. The Lamb cannot be your substitute. You're the substitute. But that wasn't going through their minds yet. The disciples didn't recognize the dilemma in a sense And so Jesus does not question the assumption that he would eat the Passover. No, he does not only acquiesce, he gives that supernatural direction, and go into the city and a certain man say to him, the teacher says, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house. And so the disciples find the man and they prepare the Passover. In one sense the disciples were right that Jesus did need to eat the Passover. But why? Why would Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, need to eat the Passover? The one who is the ultimate, the final The true Lamb. Why would he, the one who is slain before the foundation of the world, why would this one eat the Passover? Well consider his baptism. Remember what Jesus said to John as he goes to be baptized by John, and John says, no, no. I need to be baptized by you. And do you come to me? John recognized who Jesus was. By the work of the Spirit, he knew that he couldn't even undo the thongs of Jesus' sandals. But Jesus answered, John, let it be so now. For thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. See, Jesus was pursuing righteousness. John's baptism was a baptism of repentance, a preparation for the coming Messiah. Him, he had no need of repentance. But as the Messiah, as the Savior, he was stepping into the shoes of those who he was to save. As the Son of Man, the Savior, the substitute, Jesus pursued righteousness on behalf of sinners who needed to pursue repentance as a means of righteousness. So he submitted himself to the law, to the commands of his father. And the Passover, like repentance. was part of the law. It was part of the keeping of God's commands. And so in pursuing righteousness and being an obedient son, Jesus tells his disciples where to prepare. the Passover. And so in righteousness, Jesus brings the old covenant to its completion. He had to partake of the Passover in righteousness. He had to lead his disciples in their observance in the Passover in righteousness. Consider the religious leaders of the day. How many of them had led anyone in righteousness to the Passover meal? Based upon what we know Upon their opposition to Jesus, upon the chief priest's desire to kill Jesus, we'd have to say they probably never led anyone in righteousness to the Passover meal And so now the final Old Testament animal sacrifice, the animal which was never truly able to save anyone. was now being consumed by the God man in righteousness, such that he would have the physical and spiritual strength To press on to the cross. You see, he's about to go to the cross, isn't he? He's about to be betrayed. He's about to be handed over. to the chief priest who would hand him over to Pontius Pilate, who would hand him over to the Roman Corps hor who would nail him to the cross. And he needed physical and spiritual strength in order to endure what he was about to endure, and so he consumes the Passover lamb. The Son of Man, the ultimate Jew, the the very Son of God who was keeping the law, he needed physical strength through consuming that roasted meat, but he needed that spiritual strength by the Holy Spirit as he ate in righteousness. Seeking to please his father. It seems to be what's going on, at least in part, as he leads his disciples in righteousness. The disciples were they're celebrating in unity. Isn't that what the Passover was about, at least in part, a celebration of unity? When it was evening, he reclined at the table with the twelve. All twelve were together with Jesus. No one was absent. All were at the table. All were partaking of the same sacrificial lamb. All were breaking the same bread. All were eating the same herbs together. The Passover was taken, eaten, celebrated that day in unity, at least outwardly. And Passover was a feast of unity. Remember what we read from Exodus 12. Tell all the congregation of Israel. If one household was too small, what were you to do? Join with your neighbor. You shall keep it, meaning the lamb, until the fourteenth day of this month, when the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs of twilight, altogether. Everyone, twilight, slay the lamb. Every Hebrew household was to place the blood of the lamb on the doorpost and the lintel. That's that part that goes over the top. Together. And all were to eat It was a celebration, at least in part, of unity, the whole Hebrew nation, the whole Israelite nation. A celebration of unity. And you have to ask, why all these words about betrayal? This was to be a celebration. They were to be remembering what God had done, bringing the Israelites out of Egypt, out of the iron furnace, delivering them. And then we go from verse 20 to 25, and it's all about betrayal. It takes center stage. We don't receive any other information about what happened there at the Passover, but these words of betrayal. It takes center stage in this midst of the Passover celebration. In the middle of this feast of unity, no other description about the meal. No description of the lamb, the bread, or the herbs, there's no record of what was said during the Passover. Just this betrayal set forth. Wha why? Why here? Couldn't Jesus have done this some other place? Maybe a maybe more appropriate time Passover was a meal of unity, a celebration of who God was and what God did. So why here? Well you say, well, to draw attention. Yes, of course. The betrayer was present. In the midst of the unity. The betrayer was present. In the midst of the celebration, the betrayer was present. In the midst of this unity, Judas was eating. Jesus was eating in pure, loving righteousness. Judas was eating in wretched, hateful sin. Isn't that why it's here? Yes, there was a command to eat. That's the scene that's being described by Matthew. It's quite clear. That's what the Passover was. There was a command to come together and outwardly partake, slay the lamb, put the blood up. Prepare everything else. Everyone was outwardly participating in the Passover feast. That's what it's called. Outwardly, each one of those present at the table. Physical, observable obedience to the command of God. Eat it. Partake together. And Judas was eating Verse twenty-one, and as they were eating and as the disciples go throughout, and And ask that question, is it I Lord? And he answers, He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me. Judas was eating, Judas was partaking, he was observing the command of God to eat the Passover, but was he really obeying? Was he eating in faith? How could he have been eating in obedience? He was in the middle of devising a plan to turn Jesus over to the chief priests. He was in the midst of plotting and planning, seemingly what some might conclude was the greatest transgression of all time. Yes, Judas was obeying outwardly. His stomach was being filled in external obedience, but Judas' heart was not aligned with his outward actions, even in his words. Is it I, Rabbi? The New American Standard translates it this way Surely it's not I, Rabbi! He's denying the truth. He's speaking a lie. He's trying to mislead the one who is supernaturally arranged for the disciples to eat the Passover in this place. Jesus was seeking to cover his betrayal, seeking to hide his heart, and does so by asking this question along with the other disciples in an attempt to blend in with those who were following or trying to follow. A wolf in sheep's clothing. Judas in his foolish heart continues on the path that he had begun to walk down. Just like the Pharisees. Remember what Jesus told his disciples? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Judas was eating in hypocrisy. This is the height of transgression. He's putting himself forth as a true disciple of Jesus Christ. He's coming to the table saying, just his presence says, I love you. But his heart was far from the Savior. The very thought, the desire within the heart of a disciple of Jesus to turn him over. To betray him, to betray God Himself, seems to be the very height of sin. Could sin get any more sinful than this Webster defines betray as delivering into the hand of an enemy by treachery or fraud in the violation of trust. Isn't that why Jesus states my time is at hand? That's an interesting statement. Remember what is what he told his mother at the wedding at Cana. When the wine had run out and his mother says, Hey, you gonna do something about this? And he says, My time's not at hand. Now it is. From a human perspective, it's difficult to know how the hearts of those around Jesus could get any darker. The time had come. Sin, in a sense, had reached that particular height in the providential plan of God that it was time for the Son of Man to go to the cross. My time has come. Judas becomes that poster boy for that expression, my time has come. Look. See what's happened to this man's heart. Jesus must usher in the new, marked by righteousness and devotion and love to God. So how does this apply to you this morning? We're not eating the Passover. None of us can stand in Judas's shoes. None of us could or can betray Jesus in that way. But since the Passover is closely linked to the Lord's Supper, Can one take the Lord's Supper in such a way that betrays Jesus We'll be discussing that supper in a moment under the next head, but right now the question is, is it possible for a believer, or someone who Presents themselves as a believer to betray Jesus in the way in which he or she takes the supper. Now that Jesus had come, he's gone to the cross, he's risen from the dead, he has called us to observe the Lord's Supper frequently, is it possible that you could come to the table and betray Jesus? Is it possible that you could come to the table for the wrong reasons? Is it possible that you could come to the table and not be aligned with Jesus? Is it possible that you could come to the table and be opposed to Jesus? Judas was clearly opposed to Jesus and his continued ministry, for he was in the midst of ending Jesus' ministry on earth, or so he thought. I'm sure that most of us are thinking with regard to these questions that we come to the table in the right way. So let me put the question differently. The hypocrisy that Judas exhibited was involved in his outward participation in the Passover while his heart, his heart, was defiling the Passover. In the name of God. Judas's heart was not in the celebration. It wasn't seeking to please God in the keeping of the commandment. So that's the question. What is the state of your heart when you come to partake of the Lord's Supper? Are you merely running through through a routine? Are you just, in a sense, blindly without thinking or meditating upon the meaning of the supper, just taking the elements because that's what everyone else is doing? Or are you preparing for the supper? Examining your heart in advance. Confirming your faith in Jesus Christ. And as you take it, are you crying out that your faith would be increased? That you would be more and more aligned with the will of Jesus? And that you would be strengthened for the spiritual battles ahead. All for the glory of God. Is that how you come to the table? Is that what you're thinking about when you take the elements? For God's glory and for the exaltation of his son. Brings us to our second point. Blessing is poured out upon those who eat in faith. Now we come to that transition, that hinge, so to speak. We're going now from the Passover meal to the first Lord's Supper in verse 26. Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread and after blessing it, broke it, gave it to his disciples, and said, Take eat, this is my body. Jesus here institutes the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. The lamb is finished. Now he takes bread. He institutes the new. The old is closed. And Jesus is ushering in and continues to usher in the new covenant and states as much, this is my blood of the covenant. And he's offering true, real forgiveness. Did you note that? Which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. The Passover was always pointing to Jesus, and now he had come. Remember, both death and life were included in the Passover. The lamb was sacrificed, it was killed in the place of A sinner. There needed to be death. That was and is the punishment for sin, and the lamb was put to death, and that death was represented in the roasted meat in his way, which was to be eaten. But uh life was also represented, wasn't it? As the blood of the lamb was placed on the on the lintels and the two posts, the blood of the lamb ensured that preservation of the life within the home Death had led to life. And so the death of the lamb led to the keeping of life for the firstborn. The blood spread on the posts and lintels would ensure that the firstborn inside would be preserved. Life is in the blood. Isn't that what we read in Leviticus? For the life of the flesh is in the blood. It is the blood that makes atonement by the life. So we see both in the Passover meal, death and life. Now there is this call to feast upon Jesus Christ. Obviously the the bread and the cup were representations, they were symbols, they were signs. The Lord's Supper is the sign and a seal of the covenant of grace, and Jesus Christ was giving them these signs and seals. But they were more than that, weren't they? The bread, as stated by Jesus, represented his body, the cup. Which likely contained fermented grape juice or wine represented his blood as the blood of the covenant. That's clear from the text. Take yeet, this is my body, drink of it all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant. There are commands here that Jesus was calling. The elements were not merely to be set up on the table and used as symbols, and Jesus said, well, just look at those things for a while, guys. Yes, they were symbols, they were signs. But there were more than that. The disciples were to be involved, and like the Passover, their involvement was not merely using their eyes to see the bread and the cup. Their involvement was not merely to recognize the symbolism of the bread and the cup. No, the disciples were to be actively involved in taking both the bread and the cup and eating the bread and drinking what was in the cup. In other words, the disciples were to ingest both the bread and the wine. So you think of the bread, the body of Christ, that which was crushed, so to speak, on the cross, broken. Symbolizing the agony of the suffering on the cross as the wrath of God was poured out upon Jesus for your sins. Body and soul. And so the bread, his body, symbolizing his atoning death. And he called his disciples to eat it, to ingest, to consume it, saying, Take, eat, this is my body. The only way for the disciples to truly experience the death of the Lord Jesus Christ was by consuming him. And think of the cup. Remember, the blood of the lamb was to be placed upon the lintels and the and the and the door posts. It wasn't to be drunk. By those inside. That would have been a sin. But the life is in the blood, and God commanded the Israelites so very clearly, do not drink the blood, for the life is in the blood. But here there's a difference. There's a significant difference, there's a powerful difference between the Passover and the Lord's Supper. Jesus tells them to drink. Drink the cup. Drink my blood. But there was life in his blood, do you see? They needed his life. And the only way to get it was to drink. It's blood. They needed this transfusion of sorts. That's the picture we're seeing Jesus was saying, You must feast upon me. It wasn't possible to be saved by feasting upon the animal sacrifices. But Jesus was giving himself up, his entire being. He gives it to you. So that you can be in him and he can be in you In John chapter six, we we read that truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. And while that's not Directly connected to the Lord's Supper is connected to the Lord's Supper. In order to have life in Jesus Christ, you must feast upon Him. In order to be truly alive, you must be in union with Jesus. You must consume him. He must be part of you. You must be part of him. You must die with him. You must live in him. For it's only in Jesus that there is life. There must be this unbreakable connection between you and Jesus Christ, and that is the way it's pictured in the supper. You must eat him, consume him, you must ingest Jesus Christ. A picture of a Continual incremental increase in the intimate union with Jesus. Please don't misunderstand this. You can't create that union Jesus must do it. He must change your heart. He must transform your heart into one is which is tender and soft and fleshly, and as he does, he gives you the seed of faith which you then confess. And as you do that, union is established because of what he did. And you're justified and adopted and sanctified. But then to further that union, you must feed upon him. The union's been established by Jesus and Jesus alone. But he's telling us in order to further that union. To feed and grow in that union he calls you to feast upon his broken body and drink his life blood Is that how you come to the table? Do you approach the table with a a hunger and a thirst? For righteousness. Remember how Jesus came to the Passover table. He came in righteousness. Isn't that what you consume when you come to the Lord's table? Isn't Jesus Christ the embodiment of righteousness? Remember what he preached in the Sermon on the Mount a few chapters ago in Matthew. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. As you come to the table is your spiritual stomach hungry after Christ Do you recognize that you don't have enough of Christ and you need to come so that you may have more of him, more union with him Do you realize that as you come to the table, you have no righteousness of your own and you need his? That's the idea of the life and the blood, isn't it? You need his. And so you come because you're hungry for it. You're hungry for Christ. You need his righteousness. And so is that the way you come? And just as we come to the dinner table with stomachs that are growling because we haven't eaten, we know we're about to be nourished with good food, and so as you come to the Lord's table, is your spiritual stomach growling and anticipating that you're about to be fed with the best spiritual food possible. I'm not discounting the Word of God. You need both. But here, the image, the picture is that you must feed upon Christ, that your spiritual stomach must be fed regularly. You must feast upon Christ to continue that union and communion with him So you would be ready for his return. Do you see the connection? You see what Jesus has been teaching and preaching about his return? About how you need to be ready, be aware, be alert Be prepared. I think Matthew put this here In that context, for that reason. Do you understand the sacrament that way? That you're coming to the supper as one significant means by which you're being prepared for the return of the The judgment of Jesus Christ. Is that how you come to the table? To feast upon the one who is righteousness, to be in him as he is in you. So that you're ready for his return. Yes, the one who partakes of the supper must do so in faith and love. For Jesus. Paul puts very strong words as he writes to those in Corinth: whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty. Concerning the body and blood of the Lord. But he ends that passage by talking about the blessing If we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. He's saying that if you come to the table in a right way, you won't be judged. Because you came in faith and you came in love for the Lord Jesus Christ and you came seeking his righteousness And you came because you recognized you needed to continue that union and communion with the one who saved you. May the Holy Spirit help us to come to the table in this way. Amen Father and our God, help us. Help us, Lord. Help us to come to the table with anticipation, to to come to the table with hungry souls. Come to the table recognizing that in Christ is true life. And he calls us to feed upon him. Body. Body and blood. Oh Lord, we pray. Work in our hearts that this would be our attitude, this would be how we would come. Help us, Lord. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.