Good morning, beloved. If you have your Bibles, if you're able to continue to stand uh for a few more moments. Let us read first from John 7. We'll read verses 37 to 39, and then we'll go back to read a few verses from John chapter 4. So reading first from God's Word in John 7, verses 37 to 39 And then we will read a few verses of John 4 for our sermon today. This is a sermon entitled, Can This Be the Christ? Let's pray for the illumination of the Holy Spirit before we read the scriptures. Our Father and our God, we thank you that you are with us. We thank you that you're the great and almighty God. We thank you that you are the thrice-holy God. We thank you that you are the judge of the living and the dead in Christ. We thank you that you're the creator and also the redeemer, and that you've provided a Savior. You so love the world that you've given your only begotten Son that whosoever believes in him would never perish, but have everlasting life. Thank you, Jesus, that you're with us. That though you are ascended and enthroned at God's right hand as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, you continue to serve us humbly. by your great power through your spirit and word. And we pray that you would now, by your spirit, give us ears to hear, hearts to receive, minds to understand your word And you would help your servant today as he reads your word and brings forth this sermon. We pray that he would decrease That you, Lord Jesus, would increase. And we pray that you would be glorified and change us by your transformative power and Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. And all the church said, Amen. Reading from John 7, verses 37 to 39, first, on the last day of the feast, the great day. Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Now, this he said about the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive. For as yet the Spirit had not been given, because Jesus was not yet glorified. Turning to John 4, we'll look at the most of all of the chapter 4, but I want to focus your attention for our reading particularly on the return of the disciples that begins in verse 27, and then what happens because of the Samaritan's woman, the Samaritan woman's testimony. If you read, we'll read from verses 27 of John 4 through verse 42. Just then his disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? They went out of the town and were coming to him. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat! But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has anyone brought him something to eat? And Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months? Then comes the harvest. Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that sower and reaper rejoice together. For here the saying holds true, one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into that labor. Many Samaritans from that town believed in Jesus because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them. And he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, but we have heard for ourselves. And we know that this indeed is the Savior of the world. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. You may be seated. Beloved, I think cinematically, I think as a filmmaker sometimes. And if I wanted to begin this passage as a film. There'd be a close-up shot of an water jar that's all by itself next to a well. And for a moment I would hold the camera there on that water jar. And then I would go with a wide screen. And I would reveal this woman going throughout the towns and villages, saying, Come meet a man who has told me everything that I've ever done. Could this be the Christ? And then it would be appropriate to go back to the beginning and see how this scene began. But I want us to focus our attention on the empty water jar. What was the woman's goal? What was the woman's focus of that day was to fill a water jar. But she found on that day living water. Because she met the man who, while he knew everything that she had ever done, graciously gave to her all that she would ever need. In himself. And so we'll look at this passage with three points primarily. One is Jesus encountering the stranger. Number two, Jesus challenging the heart of the stranger. And then three, and finally, How Jesus welcomes the stranger, making a friend through faith and the power of the Holy Spirit. So encountering the stranger. John tells us how this conversation between Jesus and the Samaritan woman began at the beginning. He tells us that Jesus was removing himself from Judea around Jerusalem because the Pharisees were uh beginning to show jealousy and envy of his ministry, and it wasn't his hour to go to the cross yet And so we're told that he had to go up to Judea. He left Judea, I should say, in verse 3. And departed north to Galilee. And then verse 4, he it tells us that he had to pass through Samaria Now many at this time who would go from Jerusalem north to Glilee would not have passed through Samaria. They would have crossed the Jordan twice to avoid going through Samaria. We're told very briefly in verse 9 that Jews had no dealings with Samaritans, and it uh could be summarized simply as this That Jews and Samaritans differed in their theological thinking. They differed socially and culturally. And uh there was a large portion of racism mixed in in their relationships. This is where relationships between Jews and Samaritans that have been broken over time. And the Bible tells us in verse 4 that Jesus had to go. Now, it's my understanding that the reason why he had to go was because Jesus was concerned primarily under the influence of the Holy Spirit to do the will of the Father. As he says at the end of this passage, that my food, verse 34, is to do the will of him who sent me And so Jesus knew that he had to go because the Father was sending him specifically through Samaria for at least two reasons. Because Jesus was seeking and saving the lost. Jesus was seeking worshipers to worship him in spirit and truth. And so it was his great desire, the must of his ministry. But two, it was because Jesus would bring peace. Between relationships broken by bad theology, poor theology, by relationships broken by racism, by culture. Jesus was to be the Prince of Peace In his seeking and saving the lost, Jesus was particularly going to show himself as the Savior of the world of sinners, a friend of sinners And so when he gets there, Jesus is weary, we're told. He comes to Jacob's well, a historically rooted place in redemptive history. Jacob's well, one of the patriarchs. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. This is Jacob's well. This is his property. This is a place where the rootedness of God's power and promise and covenant were rooted. And Jesus is weary. And beloved, look at your Lord Jesus here, weary, wiping the beads of sweat, sitting down on the well, resting You who are weary, see your Lord, who was God in the flesh, yet like us in every way, yet without sin, who needed that rest, who needed that refreshment, who needed that drink. And it's at that moment where he encounters the stranger. And what does he do? But he starts a conversation. He starts connecting with her exactly for the same reason she's there. This woman comes at noon, at the time of high noon, at the well to get water. She has a water jar. Jesus needs refreshing, and he says, Woman, give me a drink. And she responds in verse 9 with, How is it if you, a Jew, would ask for me a drink, a woman of Samaria? Now let's focus on this for a moment. We do not know this woman's name, but she's important to Christ. You see, if you contrast this chapter with chapter 3, with Jesus' encounter with Nicodemus. We know his name. His name was Nicodemus, and he was a man. And we know that he was an official of the ruling class, that he was an important man. And Jesus confronts him with, you must be born again. This woman, contrasted to Nicodemus, is not a man, a woman. Not a Jew of high standing. A Samaritan, a woman from Samaria, and we know Nicodemus, but we do not know her name. But Jesus pursues her. In response, what does he do? But after he starts the conversation, beloved, he captivates her with the gospel. There's two things that Jesus wants to captivate her with. First The gift of God, and second, his identity. The gift of God and his identity. Notice in verse 10, he says, if you knew the gift of God, You think you're here for one thing, you might be thinking. God has you here for another, potentially The gift of God. If you knew the gift of God and me, who it is that's speaking to you, it's about a gift and it's about an identity, you would have He would have given you living water, that is that gift, freely given to you. All you have to do is ask And the woman said, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with. The well is deep. Where do you get that living water Are you greater than Jacob? Her objections have to do with the gift that's being offered and with his identity. Are you greater than Jacob? Hmm, Jacob was a great man. Are you great? And then very clearly Jesus says in verse 13, everyone Who drinks of this water, that is the water from the well, will be thirsty again. He's saying, Woman, you'll fill your water jug, and tomorrow you'll be back. To fill it again. And then the next day you'll be back to fill it again. Because you'll need that water and then it will be gone. But it will require you to replenish it daily. It's a good thing that you desire, but it will never completely fill you. It will never completely satisfy you. He says, every drink everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. And here's what he says, the gift again. Listen, for whoever drinks of the water I will give him, will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. You won't have to go anywhere for it. It will be in you It won't be something you draw externally or have to go to a location to obtain. It will be something within you as a spring, a source in Christ that will spring up and satisfy you. Not just refresh you physically, but to satisfy you and refresh you spiritually, permanently And so she, like Nicodemus, here's a similarity. They're thinking with natural minds. Nicodemus hears Jesus say, born again. He says, Am I supposed to go back into my mother's womb and be born again? He's not there yet. She says, you're promising me a gift. Give me this water so I won't have to be thirsty and come draw water But what I want to emphasize to you is how Jesus is captivating her with the gospel at this point, how he's saying gift, gift, gift, gift, gift, gift, gift. Because Jesus is the one who gives the Holy Spirit. That living water that Jesus is describing is the fullness of God's refreshment in Christ. It is salvation of one's soul. It is becoming a new creation in Christ. It is learning the shalom Full-bodied, whole person, peace with God, with others, with oneself It is living water that satisfies from deep within. It is sourced through the Lord Jesus Christ. As we read in John 7. That though the Spirit has been at work since the creation throughout the Old Testament, the Spirit was especially uh fully uh manifest and uh made known with the glorification and uh the day of Pentecost, the glorification of Jesus and the day of Pentecost. The fullness of the Spirit will come, but the Spirit has been working. Since creation, through the circumcision of hearts, where people have become believers, and through the prophets, and through the priests, and through the kings, and the Spirit is at work here. So Jesus encounters the stranger. The second, Jesus confronts compassionately the stranger's heart. This is where Jesus challenges, or I would say, compassionately confronts the stranger's heart, because God is a holy God. This woman We, no one, can come to the Father except through the Son by faith and repentance. And so Jesus Confronts her with her lifestyle, with her sins. In verse 16, as he's captivated her with the gospel, He tells her above the strict demands of God's law, the strict and yet freeing demands of God's law. He says, go and call your husband and come back. And she says, I have no husband. And he says, you are right in saying you have no husband. You've had five In fact, he says, verse 18, you've had five husbands, and the one you now have, present tense, is not your husband. What you've said is true. Jesus must confront compassionately, and I emphasize the confrontation and then the compassion. The confrontation He tells this woman what he knows about her. That's confronting her. That's telling her honestly, speaking the truth in love, that what you're doing is living in sin. That what you're trying to get with your water jug is an acted parable of what you're trying to do with your life to fill up your soul. But you're trying to fill up cisterns that are broken. You're trying to find this husband, and it leaves you empty. Another husband, it leaves you empty. Another husband, it leaves you empty. You never Find peace you never find shalom You never find God. And so sin has devastated this woman. Sin has devastated her in her relationship with God, devastated her in her relationships. She can't be committed to one husband. The sin has devastated her in her relationship with herself. Remember what sin does to us. It devastates everything. It causes us to be those from the inside who continue to try to find hope And some kind of salvation or righteousness in our works or in this world or in our idols or in our heritage or in our name or in our job or in our strength or in our beauty. Everywhere we're looking for our identity And it never satisfies, it never fills, it's a sin that never makes us happy. It's slavery ultimately And Jesus says, I've got to confront you with this reality. Because it's only through confronting that by the Spirit's power bringing you to repentance and faith in me will you be freed. Truly free, turned from darkness to light, turned from slavery to freedom of sonship And she has some poor theology as a Samaritan woman. She does recognize he's some kind of prophet. Her eschatology is even similar. She's knowing that the Messiah is going to come and he's going to tell them all things and make things right. There's some truth. But what she's got at her core is a a wrong understanding of worship, a wrong understanding of the purpose for which he's made. She was created in God's image. She was created for his worship. She was created for his service. And so she asked him, Well, tell me this, prophet. What do we worship? And perhaps it's a bit of a changing of the subject. Maybe she's feeling a little discomfort. But what Jesus says is he clarifies with gentleness And correction. He says, you know, salvation is through the Jews. It was God's plan, first to the Jews, then to the Gentiles, that the Jews would be the foundation of the salvation of the world. through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He says it's not about Samaritans who've broken off from this visible church. A longer story, another sermon, another day, another teaching, but they basically have broken off from the truth and they have become confused by false worship and false doctrine. And so Jesus clearly says, you worship what you do not know. in verse 22. We worship what we know for salvation is from the Jews. But then he says in verses 23 and 24, so beautifully, continuing to Clarify to confront. The hour is coming and is now here when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. And there's Jesus The Father is using as his instrument, Savior instrument of his grace, his mediator, right there before her, seeking worshipers in spirit and truth. Then he says, God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. What this means, beloved, is Jesus is teaching her, not only has she got a sin problem, she's got a worship problem. You see, her sin has become her worship. Her husbands, her looking for love in all the wrong places is her worship. But she publicly worships. But her heart is far from God. She publicly worships. She goes to church in Samaria at the mountain. Or at least she knows that's where it's open if she needs to. And so Jesus said, You've got a worshiping problem. Your heart must be changed. Your heart must be transformed by grace, by the gift, so that you will worship the Father truly from your heart. From a transformed life. And so he confronts her in this way, beloved This could be the place where if the Holy Spirit was not working through Jesus' prophetic word, this could be the place. If the Spirit was not working to draw her to Christ, This would be the place where she would harden her heart and walk away. Because this is the place where the offense can come. She confronts She e I mean I'm sorry, Jesus confronts. Jesus even addresses her bad the poor theology. This is the place where she says, okay, I've had enough with you. And get my water and I'm going to go on. But the spirit is moving. The Spirit is moving, and that brings us to the third and final point. And Jesus welcomes the stranger as a friend. Now, why do I say the Spirit's moving? We'd like to have, I think, a more neat and tidy kind of conversion story here where the woman is saved and she says, I've been saved. I know that you're the Christ. But we don't get that. What we do get in the larger context, beloved, is what Jesus has already said in John 3 about the Spirit moving like the wind. And you don't know where he's coming from or where he's going, because the Spirit is sovereign to the word. But what you do see are the results. You see the evidences, you see the fruits of the Spirit's power and work. And it is here when Jesus says to her, somewhere here, where she becomes, she transfers, is transformed from a stranger to a friend. When we're told at verse 25, where she says the woman said, I know Messiah is coming. He is called Christ, the anointed one, the promised Messiah of the Old Testament. I know that Messiah is coming. When he comes, he'll tell us all things. Verse 26, Jesus gives her a reveal. Jesus gives her a revelation of himself. He says to her, I who speak to you am He. Or literally, I am. Another one of those glorious I ams of the Gospel of John. Now remember how he captivated her earlier with identity and gift. What is being taught here is that through the revealing of his identity and the power of the Spirit, she comes to know the gift. of God, which is this living water. And while John doesn't comment upon it, he shows us the results of the Spirit's powerful working. Because what did she do? Everything that she had set her day upon, everything she had her focus upon was that water jug. And remember the beginning, that cinematic moment in verse 28, it says the woman left her water jug, or her water jar, and went away into the town. And said to the people, come see a man who knew everything that I've ever done, who knows everything about me. And yet has welcomed me. That's what the message is. You see, because she came to trust this Savior through the Holy Spirit. She didn't harden her heart. She heard the truth and she knew that while he had private, intimate, deep Knowledge of her sinful, foul, depraved experiences, he did not cast her out He compassionately and graciously confronted her. Yes, he corrected her, but he knew her as a friend. Because, beloved, who, apart from the Holy Spirit, would be able to trust Christ? Knowing that he knows everything deeply about us. Think about that. He knows our thoughts. He knows our most wicked deeds. What we've done in private And then to be able, knowing that he knows that, to come to him and then go forth and say, guess what? I met a man who's known everything I've ever done. Can this be the Christ? Can this be the Christ? Again, we would like to hear this is the Christ, but it's a beginning She's becoming a disciple follower, and she leaves that which was most important to go follow Jesus. In fact, not just to follow him, but to go and make him known. And so we're told that she says in verse uh twenty-eight, uh read in verse twenty 8 through 30 again. The woman left her water jar, went away into the town, and said to the people, Come see a man who told me all that ever did. Can this be the Christ? And they went on out of the town and were coming to him. She, by the power of the Holy Spirit, was becoming a servant of the prophet. A servant of the word in this sense, not ordained ministry, but a lay ministry, a faithful testimony to Jesus and his trustworthiness. The fact that he could be trusted, that he was the Christ, or at least she was beginning to see and understand that. You know, beloved. Again, be reminded of how patient Jesus is from our time of conversion to how we knew a little And we grew in that knowledge, especially if we were far from the covenant, especially if we were strangers and not raised in the church. I wasn't raised in the church. So my beginnings were just showing forth some fruit. Some evidences, some trust of Jesus, some understanding that he was the Christ. But she would grow just as we grow. That's what a disciple is, isn't it? It's a learner And so in verse 39, we're told that through this woman's testimony, the power of God brought revival to a Samaritan village. One nameless Simple, formerly sinful woman was used to bring a revival Through a simple testimony, come meet a man who has who knows everything that I ever did. And it says in verse 39: many Samaritans in that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. And he told me all that I ever did. Again it's emphasized what her message was. The simple message at that time. Come and meet a man who told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there today. God brought peace through Christ to the Samaritan woman and to many other Samaritans This is what he loves to do through his Prince of Peace. This is what he loves to do through his word and by his spirit And we're told in verse 42, verses 41 and 42, that many more believed because of Jesus' word. She was an instrument to bring them closer. And then they heard his word, and they said to the woman, It's no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this indeed is the Savior of the world. That's a powerful testimony of God's grace in Christ. But, beloved, let's think about our own encounter with Jesus. Some of you uh by God's grace were raised in the church. That's a wonderful thing to be raised and nurtured up in the church and You come to a day when you encounter Jesus in a new and blessed way and you know him. You don't just know him in your head or your noggin or merely in your catechism, though that's a good way to get to know him, get to know about him. You don't know him yet. You know him theologically. You know him biblically, but you haven't met him experientially. But then by God's grace, through his word, you're transformed You may come to know that a little bit at a time. It may be a while. But some of you are like the Samaritan woman. Some of you are like I was, very far from the covenant, and he, Jesus, encountered the stranger. Through his word, he spoke to me. He spoke to you, and you heard him for the first time You knew that blessed voice, though you didn't know everything about him. You didn't have a lot of knowledge. You might even have said, is this the Savior? You were beginning because you had been transformed by the Word and the Spirit. And what was it that brought you there? Jesus captivated you by his gift. By his good news, by his kindness, by his compassion, by his saying, Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. My yoke is easy. My burden is light. Come and you will find rest for your souls. You'll find reconciliation with God. You'll find a righteousness not of your own, but one that's received by faith alone in me, in Christ alone. He captivates you. Then what does he do? He confronts you with the law, the high demands of God's law, and says, you can't do it on your own. You must never trust in your own works or yourself or your family name or your strength or your beauty or whatever it is you trust in It says you must trust simply in Christ alone and repent of all the other idols, repent of all the other alliances, allegiances. And by God's grace and spirit to be holy, completely devoted, dedicated from the heart to the worship and service of God in Christ by the Spirit. So he captivates us, he confronts us, and then he calls us. That's what he did to the woman. He called her by the Spirit. Again, we see the results. We see the wind of the Spirit, and we see what happened. That's how He calls us. Not because of anything we were doing we were doing. Perhaps you can remember the day. And you can remember and you were going about your groceries. You were going about your business trying to fill your water jug, trying to f fill that cistern that has a crack in it. It kept keeps emptying itself. And on that day, you left that in order to follow Jesus because he called you. Let's remember that because it's important to go through that in our minds sometimes, beloved. Because that's how we not only one time, but continue to be instruments of God's grace in our families, in our neighborhoods. in the culture, in our workplaces, everywhere around us, is just remembering Jesus has called me The chief of sinners. If Paul hadn't claimed the title, I would have taken it. Jesus, the he calls the chief of sinners He connects with us through his word by his spirit. He captivates us with his gospel. He confronts us with the demands of God's holy law, but then he calls us and gives us all the righteousness we need, all the strength we need. to respond to him. And then he says, do you see this? I could use this to change your family. I could use your testimony. Wherever it's at. No matter how much you know, I can by the power of the Spirit change a family, a culture, a neighborhood, a workplace. and bring about revival. You see, what's interesting about this connection here is Acts 9. 31. A glorious passage. I pray this uh for our regional church. It's chapter 9, verse 31. And it says, so the church throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria There was a church in Samaria because of that day. And many years later that church was still flourishing. In fact, we're told this. So the church, and then I put on brackets when I'm praying for our regional church, I say, so the church, the regional church, because it's Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, had peace. And was being built up, and walking in the fear of the Lord and the comfort of the Holy Spirit, it multiplied. So that seed that was planted in that Samaritan woman's heart, though we still don't know her name, we'll meet her in heaven and know her name That seed that was planted in our heart became a great harvest. And that church continued to prosper in peace with God, with one another, with one oneself, in one's conscience, in one's heart. So beloved, what do we learn here What I hope we can see is our Savior, first of all, and how glorious and wonderful and compassionate and kind and trustworthy He is. Though he knows everything about us, he's also graciously generous and willing to give us all that we'll ever need in himself. If you're someone who doesn't know that gift, you can find it in Christ. This is a giving, a kind, compassionate Savior. Though he confronts you, it's always with the purpose of changing you by his spirit, so you will come to him with nothing to hinder you, and follow him with nothing to hinder you. And so how can we remember as we go out today the wonderful work of God that He's given us in Christ? is just remembering when we encounter the stranger, we can do much of the same thing. Start a conversation. Connect where you are. Captivate them by the gospel. Your own testimony You can then seek to compassionately confront, correct, just as Jesus does here. And then you can welcome them as a friend through faith in Christ. And here's the cool thing. That friend will then be an instrument by God's grace Of seeking and saving more strangers. And that's what we want. So let's pray and ask God to bless our time. Time. Our Father and our God, we're so grateful for your love for us in Christ. We thank you that you know everything that we've ever done And yet you give us in Christ all that we'll ever need. We we know that. We know that we deep inside now have peace with you, uh peace with others, peace with ourselves. We know that we have all that we need for life and godliness. And we know, Lord, that uh it's not because of anything we've done. Uh we we we weren't even seeking after you. But it was because of your great sovereign spirit that moved on us. through the word and we heard the truth, we were captivated by it, we were corrected by it, we were challenged, and you called us. We thank you for our calling because the promise is that he who he has those whom he has called, he's also justified. Those who he justified, he sanctified and has and will glorify fully One day we know we'll live with you, Lord, and all the pain and the suffering and the temptations will be behind us, and you'll wipe away every tear from our eyes Until then, pray for us, Lord Jesus, that our faith wouldn't fail us and that we'd only grow stronger. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. And all the church said, Amen.