Our scripture reading this morning is from the Gospel of Luke, sort of continuing from where I've been a few weeks before. And as we come to God's word again, you remember what the Apostle Paul has told us, it's not simply his opinion, but it is God's truth. Which is that inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for reproof, for for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness That the man of God may be adequate or complete for every good work, since that is true. All scripture is inspired and profitable for us. Since that is true, let us not simply hear his word read. Let us not simply have our eyes glaze over or our mind glaze over. But let us prayerfully feed upon his word and ask that he would bless us thereby. The gospel according to Luke Chapter Luke chapter 2, verses 1 through 7. Now in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that a census be taken of all the inhabitant earth This was the first census taken while Corinius was governor of Syria. And everyone was on his way to register for the census, each to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David. In order to register along with Mary, who was engaged to him, and who was with child. While they were there, the days were completed for her to give birth And she gave birth to her firstborn son, and she wrapped him in cloths, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn This is God's true and holy word. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, these are very familiar words. We could almost recite them. We know the story. We've thought about various parts of it. We've seen fanciful descriptions of it in movies or TV. This does describe something that actually happened in space and time some 2,000 years ago. An actual event that happened as described. Well Father, you put it here in your word. You caused the Apostle Luke to write it about it, so that we would know that you are yet teaching us Father, we pray that you would yet teach us from your word how it is that you work in space and time, just as man does, but guiding and directing and ordaining whatsoever we would do, so that it falls out exactly as you would. And Father, in my preaching of your word, I pray that as your people hear your word preached, that they would in their hearing, but especially in their memory And then their choices would cause them to remember that which is true from your word and edit out any errors of human wisdom. We ask this in Jesus' name This is somewhat anticlimactic to come to the to New Year's Eve and then get to the birth of Christ I was look I was actually curious I hadn't called up uh your one of your elders, Ken Fields, and just said, What's been preached recently? What have you sort of been leading up to with this? I know some Sunday you should get two sermons, as I've done Uh and I just saw that they were you know preaching on different passages from different places about this. Happily not Luke 2. I don't I don't think I missed that But sort of anticlimactic, but it's it's as I thought about it, you know, here we are sort of turning the pages. It's an artificial construct, this 2017, 2018. But the Lord gives us time. The Lord, you know, we live in space and time even though He does not certainly aware of our space and time is His created world And it's my understanding from God's word that he is foreordained whatsoever comes to pass. And he he knows and performs the end and the beginning, the beginning and the end. And so as we come to this Last Sunday of the year, the last Lord's Day of the Year. I wanted to look at something which is always true as we pass from this one year to the next. Is God's work in history And man's and man's work in history. We look at the two together. Well obviously the more important is seeing God's work in history And reminding ourselves that depending upon how he is working through us, it is also, of course, his work, as it's working through our work. So let us turn to the Gospel of Luke, and as I titled it, Caesar's Decree and God's Decree. And I'm reminded of the there's a passage in the New Testament that I'm sure many of you are familiar with, probably most of us, in the Gospels. It's written by Luke and the Apostle Matthew of a Roman centurion. Who believed that if Jesus so much as said he would heal folks, then that person would be healed. No doubt about it. I don't The man had no doubts. And Matthew tells the story and gives the account really nicely. Matthew chapter 8, verse 8. The centurion, this again, this is a Roman fellow. This is not somebody who schooled and looking for the Messiah or anything like that. And his God was whoever happened to be the head of the Roman Empire at the time But the centurion says, Lord, says this to Jesus, Lord, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof, but just say the word and my servant will be healed. For I too am a man under authority with soldiers unto me, and I say to this one, Go and he goes, and to another one, come, and he comes, and to my slave do this. But he does it. That's how it works. Now, when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly, I say to you, I have not found such great faith with that. anyone in Israel. Well here we are looking at the response of a particular person um and how the Lord's will plays out as he brings about the birth of this His son, the Messiah. The first thing I look at is the mighty emperor. We're set in space and time with this account happening in those days the decree went out Went out from Cedar because the census would be taken over the whole entire inhabited earth. The first census taken while Corinius was governor. There's opening words Provides the setting for this, this passage talking about how the fact it was a Roman emperor, and he was Caesar Augustus, which is actually a Roman man whose name was Octavian Notice the Octavian, but he just took the title of Caesar, went in doubt, call yourself Caesar. It's like president. It's a title, Caesar. It wasn't his name. I mean if there was a man named Julius Caesar Who was killed in the Roman Senate some I think 40, actually about 40 some BC. They called himself Caesar Augustus. And he was the ruler of the entire Roman world. That's what it means when it says all the inhabited earth. It means all the known world that would have been known to Luke and the others. And the ancient historians tell us that this particular man, Cedar Augustus, okay, remember, he was a guy named Octavian Um, was the great nephew of Julius Caesar, born fighter, and he clawed his way to power by defeating Anthony and Cleopatra I'm sure some of you have heard of those folks from history. They're also described in Shakespeare. And then through the genius and force of his personnel, he gave the empire a solidness. That was to endure for centuries. I mean the whole Roman road system was improved and strengthened and And expanded under him, which made it so easy to spread the gospel in the years to come. The Lord having that occur at that time. And he was the first Caesar to be called Augustus When the Roman Senate voted to give him the title, and Augustus means holy or revered, which is obviously a little problematic for Christians. And up to that time the title was reserved exclusively for one of the Roman gods. I mean that plural, maybe And it was during C Augustus's rule that efforts were made toward toward treating whoever happened to be the Caesar as a god If somehow you landed that job of Caesar, you turned into God. And that was sort of the thinking. And at the same time that Luke is writing these words, probably sometime in the 40s or 50s. Some of the Greek cities in Asia Minor were adopting Caesar's birthday, September 23rd, as the first day of the new year, calling him Savior I mean so that's that's the context in which people are reading, some of the first people are reading the gospels. And there's an inscription um at a place called Halicarnassus where he was even called the savior of the whole world. Rather presumptuous. But, and actually, there's one historian who says that when Cedar Augustus died, that there were men who actually, quote, comforted themselves reflecting that Augustus was a god and that gods do not die. So I'm not quite sure what they were thinking, but so the world had at its helm a self-proclaimed, widely accepted God and Savior. Caesar Augustus. He's the one who happens to be saying he wants there to be a census And Luke, who is a historian and theologian, this man Luke, who starts off his gospel by saying that he wants to tell some friend of his named Theophilus About what happened. Let me tell you the story about this man named Jesus. Let me tell you that story. Well, he is a historian and he's a theologian. He wants us to see this as the setting for understanding the coming of the real Savior. I mean here we have decree going on for Caesar Augustus, which makes me think that's the important thing. But that's not the important thing. Important thing. The important thing is what is happening here in this little town called Bethlehem. And this was a time in the Roman Empire where there was peace. But it was what you might call a dark piece. It was what one writer referred to as a Hitler's piece. It was no man or woman or boy or girl would say a word against it. You didn't badbow the emperor. You didn't badbow Caesar Augustus. Just like back in Nazi Germany, you dare not bat now the leader of them, without looking fearfully over your shoulder. And it was this most powerful man in the world, this Caesar, this Octavian who issued a decree, an order. And which reminds you of, you know, the uh the emperor not the emperor, the pharaoh in the uh Ten Commandments, when Yule Brenner would say, So let it be written, so let it be done. Well, that was what the emperor would do at that time. And so his word, his decree was a command, and so whatever he ordered was Done. So there's going to be a census. They're going to go, let's let's add up all the people who happen to live in the empire. So there we have the mighty emperor. The next thing we look at is the dutiful father. Verse 4 We're talking about what the emperor does in setting up the census. Verse 4, Joseph. Now we'd had Joseph referred to earlier. He's come up in chapter 1. Chapter 1 is 80 verses. It's one of the longest chapters in the New Testament. But here at verse 4, we come back to Joseph. We've heard about him before. We've heard about Mary. Gabriel's already appeared to Mary Told her she was going to become pregnant. And so Joseph goes up from Galilee. It was one of those interesting turns of phrase. Galilee's all the way up here. Bethlehem is down here, and it says he goes up from Galilee Well it sounds like he goes down from Galilee. But they always mean that if you're heading anywhere near Jerusalem, you're going up because it it's it you rise to get to it. So it says he goes up from Galilee from the city of Nazareth to Judea, heading south. Why? Because he's of that house. It's like your ancestral clan. I have some ancestor way back whose last name was Magruder. Well, they changed it from McGregor. Which is actually what this tartan is. And so like in Scotland you'd have um every clan, every family clan. It's like the twelve tribes of Israel Ever you know, somebody says they're a Levi, somebody says they're a Jigai, uh or they're Issachars, they're that that clan. Well in Scotland they'd all have a a sort of a color pattern called a tartan that was theirs And my daughter one of my daughters happened to be in Scotland last last uh summer. And she when she was there, I know when she called up one time double checking, like, which ones don't you have And I I've never gotten them a Gruder. I've got like two other clans that I have some other sense where I can grab their time. But this is how you identify that particular group And so it's the same kind of thing. It's this particular group, Joseph. You know, when he thought about it, he's like, you know, no matter what his father's name might have been, when in doubt, he knew that he was of the tribe of uh of David, he's supposed to go back to Um to Bethlehem. That's the group where he's supposed to go back to. And so it's interesting, Caesar Augustus' arm reaches even to a tiny little village In the middle of effectively nowhere. This is not a big area at the time. It's not something where in Rome Caesar is wondering, oh, I wonder what's happening in Jerusalem They didn't didn't care about it. It wasn't it wasn't like there's anything happening there at all. So here you here you have this this fellow who's a carpenter His wife is miraculously caused to be pregnant by God. And so here they are going down. They realize, oh, we have to go, we have to go down to Jerusalem. I mean to Bethlehem, which is right near Jerusalem. And it's like, you know, Mary has no choice. It's like, yes, I understand that's what we have to do. You have to do what the emperor says. So I mean here she is, and she's about to deliver And it's for her it's probably a miserable journey. She's full term. Uh my my wonderful my older daughter has a little 15-month-old boy, my grandson. And we found out a number of weeks back that she has number two on the way. And uh so I mean I'm I'm beginning my daughter is now at like fourteen weeks and beginning to show us Um but full term, you know. And you know, with a slow rolling gate, as she likely walked a lot of those miles. Not like everybody had their own horse. Everybody had their own horse own donkey. Now she's fortunate, she might have had an animal to carry her, but you know you can't assume that. It's not like they came from a wealthy family. But whatever, she's traveling in the dust, cool nights And here she is about to have her first baby, gift of God or not, if her first baby mom's not with her. Moms or aunts are with her. That's normally how a woman having a child would have been back then. You would have had the women in the family around helping. She's by herself with her husband. She's glad to be with him. She's stunned at this idea that somehow she's going to be having the Messiah. But she's still having a baby And so here she is like this. And you know, in the eyes of the world, if anybody knew about what was going on with this couple, people up in Nazareth are probably thinking My God, I never would have expected Mary to have to fool around out of wedlock. Oh god, I thought better over it. That's what people thought about her. And Joseph's family, I mean, you don't know what they told them. An angel talked to me. You don't know. But I mean, who knew about this couple? Nobody in particular. You know, and so in the eyes of the world, in the eyes of Rome, and anyone proud to be Roman, Joseph and Mary. Are nobodies. Nothing special about them. And they're peasants. But we're looking at the story, and here we have faithful Mary The one who said to the angel, Be it done unto me according to your word. Like you know, do what you will, Father. Mary knew who she was in God's economy. She knew who she was. She knew I'm your humble handmaiden. I'm you know I'm bondservant, I'm not worthy, but you wanted to pick me, that's up to you, and so okay But she knew who she was and she knew who God was. God chose her. Okay. And so she I will I will act I will faithfully do what you call upon me to do And it's interesting, I mean, thinking about Mary, right after she learned she was pregnant with what is called the son of the most high. And she sees her cousin Elizabeth, who Gabriel told her, your cousin Elizabeth, my guess is that it's actually probably her whatever her parents' cousin, which makes her one cousin first cousin once removed, something like that But you know it's because she was of an age where she was beyond child parent years, and Mary is much more likely in her teens. And So she goes to see that Elizabeth is six months pregnant at the time Mary deceives. So obviously that that baby is uh delivered sooner. And when she goes to see, when Elizabeth uh and Mary see each other, Mary sings her great song of praise. You know, my soul my soul exalts the Lord. The Latin word for my soul is is it exalts is magnificat. It magnifies, it exalts. My soul exalts the Lord. My spirit is rejoiced in God, my Savior. She even knew that she needed a Savior. Obviously, she knows she doesn't think she's sinless She knows that she needs a savior. He has regard for the humble state of his bond slave. And toward the end of her song, she says, of her son. Mary says this He and talking about, I think in no, is it the father or is it the son who will come? He has done mighty deeds with his arm. He has scattered those who are proud of the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the rulers from their thrones It has exalted those who are humble. And of course she can think of herself then. I've done so what what have I done as a as a child of God to marry being the woman who would carry the Messiah. Nothing. Nothing. You have no reason to think that she You know, so she was a humble woman. And so Joseph and Mary, with Joseph staying with her, the angel appears to him and lets him know that uh the child is from God Joseph and Mary show us the mystery of grace. I mean, the king does not come to the proud and powerful, but to the to the poor and powerless. Blessed are the meek, blessed are the poor in spirit. It's not necessarily talking about financially poor, although it could be that too. But poor in spirit, those who know that without God they are nothing Of myself I am nothing. The Father doeth the works. I mean, we are nothing without God. And those who realize are the ones, that's what humility is, knowing who you are before God And who you are before God is utterly dependent. I need him for all things. All things. I need him for all things in salvation, but I need him for I'm dependent upon him for this next practice. So, you know, as as it is so often in life, things were not as they seemed in the world around because humble Joseph and Mary were the adoptive father and birth mother of the King of Kings. And and it's interesting, here they are going down to Bethlehem. I've always thought if you jump ahead 37 years 35, say 35 years. Say you had some godly godly Jews who were looking toward the Messiah coming. And many of them knew many of the facts about Jesus. Because if they were godly Jews and they were waiting for the Messiah, like Nicodemus, or like Simeon at the temple, they tried to know what they could from the Old Testament scripture Go, okay. And they hear about this man healing people. Well, it wasn't like there were lots of people going around healing people. Could this be could this be the one And they heard different pieces, things about what he's doing. And you had some of them thinking, I wonder if he's the Messiah. What would have kept many of them from thinking you was? You could say unbelief. That's true. But God wants us to look through his word and pour over it like the Koreans. Most people thought that he was born in Nazareth. Good except for a little trip to Egypt soon after birth. He spent all of his growing up in Nazareth. And that that would invalidate him. He couldn't be from there. I mean that's why I read Micah. All the all the rabbis, all the all the people would know is like, design has got to be from there. It's like everything else about this man fix, everything else about this man And can you imagine when somehow they finally found out it's like, what do you mean he was born in Bethlehem? Where'd that where'd you hear that? And if some of them began to realize, oh Oh no, no. I've heard from I've heard from my uncle. He was there. They came back to the census. Oh yeah. The census, oh my, if he was born in Bethlehem, the piece is fit The pieces fit. And of course they had to. God's keeping his word. Our God is a true God. He is a that's just a mean real. He's honest. He keeps his word. He keeps his promises. He did what he said he was going to do. Well he said Bethlehem. And he makes it tougher by having the family not ultimately from Bethlehem. So they have to go down there. He could have had Joseph and Mary meet in that in Bethlehem and then just not have to go anywhere. He didn't. But he's showing that he does that. So I mean, here hundreds of years before the prophet Micah had prophesied that it was going to be from Bethlehem. So this four couple's forced journey to Bethlehem would set the stage for the fulfillment of that messianic prophecy. And that they might seem to be the helpless pawns caught in history by this nasty old guy in Rome, Caesar Augustus. But every move was under the hand of Almighty God, who was ordering events as he wanted them to go The Messiah would indeed be born in a tiny, insignificant Bethlehem, because he needed to be. He was. So the baby that Mary carried was not a Caesar. Much more than a Caesar. He's not a Caesar, but a man who would become a God. As as some world religions now think that you can become gods. Things like that. But a far greater wonder, the true God who would become a man The last thing I want to look at is the humble baby. The humble baby. The journey must have left Mary exhausted. I mean walking and riding on a donkey, whatever they had to work with. We assumed she was on a donkey, but they may not have been able to afford it. Took turns And so they're going all the way down there. And then the pain is beginning. My daughter, when she delivered some fifteen months ago, um You know, she was getting confused about how many, how close apart, how close trying to call up this woman who was helping them with the pregnancy and stuff like that. They delivered within a half hour of getting to the hospital. I told my son-in-law, I said, next time you have a catcher's available. Because it's not like the baby's just like, you know, cup coming out, coming out to shoot. But Mary is the first child. Pains begin And maybe she wasn't sure and she didn't send him to Joseph. But then there's no doubt, the real thing, and she, you know, like, we're about to have the baby And I guess you remember what what a strange circumstance this was. I mean again, based on averages she was probably in her mid-teens. Most women would become betrothed And we're all familiar with the haunting simplicity of Luke's description of the birth, verses 6 and 7. While they were there, the days were completed for her to give birth. So matter of fact And she gave birth to her firstborn son, drew up him in cloths, not clothes, but cloths, laid him in a manger. Uh or it could be translated feeding trough. Doesn't sound like anything terribly fancy. I'll bet Caesar's children had a little bit better than that Laid them in the manger because there was no room for them in the inn. We've come up with all sorts of stories about the innkeeper. Stuff like that Now you would think that if God rules so rules the world, of course we understand that he does, it makes sense for God to be in charge If he uses the census to bring Mary and Joseph to Bethlehem, he surely could have seen to it that a room was available to you And Jesus, I mean other things can be true too. Jesus could have been born to a wealthy family. He could have thrown he could have turned stone into bread in the wilderness, couldn't he? No. He could have called ten thousand angels to his aid and get seventy. He could have come down from the cross and saved himself, as people around him were telling him he should he should do But the question is not what God could do, but what he will do. You know, one thing we have to when we come to saving faith in Christ, when we come to realize ourselves as sinners before the Holy God. And we trust in Christ. One thing the Spirit does in our hearts is cause us to hear and recognize and know God's voice speaking to us in His Word. As Jesus says, My my people don't you know My sheep know my voice. And others they will not follow. So when he one thing when he comes to change us, one thing we come to have peace and acceptance about us, we come to understand what God has done. And we come to understand this is a historical account. It's not some kind of myth or fairy tale or something. This is a description of what actually happened. And so part of what what happens as we as we are coming to phase and will it's not immediate like we're all 100% up to speed from the get-go But early in our walk with the Lord likely we'll come to more and more believe and trust that of course this is simply true. This is how things happen. So what we're you know we're looking at is what God has done, not different ways he could have gone about it Because God's will was that even though Christ was rich, the Son of God, could do anything he wanted to, yet for our sake he became poor. As Paul tells us 2 Corinthians 8. I mean, the no vacancy signs all over motels and Bethlehem was for your sake. For your sake he became poor. We've born to poor circumstances. God rules all things, even in capacities, whether there's room in the end, for the sake of his children. For us. I mean Romans 8. 28 is not, I mean, it's when you're in the midst of an incredible hardship, cancer hits you out of the blue. Somebody in your family is raped and killed with all manner of horrible things. It can be the worst time to say, here, Romans 8. 28. But before that happens, get real used to it. Before it happens, get real used to it. Because it is true. And it's not simply true in the tough times, it's tough in the best times as well. God does cause all things to work together for good, for those who are his, who are called according to his purpose. Now it's good, quote unquote, as he defines it You can get you can think what he gave you is like, I don't like this. This is not good. You know, it's what he calls good And you may even be in the situation where Job was where he said, Yea, though you slay me. It felt like he was being killed by God. I will trust in you. See, it's it's what God is doing. He is doing everything for our good And it's not always going to be easy, obviously, as we don't forget that he said, if anyone wishes to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. That is the one that we follow, the one who was born as the baby in that manger. Later we we we follow him on the Calvary Road and we hear him say in John 15 Remember the word that I said to you, a slave, and that's us. It's not greater than his master. That's Jesus. If they persecuted me And they have, and they did, and they still do, they will also persecute you. That's what's going to happen. Don't be surprised and don't think that's not what I signed up for Count yourself worthy to get what God says will happen to his people. And so anyone who calls out enthusiastically and says, I will follow you wherever you go, Jesus says the foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. And sometimes that will be happening, what happens to us. Yes, God could have seen to it that Jesus had a room in his ground. He could have seen to a lot of different things. But that would have been a detour off the Calvary Road By such humble means, God fulfilled his decree. God had a plan. I will bring forth my son. The Father, the Spirit, and the Son agreed at the dawn of eternity, this is how they were going to do things. And in time it began it it happened The Son came. The Son was born as in human flesh to bring salvation because of the punishment on the cross for our sins. Which all happened. Are you part of this? Do you know this? As I was saying, are you among those who known yourself, do know yourself now as a sinner? And no hope for salvation apart from God's mercy upon you. If you see Jesus Before you. No, he's not on the cross now. But he was on the cross for the sins of all of his people. You know, if you trust in him, if you believe in him, truly, he transforms you. Your heart goes from disobedient stone to obedient beating flesh. And you were made his. And you come to know him and love him, no matter what happens in your life, because it's he doesn't give you a guarantee of good things, you know, quote unquote good things, all happening in this life. But you are his and you will go to be with him. Do you know that? God is working out his purposes here And by such humble means, God fulfills his decree, his decree of the divine Son of Man, becoming man as a humble baby in plain, dirty circumstances, God fulfills his decree. At least that part of it. And part of this decree is told us by Jesus himself, when he told the Pharisee and Nicodemus, that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son And whoever believes in him will not perish. Everlasting damnation kind of perish will not perish, but have eternal life Life. Are you among those who believe in him? Jesus also said talking with his disciples, if you love me, you will keep my commandments It's not based on a walk up an aisle, it's not walking and checking checking off some card, talking to somebody after the service. Have you truly been convicted of your sins? Do you truly trust in Christ? As your only Savior. His death is punishment of the cross is the only thing which saves you. As Jesus said, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Those who love him because he first loved you will also want to follow him and keep his commandments. We can't plead ignorance. We can read this. We can find out how he wants us to live. It's you know, it's doable. I'm not saying it's easy, we all know that. But he's told us he he he's told us how to live. So may we who are the servants of the Lord his slaves and he is our master. May we follow our Lord, the one born in the manger Born to die, one born of the major, one who gave himself for us. May we follow him with the same ready obedience that was shown by the centurion servant. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, these simple stories, these simple events of history, they were not simple. This particular story is astounding because of what we know is the background for it. A miraculous conception The fulfillment of prophecy from hundreds of years before. The angels that sang upon the birth comes after what we've read. Oh Father, this is wondrous. This is wonderful. This is delightful. But Father, Father, it speaks of what you do in history. Father, of how you work in the world. And it reminds us that if we are yours, we are your people, trusting in Christ as our Savior, then We have things to do in your world. We are your bondservants. And Father, we ask that you would Place that that demand, that claim upon us, that we would feel obligated, because we have things that you would have us do, good work prepared beforehand that you would have us do. Father, we pray that you would cause us to seek out obedience in gratitude and thankfulness for what you have done We ask your blessing upon us this day and tomorrow of the new year and in all the days that you give us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.