Amen. Our Old Testament reading tonight comes from the book of Esther as we finish up our study in this book. We'll be reading from chapter 9, beginning at verse 20. This is found on page one uh excuse me, four hundred and ninety on your pew Bibles. The Jews have defeated their enemies. And this is the aftermath of that victory. Esther chapter 9 and verse 20, let's give attention to God's holy word. And Mordecai recorded these things and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the providences of King Ahasuras. both near and far, obliging them to keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar, and also the fifteenth day of the same, year by year, as the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemies. And as the month that had been turned for them from sorrow into gladness, and from mourning into a holiday, that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, days for sending gifts of food to one another and gifts to the poor. So the Jews accepted what they had started to do and what Mordecai had written to them. Hama Madatha, the enemy of all the Jews, had plotted against the Jews to destroy them. And they cast pur, that is, cast lots, to crush and to destroy them But when he came before the king he gave orders in writing that his evil plan that he had devised against the Jews should return on his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows Therefore, they call these days Puryin, that after the term pur. Therefore, Because of all that was written in this letter, and of what they had faced in this matter, and of what had happened to them, the Jews firmly obligated themselves and their offspring and all who joined them that without fail They would keep these two days according to what was written, and at the time appointed every year. That these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation in every clan, province, and city. And that these days of Purim should never fall into disuse among the Jews, nor should the commemoration of these days cease among their descendants. And Queen Esther, the daughter of Abbahael, and Mordecai the Jew, gave full written authority, confirming the second letter about Purim. Letters were sent to all the Jews, to the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahazurus in words of peace and truth But these days of Purim should be observed at their appointed seasons, as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther obligated them, and as they had obligated themselves and their offspring regard to their fasts and their lamenting. The command of Aster confirmed these practices practices of purim, and it was recorded in writing. King Ahasaurus imposed tax on the land and on the coastlands of the sea, and all the acts of his power and might, and the full account of the high honor of Mordecai, to which the king advanced him Are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia? For Mordecai the Jew was second in rank to King Ahasuras, and he was great among the Jews, and popular with the multitude of his brothers. For he sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to all his people. That's far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Father and our God. Once again, we come to an Old Testament passage, and it contains words that we don't use. Events that we're not too sure of. And so we ask, Lord God, tonight, help us Edify us by your Spirit. Illumine our hearts. Father, cause us to To see what happened, cause us to understand the history of redemption. And Father, we pray, apply it to our hearts tonight. For we know this is the work of the Spirit, and we trust that as your word goes out, it will not return to you void tonight. So use it for all of your most holy and perfect purposes. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What do you celebrate? We celebrate many things in this country. In a sense, we are a celebrating people. Birthdays, anniversaries, the weekend. Fourth of July, New Year's Day, vacations, graduations, promotions, weddings Even when our favorite sports team wins, we're quick to celebrate, especially if our friends or family members were cheering for the opposite team. We're celebrating people. Sometimes we lack perspective Sometimes the things that are most significant in our lives, which should receive the greatest celebration, get overlooked In this country, we live with great freedoms. Freedom from political oppression, freedom to worship openly. If we're persecuted, it certainly not has yet amounted to that which the martyrs suffered in other countries. And years gone past. Sometimes, because of our freedoms, we miss The greatest victories. Sometimes we forget to celebrate the greatest victory of all Jesus' victory over sin and death. We have to ask ourselves, how great is our celebration? Tonight, come to a passage where the celebration was great. This book of Esther. Really culminates in this victory of the Jews over their enemies. We think that. I think that's the greatest portion of this book, and that is that those who were expected to die actually survived by the providential hand of God. The enemies wiped out, the weak ones raised up to have victory over the strong Really, I think the greatest portion of this book is here at the end. They celebrate. Celebrate that which God has done. Tonight I want us to see in this passage that peace in the hearts of God's children follows from Christ's victory over sin. His word and his rule. Peace in the hearts of God's children follows from Christ's victory, his word And his rule. And those are really our three points tonight. Peace in his victory, peace in his word, and peace in his rule. As you're listening tonight as we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourself, what do I celebrate? Well first, peace in his victory. Thirteenth day of the month of Adar. Had come. But prior to its coming, there really was no peace in the hearts of the Jews as they lived in Persia. Because the king's edict of death had gone out, it stood over this portion of the people of God like a dark cloud, a heavy weight upon their shoulders, this foreboding, this significant possibility of death hanging over them, there would have been no reason really for peace Indeed, as we consider our own lives, and that which causes tribulation and anxiety or sorrow. It's difficult to think of anything more sorrowful or grievous than when we believe we know what's coming in the future and it's not good. There's no rest in those thoughts. It's typically only anxiety and sorrow and a downcast spirit. That was likely the spirit of the Jews before receiving the edict of life. As the first edict goes out and death is proclaimed, there would have been much anxiety and sorrow and a downcast spirit. We've read of that But even after the edict of life goes out, even after the king proclaims that the Jews are able to defend themselves, granting the permission of the Jews to take up arms, sorrow has not yet left the hearts of the people of God. You know that is We have this recorded in verse 22 as the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemy, and as the month that had been turned for them from sorrow into gladness. The record here is that they were still sorrowful in that month of Adar. They had not known the outcome. They were given permission to defend themselves, yes, but the Jews did not know how they would fare. Remember, they were an exiled people going up against a people of war. And they knew there were those in the Persian Empire who strongly desired to see the Jews perish and to be annihilated. They were going up against a formidable foe. And so even as the edict of life was issued, proclaimed throughout the providences, there certainly was a certain amount of sorrow, downcast spirits that had not dissipated. But then we see something change. As the day arrived, the 13th and the 14th days of the month of Adar and the smoke of the battle has settled, now there's victory. We read that last time. Eight hundred killed in Susa, seventy-five thousand killed throughout all of Persia, the sons of Haman put to death. Hanged on the gallows, the enemies of the Jews were dead, vanquished. The Jews survived. They were alive. They were living, and their enemies were in the grave. And it's at this point we read of that great celebration. Verse 17. This was in the portion we didn't read tonight. Verse 17 of chapter 9. This is on the 13th day of the month of Adar, and on the 14th day they rested and made that day of feasting and gladness. Day of feasting and gladness. Sorrow is gone. Something had to happen first, something needed to change. Within the hearts of the Jews. There really could be no celebration, no celebrating if the hearts of the Jews were yet downcast. There'd be no sincere rejoicing if they were yet sorrowful. And so Our inspired writer records for us that they got relief from their enemies. You see, it's a direct result of being relieved. Or of getting relief from their enemies. There was this change of heart. It goes from sorrow now to gladness, from mourning hearts now to hearts turned to holiday. A day to feast and be glad. A day to share their gladness with others, sending gifts of food to one another and gifts to the poor. There was this great turn turn in their hearts Remember, these Jews were living in exile. They had been in Jerusalem, not all of them. This is a significant time later. So maybe their parents were ones who had been in Jerusalem. Maybe their parents were ones who had seen the destruction to the city. As recorded by Jeremiah in Lamentations And as Jeremiah records the destruction to the city of Jerusalem, the temple now crushed, no no two stones, one on top of another, everything burned, everything destroyed. He writes, The joy of our hearts has ceased. Our dancing has been turned to mourning. But now, these Jews Probably children of those who were able to witness that dancing being turned to mourning. Now there's this reversal. Their mourning, their sorrow had been turned into gladness I think there must be a tie between these two. As the exiles are leaving, it's just the opposite. Their rejoicing had been removed from them. Now in this victory, it's been returned. Jesus knew that there was going to be sorrow in the hearts of his disciples. An upper Roman discourse, that last significant meeting between Jesus and his disciples, that less significant portion of teaching by Jesus of his disciples before he goes to the cross. He told them so very clearly, I say to you, you will weep and lament. But the world will rejoice. He's talking about his death on the cross. Think of that. The disciples, the ones who had been taught by Jesus now three years. This is their closest mentor, their teacher, their rabbi, the one that they loved, and the one who loved them. And they're going to watch as he is nailed to the cross to weep and lament. But the world will rejoice, you will be sorrowful. But then Jesus immediately followed that. And he told them your sorrow will turn into joy. So you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice. See, the Son of God was sent for this very purpose. To bring good news. All of his disciples were those who were poor, poor in heart, they were brokenhearted, and he was sent to proclaim liberty to them, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. The day of vengeance of our God to comfort all who mourn. That comes directly from the prophet Isaiah of chapter 61. Do you see? Do you see what Jesus was doing? Yes, he was following his Father's will. He was doing his father's will. But as he was, he was ministering to the hearts of his disciples, and he knew that they would be sorrowful. He was nailed to the cross But he also knew that through that nailing to the cross, through his death, through his resurrection, There would be joy and rejoicing. There would be gladness. Has that happened to you? Has your morning turned into dancing? You might be asking yourselves, what is this gladness? What was this gladness of the Israelites? Well they had been brought from death to life, hadn't they The Lord had soundly defeated each and every one of their enemies and set them free from the wicked and those who sought violence against them. Their gladness sprang from the life given to them by God. So the question for us tonight is: do you have that gladness within your heart? If you're thinking to yourself, well, I you know, I don't know. I don't know if I've experienced that kind of gladness. The Jews were sorrowful as they were under the decree of death. They knew it. They read it. Their enemies were salvating, so to speak, waiting for that day to come that they could be annihilated. They were sorrowful. If you don't have this gladness within your heart tonight, maybe it's because you haven't experienced this kind of sorrow. Sorrow, knowing that your sins are weighing you down, like a ship's anchor to the bottom of the sea. To hell itself. Sorrow knowing that a sentence of death has been proclaimed against you. You are the object of it. Sorrow knowing that you've offended a holy God, and sorrow knowing that you are filthy in your sin before Him. See, the gladness of the Jews was directly connected to their sorrow. Indeed, without their sorrow, there would have been no need for their gladness. There wouldn't have been gladness. Jesus Christ has gained the victory over sin and death, and through his atoning sacrifice on Calvary's cross and his resurrection from the dead, the sinless one crushed the power of sin and death. But if you never knew the power of sin over your life, if you've never admitted that you were bound and chained in the dungeon of death, if you cannot confess and have not confessed that you deserve the wrath of God For transgressing his perfect moral law, then you may not be able to experience this gladness connected with Jesus' victory. It will not likely be a celebration if you don't perceive a reason for it. If that's describing you tonight, then pray. Pray that the Lord Jesus Christ would put more joy in your heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. That's Psalm four. That's what Jesus does. If you haven't experienced that gladness, ask Christ To grant it to you, to show you that you're a sinner in need of salvation, to to tell you that there is one who can save you, and that is Christ Himself. That he is the one with joy, and that joy comes out of our sorrow for our sin. Pray to Christ. Brings us to our second point, peace in his word. There's been an emphasis throughout Esther on the written word. I'm not speaking of scripture, but I'm speaking of the writings that there was constant reference to when Queen Vashti determined not to respond to the king's request. A royal order was written and sent out to the kingdom. Vashvi was never again to come before the king, and a royal position was to be given to another. That's a publication that was sent out to the entire kingdom. Then the then the good deed of Mordecai in revealing the the conspiracy to kill the king that was recorded in the book of the chronicles. They wrote stuff down. There's an emphasis upon these writings. Haman's plan Haman's plan to annihilate the Jews was proclaimed throughout the kingdom, written down, sent to all the king's provinces. And as Mordecai's future was distinctly changed as the king took the book of the memorable deeds, the chronicles, and read it, or had it read to him. Remember that writings are emphasized. And then finally, as Haman's plot was revealed to the king, and Esther and Mordecai directed, the edict of life is sent out, published. Throughout all the kingdom, there's an emphasis upon the written record, even as the book comes to a close. We read tonight in verse 2 of chapter 10, and all the acts of his power and might, referring to the king, and the full account of the high honor of Mordecai. To which the king advanced to him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia? It sounds like something right out of 1 or 2 Kings or 1st and 2nd Chronicles. Are they not written in the books of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? Taking us directly back to Scripture. Taking us back to the Word, taking us and giving us thoughts of God's Word and the Word being sent out. That's what this passage is about. A large part of it is about the word being sent out. Verse 20 of chapter 9, Mordecai recorded these things and sent letters to all the Jews. who in all the provinces of King Ahasuras, both near and far. He records what happens. Why? So the people will remember So the people will have a record, so they'll be able to look back and say, oh, that's what happened. Whether it's next week or next year or ten years from now, they would have a record of how God worked in. Their lives. Second letter was sent out. Queen Esther and Mordecai the Jew, they give forward with an authority confirming the second letter about Purim. Letters sent to all the Jews. They would observe these appointed seasons. And not only was the word sent out, but it was received by the Jews. Verse 23, so the Jews accepted what they had started to do and what Mordecai had written. To them. They received the word. They accepted the word because of all that was written in this letter. They remembered what they had faced. They see it in writing now, the record of it. And it's a great comfort to them when they say basically we're going to do what's here. Look at verse 27. The Jews firmly obligated themselves and their offspring and all who joined them. All because it was written down. All because they were caused to remember what the Lord had done in their lives, how he brought them victory. And they're glad. See, part of the gladness, and thus the peace enjoyed by the Jews, seems to flow directly from the contents of this written letter. You might say, well, no, no, it's because of what happened, it's because of the victory. But we read that as as a result of this letter coming, the people Are glad. There is a desire to recall what's happened and to do that which Mordecai and Esther calls them to. And that is lament and fast and then feast and give All this flowing from the contents of the letter. Recording for the people that which God had done, his preservation of his people, calling them to remember the way in which they had been delivered from death to life. calling them to remember in a particular way that these days of Purim would never fall into disuse. Legislating a remembrance, calling the people to remember how the Jews fasted, pleading with God, and lamented the sentence of death, and then how God had delivered them. You see how peace comes from the written word? It comes from being able to read all of what God has done. It comes from being reminded of the love of God for his children. We see that, not just because we know Scripture, but because that's what Scripture tells us. Psalm 119, great peace have those who love your law. Proverbs 1, verse 20 or 33. Whoever listens to me will dwell secure and be at ease without dread of disaster. Speaking of wisdom. Proverbs 3. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments for length of days and years of life and peace. They will add to you. Let me ask you, is that your experience? When you read the Word of God? When you read the works of God? When you think of the account of Noah and his family, when you read of Isaac, the child of the promise, who was spared by the sacrificial Ram, as you read of the Lord's hand upon Jacob and Joseph, saving them from angry, hateful brothers, even as you consider the Apostle Paul and his missionary journeys, how the living God delivered him from those who desired to put him to death. Imperfect, sinful men who trusted the Lord and were given life in the face of nearly certain death. See, the Lord of hosts has continued to save and preserve and deliver his people time and again, but the ultimate question that you have to be asking yourself tonight As you read this history as recorded in Scripture, are you understanding, are you grasping that this was all a result of God's plan of salvation? These individual accounts of deliverance, Noah and Isaac and Jacob and the Israelites, even Paul, all point you, point us to the redemption in Christ. That the war with God is over in Christ. Just as the Jews received the written word calling for an annual fasting and lamenting and feasting. But they should have understood that this was a celebration of redemption through a Savior. You must understand tonight The very word of God brings peace to your heart as it is the account of the redemption that we have in Christ. The Apostle Paul summed it up in Romans as he wrote, I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth. Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Peace in his word. What a joy. That brings us to our third point, peace in his rule. This book of Esther ends in a really curious way. I think as we think of Esther, we think this is all about this young Jewish girl who becomes queen. It is significantly about that, but that's much, much more. You might think that Esther would be the wrap-up The title of the book is in her name. She's been a central figure throughout, but it does not end with Esther. The author doesn't leave Esther out. She was clearly and significantly involved. She's presented as acting with Mordecai, her cousin, Queen Esther, in verse 29. And Mordecai the Jew gave full written authority. They send that second letter. Queen Esther commands and confirms these practices of Parim, recorded in writing. But then as the book ends, there's a shift of sorts. The book really ends with Mordecai. It seems on his face to be a bit strange. Esther was the beauty. She was highly revered by everyone she came in contact with. The king delighted in Esther Without Esther Que being queen, the Jews seemingly would have been annihilated, all killed. So she's clearly given a particular role, a significant role by the Lord in this account. As this event in the history of redemption comes to a close, it was Mordecai who's mentioned last. The seemingly unimportant cousin of Esther, who appears at time to be kind of a side note, now becomes the prime focus of the account. Look at verse two of chapter ten. All the acts of his power and might, and the full account of the high honor of Mordecai. See, power and might are ascribed to the king, but honor, high honor, is ascribed to Mordecai. Pointing us, I think, to Jesus Christ. The one who veiled his glory, the one who didn't grasp the glory of God. As he took on human nature. He came in the likeness of men. Therefore, God has highly exalted him after he goes to the cross and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. High honor, reserved for only one. And this esteem is given to Mordecai It's recorded in the book of Chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia. And then, just prior to concluding this book, the inspired author refers back to King Ahasuris again, for the last time. Remember, the first reference to King Ahasurius was for the most part, from a worldly sense, very positive. Asauries, who reigned from India to Ethiopia over 127 provinces, he sat on his royal throne in Susan, the third year of his reign. He gave a feast for all his officials. But here at the end, read something that seems out of place. It's only a short sentence. King Ahasuris imposed tax on the land and the coastlands of the sea Why was it inserted? Why did the writer think this was significant for the exiled Jews, especially in this season of celebrating How's it connected to this account? Or how is it relevant for us today? I think that there is a contrast being set forth for us between Ahasuras and Mordecai. Hasorius' rule and reign goes from throwing a feast to taxing the people of the land, from providing for the people to requiring the people to provide provision for him, for his army, for his palace. What might seem to be a necessary tax to provide for the safety and security of the kingdom, it may be that this was inserted to highlight Mordecai's attitude toward the people. Mordecai, second in rank to King Ahasuras, is great among the Jews and popular with the multitude of his brothers. Why? For he sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to all his people. The king had not been at the forefront of seeking the welfare of the Jews. That's why this edict of death goes out. The welfare of the Jews was not first and foremost upon the king's heart and mind. It was only after Esther and Mordecai pled with him, and the second edict is now But Mordecai was a man who sought after the well-being, the welfare, and the continued abundant lives of the people. We're told that so very clearly. His popularity with the multitude arose from the fact that he sought their welfare. All of his efforts on their behalf, they they favored him as a result, and not only did he seek their welfare, but he speaks peace to them. Two reasons then for this popularity, so to speak, of Mordecai, seeking their welfare, speaking peace. It's difficult to distinguish between those two. But they're certainly set forth before us tonight. Again, this needs to point us to Jesus Christ. As we read of Mordecai, and he speaks peace to all his people, that word people could actually be translated as offspring. All of his offspring, all of his children. That seems to be the idea That's certainly the idea of Jesus Christ, as he seeks after the welfare and speaks peace to all of the children of God, all the true descendants of Abraham, the father of the faithful. Jesus Christ was the one who said, Peace I leave with you my peace, I give to you He's concerned. He's always been concerned. He always will be concerned with your welfare tonight, so much so that he grants you his peace. I've said these things to you that in me you may have peace, John. 16 verse 33. And indeed, after his resurrection, as he enters into that room where the disciples were locked, he proclaims to them, peace be with you. Let me ask you tonight who is who is ruling your heart? See that this peace of the Lord Jesus Christ only comes by and through his rule For the Jews at the time of King Ahasurius, it was in a sense Mordecai. It was Mordecai that ruled their hearts, so to speak, so that they did have peace. He's the one who sat next to the king. They were observing his rule. They were watching what he cared about. He cared about them. And he spoke peace to them, such that they were truly able to be glad. He was seeking their welfare. Who is ruling your heart? It's either Jesus Christ or its self-rule. Those are really the only two options that exist. The problem we experience when we seek to exert self rule Is that we weren't created for self-rule. And when a person like Eve in the garden seeks out self-rule, there can be nothing but strife. And turmoil and war, war with God. When you try to rule over your own heart, there can be, there will be, no peace Think of what the psalmist wrote in Psalm 13. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day See what the psalmist is saying is he took counsel in his own soul. He had sorrow, sorrow upon sorrow, as he felt that God's face was turned away from him. He felt alone. But if you're saying tonight within your heart, no, no, Jesus Christ does rule over me, praise God. But do you have peace? Do you have peace in his rule tonight? Is the rule and reign of Jesus Christ bringing that peace to your heart? As Paul wrote to the Corinthians in chapter 3, excuse me, those in Colossae, not Corinthians. He wrote, Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. Let the rule. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. Singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. If you said to yourself, yes, Jesus is ruling, but I'm not experiencing that peace tonight. Even as Paul called those to let the peace of Christ rule in their heart, it may be because of how that passage begins. He wrote to those in Colossae, he said, put on then as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts. Kindness, humility, meekness, patience, bearing with one another. Above all these things, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony It's only then that Paul wrote, Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. Do you see? If Jesus Christ is truly ruling in your heart tonight, then peace will follow. From your striving to be obedient to him. There's much peace that's brought about in the heart of a follower of Christ. as he or she seeks to do his will, and that only comes as a result of his true rule over your heart. Peace in the hearts of God's children follows from Christ's victory, his word, and his rule. Brothers and sisters, we should be celebrating tonight. Celebrating his victory. Celebrating his word, his rule. If we do that, if we're here really tonight to celebrate, then we will have peace. Christ will truly rule in our hearts. And the answer is all we will strive to serve him. Praise be to the Lord. Amen. Father in heaven, we're weak, we're frail. You continue to transgress, but Lord God, Christ has the victory. He has defeated sin, he's defeated death. We've been brought, Father, from the grave, from the pit of damnation. And have had our feet set upon the rock. The Lord Jesus Christ help us to celebrate. And Father, as Jesus rules in our hearts. Help us to know that peace that only comes from seeking to serve Him It only comes from as he has gripped our hearts, as he takes hold of them, as he reminds us of his victories, of his reconciliation, that we are no longer at war with you. Father, give us peace and calmness in Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.