If you turn in your copy of God's Word now back to Joshua, we'll be in chapter 5 once again this evening. We'll be reading verses 10 through 12 and focusing our hearts upon these three verses of the Word of God. For context, I'll begin reading in verse one. Let's give our attention to the very word of God. As soon as all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea, heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of the Jordan for the people of Israel until they had crossed over, their hearts melted, and there was no longer any spirit in them because of the people of Israel. At that time the Lord said to Joshua, Make flint knives and circumcise the sons of Israel a second time. So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibeeth Ha'aralath. And this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them. All the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war, had died in the wilderness on the way after they had come out of Egypt. Though all the people who came out had been circumcised, yet all the people who were born on the way in the wilderness after they had come out of Egypt had not been circumcised. For the people of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness until all the nation, the men of war who came out of Egypt, perished, because they did not obey the voice of the Lord. The Lord swore to them that he would not let them see the land that the Lord had sworn to their fathers to give us, a land flowing with milk and honey. So it was their children whom he had raised up in their place that Joshua circumcised For they were uncircumcised, because they had not been circumcised on the way. When the circumcising of the whole nation was finished, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed. And the Lord said to Joshua, Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. And so the name of that place is called Gilgal to this day. While the people of Israel were encamped at Gilgal, they kept the Passover on the 14th day of the month in the evening on the plains of Jericho. And the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate of the produce of the land, unleavened cakes and parched grain. And the manna ceased the day after they ate the produce of the land. And there was no longer manna for the people of Israel, but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year. That's part of the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Did you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we come once again to this book of Joshua, to the events which occurred long ago. Events which occurred to a different people. Father, we pray that by your Spirit we would not only understand what happened, we would not only understand the history of redemption. But by your Spirit, Father, we would be applying your very word to our heart tonight. Help us, Lord, to see why this is relevant, why this matters to us, how we can live by this, your very word. Help us to see Christ in this passage Guide our hearts now. We pray this in his name. Amen. Do you live in the victory of Jesus Christ or in the grip of sin? It seems to be what this passage is pointing us to tonight, this question, do you live in the victory of Jesus Christ or in the grip of sin? This passage takes us back many years to a culture that we might not be too familiar with. To understand what's happening here, at least in part, it's it's good for us to understand the Middle Eastern culture of hospitality. In Genesis chapter 18, Abraham is out in the open. He's at the door of his tent in the heat of the day, and he lifts up his eyes and he sees three men standing in front of him. And immediately he goes and seeks to provide hospitality for them. When he sees them, he runs from the tent door, he meets them, he bows down before them and says, Lord, if I found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. Why? Because he wants to provide hospitality. Let a little little water be brought, wash your feet, rest yourself under the tree. This idea of providing refreshment for those on a journey, strangers that had come. And so that's exactly what Abraham does. He goes to Share, Sarah, and says, Quick, three sheaves of fine flour, knead it, make it cakes. And then he takes curds and milk. And the calf which he had prepared, and sets it before these three, and stood by them under a tree as they ate. Abraham was providing strength for these three as they were on the road. They were weary, so to speak. That was the Middle Eastern culture, a culture of hospitality, a culture of providing provision. That's exactly what we see tonight in this passage before us. Joshua has been commanded to arise, go over the Jordan, and enter the promised land, finally, forty years after wandering in the wilderness. Now the spies have been sent, they brought back the information that the hearts of those in Jericho have melted, and now those forty years of wandering are over. And God provides a way across the river, across the Jordan, as he dries it up, the Ark of the Covenant, going before the people of God. Reminding the people that God was with them as they seared the waters heaped up on each side, and that was telling them that his presence was there with them. We now have seen that they've crossed the Jordan, they're on the other side. And they're waiting. They haven't entered into battle yet. Twelve stones have been set up to remind them of what God has done, to remind them of his presence among them, to remind them of his promises. And now the warriors have been circumcised. We just read that. They hadn't been on the way in the wilderness, they had sinned against God, and now God was purging that sin from them, even in their flesh. And now they're waiting. The hearts of the kings have melted as they've heard they've crossed the Jordan that God is with them. And they're waiting. They're on the other side. They're in the promised land. And they're waiting. And in this text tonight, these three verses, we read about the celebration of the Passover. We read as well that after they celebrate the Passover, now they feast upon the produce of the land. And we also read that the manna, which had provided provision for the Israelites for 40 years as they wandered through the wilderness, now the manna has stopped. Because they now have the produce that feeds them for the entire year. That's the text. That's what we have set before us tonight. I'd like us to see tonight that the victory of Jesus Christ calls his followers to continually remember, celebrate, and feast. That the victory of the Lord Jesus Christ calls his followers to continually remember, celebrate, and feast. And those are our three doctrines tonight, our three points. The Lord calls his people to remember. Secondly, the Lord calls his people to celebrate. And finally, the Lord calls his people to feast. As we go through this passage, this very short passage tonight, I'd like us again to be asking ourselves that question, do I live in the victory of Jesus Christ? Or am I in the grip of sin? Well, first, the Lord calls us people to remember This Passover that we read of here in this first verse, while the people of Israel were encamped at Gilgal, they kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening on the plains of Jericho. It was the first national act after the circumcision, the first national act, the act of all the people, of all the Israelites. While the men were healing from their circumcision surgery, this is the first corporate act of the entire nation, of all people, all Israelites, it was an act of worship. They kept the Passover. To understand what was happening here, you have to understand a bit of what the Passover was. Well, there's no information that we have as to the frequency that they observe the Passover in the wilderness. We don't read of it And so we just don't know how frequently they observed it. It was to be an annually celebrated feast, an annually celebrated remembrance. So we turn to Exodus to understand the meaning, the description of the Passover. Moses It says, Thus says the Lord in Exodus 11, About midnight I will go out in the midst of Egypt, and every firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die. This was the tenth plague. Nine plagues had been uh Used by God to bring the Egyptians to this point, and yet Pharaoh was still not ready to let his people go. And so the Israelites being slaves, the Hebrews under the oppression of the Egyptians were still there, and God was about to send out the tenth plague. At midnight I will go out in the midst of Egypt, every firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits on the throne, even to the firstborn of the slave girl who's behind the handmill, and all the firstborn of the cattle. That was the tenth plague. Now what about the Hebrews? What about the Israelites? Chapter 12 of Exodus. The whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs at twilight. Then they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and the lintel of the houses in which they eat. They shall eat the flesh that night roasted with fire. For I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and I will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. But the blood shall be a sign for you in the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you. No plague will befall you The Israelites now as they sat on the shore of the Jordan were celebrating the Passover, this event. It was a sacrificial act of worship. That's what the Passover was. We refer to it as the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover. That's what we read in Exodus chapter 12. And so it was a call to remember, wasn't it? It was a call to recreate, in a sense, what the forefathers had done before they were released out of Egypt. It was a remembrance of what God had done in Egypt. The Passover was so closely connected with the tenth plague, the death of the firstborn Throughout the entire nation and every home of Egypt. A call to remember that the living God, what he had done to secure their release from oppression. In a sense, recall all of the plagues, all that God had done to secure their exit from the iron furnace. But also very specifically, how he had protected the firstborn of the Hebrews As with other plagues, God provided protection here here that night, protection for the Hebrew firstborn, such that they would not experience death in their homes. On the night that the angel of death passed over every single house in Egypt, with the exception of those who had the blood on the lintel, on the doorposts of their homes. The Israelites. And so the Passover is given by God. The Israelites were to slay that lamb, one lamb per household, and take the blood and place it on a doorpost. And then to take the lamb and roast it and eat it. Certainly there were other aspects to the meal and the celebration, but that's the essence of it, that God saved the Hebrew firstborn. and provided for their deliverance. The firstborn males were saved. The strength of the families in the firstborn. The lamb became their sacrificial substitute. The lamb's blood was shed in place of the Hebrew firstborn. And so they were commanded, the Israelites were commanded to observe the Passover every year as a memorial, as a remembrance of what God had done in saving their firstborn and delivering them. That God provided a substitute. That God passed over and did not take their firstborn. Clearly, the Passover was a remembrance of what God had done, calling his people to remember continually. And to visually recreate what their forefathers were called to, remembering the mercy and grace of their Lord and God. Ultimately, ultimately a call to remember the substitute. A call to remember the need for blood to be shed for their sins, and thus the need for a substitute Every time they celebrated the Passover, they were looking back, remembering the central theme, the central truth. Their forefathers needed a substitute, a lamb to die. They needed the blood of the Lamb to cover them, to cover their homes, their families, so the firstborn would not be slain. So why now? Why celebrate it as they cross the Jordan? There's a parallel here to their first Passover, isn't there? In the first Passover there was deliverance, deliverance out of Egypt, but the Passover was celebrated before they were delivered And now as they celebrate the Passover on the banks of the Jordan, they're celebrating it before They enter Jericho before they begin the battle, before they occupy. There's a parallel. Isn't that the same for you tonight? Passover is now equated to the Lord's Supper. Every time you take the Lord's Supper, are you not in the same position as the Israelites? Whether before leaving Egypt or on the banks of the Jordan, not yet being delivered fully, the battle still in front of you Like the Israelites just outside of Jericho, having crossed over the Jordan, made it to the Promised Land. But many, many battles in front of them. When you take the supper, while there have been battles, while there's been A lot of work done by the Holy Spirit to get you to the supper, to the table. But yet there are battles to be fought. More battles, more spiritual warfare, against the cosmic powers, this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. There's a parallel. So do you remember? Do you remember that you need a substitute? Do you remember that you need blood to be shed in your place? And do you remember that a substitute has been provided? The true Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, has been slain in your place. That Jesus' blood has been poured out for you. It is finished. He has atoned. It has been done so that as you remember, like the Israelites on the Bank of the Jordan, you can join the fight. You can step into the battle which is ahead. Because you do have a substitute. Because blood has been poured out and shed for you. That brings us to our second point. The Lord calls his people to celebrate. Well the people of Israel were encamped at Gilgal. They kept the Passover on the 14th day of the month in the evening in the plains of Jericho. So what was the Passover? See, well you just described it for us. Almost. We're close. Yes, it was a call to remember, but it was also a celebration of victory. That's what the Passover was. Passover was a celebration of victory over death. Did the Hebrew firstborns deserve to die? Yes. Just like all of us, just like all the Hebrews, just like all the Egyptians, they deserved to die because they were all sinners in the sight of God. But the firstborn was spared. In God's mercy and compassion and grace, He spared these. Thus, the Passover became a celebration of victory over sin and death by the mercy and grace of God. Everyone is born in bondage to sin. Every one of us. Every one of the Hebrews. Every one of the firstborn. Everyone is born in confinement, in slavery to sin. That's what Paul writes in Psalm 51. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Paul refers to it in chapter 6 of his letter to those in Rome. Thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart. And again he repeats it in Ephesians in the second chapter, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. They're born in bondage to sin. And so the Passover was a sign, it was a symbol. That God had broken the Israelites free from slavery and oppression that they were in in the land of Egypt And it points to the release of prisoners by the Lord Jesus Christ from the prison and confinement of sin. You see that? In other words, the Passover celebrated uh the Israelites' freedom from the oppression and slavery of the Egyptians, and it was a picture of what Jesus does in freeing his people from bondage to sin and the plundering of the house of Satan. Isn't that what Jesus did as he plundered Satan's house? That he freed the captives. Captives to what? Captives to sin. Passover points to that. It did point to that. And so the Passover, in essence, was a celebration of the victory over sin and death. You see, that's what was going on on the banks of the Jordan. As these warriors, the Israelite nation, waited on the call to take up arms and enter Jericho. They were invited to come and celebrate the Passover first. They were invited to come and feast on the Passover lamb, which was a sign and a symbol of the Christ to come. Do you see how they were already celebrating victory? The first spear had not been thrown yet, if that's what they did. They had not entered into battle yet. They had not entered Jericho yet. The walls hadn't fallen down. But they were still celebrating victory, even in their weakness. Remember, they were healing from their circumcision. They were weak. And yet as they took the Passover celebrating the victory, the warriors were being healed as they sat and waited for God to provide healing. They were weak, and yet they were empowered And confidently driven into battle as they ate the Passover lamb, the lamb who proclaimed the victory, even before they entered the battlefield. Victory over sin and death. We took the Lord's Supper last Sunday morning. Was that on your heart and in your mind? That in your weakness, in your healing from your sin, in your state of needing healing, That Jesus was calling you to feed upon him and be lifted up in his strength. Were you celebrating his victory? Did you consider that you were being prepared for the next fight with Satan? For the next field of battle? That's what was happening. That's what was happening to the Israelites as they were feasting on the Passover Lamb. They were looking forward to the future when the Passover Lamb would become the Christ, the Messiah, the Savior. And now we, with those Israelite brothers who are we now are looking back Looking back upon the true Lamb of God, the only Lamb of God, the singular Lamb of God, the precious blood of the Lamb of God, the purifying blood of Jesus. Blood which speaks and proclaims victory over sin and death. Do you understand the supper is a time of celebration? Celebrating victory? See, the supper is God's call for you to come and celebrate the victory of the Son, of the true Lamb over your sin. We think of all the benefits of his death. That's exactly what's happening in the supper. That's what it is. That's why he tells us to continue to eat it and observe. And to feast upon him until he returns. Because you're weak. Just like the Israelites who are circumcised. They were weak. They were in no condition to fight, and neither are you. Not in your strength. Are you living in the victory of Jesus Christ? You see, you can fight in his victory, can't you? Isn't that what gives you certain hope? Is not his victory that which gives you confidence to press on? To say to Satan, no. In Jesus' death on the cross, he defeated you, Satan. You no longer have the power over me. Jesus has plundered your house and set me free. No, you will not lead me into that sin this time. Is that what others know about you? Do others know that you're weak in and of yourself? But you're strong in the victory of Christ They should. Everyone should know about your weakness so they can learn about your strength. Your strength in Christ's victory. We should be praying. Even now, Holy Spirit, guide us, teach us, enable us to experience not only our weakness, but the overwhelming victory of Christ Help us. Help us not merely to be able to confess his victory over sin and death, but to experience it. To the strengthening that he gives us through your power. Amen. I think it's to our third head that the Lord calls his people to feast. This picture that we have in these three verses is a picture of a table being set for the Israelites. It's a powerful picture of the provision of the Lord Jesus Christ, the covenant-keeping Christ, the goodness of Jesus. And the day after the Passover, on that very day they ate of the produce of the land, unleavened cates from parched grain It also tells us that immediately after observing and celebrating the Passover, which we have described as the victory of the Jesus Christ, the people feast. There's a banquet set before the people of God, the Israelites, consisting of the produce of the land. Shouldn't miss this imagery. This victory that they celebrated in the Passover. And now as they celebrate that victory, they are now enjoying the spoils. Of that victory. As the victors are in battle and as they defeat their opponents, what do they get? They get the spoils They get their things, so to speak, their cattle and and their land and the produce of the land, and they get to enjoy that because they're the victors now, and that's exactly what's happening in this passage. They've celebrated the victory of of the lamb, and now they take and feast upon the produce of the land as victors, as conquerors. They hadn't planted the crops, they hadn't tended the fruit trees. Someone else had done all that before they arrived, and now the occupants of the land who were about to be driven out, who had planted these crops and tended these true fruit trees, now the Israelites enjoy that, spoils the victory before they enter battle. The promise of God was being fulfilled before their very eyes. He was setting the table. Remember what he had told them. Told Moses in Exodus chapter 3, that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hibites, Jebuzites, a land flowing with milk and honey. Now, the former generation had denied that that's what they were about to receive in the Korah Rebellion. Some of those in rebellion say to Moses, you have not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey. They denied the promises of God. But now the promises of God were being fulfilled. That land flowing with milk and honey was before them. They were enjoying it even that very day. They were seeing the promises of God unfold before their very eyes that the Lord God was to be feared and believed and loved because he was a faithful God and served. Because he was a covenant making and keeping God. One who would ensure that his covenant promises would continue to be fulfilled. And so they're brought to this abundant, continual feast. The entire year, the Israelites were feeding upon the land. The spoils of the victory, a land flowing with milk and honey. And now think of those who received this book. Who were reading it, reading of what happened. Those who had now entered into the promised land were looking back upon what their forefathers done. Now they were seeing That the promises of God were being fulfilled, how they'd been fulfilled, and they can trust God to continue to fulfill them as they now occupied the land and had more battles ahead. You see, we have the same opportunity today, don't we? Are you continually looking for those ways in which God, through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is fulfilling His promises. The Israelites, on the day that they began feasting upon the produce of the land, didn't have to look far. That table was set for them. I suggest that you don't have to look far either. To see the unfolding promises, the faithful covenant-keeping promises of God unfolding before your eyes You might say, where? Where can I see those? Every time you enter into congregational worship. Like tonight, God is confirming for you that the Son has indeed died for your sins and thus has torn the veil in two, enabling you to enter into his special presence. Every time you enter into your prayer closet, God is confirming his covenant promise that he is your God, a merciful and loving God. Who, as promised, listens to his children and answers your prayers. Every time you open up the Word of God Through his Spirit, who's confirming that He has revealed, truly revealed Himself to you so that you can know Him and know His Son, which is eternal life. It's a spiritual feast. A continual spiritual feast, worship, prayer, the word of God, the means of grace. He's unfolding the fulfillment of his promises to you in each of those ways. Well, that's not where the passage ends. Verse 12 reads this way, the man has ceased the day they ate of the produce of the land. It's telling us that there's a continual provision of God. As the Israelites wandered through the wilderness, how were they fed? They were fed by manna. Which appeared on the ground like the dew of the morning. And the people were called to go out and gather it every single day, with the exception of one, the Sabbath. And so on the sixth day the Lord provided two days worth of manna, a continual feast. Every day providing for his people. Every day the people were dependent upon his provision. But every day we see it throughout the history of redemption. The bread from heaven was falling, so to speak, providing in exactly the way God had ordained, just as they needed it according to his wisdom. And so now he brings it to an end. That provision, that way of providing, was over. Because a new way was ushered in. As they enter into the promised land flowing with milk and honey, the provision changes. But the provision of God never stopped. His continual care, his consistent day by day, moment by moment, caring kingly oversight, never stopped. And as Jesus Christ sits upon the throne, he provides exactly what his people need at exactly the right time, according to his perfect wisdom and knowledge. Have you experienced that? A continual feast is perfect timing is day by day, moment by moment, perfect provision. You might be thinking, well At times I've needed this or that, and the Lord has not provided. See, that would be a common misunderstanding, I think, of each of us. A misunderstanding of this truth You see, we think we know better. We think we know what we need and when we need it. We think we have perfect insight and that we should have it. But we've been corrupted by our sinful desires, our imperfect knowledge, and certainly the means used by the Lord to keep us in his grip. For in each and every instance of our lives, the Lord Jesus is working out our salvation. You see, that's why we use the Heidelberg catechism tonight. In fact, all things must work together for my salvation. That's what's happening. That's what the Lord Jesus is doing. You see, sometimes we think he's just working out our next meal or the means by which we can receive physical comfort. And the Lord does care for your physical comfort, as evidenced by the fact that he provided food for the 4,000 and the 5,000. But he's working all things for your salvation. And you see, that's where we get tripped up. That's where we make mistakes. For we're not constantly considering our eternal well-being, but Jesus is And so at each and every turn, every event, in all of our afflictions and our physical needs, and most certainly our spiritual well-being, Jesus Christ is providing exactly what you need when you need it. so that your salvation is secure in him. It's a continual feast that he's providing to you Such that if your faith, if it's sincere and true, it will not fail. And so he's providing a continual feast, so it won't I'm sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth. Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's because He is working out our salvation moment by moment with that continual feast that He provides. You see, his satisfaction of the righteous wrath of his father will never be diminished. For any who are in Christ. And certainly its application to your sins. Brothers and sisters, I think I think the call tonight is that we would pray. Pray that we would see that we would come to see and participate in and appreciate the continual feast, the spiritual feast that Jesus Christ sets before us. And that we would partake in it. We be fed by it and rejoice in it. Yes, the victory of Jesus Christ calls his followers to continually remember, celebrate. And feast. Abraham provided hospitality to her fresh those three strangers who were headed to Sodom and Gomorrah for spiritual battle. The Lord Jesus Christ is the one who calls us to remember what he did on the cross at Calvary. He calls us to celebrate his victory, to know, and from his victory have certain hope over sin and death. And then to use all the means that he gives us to feast, to feast on the spoils of that victory. Praise be to God for our Savior, our Lord, and our King, and all that He does for you tonight. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this passage. We thank you, Lord God, for making it alive to us. We thank you, Holy Spirit, for leading us tonight. Pray that Lord God you would plant this deeply within our hearts, that we would not be those who would forget, but we would be those who would remember Remember the Lamb. Remember his perfect blood. Remember how he shed it for us. Every time that we come to the Lord's table, that we would see it and understand it as a celebration of his victory. And then, Lord, to it help us to continually be feasting that spiritual feast that the Lord Jesus Christ gives to us. Oh Father, we pray. Continue to strengthen us in our weakness, in Christ's strength, in Christ's victory, to exalt Him. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.