You turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew, Matthew's gospel. We'll return to our study there in chapter nine. I think you'll find that on page nine hundred and sixty-six of your few Bibles. And I'll begin reading there at verse fourteen. And read through verse 17. Let's give attention to God's holy word, Matthew 9, at verse 14. Then the disciples of John came to him saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, but the patch tears away from the garment, and the worse tear is made. Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst, and the wine is spilled, and the skins are destroyed But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we need the work of the Spirit this morning. Father, we are unable to grasp the depth and the breadth of your word unless the Spirit works powerfully within us. And so we ask now, Father. Work in us. We ask that you'd add your blessing to your word, and now, Lord God, that we would be led by your Spirit as your word is opened and preached. Help us, Lord. Guide and direct us now for your glory and for the exaltation of Christ and the praise of the Spirit. We ask this in His name. In Daniel there is a prayer in the middle of his prophecy. He has just opened Jeremiah and he now understands that there will be a time for their exile Seventy years. And as a result, he now seeks the face of God. He does so. By prayer and in pleas for mercy with fasting. And as Daniel prays, he's recognizing, he's confessing the sins Of not merely himself, but of the whole nation of Israel. All Israel. Those who are near, those who are far away, they've all been sent into exile because Of the treachery that they had committed against their God. Daniel confesses, we have sinned and done wickedly And then he prays that the Lord would make his face to shine upon his sanctuary. He prays that God would open his eyes and see the desolation of his people. And at the end of his prayer, he asks the Lord not only to hear, but to forgive. This passage that we have before us in Matthew is actually an answer to Daniel's prayer. As the Lord Jesus Christ has now come to shine his face upon the sanctuary, upon the temple of God. The one who represents and is the exact radiance of his father has come now to open his eyes and see the desolations that sin has ravaged on the people of God. And he's ultimately come to forgive. So we come to this passage today. We've already been to the Sermon on the Mount in which Jesus has already spoken about fasting. He's told his disciples not to look gloomy, not to be noticed by others for their fasting, but to anoint their head and wash their faces. That no one else would see but their Father who's in heaven. Jesus has cast out demons. He has healed many, and he has begun to call his disciples. The last passage that we were in before we took our break from Matthew saw the Pharisees complaining that Jesus was eating with sinners and tax collectors. And now we come to another complaint, the complaint of John's disciples. This morning I want us to see that those who are in Christ Jesus. Will rejoice because of his presence within. Those who are in Christ Jesus will rejoice because of his presence within. We'll see that this morning in three simple points. First, the practice of fasting. Secondly, the presence of the bridegroom, and finally, the preservation of the kingdom. Well, first the practice of fasting. Here we have the disciples coming and speaking directly to Jesus Christ, asking that question, why do we And the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast. You might have expected these words from the Pharisees or the scribes themselves, but From the disciples of John, this seems a bit unusual. Were they not on the same side as Jesus if there were sides to be taken? What were they saying, really? Well what was fasting Behoove us to think about that for a moment as we enter into this passage. What was fasting Webster's describes as to abstain from food? To omit some usual meals for a time. But if we look at Scripture We see that there are various purposes, goals for fasting. As David fasted, he fasted for the child that he had with Bathsheba. He sought God on behalf of the child, that God might preserve the life of this one We see fasting used to seek God's face to change the plans of men. That's exactly what was happening in Esther's time. When Mordecai and the Jews went about mourning and fasting and weeping and lamenting, because there had been an order by the king to remove them, to kill all of the Jews. We see mourning used most particularly for sin. Remember the king of Nineveh Remember, as Jonah goes about Nineveh proclaiming the destruction that was coming from the Lord because of their sin, what happens? The king issues a decree, let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water. Call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way and from the violence that is in his hands. There was this connection between fasting and turning from sin. It was a recognition of sin. And Jesus in this particular passage connects fasting with mourning. That's the idea. If we are mourning over sin, then that fasting comes together. Remember the Beatitudes. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. So fasting has a sense of casting off dependence upon the material world, the created world, and depending completely upon God, submitting yourself completely to Him, seeking His face The Israelites had a problem with fasting. In Isaiah 58 we see that they were complaining before God because they were fasting and they said, You don't notice They were trying to draw near to God, so to speak. But God responded through Isaiah and tells them that you fast to seek your own pleasure. You fast to oppress all your workers. You fast only to quarrel and to fight. That was not the kind of fasting which would make God hear or listen to them. From the Lord's perspective, as Isaiah continues, this is the fast that he chooses, to loose the bonds of wickedness, to let the oppressed go free, to share your bread with the hungry, bring the homeless poor into your house. To humble yourself. But what were John's disciples doing As they approached Jesus. Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not? What's wrong with them? What's wrong with your teaching, Jesus? What are you not doing? What are you not teaching them? Some think that this was an honest inquiry by John's disciples. But because they mentioned the Pharisees. I'm not quite sure it was merely an honest inquiry by the disciples. At a minimum, there seems to be a sense of self-righteousness. And that will be addressed by Jesus in his response. But just consider the tone of their question and what lies behind it. We're fasting, but you're not. We're righteous, we're lawkeepers, but your disciples are not. Remember the prayer of the Pharisee and the publican A Pharisee goes before God and says, I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector, I fast twice a week. Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples not fast? Fasting was called for by Jesus. This is not an issue of the disciples claiming to be doing something that was not within God's will. Fasting is a good thing. Jesus had already stated that fasting in secret would be rewarded by God. Those disciples of John who were siding with the Pharisees for the moment seemingly had the wrong reason for fasting. They connected it to the practice of the Pharisees. And so I think we can assume that their reason was connected in a way with the traditions of men. Just like that Pharisee who went to pray. I fast twice a week. The number of times per week was not set by God. Some would even say that there was only one time a year for fasting mentioned in the scriptures. But it appears that the Pharisees had set a standard which was outside of Scripture, which was extra-biblical, and they had pressed it upon others to the extent that John's disciples were saying, this is the way we should all be fasting. Why aren't you doing it? And so the idea of fasting seems to be one connected to self-righteousness. Seems to be connected with desiring to earn the favor of God through fasting. It seems to be pointing to self. Consider the words of the disciples as they describe their fasting. First, why do we fast? Jesus had already taught, beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. Their fasting was to be done in secret. And yet now they had made a public proclamation about their fasting for all to hear. We fast just like the Pharisees. We can do the same, can't we? We can take that which is prescribed by God as a very good thing in the scriptures, which is good and right and pleasing in his sight, and we can turn it into a boast. We can turn it into a self-righteous proclamation. We can turn it into a criticism of others for not meeting the standard. The followers of Christ are called to give to the poor and needy. We're called to pray. We're called to forgive. We're called to fast. But all this is to please our Heavenly Father, not to please men or ourselves. This morning I think we need to ask ourselves first, what is our motive? What is our motive for following the call of Jesus? Why give? Why pray? Why forgive? Why fast? Or in this case, why refrain from fasting? What's your motive? What drives you That brings us to our second point, the presence of the bridegroom. There certainly was a timing issue here. And Jesus points to that. And he uses it the picture of a wedding. To bring the teaching home. Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? He is now connecting fasting with mourning, and he's saying, Are those who are with the bridegroom, are they mourning? Weddings were a time of celebration. We know that. Mary, Jesus' mother, knew that. As they attend the wedding in John chapter 2, Mary notices that they've run out of wine, and she's concerned because weddings are an event of celebration. And the wine was gone. And she knew that was a critical part of the celebration. She knew that there was to be joy at this reception. And so she tells her son they have no wine. And we know the event, Jesus turns water into wine, and what happens, the celebration continues. The master of the feast calls the bridegroom and said to him, Everyone serves the good wine first, and people have drunk freely, then the poor wine, but you've kept the good until now. Celebration continued. Weddings were events of celebration, and that's what Jesus is bringing to the minds of those who would challenge what's going on. Throughout Scripture, we're given the image, the picture, the explanation of God being a husband to his people. We see in Isaiah. For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you, and as a bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you. Husband. For the Lord has called you like a wife, deserted and grieved in spirit, but I with everlasting love will have compassion on you. Isaiah 54. Jeremiah refers to God as being the husband of his people. And then we read that passage in Hosea. That graphage image of God calling the prophet to take a wife of prostitution into his home to love her. And then when she continued in her prostitution to go after her, what a picture I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love, and in mercy. God. And God being the husband of the bride, the church And it wasn't just the Old Testament, we see it in the New Testament as well. Paul refers to it as he's writing to those at Corinth: I betroth you to one husband to present you as a pure virgin to Christ. And then in that passage we might remember in Ephesians at the end of chapter 5, husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her that she might be holy and without blemeth blemish, this mystery is profound. And I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. John refers to Jesus as the bridegroom, doesn't he? You yourselves bear witness that I said, I'm not the Christ, but I've been sent before him. The one who has the bride is the bridegroom, the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. You see, Christ had come. The bride groom was now with his disciples, with the bridal party, who were in the midst of learning about that union that was coming between the groom and his bride. They were learning about it. They were excited about it. That great wedding day was going to take place soon and they were learning about that union that was going to happen and there was joy. John refers to it. This joy of mine is now complete as he hears the voice of his bridegroom. But it wasn't the wedding day yet. The one who would marry the bride, he was present, the bridegroom, Jesus Christ. The one who would bring the wedding dress for his beloved, the church. He was among his people. The one who was loving and would love the bride to the very end had come to dwell with her, at least for a time. The bridegroom had come and was preparing his bride. for that great wedding day and his presence was called for joy and celebration. It should have been. It should have been a call for joy and celebration for the disciples of John. Remember, John was the one who said, behold the Lamb of God. Who takes away the sin of the world? Daniel's prayer being answered. Forgiveness. And he's already been identified as the one who would usher in forgiveness for them. The presence of the bridegroom should have brought that rejoicing and celebration. Yet here it brings controversy. It brought accusations. Consider this just for a moment. That the bride had been continually straying from her husband. The church had known that God is her husband. And yet she continually strayed. But the groom continued to pursue her. Just as Hosea pursued his wife of harlotry God Himself had come down. The second person of the Trinity had condescended, lowered himself to be in the presence of the children. The pure one was in their midst. And he was not coming to seek a divorce. The Lord was not giving up. God was not seeking another bride. The Son of God, the bridegroom, had come, and he was present in bodily form among those who had rejected him. And yet he came, not merely to show up, but to present and to proclaim his love. for his bride, even though he had been rejected. Even though the bride, the church, the people of God had strayed far away, the bridegroom had yet come for her no longer casting her off, no longer sending her away into exile, but drawing and wooing his bride to himself. That's the loveliness of Jesus. The one who presents himself As lovely as beautiful. The one is described in the Song of Songs as radiant and ruddy, distinguished Head is finest gold, his eyes like doves, cheeks are like beds of spices, mounds of sweet-smelling herbs. This is my beloved, this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem, his mouth is most sweet, and he is altogether desirable. See, Jesus had come to present himself and all of his beauty. His beauty is found in his love for his father. My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. He proclaimed that to his disciples. That was part of his beauty, his love for his father. His beauty was found in his love for the Word of God and his longing to do it. Think of his prayer at Gethsemane. My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. Jesus knew that this was proclaimed, this was prophesied. This was to fulfill the very word that he loved. And his beauty is found in his love for the word. His beauty is found in his zeal for the house of God, isn't it? As he goes into the temple and he drives out those who had made the Father's house into a house of trade, his disciples remember this loveliness, veal, for your house will consume me. His beauty was found in his never-ending love for the children of God, so deep that the bridegroom would lay down his life for the bride. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her ever, cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. And Jesus' beauty, his loveliness is found in his selflessness. The very God of very God came down and did not have a place to lay his head. The one who communed within the Trinity rises from supper, lays aside his outer garments, and begins to wash the feet of his disciples. The one who was in the form of God did not account equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a serpent. Servant being born in the likeness of men, humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death even on a cross. That's the loveliness of Jesus. That's what he was presenting as he comes as the bridegroom. Do you meditate upon Jesus this way? It would appear that the disciples of John, as they were fasting, they had no thought, no meditation upon Jesus. Jesus was not yet lovely to them. But to you. Do you think of his loveliness, of his beauty? And the joy that's going to spring up in his actual presence of his second coming. Do you meditate in such a way that As you come to worship every Lord's day, you're ready to celebrate because of his loveliness. That brings us to our third point, the preservation of the kingdom. Now, Jesus provides two illustrations to those who may be having a difficulty understanding. The truth that his disciples could not mourn because the bridegroom was with them. Now he begins describing that something new has happened. And as a result of that, something new, as a result of his presence amongst the people of God Things have changed dramatically. And so he provides these two illustrations. Illustrations that seemed to contrast those who were clean to self-righteousness. With those who are clinging to the grace of God. And Jesus provides that illustration. No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment For the patch tears away from the garment and a worse tear is made. Now, I am not a seamstress, but I think the idea is that the old garment has already shrunk To its fullest capacity to shrink. And so if you take a piece of new cloth, which is unshrunk and place it upon that old piece, which is torn, seeking to mend it. What you actually do as the new piece shrinks, you'll just create a greater tear in the old garment. That seems to be the idea. That seems to be what Jesus is proclaiming. And it seems to be a picture to an extent of the people of God who were already torn. That terror began with Adam in the garden. That breaking away from God. That sinfulness, that corruption, it began with Adam in the garden and quickly became, so to speak, worse, at least from a human perspective, as the firstborn Cain murders His brother Abel and then the people are corrupt throughout, their entire beings necessitating the flood and we read of the Tower of Babel and the unfaithfulness of the Israelites as they are finally banished From the promised land. And now as Jesus comes, as the Christ appears, as the bridegroom is amongst them, if he were merely set upon the old. The whole garment would be destroyed. That seems to be at least my understanding of what this could mean. The disciples of John, who were following the Pharisees, at least in this aspect, begin to open up the problem of self-righteousness. That which the Pharisees were following, that which the Pharisees were committed to, being their own righteousness. They're not fasting with the right motive. Behold, in the day of your fast, you seek your own pleasure. The bridegroom had come to fulfill the old and usher in the new. The tear on the old and the existing could not be fixed with a patch. It wouldn't work. Indeed, we see a picture of it as Jesus comes and the old is resisting. It tears itself apart, doesn't it? The Pharisees, the chief priests, the scribes lead Jesus directly to the cross. They were tearing themselves apart. But the fast that Jesus called for, the fast that his father called for, was for a person to humble himself. And so new wineskins were needed. In this second illustration, which equates to the first as well, but gives a different picture, but get the same teaching. New wineskins were needed. Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst, and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed, but new wine is put into fresh wineskins, so both are preserved. There must be this substitution. The new wine. Jesus has come. And so there must be a substitution for that which would hold him, so to speak. There must be this setting aside of the old. We have this picture of the old which must be set aside. It can't be used for the new wine. That fermentation process of wine apparently produces gas, and as the gas expands, then they would just break apart the old wineskins which had expanded to their extent. In order that the new mind may be poured into and kept. It had to be a new skin which held it. The old could not be used. They had to be cast aside. They were ineffective. They couldn't hold the new. And so new skins must be brought out That the old, excuse me, that the new wine would be preserved. Jesus is providing another illustration And that men would be able to quickly grasp. They knew this. They knew that new wine had to be placed in new wineskins. And so they grasped this. And so they were now beginning to understand that they needed to be made new. Just as Nicodemus was told by the Lord Jesus Christ, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot even see the kingdom of God. Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. They needed new birth And so Jesus is providing a picture, in a sense, of seemingly the outpouring of the Spirit. the Holy Spirit into the children of God. He was providing an illustration, a picture of the new covenant. If we were to turn to Ezekiel 11, we would be reading about the outpouring of the Spirit And I will give them one heart and a new spirit I will put within them, I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and Obey them. You see, it would seem that the disciples of John were seeking to be righteous in their selves. And Jesus was saying, Well, you can't take what I'm offering you and merely put it on top of what you're trying to do. You must get rid of that first. You must bring out a new heart. A new heart must be given to you. So that the Spirit can be poured into it, and you can receive me. As we see the work of the Spirit who leads the children of God in holiness and their sanctification, in their striving after new obedience, we're seeing that new wine being poured into the new wineskins so they can both. That's the idea. Both preserved Jesus. Jesus was all about preserving his father's kingdom He was making the old into the new. He is the new and must be poured into the hearts, into the new hearts of the children of God through his spirit. And that's the way he preserves his father's kingdom. You see? The children couldn't do it on their own The Pharisees had attempted to do it and they failed. Jesus is the only one who merits, who earns the favor of his Father. Through his perfect obedience, through his desire, through his longing to do the will of his Father. And all of that is applied to the children of God by faith in the new covenant Jesus was preserving the kingdom. And that calls for celebration, doesn't it? Jesus said there will be a time for mourning when he, the bridegroom, was taken away. And certainly there is a time for mourning As we consider why it was that Jesus had to go to the cross, as we remember our sins and that was which nailed him to the cross, there is a time for mourning, but he was with his disciples He was teaching them about the union that needed to take place between himself and them. That he was the new wine. And he needed to be poured into them. That they could be saved. Do you see each and every Lord's Day As we celebrate Jesus' death on the cross and his resurrection, his triumph over sin and death. It's a reason for celebration. Thinking upon the union that will occur between Christ and his bride On that great wedding day, they calls for celebration. Yes, there will be times for mourning, but in worship every S single Lord's day, we are remembering what Christ has done and what he's promised to do and the union that he is creating as he continues to pour himself into us. Are you? Are you celebrating? We should be. That's the call this morning. That as Jesus Christ pours himself into the hearts of his children, we are all to celebrate Yes, Daniel's prayer was ultimately for forgiveness that he would actually send one to Provide that forgiveness which Daniel knew that the people needed. Brothers and sisters, we have him in Christ Jesus today. And that calls for celebration. Amen. Father and our God, what a glorious passage this is. For us to meditate upon the loveliness of Christ Jesus as our bridegroom. For us to meditate upon the fact that He has come, that you have not divorced us. And Father, you still desire us, your people, to be in union with our bridegroom. And Father, we so look forward to that day. But even today we know that Christ continues to pour Himself into us through the Spirit. And so we pray, Lord God, continue through Christ to preserve your kingdom. And help us to give you all the glory and to celebrate. To celebrate our bridegroom today and every Lord's Day this year. We ask this in Jesus' name.