Attention now to God's holy word. Lamentations 3, beginning at verse 25. The Lord is good to those who wait for Him, to the soul who seeks Him. It is good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. It is good for a man to bear the yoke in his youth. Let him sit alone and keep silent, because God has laid it on him. Let him put his mouth in the dust. There may yet be hope. Let him give his cheek to the one who strikes him, and be full of reproach. For the Lord will not cast off forever. Though he causes grief, yet he will show compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. For he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men. To crush under one's feet all the prisoners of the earth, to turn aside the justice do a man before the face of the Most High, or subvert a man in his cause The Lord does not approve. Who is he who speaks and it comes to pass when the Lord has not commanded it? Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that woe and well-being proceed? Why should a living man complain a man for the punishment of his sins? Let us search out and examine our ways and turn back to the Lord. Let us lift our hearts and hands to God in heaven. We have transgressed and rebelled. You have not pardoned. You have covered yourself with anger and pursued us. You have slain and not pitied. You have covered yourself with a cloud that prayer should not pass through. You've made us an offscoring and refuse in the midst of the peoples. All our enemies have opened their mouths against us. Fear and the snare have come upon us, desolation and destruction. My eyes overflow with rivers of water for the destruction of the daughter of my people. My eyes flow and do not cease without interruption. To the Lord from heaven looks down and sees. My eyes bring suffering to my soul because of all the daughters of my city My enemies, without cause, hunted me down like a bird. They silenced my life in the pit and threw stones at me. The waters flowed over my head. I said, I am cut off. I called on your name, O Lord, from the lowest pit. You have heard my voice. Do not hide your ear from my sighing, from my cry for help. You drew near on the day I called to you on I and said, Do not fear Oh Lord, you have pleaded the case for my soul. You have redeemed my life. Oh Lord, you have seen how I am wrong to judge my case. You have seen all their vengeance, all their schemes against me. You have heard their reproach, O Lord, all their schemes against me The lips of my enemies and they're whispering against me all the day. Look at their sitting down and they're rising up. I am their taunting song. Repay them, O Lord, according to the work of their hands. Give them a veiled heart. Your curse be upon them In your anger, pursue and destroy them from under the heavens of the Lord. As far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated Father in heaven, we come now to continue our study in this book, a difficult book. Difficult, for it speaks of your wrath and our sin. But a glorious book. For it speaks of your mercy. It speaks, Lord God, of your great faithfulness. It speaks of your compassion for your children. It speaks of Christ. Help us now. Be with us now. Guide us by your Spirit. Pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We have some children with us this morning and some parents, and my guess is that some of you, maybe all of you, know. About punishment that sometimes children, fathers, mothers Punish their children. Sometimes the behavior of a child is such that it requires the parent to punish Sometimes we might use the word chastise, discipline. Why? Your children may be asking that question right now. Why is that? Why do I get punished? Why does a father take time? Why does a mother take time? They're busy. Fathers and mothers have much to do. And children, sons and daughters, sometimes they just keep on disobeying. Doesn't seem like that punishment does much good. There are no immediate results. It may seem to the parent that that punishment could be just a waste of time. Ultimately, it's not. We read this morning in Hebrews that the children of God are chastened for their profit. That the children might be partakers of God's holiness. Good parents do keep on disciplining their children And ultimately those results will come. Ultimately, they will honor God. Today in Lamentations, as we've been going through this, we have been seeing that this book describes the wrath of God as it has fallen on Jerusalem, on the temple. And it describes the destruction, the suffering of the people because of their sins, as God's anger has been poured out. And decimated the people, the city, the temple, and their land. But then last week, as we got to chapter three, You saw at the end of it there the Lord's great faithfulness that in his wrath there is great faithfulness. Today, as we continue that study here and in the same chapter, as we finish that chapter up today, Lord willing As the Word of God continues to focus our hearts upon His faithfulness or upon His covenantal love, we're going to see, Lord willing, how that faithfulness works out. In the hearts and minds of his people, how ultimately it brings them to be unified or reunified with him. Today we're looking at God's wrath or his fatherly chastening love, and we're going to see how that works in the hearts. of his people, his sons and daughters, to conform them more and more to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ and how ultimately it works to unite us to our heaven This morning, I want us to see this. God's fatherly chastening love gently conforms a saved sinner to the image of Christ. Leading to reunion with God Himself. We see that in three points. First, wrath. The Lord chastened. Second response, the sinner conformed. And thirdly, result, the children reunited. Let me ask this morning as we begin Do you meditate? Do you consider? Do you think upon how the love of the Lord Jesus Christ stands behind everything in your Christian life We usually put it behind. It's usually not out front. It's usually second to third thought, maybe, not the first It rarely gets the front seat. But as we go through this passage today, I want you to be considering the depth and the breadth of the love of the Lord Jesus Christ for you. Even here in the Book of Lamentations. And as you see the love of Christ working Standing behind all that happens here in this passage, consider how you should be keeping the love of Christ before you as you see it working in all aspects of your your life, even in the chastening hand of God. Well our first point, wrath. The Lord chastened. Well, we began by talking about that parental duty, that fatherly, that motherly duty of disciplining a child, the Book of Lamentations. certainly is a description of what happened to the people of God, to their capital city, to the promised land, to the temple, as a result of their unrepentant sin. Yes, it is exactly that. It's his righteous wrath poured out upon the sins of his people. It contains a great warning that judgment day is coming and those not in Christ will be destroyed, just like Jerusalem, just like the temple, wiped out, ruined, the eternal wrath of God laid upon them. But now, here in this portion of Lamentations 3, With this as the backdrop, the wrath of God, we're given a sense that the author, the Spirit, is guiding us. To consider very related, very similar the fatherly chastisement of God. There's a significant sense here in this passage That we can rightly understand this passage. Yes, as historical. Yes, as Jerusalem being truly wiped out. Yes, as God's wrath being poured out upon them. But Understand it is a passage which describes God's fatherly chastisement even of us. And how that works, a conforming response in our hearts. And ultimately how it brings us into union and communion with Him. And so it as a result, today I'm going to be using the word chastisement often. You're not going to see it here in the passage. It's not there. But I think it points us to that. And so you're going to hear that. Chastisement, discipline. Very often this morning. So be ready for it. The truth is that God is the one who does bring affliction. We see that so clearly in this passage. It's a God who brought affliction upon his people. upon the city, upon the temple. We're just going to go through a few of the verses here to see that. And I'm going to be jumping around, so follow me if you can. Verse 28 here. Let him sit alone and keep silent, because God has laid it upon him. Verse 31 Lord will not cast off forever. He causes grief. Verse thirty-two Verse thirty-four. To crush under one's feet all the prisoners of the earth, to turn aside the justice to a man before the face of the the most high or subvert a man in his cause, we might think that that's exactly what God is doing here. It's not. Verse 38. Is not from the mouth of the Most High that woe proceeds, woe and well-being. He is the one from whom this affliction has come. Verse 43, you have covered yourself with anger and pursued us. You have slain and not pitied You've covered yourself with a cloud that prayer should not pass through. You've made us an offscoring and refuse. This is the work of God. What's the point? As we experience chastisement, it's coming from the hand of God. Sometimes it seems harsh. As we read through Lamentations, it seems really harsh. Things are destroyed, never to rise again. No one remains. The children are suffering in the streets. Like a wounded soldier, they're swooning, they're crying out to their mother for food. There is none. It seems heavy and harsh like Solomon's son Rehoboam as he comes into power. He tells the people, you know what, my father made your yoke heavy, but I'm going to add to your yoke. He chastened you with whips, but I'll chasten you with scourges. Harsh, it seems that way. But it's not Look at verse 33. There are limitations. There are boundaries. There are constraints that God places upon him his wrath here, upon his affliction, upon his chastisement. Verse 33, he does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men. What does that mean? Does that mean it's against his will to bring chastisement? It was against his will to destroy Jerusalem? No, of course not. God doesn't want to bring this chastisement. He wants his children to obey. He wants to see sacrifice of a contrite heart. He doesn't want to bring out the guns, but he does so in order to conform us. Chastisement is a form of mercy. Look at verse 32. Another boundary around it. Though he causes grief, Yet he will show compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. You see, as God sends affliction, he sends out that chastisement He sends it with compassion. Indeed, we might even define chastisement as a means of mercy, as a means of compassion. It's a demonstration of the love of God. Do you think of it that way? As you're chastised. And if you're a son or daughter of God most high, what did Hebrews tell us? You will be disciplined. If you're not being disciplined, then you're not his child. So as you receive that chastisement, as you receive that discipline, are you thinking Oh, yes, he's causing this, but he will show compassion. He will pour out his mercy. Have you ever thought why is it that God doesn't afflict willingly? Why is it that while God causes grief, yet he shows mercy and compassion? Think about this. Without Jesus, the temple remains in ruins. Without Jesus, Jerusalem is still under tons of debris. It wasn't rebuilt. Without Jesus, there would never have been sounds of songs of worship. Again, without Jesus, the people of Jerusalem would remain in exile. The person of Jesus, his purity, his loveliness, his obedience to the will of the Father. That's why. That's why God does not afflict willingly. That's why as God chastises, as he afflicts, it's in his mercy. It's because of Jesus. With Jesus and only Jesus, there is reason for chastisement. To conform the people of God to the image of His Son Son. Without Jesus, there's no reason for chastisement. Because there will be no temple, there will be no worship, there will be no reunion. Without Jesus, we can't even read this verse 31. For the Lord will not reject forever. With Jesus, that's a true statement. The Lord will love us and pour out his mercy on us. He will not reject forever. Each and every one of God's acts of chastisement are purposeful. Every time. God is seeking a particular result. As you receive his chastisement, he is seeking to do something within you. to change your heart in some way to make you more like Jesus Christ. We see it in the destruction of the city, the ruined temple, the people staggering. In the streets like wounded soldiers crying out to their mothers for fools. All of this brought the narrator to weep and mourn, a flood of tears, to confess sin and to seek the Lord. You see, there was purpose In his chastisement, and every single time he chastises you, there is purpose in God's chastisement Let's go to our second head to see that purpose. Our second head is response. The sinner conformed. God is working on hearts through his chastisement in order to bring about a response, just like an earthly father. An earthly father intends, he seeks a response from his son, his daughter. An earthly father seeks a change. And that son or daughter, the earthly father has observed behavior which needs to be changed, which needs to be corrected. So an earthly father punishes, he disciplines, he uses the rod, he spanks, he gets the attention of his son or daughter. With the intent or purpose of producing a change. God's work of chastisement is similar, but much greater. Much more effective. And is designed to change the heart. As we continue here in this Lamentations 3, this chapter We're able to hear and see of that change, that response that's taking place as the narrator continues. We'll see that he lists various things and we'll group them together in in six heads. I'd like you to keep count because there will be a test after the service. Six ways at least that God seeks a response to his chastisement, that God changes hearts, our hearts first. As we receive chastisement, the first response should be hope. Look at verse 25. The Lord is good to those who wait for Him, to the soul who seeks Him. It is good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. That's the first response to the Lord's chastising hand. Without hope, none of the other responses would follow. Look at the verse again. It's good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation. Of the Lord. Hope for salvation. It's central, it's critical. As one is chastised, then the first response should be: Oh Lord, I'm hoping I'm certain of what you're doing. I know that the Lord Jesus Christ has died for me, and what you're doing is making me more like Christ so I can be with you. That's my hope. That should be my first response. Without initially responding to the fatherly chastisement of God in hope, the action, the work of God will not be rightly seen or understood. If hope then is the first part, the greatest part of that response to chastisement that the Christian is seeing, then Then that change will come about, that response that the Lord is looking for will come to fruition, but without hope. Nothing will happen. Happen. Number two, sit alone. That should be your second response to the chastisement of the Lord. Sit alone. Verse 28: Let him sit alone and keep silent. Why? That's kind of strange. Receiving the chastising hand of God, and you're called now just to sit alone. But as one sits, as one contemplates that which the Lord has done As one meditates upon that chastisement. As one spends times in contemplation, serious contemplation about what the Lord has done, everything else stops. Everything. I've got to go to work. No, sit. I've got to cook dinner. No, sit. I've got to do my home. No, no. Sit. Sit and cook. Contemplate. Sitting allows one to stop everything else. Sitting forces one to stop moving, stop doing, and contemplate what has the Lord just done. Number three, wait quietly, keep silent. Look at verse 28 again. Let them sit alone and keep silent. Jump back to verse 26. It's good that one should hope and wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. No, this is exactly what the Israelites did not do. In the wilderness, as the Lord brought afflictions upon them, as he removed water for a time, as he removed food for a time, chastisement. As he was testing their faith, what did they do? They kept silent, right? No, absolutely not. They grumbled and complained. They spoke. They reviled God. What does God say? Who is he who speaks and it comes to pass? When the Lord has not commanded it. Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that woe and well-being proceed? Why should a living man complain? A man for the punishment of his sins. Do you see what the Lord is saying? Sit quietly. Don't speak. Not yet. Number four Examine yourself. Confess sin. Look at verse forty. Let us search out and examine our ways. Turn back to the Lord. See, isn't that what chastising does? Isn't that what the Lord does as he chastises, as you're meditating upon it, as you're sitting, as you're being quiet, as you're silent? And now as the Spirit is speaking to you, he's saying, Examine your ways. Consider your sin. Consider what you have done, how you've broken God's law. Examine your ways. Turn back to God. You've transgressed, you've rebelled. Yes. Examination leads to confession, doesn't it? Which leads then to turning back to God. Good and proper responses to seeing and understanding the Lord's chastening hand. Number five is Lament. 43. As now the narrator describes what God is doing, what has happened in God's heart. That he has been turned to anger, that he has been pursuing, that he's slain, he's not pitied. Verse 44: You've covered yourself with a cloud that prayer should not pass through. That's a lamentation. God's not hearing at that moment as he chastises, as he's waiting for you to examine your heart, to uncover that sin, to confess it. He's not hearing yet. And that's causing you to lament. To grieve. This is what my sin has done. I've offended a holy God so much so that his anger is furious within him, and he's pursuing me, like he's slain me, he's not having his pity upon me. He won't hear me. He's covered himself with a cloud. My prayers can't pass through. Lamentation. Verse forty eight My eyes overflow with rivers of water for the destruction of the dog Water of my people, my eyes flow and do not cease. Yes. Lamentation, lamenting is a response to the chastity Finally, number six. It's prayer. Prayer It's the culmination of a Christian response to the chastising hand of God. You might think, really? Prayer? Seems like the response might culminate in worship. Yes, of course. Prayer is worship. But that's what we see here. Starting in verse 55, I called on your name, O Lord, from the lowest pit As this one has been responding to the chastisement of God, he has now humbled himself, he is in that lowest pit. He's not like the Pharisee boasting, oh Lord, look at what I've done. Look at how I've served you, look at how I've given to the poor, and how I've prayed. No, he's humbled himself. He's in a pit. You've heard my voice. Do not hide your ear from my sighing, from my cry for help. You drew near on the day I called on you and said, Do not fear. Through chastisement, and that spirit-led response to chastisement, one is being drawn closer. to the Father. Do you remember one of the first responses was being silent. And now, at the end The call, the the response to chastisement now is no longer to be silent. But to pray, to speak to God, from silence, to intimate communion with God the Father. Think of the prodigal son, the one That wayward son who took his father's money and left him so far that he had no communion with his father, no way to communicate until he was brought to his senses and brought back. What happened? Then he spoke to his father. They were in communion, sweet communion with each other, and that's what chastisement does. That's what the prodigal son was experiencing in that foreign land when the money was gone. He was being chastised, and that brought him back to intimate Communion with his Father. Do you see the ultimate response to the Lord's chastising hand? Is prayer? And isn't that really being conformed to the image of Christ How many times in the gospels do we read of Christ going off and praying with his father? He's always praying with his father. And that's what chastisement does. It brings us to that point where this is all we can do. All we can do is join together with the Father in prayer like our elder brother Christ. Christ. Is that what you do? When you're feeling the chastising hand Is that where He leads you? Is that where the Spirit takes you? Brothers and sisters, we should be praying for this. We should be praying that as as God does chastise us and he does and he will and he will continue to do so until Jesus comes to take us home, we should be praying that that God would lead us, that the Spirit would lead us to That intimate prayer and communion through chastisement. That the Spirit would be shaping and molding our prayers. That communion would be sweet, that fellowship Be so close, just like Father and Son, God the Father and God the Son. That brings us to the final head, the result, children reunited All of this then has been describing, as we go through this last portion of Lamentation, has been describing sin which led to destruction and exile and separation, and now it's just Describing that reunification. As we began in Lamentations, all we saw was was death and and desolation No reconciliation. And now, as we move to the center of the book, we're we're seeing that reconciliation through the Lord Jesus Christ. And today we started with fatherly chastisement and we saw that that caused the Spirit to lead one in and change, a change in in behavior, a change in thinking, a change in mind, a a conforming to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. And as that takes place then Ultimately, what happens is we are reunified. We're brought into that union and communion again with God the Father. Why do I say that? Where do I see that? It's in this prayer. As the narrator prays, and he prays to the Lord from verse 58 to the end. This is his prayer. This is his prayer recorded, but it tells us that by and through his responses to the chastisement of the Lord, that he has been now drawn into union and perfect communion with God. Let's take a look and see what we can see here. He's pleading with the Lord. He's pleading for help. He's pleading for justice. He's pleading for righteousness. Look at verse 49 and 50 as the backdrop. My eyes flow and do not cease without interruption. To the Lord from heaven looks down and sees, my eyes bring suffering to my soul because of all the daughters of my enemies. He's crying out to the Lord, he's saying, Look at what has happened. God, hear. Respond. Save us. Our enemies, without cause, have hunted me down like a bird, and here's the plea, verse fifty five, I called on your name, O Lord, from the lowest pit, you've heard my voice. You see, now he knows. He knows that he can enter into prayer, that intimate communion with God, and because now they've been reunified, he knows that the Lord will hear. He knows that the Lord will respond. He knows that only the Lord has the power, he's sovereign to do what he's asking. To save his people from their enemies. Look at how he seeks out justice and righteousness. Verse 59, O Lord, you have seen how I am wronged. Judge my case. He's saying the wicked have attacked. The wicked have attacked attacked in unrighteousness, and he is pleading for the Lord's righteousness, the Lord's just justice to be brought to bear. The plea is not to have mercy in our sins. The plea now is this one has been wronged. He's suffering because he has aligned himself With God he's suffering because he's in union with God, with the Savior, and now the enemies are attacking unjustly, unrighteously, and he seeks justice from the just God. The Israelites weren't seeking righteousness. It took the wrath of God poured out upon them, upon the city, upon the temple, for there to be a confession of sin. They weren't seeking righteousness. And so it took that wrath poured out. It took the destruction of the city, of the temple, it took exile for them to now seek righteousness. That's what's happening. You see, the same happens with us. As we receive the chastising hand of God, as he conforms us more and more into Christ, now our prayers, we are so in union and communion with God the Father, we are so aligned with Him that that's what we want, that we call for. His justice, his righteousness to prevail. We want wickedness to be destroyed You see, as God's anger was first poured out on his people, now the prayer is when this one is in union and communion with God, when he's been reunified, that that same anger would now be poured out upon the enemies. of God and upon the enemies of his people. Verse 65, give them a veiled heart Your curse be upon them. In your anger, pursue and destroy them from under the heavens of the Lord. You see that part of the full restoration of the people of God includes the destruction of their enemies. You might say, well, who are the enemies? Moabites? Philistines? The Russians? No No. In order for us to enter glory, Satan must be destroyed In order for us to enter glory, sin must be fully and completely vanquished. Those are our enemies. That's the prayer. We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities. Against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places, and this is what God must destroy. For us to be fully and completely unified to Him. Let me not take you on a rabbit trip, because this is related. But do you think when Jesus was walking with those two on the road to Emmaus, as he was opening up the scriptures that spoke of him, do you think he turned to Lamentations? Do you think he went there and said, hey, let me tell you what this says about me? Let me tell you that this is all about me. You think he said, Look, that temple that was crushed ruined that was me on the cross. When it says that God's faithfulness is great, that his mercies are new every morning, do you think that was the empty tomb? Do you think that was me risen from the dead? I don't know if Jesus did open up lamentations to them, but he could have. And it would have constantly pointed to him. For without Jesus, for without his shed blood, for without his atoning sacrifice. For without his triumph over sin and death in the tomb, for without his resurrection, for without his ascension, there would be no lamentations. There would be no new temple. There would be no worship. Yes, this book of Lamentations is all about Jesus Christ. It's about his everlasting love, and because of who Jesus is, God chastises Because of what Jesus has done, we are being changed to be more like Him every day as God chastises. And because of Jesus' perfect atoning sacrifice, his ruling reign today, because of his communion with God the Father and their love, we do have. that union and communion today with our Heavenly Father. Yes, God's fatherly chastening love gently conforms a saved sinner to the image of Christ and ultimately in union with God the Father. Yes, we need to discipline our children. But God, we need his chastising hand to make us more like Christ and to bring us into union with the Godhead Praise be to God. Amen. Could you pray with me? Father in heaven, there are some things in Scripture which are difficult to understand and to apply. We pray, Lord God, that by your Spirit that you would apply this passage to us today. That you would help us, Father, as we receive your chastising hand to respond in a way that pleases you. To Father, enter into intimate prayer with you. To know that we've been reunited in Christ Jesus and to give him all the praise and glory. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen