I hope that you all heard the scripture passage or that you were reading it for yourself. Let's pray. Dear Father, we thank you for your word And Lord help us to desire it like newborn infants need and want milk, because we are nourished and strengthened by your word. It is living and active. And we thank you, Lord, for the Word of God, Jesus Christ Himself, come in the flesh, who is now the final prophet that speaks to us. And we would see him in this passage. So Lord, please give us the Holy Spirit to help us to understand. And then to apply these things to our lives because we want to live lives of obedience and gratitude and praise, praising you for all the great things that you have done. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. My father-in-law, who I had the greatest respect for, my father-in-law liked to take walks And when he came back, his pockets were always full of stones that he picked up along the way. So many, in fact, that my mother-in-law eventually used them to make a path in the garden And he explained to me once why he did this. He said, these stones, they're common, they're ordinary. In fact I Picked up one in our backyard. Nothing beautiful about it. Kind of rough. Kind of dirty. And he said, I look at this as a picture of the way that I work with people as a minister of the gospel, because you can cut open a stone and polish it on the inside and it's beautiful. Now, you notice that in this passage we read, there's a lot of discussion about stones. And you might wonder, why is Peter so interested in stones? He was not a stonemason. He was not a stone carver. He was a fisherman. But he became a disciple of Jesus, who, for the first 30 years of his life, was a carpenter. And you might think carpenter's woodwork, but in those days carpenters also did stonework. And several times in his teaching Jesus referred to stones. We'll come across a couple of them in just a minute. But there was another reason Peter was so interested in stones. Remember the time that Jesus changed his name from simply Simon to Simon Peter. And Peter means rock. In Greek it's petros, rock, and sometimes you see it referred to as Cephas. That's just the Aramaic for the same thing. Peter the rock Jesus had asked his disciples, what do people say about me? Who do they say I am? And they said, well, uh John the Baptist? Maybe the return of Elijah, another prophet, perhaps. And then he said, What do you say I am? Now that's the question for the ages. Every one of us has to answer that question. At the recent yard sale I heard Brother Alex talking with someone who came And asked him, what do you say Jesus is? Who do you say Jesus is? And Peter, blessed Peter, stepped forward and said, You are the Christ. The Messiah, the anointed one, the promised one. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus said, You are blessed, Peter. Flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father in heaven, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church. Now there's a little play on words going on there. Peter means rock on this rock. But in the Greek there's a little difference. They're actually two different words. You are Petros, his new name and on this petra, it's a stone and a rock, I will build my church. So Peter was a foundational apostle, no question about it. But the church is built on the cornerstone of Jesus himself. And everyone who enters the church makes this same confession And that's what the church is built on. Do you confess that Jesus is Lord and in your heart believe that God raised him from the dead, then you will be saved. Now, I was thinking about Peter the Rock, and in another sense you might think that name was appropriate because occasionally, at times, his profession of faith got a little rocky. Very soon after this tremendous confession Peter got in the way of Jesus going to the cross. And Jesus had to say to him, get thee behind me, Satan. And then later Jesus is arrested. Peter follows. And publicly, he denies being a disciple of Jesus. Not once, not twice, but three times publicly. And then with all the other disciples, he deserts Jesus. Now, Peter repented. Sincerely. And Jesus forgave him. Jesus restored him. Three times he said to Peter, Feed my sheep. And then not long after that, the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit comes And it's Peter who steps forward and gives this magnificent sermon, after which 3,000 souls are added to the church. Peter the Rock. Well, he talks in this passage a lot about stones, and in particular, a specific stone that he refers to as A living stone, a living stone that is chosen by God Nevertheless, rejected by men, and thirdly, precious to us believers So those are the three points of the message this morning. So point number one, chosen by God. So verse 4, we we come to him a living stone. That's That's a bit of an oxymoron, if you know what that means. It means it doesn't work. Stones are not living. Stones are inanimate Some of you here this morning maybe old enough to remember the fad of pet rocks. Somebody had this wonderful idea that the perfect pet would be a rock. You don't have to feed it. You don't have to walk it. You don't have to clean up after it and so forth. And so he got these rocks, he put them in boxes with instructions for their care. And it was a fad and he sold four million of them, made some money, and then the fad disappeared. course. Because a rock is a a rock. Nothing to it. You know, I uh yeah, I picked one up in our yard. I mean it's just it's you've got them out in front of the churchyard But there are people who worship rocks. And for example, I was in China on business And in this on the side of a cliff, carved out of the rock was this giant Buddha. And people worshiped the rock, even though It it doesn't speak, it doesn't hear, it doesn't see, it doesn't think. What good is it? But what we have here is something very special, a living stone, which means we're not talking about a what We're talking about a who, a person. Who is this person? I'm sure you've already guessed, but Peter then identifies this person Using various adjectives. The first one, in the sight of God, chosen. Chosen. This living stone is chosen. Okay. You know the Old Testament. That should ring a bell. And just let me read you a verse from Isaiah 42, verse 1. Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delight. So the Jews knew that the chosen one was a name for the coming Messiah And at the Transfiguration, Peter was there with James and John. And at one point, God the Father spoke and said, This is my Son, the chosen one. And you see it once more in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 23, Jesus is hanging on the cross, he's being crucified, killed, he's an innocent man, but He's being executed, and the Jewish religious leaders stand there and sneer at him. And they say, He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, the chosen one. So they throw this title right back at him. But now we know this living stone in the sight of God chosen is the Lord Jesus Christ. And then Peter says, not only chosen, but precious. Now what makes something precious? Well, if it's very rare, for example Uh there's a if you collect stamps, you know this one stamp that has an upside down airplane and it's worth millions. It's very rare. Was Jesus rare? I think so. He was eternally God, and at a certain point he took on a complete human nature. So one person, two natures. I don't know anybody else like this. And he had to be that way. He had to be man to pay for the sins of men and women. He had to be God to be able to endure the wrath of God against sin. and to be able to offer a very valuable atoning sacrifice. So I like mathematics, so pardon me for a minute if I do a little calculation. If I sin once a minute, and I'm sure it's more than that, and there's sixty minutes in an hour and twenty-four hours in a day and three to six days of the year to age seventy-five I will have committed thirty-nine million four hundred thousand sins. Then you have to think what is each sin cost? Little white lie, ten dollars, hundred dollars, murdering someone, millions. And then you have to think how many believers are there in the community of the church? And I hope there are millions So you multiply those all together and you've got quadrillion, zillion, billion beyond thinking, no way that we can pay for that. But the sacrifice of Jesus was valuable enough to cover all our sins. Very precious indeed. God at Jesus' baptism said, You are my beloved Son, with you I am well pleased. He was treasure, precious in that way. And uh valuable, well, you know, if you go downtown to the Smithsonian, you'll see the Hope Diamond. Valuable, it's supposed to be the biggest diamond in the world. Jesus is more than that. He is the pearl of great price. And then Peter goes on to say that Chosen precious and this living stone is a cornerstone. Again, if you go downtown, big huge stone government buildings And you'll often find in a corner at the base a cornerstone on which it might be engraved, this building was erected in 19 whatever, and maybe some names of people involved in the construction of that building. So back in Jesus' day, the cornerstone was the very first stone that was laid And it had to be nice and square and big. Because from that cornerstone, the walls, their orientation would be determined, and their level would be determined, so it had to be straight. And it had to be strong because the entire stability of the building depended on the cornerstone. Pull that stone out, probably the building would collapse. So this living stone is a cornerstone. And he quotes here from Isaiah twenty-eight I'm laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious. That's exactly where Peter got this phrase that he used back in verse So he puts this all together. Chosen, precious, cornerstone, can't get any better than that. But But rejected by men. What is going on here? John in his gospel chapter one says, He came to his own, and his own did not receive And it was predicted by Isaiah, Isaiah 53, well known. He was despised and rejected by men And that's the phrase Peter picks up, rejected by men. And again, I ask, what is going on? Adam and Eve sinned. Everything fell apart at that point. But God gave a promise. There would come the seed of the woman, and he would crush the head of the satanic serpent. And so for thousands of years the Jews had waited and wondered, and meanwhile receiving more and more prophecies about this coming Messiah. And here he is, in the flesh. He's standing before them, and they reject him. Now, Jesus had 12 disciples, but in addition, at least initially, he had a lot more disciples who followed him around. They were quite attracted to Jesus. But there came that day when they turned back. Jesus had stood up and said, I am the bread of life. We celebrate that every time we do the Lord's Supper. I am the bread of life. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. Reference to manna. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. And many of those disciples grumbled and said, This is a hard saying, I don't think we can take this and they turned around and went away. And at that point Jesus said to the twelve, Will you also leave me? And guess who stepped forward and answered? Peter. Thank you, Peter. Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and come to know that you are the Holy One of Israel. We're sticking with you. Thank you, Peter. But those disciples otherwise all left And the people in general, although they welcomed Jesus on Palm Sunday when he came in, waving palm branches, great, great, hallelujah, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. About a week later, they were shouting something rather different. Crucify him. Crucify him. Pilate was in a corner and he didn't know what to do and he had a clever idea. Okay, I normally let someone go. So talking to the crowd, do you want this horrible criminal Barabbas I can release him, but then you know he's going to rob and rape and murder in your midst. Do you want him? Or Jesus, in whom I find no guilt. And the crowd was so worked up, they said, give us Barabbas. They rejected this living stone, Jesus Christ. Crucify him, crucify him. Let his blood be on us and our children Now you might think that the Jewish religious leaders would know better, that they would understand the scriptures better. Well, no. Not the case. So at one point, Jesus told them a parable. He's talking to the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Elders, the Sanhedrin. members. And he tells them a parable about a vineyard. And the man who owns the vineyard leaves it in the hands of tenants. He rents it out to them. And he goes away, and then he sends someone back to collect produce when it ripens and is harvested. And they beat up the guy and throw him out. And this happens three times. And then the owner sends his son, thinking that they will respect his son because of him the owner. And this time they think we're going to keep this vineyard for ourselves, and so they kill the son. And Jesus immediately explained the parable by quoting Psalm 118, verse 22. which we sang, which we read, and which Peter quotes here, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone And he's looking right at them, right at the Pharisees. Now, why did they reject him? Well Jesus just wasn't their kind of Messiah that they wanted. They wanted somebody who would get these Romans out of the country. leave them alone. And furthermore, Jesus in his teaching was saying that the Pharisees and Sadducees, they're teaching the Bible wrong. And also they're adding all kinds of rules and regulations that are not in the scriptures. And Jesus just was a disruptor. He threatened their nice lifestyle. And so he had to go. And they said, you're a false prophet. You're a blasphemer and they killed them. People today reject Jesus. And there's a lot of reasons. Um People are so self-righteous. Do I really need someone to give me righteousness? I'm I'm I can work out my own salvation. Or they're distracted by the world and its pleasures and the bright lights and everything else. And they're blind. We are blind by sin. No question about it. And then of course Satan works to Take this away. Remember the parable of the sower? The seed sown on rocky ground does not take root. The seed sown by the side of the pathway, the birds come and take it away. And the seed that drops in among the thorns is just choked out. And then Jesus says, some seed does fall on good ground and it brings forth. But three out of four scenarios, 75%, they reject Jesus. Admittedly, this stone of stumbling and rock of offense, every one of us, believers though we are, we we stumbled. at times, momentarily, thankfully. Peter stumbled several times, big time, several times But there is forgiveness. If you confess your sins, He, God, Jesus, is faithful to forgive and cleanse from all iniquity. That's a promise that we have to hang on to with both hands. Psalm thirty-seven The steps of a man are established by the Lord, and when he delights in his way, although he fall, he shall not be cast headlong. The Lord upholds his hand. I I love that. onto my hand. But these, verse eight, they stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do And you start asking, what's going on here? Is this predestination? Is this reprobation? What's going on here? Look, there is a universal free offer of the gospel to everyone. There is the promise in Scripture that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. And if we try to look into the secret things of God We shouldn't go any farther, really. The secret things belong to the Lord. The things that are revealed belong to us and our children, that we would do the word of God. That's Deuteronomy. 29-29. It's a favorite verse. When Pharaoh in Egypt, Moses came to him and said, Let my people go. And he said, No, there was a plague. Pharaoh should have learned. But it says he hardened his heart nine times. And even the tenth time when he said, okay, get out, then he had second thoughts and chased them. He hardened his heart. But also we read in scripture right there in Exodus that God hardened his heart. There is human responsibility. There is divine sovereignty. And what we have here is willful, deliberate disobedience. They disobey the word as they were destined to do. In other words, it's if you disobey, it's a foregone conclusion. Now this Mirrors, this verse that Peter quoted about the stone of stumbling and the rock of offense. Paul likewise has used this verse, 1 Corinthians 1. 23. We preach Christ crucified to the Jews a stumbling block. But to those who are the called, Christ, the power of God. Now, I I want to convey something here According to Bible scholars, the letters of Paul, Romans, Corinthians, Ephesians, and so forth, were written and circulated about in the mid-50s, so about A. D. 55 or This epistle of Peter, and also there's a second one, were circulated in about the mid-60s, so A. D. 656. And very likely Peter had read and knew the letters of Paul. Peter, in fact, writes this first epistle of Peter From what he calls Babylon, which is early Christian code name for Rome. Paul had written an epistle to the Romans, and you'll see echoes of Paul's letters in in Peter's writings, which I think is is really fantastic. In fact, even in Second Peter three fifteen, Peter explicitly refers to the writings of Paul and says, Yeah, in places they're a little difficult, but they are scriptural. This is the Word of God. Jesus gave this parable to the Pharisees and Sadducees and then explained And later, Peter and John are arrested by the Sanhedrin because they've been teaching in the temple and proclaiming resurrection through Jesus Christ. And so they grab these guys, put them in jail, stand them before the Sanhedrin, and tell them to be quiet. And Peter, I love this man, Peter steps forward and says This Jesus that we preach is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders. Which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else. There is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. He's looking right in the eye. And he's telling them this verse. And just like Jesus said, have you never read the scripture? Here it is. Listen. Listen. Now, this quotation back in verse six, the cornerstone chosen in precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Jesus is arrested. Jesus is executed. He's in the grave. And at that point, did the disciples think This is it. That's the end. The kingdom of God has failed. But no. No. Three days later, something incredible happened. Jesus rose from the dead. the dead, which is a assurance that will the same thing will happen for us. And coming back to Peter and John before the Sanhedrin, they're allowed to leave And they go straight back to the early church, which is holding a prayer meeting, one of these all-night prayer vigils for Peter and John. And during the prayer that they pray after Peter and John are released. These words are said that those who had crucified Jesus actually accomplished what God's power and God's will had decided beforehand should happen. So these builders who rejected Jesus and crucified him actually served to implement God's will and foreknowledge. This is a bit of a mystery, but this is what the Bible says. And one last thing I just want to point out. In verse 6, where Peter quotes Isaiah, behold, I am laying In Zionist stone, that verb laying, then go down to verse 8, the end of verse 8. They stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined To do. The verb destining, the verb laying in Greek are the same word. So we see this Symmetry. God steps up Jesus as the cornerstone, and he puts down those who are disobedient. Chosen by God, rejected by men, but verse nine, but you, but you And back in verse four. But in the sight of God. What a marvelous little word. Three letters. But But there are people that have not rejected Jesus. There was a famous sermon preached by Martin Lloyd Jones And the title was just two words. But God. But God. And it's uh he was preaching on Ephesians 2 verse 4. But God who is rich in mercy. made us alive together with Christ. But God. But, Peter says, you come to this living And then he describes believers in uh with various pictures all taken from the Old Testament. Go back to verse 5. You yourselves are like living stones. Ah If we are united with Jesus and he is a living stone, we become living stones. He's living because he was born, born of a woman, born under the law. He's doubly living because even though he died, he came back to life, and he is a life-giving person and he gives us life. We are living stones because we're united with Jesus Just like branches grafted into the vine received their life from the vine. We are living stones. And furthermore, we're not just living stones individually sitting here and there. We are being built together into a spiritual house. A spiritual house Paul talks about the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. And then the whole structure joined together goes into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you are being built together into a dwelling place of God by the Spirit. So this spiritual house that Peter refers to refers to is in fact the New Testament church, to which the Old Testament tabernacle and temple pointed forward. God dwelt in the midst of the people of Israel in the Sinai desert. There was the tabernacle. There was the cloud of smoke by day and the pillar of fire by night. Later a temple was built, Solomon built it, and it was right in the center of Jerusalem, right in the center of the country. God dwelt there. And now God dwells in this spiritual house that is us. And we see part of that spiritual house right here gathered this morning. It is the temple. The word became flesh and dwelt among us, and the actual word there in the Greek is he tabernacled among us. So Jesus is the cornerstone. We are built into him. Okay, now hang on to your seatbelts because there's a rapid turn of thought coming along. Not only are we the temple, but we are the priests inside that temple. You yourselves, like living stones, verse 5, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood. to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And again, there's an echo of Romans 12, verse 1. I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to offer your bodies as spiritual sacrifices, holy and acceptable to God. which is your spiritual worship, your reasonable service. This is amazing. In the Old Testament, there were priests on behalf of the people they went before the Lord and they offered prayers, they offered sacrifices, they asked for forgiveness, and then they taught the people. people and in our day and age we have direct access to God. The t the temple curtain has been ripped in two and we can go directly to God with our prayers, with our requests. offering sacrifices of obedient lives and gratitude and thanks and proclamation Then more, Peter talks more about the identity of these believers to whom Jesus is precious. Go down to verse 9. There's a whole cluster of Old Testament word pictures here. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, and a people for his own possession. And each one of these goes back to an Old Testament reference. In particular, Exodus 19, verse 5, you shall be my treasured possession among all the peoples. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. A chosen race. Jesus is chosen. We are chosen. Now, of course. Jesus was chosen because he was choice. He was the Son of God. We are chosen. When we were still enemies of God, nothing worthwhile about us, but nevertheless, in Christ, we were chosen. We are a chosen race. Which means all of us Here are blood relatives through the blood of Jesus Christ. We have this Christian DNA that relates us all together. A royal priesthood. This is interesting. It can be interpreted in several different ways. It can be interpreted as the uh Exodus says, a kingdom of priests. Here's a kingdom, and everybody is a priest in it. Or royal priesthood. In other words, the king's priest. We belong to a king, King Jesus. Ride on King Jesus. And there's another Interesting interpretation which is in the Old Testament there were priests and there were kings. You had to be a Levite from the house of Aaron to be a priest. You had to be from the ho the house and lineage of David to be a king You never mixed those two offices. And yet here we are today. We can serve as a prophet, as a priest, and as a a king under Jesus who was our capital P prophet, Capital P priest, Capital K King. A holy nation In the Old Testament, God said, I want this people Israel, I choose them. And they're going to be distinct. I'm going to distinguish them by what they eat. They had to keep kosher food food, how they dress, men had particular things that they were supposed to wear. And also by this mark in their bodies, at least for the men at that time, the circumstance the physical mark. So they were distinct. And the New Testament church is also distinct because we belong to Jesus. And one of the uh commentators has said that the New Testament Church is the real League of Nations. All people from all over, every tribe, tongue, race, and nation, all together in one church. And then a people for his own possession. Fear not, I have redeemed you, I have called you by name. You are mine, Isaiah 43, verse 1. What is my only hope? My only hope is that body and soul, in life and in death, I belong to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. Now I belong to Jesus. Jesus Belongs to me. Not for the years of time alone, but for eternity. I think you know that song. And then he doesn't stop. There's a little bit more about the identity of these believers. Look at verse 10 Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you have not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. And again, your your Old Testament ears should be ringing. Yeah, that comes from Hosea. In the time of Hosea, the people of Israel had been faithless. They had left the Lord. They went after pagan idols. They committed immorality. And the Lord said to Hosea, his prophet, now I want you to marry What's I'm quoting here from Hosea chapter one, marry a wife of whoredom. In other words, marry a prostitute. Now, this surely would have gotten attention from the people. A man of God marrying a woman like this, what's going on? And what was going on was a picture in real life of God the husband of Israel, but Israel being faithless. And then Hosea and this woman who apparently leaves him often running off with other men, they have children. The first one is a son and they name him Jezreel, which means Means judgment. The second one is a daughter whose name is No Mercy. And the third one is a son, and his name is Not My People. How would you like to be those kids and have those names, go to school and hey, no mercy, not my people. This is exactly what Peter is referring to here. And Paul picks up that same reference to Hosea in Romans chapter 9, verse 25, and he says, yes, and that verse can be taken farther. You Gentiles were once no people. You were not part of the people of Israel, God's chosen people, and now you've been brought in. You have mercy. You are now part of the church, the people of Jesus Christ. So that's who we are as believers. And then Peter says we do two things. First, back to verse five, offer spiritual sacrifices. acceptable to God. As I said, just exactly echoing what Paul had said in Romans chapter twelve. Spiritual sacrifices acceptable I'm sorry, the sacrifices I offer to God are not acceptable, but through Jesus Christ they become acceptable. And then the second thing we do is down here in verse 9. That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. God has done so many praiseworthy things. He created the whole earth and all the heavens, this big universe that we can see. He created all of us. He sustains all people everywhere. God's providence. He acts in his And in particular, at a particular time, the resurrection occurred of Jesus Christ. This is the big event in history, and now we wait for Jesus to come And meanwhile, we declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples, darkness into light. What a picture this is. The Israelites were in Egypt. It was a dark place. They were slaves under bondage. They had to work so hard. It's a crushing burden. And then one of the plagues itself was utter darkness. Have you ever taken a tour in a cavern and maybe at some point they turned the lights on? off so you can experience this utter darkness. And I I've been on tours like that and it you can feel the darkness weighing on you. It's oppressive And this is the darkness of sin. But God has brought us out into his marvelous light. Jesus is the light of the world, and we walk in his light. light. Now, by this time, you may be exhausted. So many Old Testament references and back and forth, and I'm telling you as I prepared this message, I was going back and forth and back and forth. forth. It's just jam-packed with Old Testament allusions and references. I made a list. I was curious. In these seven verses that we've looked at, there are fifteen, at least fifteen Old Testament references. So Peter knew his Bible pretty well. When he and John were brought before the Sanhedrin, they looked at these two guys and they said, eh, uneducated, illiterate, common men. They sneered at them. But think about it a minute. Yes, Peter came from Galilee and he spoke Aramaic with this big Galilean uneducated accent, but he was in the fishing business, and that was a prosperous enterprise up there in the Sea of Galilee. And he knew his Bible. I'm sure all his life, every week on the Sabbath, he had gone to the synagogue and they would read long portions of the law and the prophets and the psalms and then they would somebody would ex explain it. And in those days they didn't have personal copies of scripture. And so they would listen carefully and they would memorize it. Maybe they repeat it along with the reading. So he knew his scripture very well. And especially after the death and the resurrection and ascension of Jesus, Peter, I'm sure, went back and seriously restudied Everything he knew in the Old Testament about Messianic prophecy and how it related to what had happened and what will happen. Jesus on the road to Emmaus with these two men, they didn't recognize He told them everything written about me in the law of Moses, in the prophets, and the Psalms, when you read the Old Testament, look for Jesus. And the other thing is, Peter's writing seven verses with fifteen Old Testament references, and he expected his audience to catch it. And his audience was largely Gentiles. If you read who this letter is addressed to, these are formerly pagan people, and they've only been in the church Several years. Nevertheless, he expects them to get it. And again, it's because they faithfully came to church. And Bible studies and prayer meetings, and they learned the word. They laid it up in their hearts. Now, in our day and age, we have personal copies of scripture I was thinking, how many Bibles do we have in our house? Twenty? Twenty-five Bibles? Read it. Lay it up in your hearts. Memorize it. and ask for the Holy Spirit to apply that to ourselves. One last final application to ourselves, if you don't mind. And that is something that Peter must have remembered how Jesus ended the Sermon on the Mount. He ended the Sermon on the Mount with a parable about two builders. The wise man built his house upon the rock. And you repeat That three times, and the rains came pouring down. The rains came down, the floods came up, and the house on the rock stood firm. But The foolish man built his house upon the sand. Repeat three times. And the rains came pouring down. Rains came down, the floods came up, repeat that three times And the house on the sand fell flat. Okay, you figured out by now I'm reciting the words of a children's song version of this parable. And by the way, the hand motions, which my wife reminded me about, uh are very good for kids' involvement in this song. But there is a last verse. So build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ. Repeat three times. And the blessings will come down. The blessings come down as your prayers go up. So build your life on the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this passage that we've looked at. And Lord, we confess that you are very precious to us. We meet you in your word. We sing about you. We think about you. We treasure you. And we seek every day to follow your example, your leading. Your teaching, your commandments. And so, Lord, help us every day to live as your chosen people, your royal priesthood, your holy nation, the people that belong to you Help us, Lord, in every opportunity to declare the praises of you who called us out of darkness into your marvelous light. We want to be built up more and more. into a spiritual house. And so Father, we do ask your blessing on Trinity Reform Church as part of this spiritual house with our Lord and Savior as the cornerstone. We pray this in his name. Amen.