Our scripture reading for our sermon this morning will be from Matthew chapter 5, verses 17 through 20. This is a part of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. And as Christmas approaches, people are reflecting on why Jesus came. Maybe some are reflecting on if he came, we know he came. But one of the reasons Jesus came, as we see in Matthew 5, is to fulfill God's law, to fulfill the promises of the law and the prophets. And so I'll invite you to follow along as I read from Matthew chapter 5, beginning in verse 17. You can find that on page 511 in the Pew Bibles. This is Jesus speaking. Do not think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I did not come to destroy them, but to fulfill. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away. and teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. Heaven. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Let's pray and ask for his blessing on it this morning. Our Father in heaven, all people are like grass which withers, but your word stands forever. Your truth remains unchanged throughout all ages, and you will always be faithful to fulfill your promises. So we ask for you to grant us understanding that we might learn from your unchanging word and equip us with faith to apply its teachings to our lives. We ask these things in Jesus' name Amen. Well, some things become obsolete or irrelevant over time. I studied a case Accounting in college and imagine if one of you or someone you knew was going off to college and to study accounting and said, wait, wait, hold on. And I went to my I went to my uh garage, pulled out a big box, uh, rooted through it, and gave you my old accounting textbooks. What would you do with them? Or what would your friend do with them? Hopefully not much. They're not relevant. They're out of date. Accounting laws, tax laws, they change over time. I graduated 15 years ago from college, by the way. So f in fifteen years, it has become essentially completely irrelevant. My old accounting textbook will not do you a lot of good. In contrast to that, God's word never becomes obsolete or irrelevant. We shouldn't think Think of this like an old accounting textbook that we can just discard because it no longer relates to our us today. Nor could we ever move on from God's law to new and better laws. So you know, tax laws change God's law doesn't change. And so instead of looking at God's word like an old accounting book, we should see it for what it is, the unchangeable inerrant word of God. I want us to see this morning that all of God's law, all of His Word, still speaks to us today. And so that's the main idea. I want us to consider. I don't think God's law is irrelevant today. And as we think about that, I want to look at that in two points, two points that may seem to contradict at first. I hope you'll see they don't. First, Jesus came to fulfill the law, and second, therefore we obey the law. So Jesus came to fulfill it, therefore we obey it. Well let's look at verses 17 and 18. that show us how Jesus fulfilled the law. Again, in verse 17, he says, do not think that I came to destroy the law or the property. I did not come to destroy, but to fulfill. And so here Jesus is addressing what might be the elephant in the room, or we could say the elephant on the mountain. in this case. And the question is, w how does your teaching relate to God's law? What's the relationship between that? You see, so far in the Sermon on the Mount Jesus hasn't actually quoted from Scripture, he hasn't actually addressed God's law, and therefore one might conclude Jesus is establishing A different law. He's establishing a different teaching. But Jesus makes it clear that's not the case. We must not think that. He has come not to abolish, but to fulfill. Well before we dive into that, let me just be clear on what Jesus means by law and the prophets. I agree with those who think that this is shorthand essentially for all of Scripture or all the Old Testament. was written at the time Jesus was speaking. And so Jesus is saying all of God's law, all of God's word is relevant to us and applies to us. But how? How does Jesus fulfill God's law? There are at least four ways he does this, and perhaps you could think of others, but there are at least four. First, Jesus teaches us the true meaning of the law and the prophets. You see, the scribes and the Pharisees had essentially they built a fence all around God's law, a list of additional commandments. That would help you interpret God's commands. So you can see examples of this in what's called the Mishnah, which contains a collection of rabbinical teachings, a rabbinical interpretation. of God's Word. Consider a few examples on just the Sabbath. So food can be covered with certain items, but you can't cover food with other items. Some lamps may be moved, but other lamps may not be moved. A woman may weight her cloak with a stone, nut, or coin, provided that she doesn't attach that weight on the Sabbath. Sabbath, right? And on and on. It was actually, as you read through the Mishnah, it's rather exhausting. Like, how in the world could you ever keep all these straight and then to actually obey and to actually do these things? torturous. But the problem with this is that they actually obscured the meaning of God's law. You perhaps you could picture God's law like the Grand Canyon, right? It's very deep as we saw, as we talked about earlier. The command is is really uh it's really deep on how how far we have to obey And as you get up to the Grand Canyon, you could say, wow, that's uh pr that's a pretty big hole. I don't want to fall in it, right? And so what did they do? Put a little fence around a lot of the spots, right? Right? Because if they didn't, a lot of people would fall in. The problem is the Pharisees essentially said, Well, if we don't want to fall over, and here's a hole, what we're going to do is put the fence back here or maybe back here or maybe back here. So they just made this huge fence all the way back at the visitor center. So you can't fall off and and violate God's law. It sounds safe, right? Like hey, you're not getting anywhere close. But it actually wasn't safe because it obscured the meaning. No one was allowed to come up to the edge to look into the canyon and actually see what's the true nature of God's law. They were stuck back at the visitor center and therefore couldn't couldn't And so ironically enough, the Pharisees are the ones who are essentially abolishing God's law, obscuring it. And in contrast to this, Jesus takes us all the way up to the cliff. He essentially knocks down all those fences, takes us to the cliff, and says, look down. You know, look down. See how deep this command goes. And that's what he's doing in Matthew 5. He says, you know, you have heard it said, do not murder. But I say to you, anyone who is angry is guilty of murder. You have heard that it was said, do not commit adultery. I say to you, anyone who looks lustfully at a woman has committed committed adultery. You have heard it said, you know, fulfill your oaths. And he says, essentially, speak the truth all the time, not just when you've made an oath. And so Jesus is showing us the true meaning of God's law. And that's one way he's fulfilled. Well, the second way Jesus fulfills the law and the prophets is by his own active obedience, his own perfect obedience. So again, as we kind of stand at the edge and we look down, Jesus has kind of knocked the fences away and says, look, it's scary because you start to get a little uh Sick, a height, fear of heights, right? And you think, oh man, that's so deep. I can never obey all of that. And then Jesus shows us that actually, hey, I I have obeyed. You fall far short of that command. But look at me. I have done it perfectly. Think about Jesus. He was severely tempted, right? So go back to chapter four. the gospels, a busy ministry schedule that had to be exhausting, whiny bickering, complaining disciples. Can you imagine having those kind of people following you around complaining and fighting all the time? time. Ah, it's a it's terrible. But he had to test his patience and he didn't he didn't sin. Of course, being betrayed and nailed to the cross. I had to give him plenty of opportunity for anger, for Bitterness, right? He had siblings. Need I say more? And Jesus never sinned a single time. It's amazing. And because of his perfect obedience, Jesus could offer himself as a perfect substitute. He could die on the cross because he had done what we hadn't done, what we don't do, and that is fulfill God's law in every part, in every jot and tittle, not just externally. But all the way down to the core of its meaning. Because Jesus does that, because Jesus has perfectly fulfilled it and died for us, we can look to him in faith. Which brings us to a third part way Jesus fulfills the law. He fulfills the types and shadows of the law. So again when when Jesus died, we see uh You'll flip ahead to Matthew 27, verse 51. It says that the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. So when Jesus sacrificed himself, there was no longer any need. For the temple, for the curtain to separate the Holy of Holies, there was no longer a need for any more animal sacrifices. The book of Hebrews reflects on this extensively. And so for example, uh Hebrews nine thirteen says that Jesus entered once for all into the holy place, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing a eternal redemption. In Hebrews 10, 11 to 12. And every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifice. Sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And so Jesus fulfilled the sacrifices that the Old Testament looked forward to. The Old Testament sacrificial system was really a foreshadowing of the one sacrifice to come. It pointed us towards the need for someone to do away with sin once and for all. Remember the priests had to do this over and over and over. You know, the Day of Atonement came like clockwork every at the same time, every single year. There was no way to just get it all done with. And Jesus, one time, sacrificed himself So that we wouldn't have to repeatedly sacrifice things that could never really take away sin. So Jesus again, he since he perfectly obeyed, he could offer himself as this sacrifice. And because Jesus forgiven us. We can also say in terms of application, it allows us to forgive others, right? As Jesus will say later in Matthew 6. 12, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Right? So Jesus has forgiven us and enabled us to even forgive others. Well, there's a fourth way Jesus fulfills the law, and that is he fulfills God's promises and prophecies. He fulfills God's prophecy Promises and prophecies. So throughout the entire New Testament, we see, well as you read through it, you'll see the little uh footnotes here, right? And you'll see all these Old Testament footnotes. And often those happen when They're showing, uh quoting a prophecy and showing how Jesus fulfilled it. So if you just go back to the previous chapter, chapter four, verses thirteen to sixteen, You'll see Matthew quoting from Isaiah 9, verses 1 through 2. So it says here, beginning verse 13, and leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt by Capernaum, which is Aftali, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and upon those who sat in the region of So you see that throughout the scripture. Also, the apostles would do the same thing. Paul, uh, in Acts 2 And so I set here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass. That the Christ must suffer in that by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light both to our people and to the Gentiles. Jesus makes the same assessment And so we see another way Jesus fulfills the law, by fulfilling the prophecies that God had made about him. And so we see here that Jesus has fulfilled rather than abolished the law and the prophets. And that applies to every aspect of it. Jesus says not even the smallest little bit of the law is irrelevant. Jesus says here in verse 18, if you look there again. For assuredly I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass away from the law until all is fulfilled. What Jesus here is really saying is a jot and tittle in the original, it actually makes reference to an iota, which is the smallest Greek letter, which kind of corresponds to the smallest. Hebrew letter yog. And Jesus is saying here that even the smallest little letter in the alphabet, even the littlest mark that distinguishes certain Hebrew letters from others, even those little jot or titles are important. They will by no means pass away. And of course that illustrates the point that all of God's word is relevant. All of it is significant for our life. None of this, not a single word of this is ever like an old accounting textbook. Like, well we can do away with Zechariah. I mean what Zechariah have to say to us today. No. All of it is relevant. None of it's like that accounting book. Well an important application for you at this point is Read God's Word. Read God's Word. Read all of it. Don't only limit yourself to the New Testament or to your favorite passages. I know sometimes in a hard time you may want to Come back to your favorites. But don't neglect all of Scripture. Second Timothy three says all scripture is breathed out by God. And not only is it breathed out by God, it's profitable for teaching For reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. So all of Scripture is useful for that Don't neglect it. So we see here in verses 17 to 18 that Jesus fulfills the law, but he doesn't stop there. That's a good enough stop. Sermon, right? You're a sinner, you look at the Grand Canyon, you see how far short. Praise God, Jesus has fulfilled it for me. But he goes on to give us a little extra application for our own life. And verses 19 to 20. He's applying this doctrine. And specifically, he tells you to obey the law. And that's our second main point. Jesus came to fulfill the law, therefore we obey the law. So look again at verse 19. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. So y you'll notice there that Jesus' argument is connected by the word therefore. You've probably heard it said, whenever there's a therefore You need to ask what the therefore is therefore. And so it's actually connecting you to verses 17 and 18. So another way of saying this is because Jesus fulfilled the law, we obey it. Now again, at first glance that may seem to contradict, doesn't it? You might kind of expect something more like Because Jesus has fulfilled the law, you don't have to worry about it. Because Jesus has fulfilled the law, you are under no obligation to keep the law because he has done it for you. But that's not what Jesus says. Instead of minimizing our obligation to keep the law, he says it actually strengthens our obligation to keep it. We actually have, if anything, a greater duty to keep it. And not just some of the law, but all of it. In verse 18, Jesus says, not even a jot or a tittle will by any means disappear. And likewise in verse nineteen he says we must obey even the least of the commandments of God. All right, well I hope you're persuaded on that. But what does that mean? What does it actually look like to obey God's law today? Well, there are at least three things we could say of that. First, we obey the law in its fullest sense. Remember earlier we discussed how Jesus fulfilled the law by teaching the true meaning of it. And so again, the scribes and Pharisees had built that fence around. They they've reduced God's law to a series of commands. Now you might think that they strengthened God's law by doing that. Right? Like you shall not work on the Sabbath. And then they said, well you shall not walk more than I don't know a mile or whatever they said. And you might think that they're actually increasing In God's law. But what they'd actually done is shrink it because they'd left it at the external level. They'd removed the deep inward emphasis of God's law And so when we read God's law, we actually read it more expansively than they do. So again, don't commit adultery means guard your eyes. What are you looking at? What do you think Keeping your oath actually means being truthful all the time, whether or not you That I promised, whether or not you tried to cross your fingers behind your back, that's who did that when I was young. Like somehow like this means you don't have to obey you can lie? I don't know. Right? God Jesus says, no, no, no. Truthful all the time Later in Matthew 22, Jesus is asked, what's the greatest commandment? And he says, love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. And the second is like it: love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commands depend all the law and the prophets. And so Jesus is really setting a really high bar, right? He's saying, love God with all your being, love your neighbor even more than yourself. And by the way, who's your neighbor? Everyone is my neighbor. That's like the children's catechism answer, right? And that's what Jesus shows us in the parable of the Good Samaritan. Everyone is your neighbor, and that's how you are to love people. a high standard. So we don't obey like little lawyers. That's the way the Pharisees were. So imagine some parent a par parents were to leave their children at home alone. alone and they said, eat you may have the ice cream, just don't eat all of it. Imagine they came home and there was like one spoonful of ice cream left Did they obey? Technically, right? That's not how we're supposed to read God's law. We read it expansively for its true meaning, not looking for the wiggle room on how to get out. So that's one way we obey. Secondly, we obey as forgiven children, and that's important. We obey as those who have been set free from sin and enabled to become obedient from God. So Romans 6. 17 says, but thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were Committed. And that's really what God had promised to do all along. So if we look back in the Old Testament, Jeremiah 31, 33, I will put my law within them and I will write it on their hearts. Or Ezekiel 36, and I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh. And give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you and cause you to obey my rules. And that's how we obey as Christians. Jesus fulfills the law's demands by his perfect life for us. So he died for our sins, he rose again from the dead, and then he gives us his Holy Spirit. He doesn't just acquit us, but he actually equips us. So not just acquittal, but also e equipping. He's defeated, in other words, not just uh punishment and penalty for sin, but the power of sin Sin. Sin is no longer your master. You're not enslaved to it. You don't have to obey your sinful desires. Instead, we are set free. To obey God, but not out of slavish fear, not out of a relentless effort to somehow please Him and earn our salvation, but to obey Him out of gratitude as forgiven children. And that's a that order is really important. And so that's important for Christians, it's important for unbelievers. If you're not a Christian, the application would clearly be Don't take the sermon and say, I've got to obey God's law. I'm going to leave here and I'm just going to try really hard from now on. No, no, no. That's never going to work. Remember how deep the command is. All of us fall short. The first application is always look to Jesus. for the forgiveness of your sins, and then look to his strength and enabling power to obey. The same thing for Christians, by the way. If you're struggling with a particular Sin, the solution is not just I'm motivated, I'm going to pull myself up by my own bootstraps, I'm going to try hard this week. Yeah, you should try hard. But look to Jesus first. Get on your knees, repent of your sin. Ask for His help and His power in fighting sin. And then by His grace go out and do battle with sin. So that's a second way. Jesus we obey as forgiven children because Jesus is died for us. A third way we obey the law is as new covenant believers. As new covenant believers, which means we don't obey in the same way they did before Jesus came. Let me explain what that means. In order to do this, we need to make distinctions between different types of law. So one type of law would be civil regulations. So you get to the Old Testament and you You read uh for example about cities of refuge, right? So someone who killed someone accidentally could flee to the city and and be safe. Well, we don't live in Israel. There are no such things as these cities of refuge of refuge and so we don't have to try to recreate a city of refuge. That was clearly written as a law governing the nation of Israel. Right? There are other laws like related to Israel's king. Again, we're living in 21st century America. So that law doesn't apply to us in the same way. Likewise, there were ceremonial laws, you know, rules governing various sacrifices that had to be However, we no longer perform those because Jesus has fulfilled them. They all look forward to Jesus all along, and he has once for all laid down And so therefore we read them with profit, but we don't go out and start sacrificing bulls and goats and things like that. However, there are also moral laws, and none of God's moral laws have changed. It hasn't been relaxed in the least. So when we read from the Ten Commandments earlier, we don't have to say this was God's law for his old Covenant people, that's God's law for us today. And we've already touched on examples like lust, anger, and so on that Jesus will talk about. In verses 21 to 48. So all of these must be obeyed. They must be obeyed completely. So we obey God's law today, and we obey because Jesus Jesus has fulfilled it for us. And our uh the next part of this text actually shows that our willingness to obey or not will prove whether we belong to Him. Our willingness to obey will prove that we belong to His kingdom. Look again at verse 19. Whoever therefore breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so shall be called least in the commandments. But then Jesus goes a step further in verse 20. For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds Exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven. saying is a clear mark. It's a clear mark of whether we belong to his kingdom, whether we will enter his kingdom and live with him forever or forever. And Jesus is warning us that a disregard for God's law is evidence that you don't belong to Him. But the way Jesus said this might have shocked his original audience. He says your righteousness has to exceed the Pharisees. Weren't they the righteous ones? Remember, they had built all these fence, like don't break the Sabbath, therefore I won't even carry certain types of If these people aren't entering heaven, how do I have any chance of being righteousness righteous enough to enter heaven? Has Jesus slipped back to legalism? Like try even harder than the Pharisees are trying, if you want. Well, no, not at all. What Jesus is saying is that the Pharisees and scribes actually aren't righteous at all. They've washed the outside of the cup, but they've failed to wash the inside of it. I consider his harsh words later in Matthew's Gospel. Chapter twenty three, verse twenty five. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For you clean the outside of the cup and plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. So consider verse 27, a little even even harsher. For you are like whitewashed tomb Which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and uncleanness. We need a righteousness that exceeds this. We need a righteousness that goes beyond mere externals. We need a righteousness that goes to the heart, a type of righteousness that only the Lord Jesus Christ can provide for us. You see, inwardly, inwardly we're all like Pharisees, aren't we? We want to try to uh look good to others while getting away with being evil. We want to try to figure out which ways we can obey and which ways we don't have to obey. Hey, if we take an oath by the temple, maybe we don't actually have to do it. And you see, apart from God's grace, even if we try really hard, we'll never be righteous enough. Our efforts are always good. But the good news is that Jesus Christ can call dry bones to life. Remember the store of the uh time Ezekiel stood in that valley of dry bones and prophesied to them. spoke and they the Lord raised them to life. He put them together. He gave them sinews and muscle and blood and flesh and they came to life. Jesus can do that for us and when he washes us, when he cleanses us, he doesn't take the outside of the cup, he doesn't like take this off and he doesn't polish it off and say, Hey, it looks really nice on the outside and you lift it up and ugh no no one's cleaned this for a year. No Jesus starts on the inside, he cleans it, and then because of a clean out inside, the outside begins to look beautiful. You see, Jesus' inward cleansing will, of course, inevitably lead to an outside cleansing. And so you see the solution to legalism isn't stop obeying God's law It's not a disregard God's law. The solution to legalism is look to Jesus in faith and through him obey God's law. Consider again what Jesus says in Matthew 23. So verses 23 to 24, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you tithe mint and dill and cumin. And have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. You see, the Pharisees would take even the little garden plants and make sure they gave a tithe of attendance of those kind of things. But then they mistreated people and they missed these weightier matters. But what Jesus is saying is isn't, hey, don't worry about tithing. Just worry about justice. He's saying you shouldn't have neglected these little things. Yeah, keep doing them. But here's the even more important thing, and don't miss this. Do both Don't obey the small things at the exclusion of the important ones. Don't relentlessly create rules while failing to love the Lord your God with all your heart and soul and mind and strength. And so the conclusion is, yes, we we must obey God's law. We must obey all of God's law. But we do so not as Pharisees, but as forgiving Children. We obey obey joyfully from the heart. We do so rejoicing that Jesus has actually fulfilled the law and the prophets for us. And because Jesus has fulfilled them, we don't fall into the trap of thinking it's irrelevant. We don't fall into the trap of thinking any of this doesn't apply to me. We don't treat any of God's law or any of his commandments It's like an old accounting textbook. Instead, we take this and we gladly receive it. We gladly receive all of it. We see how all of it speaks to Jesus. Shows our need for him, points to his mercy and grace. And then out of gratitude, we make every effort to obey all of its commandments. Let's pray and ask for God's help in doing that. Our Father in heaven, we do thank you that Jesus has fulfilled the law and the prophets, that he has perfectly obeyed all of your law, that he even when he was tempted was with was without sin, even though he was greatly tempted. We thank you for his death on the cross to save us. Thank you that he was able to offer himself as that perfect Substitute. Thank you that He also rose again and has given His Holy Spirit to us. Our gracious God, we ask for your continued mercy for our many sins. And we ask for your equipping to do your will. Help us to obey your law and to glorify you as we do. For we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.