Turn please in your Bibles to Mark chapter 12. Mark chapter 12, and we'll be reading verses 13 through 17. I know this is a diversion from Hebrews. We have been studying Mark in our Bible studies And I wanted to bring these thoughts to you today. Mark chapter 12, verses 13 through 17. Hear now God's word. They sent unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians to catch him in his words. And when they were come, they said unto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no men, but thou regardest not the person of men But teach us the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not? Shall we give or shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt me? Bring me a denarius, that I may see it. And they brought it, and he said unto them, Whose is this image and superscription And they said unto him, Caesar's. And Jesus, answering, said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's And to God the things that are God's. And they marveled at him. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please receive it. As we begin looking at this this morning, this section, I'd like us to first uh notice uh the structure of chapter twelve. Um this uh section Is placed at a period of time in Jesus' life during his last week. It's Passover week And um he is in Jerusalem and there appears uh one uh Confrontation after another. It begins really in verse 27 of chapter 11. And in that passage, on through verse 33, Jesus is questioned by the leaders of the church, the Old Testament church. He's questioned by the the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders. And they want to know where does his authority come from? And he says, he starts telling them a parable. The parable comes after he says, I'll tell you where my authority comes from if you'll tell me If you answer me this, John's authority, where did it come from? And they debated and hymned and hold for a while, and they said, well, we can't really answer that. Because if we say it comes from heaven, he'll say, Well, why didn't you obey him? And if we say it comes from men, then the people will be upset at us. will be it because they all knew John was a prophet. But then after, right after that, Jesus tells a parable Again, we're looking at the structure. And the parable goes from verses 1 through 12 out of chapter 12, and it's a parable about the so-called wicked vine dressers. They are representative of Israel, especially the leaders, the very chief priests, scribes, and elders who have just asked Jesus, where does your authority come from? This group constitutes the they at the end of the parable, verse 12. They sought to lay hold of him, but feared the people, for they knew that he had spoken the parable against them. And they left him and went their way. All those they and them are the chief priests, scribes, and the pharaohs. They knew Jesus spoke the parable against them. The verses that we have today constitutes another group that has sought out Jesus. This is the group Of Christ interacting with the Pharisees and the Herodians. The Herodians were aligned politically with Herod Their interest in Christ is purely political. Whereas the Pharisees' interest is much more theological, much more salvation oriented Right after this confrontation occurs, another confrontation occurs. This time, it's the Sadducees. Verses 18 through 27, those who deny the resurrection. After that is over with, another confrontation occurs Verses 28 through 34. This one involves Christ and the scribes. So that by the end of chapter 12. In our section, Jesus has faced hostility and criticism from every major segment of Jerusalem's leaders in his day chief priests, elders, scribes, Pharisees, Sadducees, Herodians. He is in the position of being a target. Everybody is out to get him. He couldn't be more of a target if he had painted the bullseye on his back. Everybody's out to get him. Everybody's out to discredit him. Or get rid of him. He is making enemies, right and left, religious and political enemies, all because he is telling God's truth. The Lord Jesus is fulfilling the words of Scripture when it says in Matthew chapter 13, a prophet is not without honor except in his own country. and in his own house. He is becoming rapidly among the, if he wasn't there already, this interchange has now sealed the fact that he is persona non grata. among the religious leaders and the political leaders of Jerusalem And furthermore, he is on the verge of fulfilling Isaiah 53, verse 3. He is despised. And rejected of men. A man of sorrows, acquainted with grief And we hid it, as it were, our faces from him. He is despised, and we esteemed him not. That's the lead up to this section of Scripture, verses 13 through 17. The Pharisees and the Herodians come to Jesus to catch him in his words. Now, I forgot to read the first part of that. They send unto them, unto Christ, certain of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Someone sent the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Now that may not seem like an important point, but That word sent there has a very significant flavor to it. It is the word from which we derive in English apostles It's the Greek word apostelo. And if you're sent by someone, you have a commission. You are responsible with that commission to represent the position of those whom you're sent, but also kind of to report back. With what it was you learned or what it was you heard. The Pharisees and the Herodians, you see, didn't come on their own. They were representing someone else. The identity of this they in verse 13, the ones who sent them, is not directly revealed But the context shows they most certainly are the same chief priests, scribes, and elders of verse 27 in chapter 11. The Pharisees and the Herodians' intentions or goal is also stated. What is it? To catch him in his words. To catch him in his words. Now, I'm sure that that word catch was not the case that they wanted to just run around and catch some of his words As if the words were like butterflies falling out of his mouth. No. They want to be able to use Jesus' word. in some fashion to discredit him. This is the first-century version of the gotcha moment. Which makes you realize there's nothing new under the sun. What does their attempt to gotcha Christ say about who they regard Jesus to be? You see, I would maintain that they don't believe at all that Jesus is God. They think he's another man who, if we can, we can if we just say the right things, we can outwit him. We can outwit him. But you see, Jesus is not just another man. No man can outwit God. And you would think that all the gospel narratives that show these confrontations, that at some point, some bright Pharisee would get the point. But unless God reveals that point You're never gonna get it. It isn't a matter of how bright you are or how much scripture you know, but whether you're the chief priest Or the elder, the scribes, the Sadducees, doesn't matter. You can't get it unless God reveals to you that Jesus is God. So the Herodians come to Jesus and the Pharisees come to Jesus. Verse 14 and 15 describe their address. They say unto him, Master, we know that you are true, and that you care for no man. For you regard not the person of men, but teach the way of God in truth. Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or is it not? There's their question. Shall we give or shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, Said unto them. Look at how they address Jesus Master, Teacher. Obviously, on the surface, a phrase of great respect It was an honor to be called a teacher, a rabbi in ancient Israel. We know that you are true. You represent God's truth. And later in verse 14, it further defines what they mean by truth. It says, you teach the way of God in truth. You really have to wonder at this point, out of their own mouths. They are convicting themselves. For my follow-up would be, well then why aren't you listening? Why do you continue to pursue this fruitless course of action, of trying to trick him in his words? Hasn't he sufficiently in the past been able to answer all your questions He cares for no man, they say. That too is further defined in verse 14. You care for no man. What does that mean? Jesus doesn't like people? No, that's not the force of that term. You see him defining it. It's defined. Further, in verse 14. You regard not the person of man. In other words, Jesus is not in the business of showing partiality on any basis. You treat all people the same, regardless of their position in life, whether they be the highest of the high or the lowest of the low Everyone has equal, you know, again, they're condemning them their own self because surely they didn't do this But they're also giving us a uh they're saying true things about Jesus. They just don't listen. They just don't do it, they don't practice it themselves. Their introductory greeting is probably Benevolently characterized as chit-chat, exchanging pleasantries, or getting to know you. Much more negative, I fear, is their actual attitude. This is nothing less than flattery It is a clear example of what sinful men's tongues are capable of. When they speak. Remember James 3, chapter 5. James 3, verse 5, and following said, The tongue is a little member. It boasts great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindles. The tongue is a fire, a word of iniquity. It is set on fire by hell For every kind of beast, of birds, of serpents, things of the sea is tamed. It has been tamed by man, but the tongue. Can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. If that wasn't enough, listen to this. Therewith we bless God, we flatter God Even the Father, and therewith we curse men, which are made after the likeness of God. Out of the same mouth proceed blessing and cursing. Out of the same mouth proceeds flattery and hypocrisy. And that's what Jesus says. It says he, verse 15, it says he knew their hypocrisy. He had diagnosed exactly what was going on. This was flattery. And you see what was the the flattery, that the part of the flattery that was being done It was being used to try to soften Jesus up. To get him off of his game. To get him thinking, hmm, that guy's pretty nice. They're calling me nice names And they've even said, I teach the truth. Oh my golly, isn't that wonderful? No No, it was not wonderful. It was language set on fire by hell. Jesus' response can be seen beginning in verse, the latter part of verse 15, why do you tempt me? Why do you tempt me? Bring me a denarius that I may see it. They brought it and said to him, and he said to them, What is this image and inscription? And they said to him, Caesar's. Jesus answering and said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's And they marveled at him. First thing to appreciate about what Jesus says, why do you tempt me? He called them hypocrites, and now he calls them tempters The point to emphasize about that tempter is that the word here that is used in Greek is pyrazo. Or by calling them tempting him, Jesus pinpoints their inner motive He has ability, do you see, to see into the heart and to correctly evaluate what is being said and why it is being said. Truly, only God can do such things. Only God knows a man's heart. But this word that is used is very, very important and very, very significant. Because in Matthew chapter 4 verse 3, this is the first word that is used to identify Satan. In that great confrontation with Christ, Satan comes as the tempter. Ho parazzo. He came to Jesus and said, if you are the Son of God, cast these stones down. No, make these stones into bread. For it is written, the tempter, tempting Christ. These guys got the same MO. They got the same form of temptation. Satan was trying, I mean he was even flattering Jesus when he said, if you are the Son of God So Jesus says, and part of the temptation, he says, bring me a denarius. Commonly used Roman coin. Worth one day's wages in ancient Israel. On the front of the coin, guess who? Caesar. On the back of the coin was were scenes of Caesar's imperial glory. Now imagine this. This is a coin that everybody in Israel has. And on the front of the coin is the image of a man who claims to be God. And they're walking around with those coins. They didn't have any trouble finding one. Under ordinary circumstances, they would rail against this coin as an example of blasphemy. And yet It's commonplace in their commerce. I think that again points out the hypocrisy of these people. The Lord Jesus says to them, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and the things to God that are God's. The word render there is an interesting word also, in that it wasn't the verb I expected to find. There's a normal verb uh pronounced zidomai that means to give. It's not give so much as it's render. It's a com uh and and it's it's got a prefix in front of it. And the prefix plus this verb makes the word more emphatic in terms of its translation so that this word is usually translated Give back, pay back, or return Now, I can't think of something that would be more infuriating and more irritating to the politicians and the religious leaders of ancient Israel than to say to them. When he says, give back unto Caesar what's Caesar's, to couch that in language that they would understand, he's saying, you must pay them back. I think that would inflame them to hear that kind of language coming from Jesus. Their response, of course, was that they were very amazed. They marveled. They marveled in Jesus This was so interesting doing this study because at every turn something came up when I looked at the language. And this language is in a tense that is not often used in Greek. It's called the imperfect tense. And what the imperfect tense signals Is action in progress in past time. In other words, what it's telling us, their amazement, that their amazement The Pharisees and the Herodians' amazement that they had previously been amazed at Jesus' words. This isn't the first time that they had heard Jesus and were amazed. They were amazed frequently at what they heard about Jesus. And my point is, their amazement never caused them to stop trying these gotcha moments. It never changed their minds regarding Jesus. It never caused them to repent. It never caused them to believe that Jesus was the Son of God. My brothers and sisters, don't ever make the mistake of thinking that a human being's expression of amazement at holy things equals repentance. None of the Pharisees and none of the Herodians in this passage are signaled out as people who changed their, who had their hearts changed. Regarding Jesus. None of them believed, and none of them repented. Now I think there is another very important final lesson that I want to stress from this text. It is seen in the fact that the Pharisees and the Herodians were trying to co-opt. Jesus' own understanding of his messianic role. They were trying to co-op or morphos or Metathesize is probably the best word. They were trying to co-op Jesus' understanding into their understanding. Of what the Messiah should do. They were trying to get Jesus when they to say To have this gotcha moment. They were trying to get Jesus to say something about Caesar that they could spin. And tell others about. It might have gone something like this. If Jesus had just answered in the way in which they were hoping. Jesus is on our side. He's a revolutionary. He's a deliverer who will lead us against the Romans and free us. This, you see, is another satanic temptation. Remember in Luke chapter 4, verse 13, after Jesus had endured the temptation of the devil, It says, when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. This is another opportune time. If Jesus, you see, could just answer in a way defying Rome, then maybe the Pharisees and the Herodians would believe in him and would follow him. Jesus, can't you just stop all that talk about personal salvation? Can't you just stop talking about the kingdom of God and righteousness? Which render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God's? Some might want to use this text as a case study on the responsibility of Christians to their government. And I admit that that's there. But I think that is not the primary thing to learn here. The primary thing to learn from this example is that Christ must crush his opposition's temptation. For that temptation strikes at the very heart of the gospel. The Pharisees and the Herodians are confronting Jesus with this choice. If I tell them what they want to hear, they will like me and they will support me. Or, if I obey God and tell them the gospel truth, then they will hate me. And eventually they will destroy me. You see, the Pharisees and their Rhodians are once again enacting the satanic temptation of Christ all over again. The devil took Jesus up to a high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and all the glory of them. And he said to them, to Jesus, all these things I'll give you. You will fall down and worship me. And Jesus said unto him, Get thee away, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you worship My brothers and sisters, we all should be thankful that Jesus, your Savior, resists Temptation to be the ruler of the world under Satan. That was a real temptation. We should be thankful that Christ remains focused on the cross. And the empty grave. Rejoice that Christ cannot be bought with the temptations that have destroyed every other human being. To obey his lusts instead of obeying his God Jesus alone obeys God and thereby demonstrates his righteousness. He is our hope, our only hope, of crushing the enemies of God and advancing the gospel of his kingdom. May God bless the re the preaching of His Word. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, grant unto us an ever appreciated an ever growing appreciation. Of Lord, your son's faithfulness. We thank you, Lord, for him. By your grace, Lord, we gladly bow our knee to him. By your grace, Lord, we seek to live for him. And to live as he lived. Help us, Lord, for we are so weak, but you are so strong. Help us, Lord, to resist temptation and to advance instead the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ. For it is in his name we pray. Amen.