Well now this morning we come to the reading of the sermon text, which comes to us this morning from Philippians chapter 1, verses 12 through 18. Paul's letter to the Philippians verses 12 through 18. Chapter 1. Now you will notice in this text, here is the beginning of where the Apostle Paul begins to refer to his own circumstances as he writes this letter. Now some of the background to this letter is the moment when Paul writes is probably in the year A. D. 62. It's probably when he is under house arrest in Rome at the end of the book of Acts. He got sent to Rome on account of making appeal to the Caesar to hear his case Now, the reason he made appeal to Caesar was because there were some Jews who sought to put him to death. And they sought to put him to death because of his preaching of the gospel. And so he appealed to Caesar in order to be kept safe from their judgment, kept safe from them, putting him to death. And so for that reason he actually got sent to Rome by some Roman leaders, and then he ends up in Rome under house arrest in chains. And that's one thing you're going to hear in this passage. You're going to hear some of Paul's situation. He's in chains. Not only is he in chains, there are some other things that have happened as a result of his chains. And in that situation, what would you expect Paul to sound like if he wrote a letter to the Philippians? And what does he sound like when he writes this letter? Because these words that he writes are filled with joy and confidence. Even in the face of the things he's going through. So keep that in mind as you hear this text. Philippians chapter 1, verses 12 through 18, this is God's word. Listen to it. But I want you to know, brethren, that the things which have happened to me have actually turned out for the furtherance of the gospel. So that it has become evident to the whole palace guard and to all the rest that my chains are in Christ And most of the brethren in the Lord, having become confident by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some also from goodwill. The former preach Christ from selfish ambition Not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my chains, but the latter out of love Knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached And in this I rejoice, yes, and will rejoice. The reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it, and may He add His blessing to its preaching in our midst. This Lord's day. This text shows us glimpses of what Paul is going through when he is writing this letter that he's written. And what we see of what's shown us in these verses here is that Paul is in a hard situation. It's not easy the things that Paul is enduring here in this text. The things that Paul mentions give evidence of suffering Things that are hard to endure. Some of it involves pettiness on the part of other people Yes, some who Paul even considers to be brothers, brethren, acting in ways that are petty Using the circumstance of Paul's chains to seek to afflict him even by preaching Christ, somehow to afflict Paul in his chains by preaching Christ. But there's the the hardship that goes with the chains Paul is in. Paul, uh like I said a bit earlier, is probably under house arrest at this point in Rome, about the year A. D. 62. He's chained. He's kept captive. He's kept as a prisoner. He's lost his freedom. He has to stay bound. He has to stay under the command of those who have chained him. And this is something that is hard for Paul, we would expect. Not just the fact that he's captive, that he's lost his freedom. Surely one aspect of what's hard for Paul includes Something that arises from where Paul's heart is at. For what what do we know of the Apostle Paul and his desire? He so often desires to move around. He so often desires to move in order to preach the gospel, to spread the gospel by means of movement. Well now the fact that he's in chains and imprisoned under house arrest, doesn't that prevent him from moving him aro him moving around as he pleases He often expresses a desire to reach the ends of the earth. And yet here he is, chained, staying in one place. being prevented from moving around. His freedom is restricted by these chains that he has, and that includes his freedom for his mission. The freedom that he that he otherwise had in order to spread the gospel of Christ. Surely this must have been difficult for the Apostle Paul. Wouldn't it also seem like it might be something difficult for the Apostle Paul to be chained in the sense of feeling like he's been being punished for doing the right thing? It's always hard to suffer. Sometimes it's not as hard to suffer when you know that you're suffering for something wrong that you've done. But isn't it harder to take suffering when you know that you're suffering for doing something right? And once again, why is the Apostle Paul in chains at the moment when he writes this letter to the Philippians? For doing exactly the thing that God instructed him to do. The very thing that God tasked him with, to preach the gospel, and this is what got him ended ended made him end up in change at the moment when he writes this letter. One other aspect of why this situation you might expect would be difficult for Paul is again something I referred to a bit earlier. Um the circumstances of how Paul got there in Rome, if that is indeed where he is when he writes this letter. Now, at the moment when Paul ended up in Rome, I mentioned this earlier, he ended up there by way of making this appeal that his case should be heard by Caesar. Now the reason why he did that was because there were some Jews who sought to put him to death for preaching the gospel. And yet by appealing to Caesar, this made it so that he, a Roman citizen, might be pro uh kept safe from the judgment of the Jews. The Jews would have sought to put him to death without having a good reason to do so. And yet, here, Paul then makes this appeal and asks the Caesar to hear this case. Now, it was a good move in the sense that it kept him safe from um the judgment of the Jews and it kept him from being put to death then and there by the Jews. But the issue is, later on, his case becomes before uh before these other Roman rulers a little bit later on, near the end of Acts. And these rulers listen to why Paul has been put in chains, and they say, There's no reason for this. This man doesn't deserve to be put in chains. Why don't we set him free? And yet, at that moment that they are saying this, they also have to conclude, but we can't set them free. Why? Because he's made an appeal to Caesar, he's started the process of appeal, and now we have to finish that process of appeal and we have to follow it through to the end. And so you can imagine that might have been sort of a frustrating thing for the Apostle Paul. Can can you um can you understand why that is? Who here likes to wait on government process to get what you need from it? Isn't that basically where Paul is at the moment when he um has made appeal. Again, Roman rulers have said, what has this guy done to be set to be kept in chains? We need to set him free. We we would set him free, except That he made this appeal. So now we have to follow it through to the end. And so again, can you imagine why that that as well might be something difficult for the Apostle Paul to struggle through? You know? Here he is kept in place. He's kept in place owing to this decision he made. Perhaps he would have stayed up late at night wondering if he could have done something different. If there had been a different way he could have avoided um uh th being put to death by the Jews, if there would have been a different way other than that appeal, and if that had been true, then he could have been free at this very moment when he's writing this letter. To the Philippians. So again, there's a lot about Paul's situation that comes up in these verses, and that comes up in the context as you consider it through the lens of the book of Acts. And yet, not only that, look at one of the things that comes up as a result of Paul's chains. In verse, let's see, it's verse 16. Some of the brothers, in some way, by preaching Christ, have sought to afflict him. So somehow he's in prison for preaching Christ, and yet These brothers, instead of coming alongside him and showing him sympathy and showing him help, they seek to make his situation even worse. So you see, again, what Paul is going through, there's there's a lot that if that all hit you at once, it would be easy to respond in what way? Frustration, perhaps bitterness, perhaps anguish over God, why Is that what we see Paul doing here in this text? Notice that everything he sets out, every the message he sends out in these verses. Is the exact opposite of all those things. Instead of anguish, bitterness, despair, what does he respond with instead? It seems like joy. Confidence. It seems like, instead of looking back on everything that's wrong with what's brought him to this point He looks forward to what God is doing. God has him here for a reason. And God is doing good things through him. And that's what he looks forward to in this text. Isn't that amazing? Once again, the the overall thrust of the text comes through in verse 18. The joy that Paul has Wait, and all of this stuff, he kind of goes through it. It kind of informs the background of everything he's saying from verse 12 all the way down to verse 18. But then at the end of that, the cap capstone of everything he's written here is that he rejoices. He rejoices, yes, and he will rejoice. Why? In all this, through all this, Christ is preached. And that's what we see in this passage. The joy that Paul has. Why does Paul have joy in this circumstance? How can he have joy? Well, one thing comes through in verses 12 through 14. And that is the fact that there are new opportunities for the gospel to move forward because of what's happened to Paul. Paul has ended up in chains. He has ended up in the midst of the Roman palace guard. And as a result. They have heard of Jesus Christ. They who otherwise might not have heard of Jesus Christ have heard of Jesus Christ through Paul's chains. Paul is in chains for what? For preaching the gospel? The Roman rulers don't think that's enough for him to be put to death. Surely everyone in that palace knows who Paul is, knows of his case, due to the severe injustice of the situation. And the result is that the name of Christ is known. And this makes Paul rejoice. So again, how does Paul find joy in the midst of what is surely in many ways a negative circumstance? He sees the the forward um possibility of how God is using him through what God has put in front of him. What God has put in front of him, even though it's in the midst it involves suffering, includes new opportunities for witness to the gospel. So again, lots of things went wrong, seemingly, that made Paul end up here in chains when he ends up in prison writing this letter. Yet, Paul looks at what God's put in front of him The gospel is going to the whole Palace Guard, and they know it. They know who Christ is because of Paul, because Paul has ended up in the midst of that palace guard. Again, Paul does not seem to acknowledge the negatives of his situation, but he focuses on the positives of what God seems to be doing through those circumstances. Not only does the gospel go to the palace guards though, you also see then in verses uh or in verse 14 how brothers in Christ Having heard the way that Paul responds to his sufferings and accepts his sufferings in chains for the gospel, how do they take it? Paul's example becomes something that emboldens other believers. We see that in verse 13. Most of the brethren in the Lord, having become confident by my chains, Are much more bold to speak the word without fear. They hear that Paul has been put in chains for preaching Christ. They also hear that this has not made him any less inclined to preach Christ. And what is the result? Well, they are emboldened. They become more inclined to speak without fear, just as they have um seen his example, just as they have taken their cue from him So again, it's very easy to focus on the negatives of everything that's going wrong in the life of Paul at this point. But what does Paul focus on? He focuses on how the gospel is being spread. He focuses on what God is doing even through his sufferings. Then you also have this circumstance, another circumstance in verses 15 through 18. Again, now most of the brothers have become more bold as a result of Paul's imprisonment to preach Christ. Some of the brothers have had a response that's not so good. Now they have gone and they have preached Christ, and the the scriptures make that clear here in verse 15. However, what have they preached Christ out of? What are their motives? Verse 15, somehow they have used this opportunity to begin to preach Christ out of envy and strife, selfish ambition. Somehow they are seeking to add affliction to the Apostle Paul in his chains by preaching Christ. Somehow it is an act of self-willed ambition to lift up their own reputation in the preaching of Christ. And somehow they do this in order to cause harm, further harm, to the Apostle Paul, even in his um imprisonment. Now, as Paul thinks about what's going on there, he doesn't once again he does not put his focus on what is wrong there. He does not focus on their bad motives. He does not express here the pain of receiving such treatment and being betrayed in this way. But once again, he does the thing that's somewhat surprising for him to do. He rejoices simply in the fact that Christ is preached. The fact that Christ is preached, God can use this. And he anticipates and expects. God will use this. And so he has joy. Even though the motives of those who are do it are bad. Even though it's not done out of true love, nonetheless, Christ is preached. And this is something that Paul is able to rejoice in, even in the face of all that he's suffering. So again, overwhelmingly, we see what God is doing. And we see how Paul looks at what God is doing in this passage. Now, what are we to take away from what we see here in this passage? One thing that this text would ask us to consider is whether Paul's mindset is ours in the things that we go through, the trials that we suffer. Do we take the mindset that Paul takes here? Do we look in the things that we are suffering? And in such things, look for how God might use us. Well, Paul's response to his trials is indeed a challenge to God's people. That we think about how we can serve as witnesses to Christ even in what we are suffering. That we ought to consider, we ought to reflect upon, how the Savior's glory and name might be shown forth in our sufferings, even in the midst of suffering them. Now, Paul's mindset again shows us that we shouldn't think of suffering as if it's an obstacle to witnessing to Christ, should we? Suffering isn't an obstacle to witness. Suffering is one location for witness. Suffering isn't a hindrance to witness, but it's one context in which witness can happen. Too often, we're ready to think about our own sufferings as though it's something that's in the way of being a good witness. And then we let it become an excuse, maybe even a reason why we're not prepared to be witnesses. Yet Paul's thinking here shows us that we're not let off the hook. In such thinking. Paul had plenty of things he was going through, plenty of things that could have been used as excuses. But in the midst of those things, he saw those circumstances as opportunities. Opportunities for the name of Christ to spread. Opportunities for God's salvation to spread through the good news of what Jesus Christ has done. This means That finding a setting in which you can be used to make Christ known is not something that is very difficult at all. After all, the place where you can make Christ known is right where God has placed you, even if that circumstance is right now suffering. And that's what Paul shows us. We ought to receive that instruction from God's Word. That uh, again, uh the example that's set before us by Paul, his sufferings, and yet his willingness And even his joy in making Christ known through those sufferings. So again, this passage challenges us to see. That God can use us to make Christ known in many settings. Whatever our circumstances are, wherever He has placed us, that's where He can use us to make Christ known. Another thing we should see though in this passage is notice not just that God might make us known in any setting, or make Christ known through us in any setting. Also notice the how. How is it that God can use us to make Christ known? How did God use Paul to make Christ known? Now, he was there in chains. He was imprisoned under house arrest, yet in his chains. It actually says, you know, what the original language actually says there in in verse thirteen. It actually probably says that it was known that his fees were for Christ. So some not uh you know the New King James says evident. But it might simply mean that it was known that his chains were for Christ. People simply knew that Paul was in chains because of Jesus Christ. And somehow by means of Paul's reputation, the name of Christ gets spread. So through the reputation of Paul being known, so also the reputation of Christ is known And is spread. Now, how could that be? How could Christ be known simply by the fact that it's known that Paul is in chains for Christ? How could Paul's reputation spread the reputation of Christ? Is it possible? Is it likely that Paul's reputation stands out? Not just because he is suffering for Christ, but also because of the how. Because of how he's suffering for Christ. Isn't it likely that the same joy and poise and confidence he shows in writing this passage He also shows in his own person while he's in chains. And isn't it likely that in all the boldness with which he holds fast to Christ, That this is evident to others, and it's evident to others that this is not the natural way that someone under house arrest ought to act. This is not the natural way that someone in chains ought to act. And yet it's reflected in Paul's reputation. Paul makes Christ known because he shows. He shows Christ By the way in which he takes his sufferings. So again, this passage is something of a challenge to us. It does challenge us. In how we are disposed to accept or not accept our own sufferings. Shouldn't we take some time and consider Consider um what our disposition is in suffering. And think about what that says about our faith in Christ and what it says to other people. The way we accept our sufferings does say something about our faith, and it does say something to other people about our faith in Christ, about where our hope lies. And it should say something to other people. And again, this passage certainly demonstrates this to us as we see Paul's response to suffering. The manner with which we accept what we suffer. is part of our witness, and this can be used by God. It seems like it was used by God here in our passage. Again at the end of Acts. Acts describes Paul at the end there boldly proclaiming the kingdom of God, even though he's under chains and even though he's waiting possibly for a death penalty. So it's not just the what, or not just the where, the circumstances in which we can make Christ known. It's also the how. There's something to the how of it in how we accept our sufferings and how we reflect Christ in the midst of those sufferings. And yeah, there's one more thing that should be said here in this passage. So this passage, again, Paul's example shows us. How we might be witnesses to Christ in our suffering, as Paul is an example of that. There's one more thing we need to keep in mind as we think about that issue. The joy that Paul has in the midst of his suffering is not the sort of joy that you can work up within yourself by your own strength or by your own effort. The joy that Paul has in that Christ is preached, in that Christ is honored, is not something that you can work up in yourself artificially. What is it that can give you this joy? The only thing that can give you joy of this sort, of the sort that Paul has, is by grasping the glory of who Christ is. And by having the joy in the grace that is yours, that is able to move you to rejoice in suffering. The kind of joy that Paul expresses here is not something that you can pretend to have. What happens if you pretend to have that kind of joy? And then hardships come. Does that joy hold up if you're just faking it? No. Joy that is faked, joy that is not genuinely from God in Christ. Ultimately withers out and fades in the face of what's difficult. And if you try to press on maintaining a face of having true joy, That's not from God, where does it take you in the end? It'll leave you bitter, it'll leave you broken, and it'll leave you empty. So we have to remember, the kind of joy that we are called to here is not one that we are called to come up with on our own. And it's not one that we are called to pretend that we have if we don't have it. How do we get that joy? It only comes from Christ. It only comes from the gospel. It only comes from knowing what it you actually have through Christ. And so only he can give it to you. So it only comes by grace, not by our working. It only comes through the hope that we have in eternal life. And knowing that Christ has given it to us for sure by his own blood, by his own obedience, this joy is able to sustain us the way it sustained Paul. Such joy is able to give us hope beyond what we are suffering. Such joy is able to sustain us through what we are suffering. Well, beloved, may it be true that the Lord Himself has given you such joy, and does give you such joy, and will give you such joy, as a result of what God has done for you in Jesus Christ. And as that is true, may you be ready to rejoice in your Savior, to rejoice in his salvation in spite of trials. But also to look for how God might even use you to spread his name to the end of the earth. Amen. Let's pray. Well Lord God, what a what an amazing thing it is once again in this passage as we And see what uh Paul was under and what he was suffering. What a remarkable thing it is that he was able nonetheless to rejoice in. That Christ was preached in spite of the many sufferings that he was experiencing. O Father, we ask that you would grant to us such joy. Grant us these things by your grace. Help us to know such joy through your gospel. Give to us a great sense of who we are as a people who have received such great mercy and grace from your hand and through the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Bless us in these things, strengthen us in these things, we pray, that we might be used as witnesses of you. That we might be used as people who reflect your honor and reflect your name. And bear witness to our Savior in our sufferings, even by the way that we accept our sufferings from you. We ask you to grant these things, all for the sake of the Lord Jesus Christ, our blessed Savior. Amen.