Remain standing and turn your attention to the Word of God, Hebrews chapter 9, verse 11 through 15. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 11 through 15. And the focus of the message today will be on verse 15. Let us hear the word of the Lord. But Christ came as high priest of the good things to come with the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is, not of this creation. Not with the blood of goats and calves, but with his own blood he entered the most holy place once for all, having obtained eternal Redemption. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies for the purifying of the flesh How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God? How much more shall it cleanse your conscience From dead works to serve the living God. And for this reason, he is the mediator of the new covenant. By means of death, for the redemption of the transgression under the first covenant That those who are called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. Let's be seated and let's hear uh the Lord's word I'd like us to think about this last verse of Hebrews chapter 9 under the title, Christ the Mediator secures your inheritance. Secures your inheritance. We've been working through Hebrews, obviously, and we have seen So many blessings that are ours because of the redeeming work of Jesus Christ. I hope that in seeing these blessings, that you're growing in your appreciation of the excellence. Of your Savior's redemptive work for you on the cross. And at the same time as you're growing in your appreciation of the excellence of his ministry, that you're also growing in your understanding of how indebted you are to God. How indebted you are to God for the new life that you have in Christ. A new life which is yours forever. Last week, as we focused on verses 13 and 14, we saw how Christ's death cleanses our conscience from dead works. so that we might serve the living God and his people. Last week, the Holy Spirit helped us To see how God given faith in Christ's death on the cross cleanses our conscience from our old man's dead works. What I mean by that, and I hope I explained it well last week Cleanses the old man's dead works is cleansing us from the idea that good works which we do save ourselves. That is not the good news. No human being Will ever be saved, thinking that I did something good and they saved me Instead, you who are in Christ now know that any good works which you do are done to glorify God. We rejoice that it's Christ's, not our good works, that saves us. That Christ alone is the only one who kept the law of God perfectly. And God was pleased because Christ obeyed and kept God's law for us. He is pleased to elevate his son to the highest of high. It is, indeed, is it not, an insult to God and to the redemptive work of Jesus to believe that your righteousness Will save you. Today, let us learn what impact Christ's redemptive work has on your eternal inheritance Another one of the great blessings. The blessings are just coming one way after the other, overflowing. As we look at our verse, let's turn our attention there. Verse 15 For this cause, he, of course, he is Christ, is the mediator of the New Testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first Testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal, of an eternal inheritance Christ's ministry here is described as that of a mediator. Not simply a mediator, but a mediator of the New Testament. A mediator of the New Testament or the New Covenant. Once again, we cannot escape God's hammering away at this important point. We cannot escape the fact that The death of Christ, reflected here in this text with the words, by the means of death. We cannot escape the fact that the death of Christ plays the crucial role in securing for every believer the blessings associated with salvation. Here we're only talking about one of those blessings. But just one, just this one, just this one is more than enough. And we have it all. We have it all It's only, you see, by Christ's shed blood, by his death and resurrection, that we have these blessings. From God. Without the cross of Christ, there can be no mediator between God and man. As 1 Timothy 2 verse 5 reminds us, there is one God and one mediator between God and man, and that man is Jesus Christ. the only mediator between God, the eternal God, the Creator and the Redeemer of all the blessings that we enjoy, material and spiritual. The only mediator is Jesus, not anyone else. In fact, when you look at the major religions of the day, they don't even have a mediator. The concept is foreign. Why? Why you ask Because every other religion but the Christian faith has taught their people that it depends on what they do. Why do you need a mediator if you yourself can do it? You see? You need a mediator, and the reason you need a mediator is because you can't know not just you can't, I can't, every human being can't Because of the fall, come to God by yourself Can't impossible. I can't say enough words that would echo The truth of God's word on this fundamental point. The fact that we need a mediator means it's impossible. Why is it impossible? Well, first of all, the labor of a mediator, just in general, means that he brings two parties together. And the condition of the two parties is such that they are estranged. They are estranged. They're not communicating with each other. And that you should not understand that it's not for God's, it's not God's problem in the sense that we're not communicating. The problem is us The mediator is involved because we're estranged, we're not communicating, and furthermore, the two parties are at war with one another. A mediator must be connected or contact, excuse me, must be connected to each party. In the conflict. He must have some connection to both parties so that he can represent the parties honorably. And Correctly and fairly. And lo and behold, in God's marvelous plan, Jesus Christ is the only mediator because he has divine and human nature in one person. Therefore, he can connect. He does connect. He knows what it is that God's expectations are. He knows what God's plan is, and he knows what we need. And he understands our weaknesses. As overcoming these problems associated with God and man at war with one another As Romans chapter 8, verse 7 reminds us, ever since the fall of Adam, We are at enmity with God. We are at enmity. It's not simply that we're estranged. The reality is we're enemies of God. We don't like him. We don't want to be near him. We, and I gotta make this clear, we do not like the God of the Scriptures, who is God. We will like every other God that's out there who we have made in our own mind as a result of the fall. We have exercised our foolish, darkened mind to bow down and worship anything out there. Oftentimes it's a precious statue made out of gold or silver or precious stones. But sometimes it's the most amazing kinds of things that people will bow down to instead of God They'll bow down to the wind, they'll bow down to the sun, they'll bow down to the moon, they'll bow down to the cows. That's the product of sin and the twisted, darkened minds. That's, I mean, you without God in Christ, you can't imagine how foolish we have become Every can you can you believe that? People would worship a cow Instead of God. Not my brother. I don't think he ever fell victim to that. But we all will worship any idol without Christ. And you gotta you you gotta ask yourself the question, why do we do that? Because that's at the heart of the problem. We do that because it's reflective of our human nature. We know there is a God. We know there is the God. We know many things about the God, but as Romans 1 reminds us. We can't deal with it. We suppress the truth in unrighteousness. There's this constant self pressure to deny what we know to be true. And it's coupled with everybody else thinks the same way. And so we succumb, in a sense, to peer pressure. In the history of mankind, there has been, I must say And I hadn't planned on saying this, but there has been a few individuals throughout history. Who have finally come to the logical conclusion of their self-righteousness and their suppression of the truth. What is that logical conclusion? They have said there is no God. In the process of saying that, however, they still erected an idol. And the idol they erected is themselves. Nietzsche is one of the prime examples who erected instead of God When he said he's one of the ones who early on said there is no God, and he created in his mind the thought that man is Superman. Man is in control. Man each individual each individual man Is in control. He is his own God. Nietzsche tried to live that way. In the end, he killed himself. Because that's not the way to live. That's nihilism. That's nothingness. That's how far it goes, friends. But thank God He has rescued you from that Thank God he has put within your mind the idea that there is a mediator between God and man. The God. And He is the Lord Jesus Christ. All men since the fall are at enmity to God. And that enity expresses itself in being disobedient to God's law A law that is written on our hearts, Romans 2. 14, a law that is written in stone, Exodus chapter 20. We are disobedient to what God has revealed to us as the way of righteousness in God's kingdom. What was the purpose of God giving us the written law? Well, as Genesis chapter 6, verse 19, excuse me, Galatians chapter 3, verse 19 reminds us. The purpose of the law is that it was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made. Man, you see, breaks God's law, and what he reaps for that is condemnation. That's what it is talking about when it refers to the mediator of the new covenant, who, in the language of our passage, He is the mediator of the new covenant by means of death for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant The law of God, the Old Testament. Uh excuse me, the law of God, the Old Covenant with Moses. The mediator by his death redeems the transgressions committed under the first covenant. Now I know it's not the first covenant. But I think for the purposes of our our language and our our thought here, that He's getting at the point that the law of God, even though it was enscripturated under Moses, has been with man forever And man has known the law forever in his heart All men are under that law, and all men break that law. But for whom does Jesus act as mediator? Take note of our text. For whom is he mediating? First of all, I should have said, how is he, but on what grounds is he mediating The answer is by means of his death. By means of his death. Who is he mediating for? Sorry for the preposition. Um but the point is, verse fifteen, look at it, don't forget it Man, yes, his people He is the mediator of the new covenant by means of death for the redemption of the transgression under the first covenant, that those who are called May receive the promise of eternal life. Who are those who are called? How are they called? Who calls them? What does he say to them when he calls them? That's you. Here the word calling is the word election. Those whom God has called to come to saving faith, Christ is the mediator of the new covenant. For the transgressions of the first covenant, the law Which we all have done. And we deserve the wages of our sin, which is death. Always though, when you quote that verse, Romans 6. 23, wages of sin is death. What? It's you gotta get them both. The gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus Our Lord. The gift of God, the blessing of God, is the mediator who by his death cancels out Removes the sin from your account and taste for it with his blood. By means of his death, you see. Everybody following this? Because this is this is super. This is really wonderful stuff when you When it grabs hold of you. When you get this, the mediator, the Lord Jesus Christ, makes a ransom payment. For those who are called. That means he frees. He frees the elect from the bondage of sin. Which is the result of our disobedience to God's law. He is the mediator by his death, brings the warring parties together. No longer at enity with God are we. No longer are we under God's wrath and his curse because of our sin. But we're under his mercy. We're under his love. We're under his goodness. We're under his saving work, so much so that the blood of Christ means we're no longer at war with God. We have found, excuse me, he has found us, and he has made us to love him. As we reflect on how He has loved us in Christ, man now has fellowship with God through the mediator, through Jesus Christ and his blood. The great covenant promise that God made with Abraham is now fulfilled. That promise that says, I will be your God, and you will be my people. And it's fulfilled in the most intimate of ways. Every one of you, as a child of God, as a believer in Jesus Christ. Has God dwelling in you? In you In fulfillment of the great promise in Ezekiel 36, I will put my spirit within you, and I will cause you to walk in my statute. For my glory. Amen. Not only does Christ the Holy Spirit dwell in us, fulfilling Abraham's promise. But we now have something additional. And this is what I'm getting to at the end. We have this, I'm at the end. We have this eternal inheritance. A promise. You got an inheritance. You might not have an inheritance from your parents. You might have had an inheritance from your parents and spent it all, and now have nothing. But I tell you, if you're in Christ, God has given you an eternal inheritance We will dwell always with, we will dwell always, you will dwell always with God, the Creator, and your Redeemer. You will be with your heavenly Father. You are now spiritually with your Heavenly Father. And you will be in glory with your Heavenly Father, Heaven Is your destiny. Heaven is where you are ending up in this world No, that's not in this world. In God's world. And God has made it. How can I say, Pastor, this is an eternal inheritance? How can I say that This is never going to be taken away from you. The scripture says it. It says it in the most another most wonderful way. Ephesians chapter 1, 14. God has made it so that the Holy Spirit is the down payment on your inheritance. Because you have the Holy Spirit, God is going to make sure that you get there. That you will be holy, that you will, on that day when you see Jesus, God the Father, face to face He will welcome you with those words. Well done. Good and faithful servant. And he will do so because the blood of Jesus has covered your sin. And because the Holy Spirit has been working in your life To conform you more to the image of your big brother, Jesus Christ. You have an eternal inheritance. Your inheritance is forever. Your inheritance is not just in heaven, it is heaven. Your inheritance is the city whose builder and maker is God. Your inheritance is that you now are the adopted child of God. Where you can now cry to him, Abba Father. Your inheritance is such that Peter says Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again to a living hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance, uncorruptible, incorruptible, and undefiled, that cannot fade away, reserved in heaven for you. And then he adds who are kept. I should have looked at the Greek there, but I didn't. to see what that word means, but you are kept by the power of God through faith into salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. Kept by the power Power of God. What shall we say to all of this What shall we do as we discover so many additional magnificent ways in which we are indebted to Christ for our salvation What is your response to the teaching that Jesus' shed blood has given you eternal heavenly glory forever? I don't often mention her, and I don't often sing her hymns. But she did get this one right. Fanny Crosby Praise him. Praise him. Jesus, our blessed Redeemer. Tell of his wondrous works to others Crucify, glorify him with all that you have and are. You can never glorify and praise God for Jesus enough. Imagine that. Because of Christ's death and resurrection, you are the eternally adopted children of God. Kept by his power for everlasting glory That is transcendent. Amen. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, encourage your people. As they continue the walk here, even as Peter said in his passage. That though these things are true about our inheritance, and though we believe that in Christ we have these things, he says, yet you may have to endure trials for a time. O Lord our God, when we do endure those trials, let us do so, Lord, with the sure knowledge and conviction That it is our God who is in control, not the oppressors. It is our God who is using these trials For our better growth in Christ, it is our God who is solidifying in our mind the truth that we have an eternal inheritance. We served in heaven for us through Christ. To God be the glory, Amen