Turn with me now in your Bibles, remain standing, and we'll read verses one through five of our text for this morning, Hebrews chapter nine. Verses 1 through 5. Let us hear now the word of the Lord. Then indeed, even the first covenants had ordinances of divine service. and an earthly sanctuary. For a tabernacle was prepared, the first part in which was the lampstand, the table, and the showbread which is called the sanctuary. And behind the second veil, the part of the covenant, uh the ark of the covenant, Overlaid on all sides, excuse me, and behind the second veil, the part of the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all. which had the golden censor and the Ark of the Covenant, overlaid on all sides with gold, in which were the golden pot that had manna Aaron's rod that had budded, and the tables of the covenant. And above it were the cherubim and of glory, overshadowing the mercy seat Of these things we cannot now speak in detail. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Well this is one of those uh sermons that in prep in prepping for it, um I uh was uh I wanted to know more about Aaron's rod that it budded and why that was of such significance that it was placed in the Ark of the Covenant. So I wanted to know that answer because I I didn't know the answer. And so that led to looking at this. I was going to look at the arc uh the the rod that butted, and I was just going to focus on that. But I found in looking at all of this Believe it or not, the gospel of Jesus Christ is here. Doesn't say it, but it's here. I want to show you that. The last couple of weeks, well it's longer than that, August 31st I started a series that was a 15-sermon series that came out of Hebrews 5 and led into Hebrews 8. 15 sermons. Where we discovered that Jesus Christ brings to his people the superior high priest. He is the superior high priest Then we turn from that in Hebrews 8, verse 3 and following, to a discussion of how Jesus brings the superior covenant. The new covenant, which is far superior than the old. Then today we begin studying another section of Hebrews, which goes from Hebrews 9 on into Hebrews 10. In which we see that Jesus is to be offered up as a superior sacrifice. So first we looked at how Christ is a great high priest, then we looked at the importance of the new covenant that Christ brings. And now we're gonna begin another series in Hebrews that focuses primarily on The matter of Jesus being a better sacrifice, a superior sacrifice. Now Let's look at these things that were placed in what's called the earthly sanctuary. And now the earthly sanctuary, you remember, would have been the tabernacle and the temple that the Jews had. That's what he's talking about. These were the things that were placed there. And We know, we know from uh from uh Hebrews chapter eight, verse one and following. That the priests who worked in this tabernacle, in this temple, or whatever it was called at different periods of time It says that Hebrews 1, 8, verse 1, on to verse 4, that they offer gifts according to the law, and they serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things. Their ministry in this tabernacle was a shadow of heavenly things. As the priests serve there of the Old Testament. And Moses, of course, God warned him That his God was giving instructions about this very tabernacle. You go back to Exodus, back to Exodus 28 and following. You'll see the instructions God warned Moses, make sure you do everything according to the pattern that I have told you. God had a reason for that. Because it was reflective of the heavenly sacrifice. A greater sacrifice. Now, let's look at these items for a bit We have an inventory of them. There are a division of two separate things that were in There is two separate divisions in which there were things in the temple. In the first division We begin reading at verse 2. For there was a tabernacle made, the first, wherein was the candlestick or lampstand. and the table, and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. Now in the second, after the veil, in the tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all. And there they had the golden censor, the Ark of the Covenant, overlaid roundabout with gold Wherein was the golden pot that had manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant, which would be the Mosaic tables, the law. Over it, the cherubims of glory, shadowing the mercy seat, which we cannot now speak particularly. I gotta confess to you that as a young and misguided Christian, I read all of these verses and I said to myself, so what? So what? This was for the Jews' benefit It applies to their temple. I saw no way that any of this could be helpful to Christians. No connection. I got so far as to say I didn't really like the book of Hebrews. Because I didn't understand it. And it took getting going to seminary and being introduced to something called the doctrine of the covenant that suddenly made Hebrews come alive to me. God was gracious. He opened up history and meaning to me and countless others. The covenant you see links everything in the Bible together. It's not the only thing that does that, but it's one of the things that does that. It stretches from the old to the new. Temple does too. As Mrs. Taylor teaches the Sunday school class and is fond of teaching them The new is in the old concealed. The old is in the new revealed. As we look at this detailed description of the inner part of the temple, we see these several items. And I know we all go to it and we look at it and we say, does this matter at all? Does it matter at all? Well, let me try to show you why it matters. In a general way, I've been around a long enough time to know that what God puts in his word Has something to do with me and with his plan of salvation. He doesn't just throw words in here These words are important. These words, like every other word of the Bible, is important. You shall not live by bread alone, but by every word. Every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Now, some words are not as easy to understand, but I tell you, if you do some digging, digging, if you do some spiritual work You might be very surprised at what is said. Well, I must confess I was blown away Let's look at the items that are in that first place outside the Holy of Holies. That means they're adjacent to the Holy of Holies, but they're not in it. On a table, there was a candlestick and there was showbread. Now to understand the significance of the candlestick, or sometimes called lampstand in some translations. We need to turn to the Bible. To Exodus chapter 25, verses 31 through 39. Don't go there, but you can go there on your own. I just want to summarize for you a couple of things that are said there. It's pure gold. Pure gold things, you see, automatically say to us, that's precious. The lampstand is precious, but it's even more precious for what it signifies. Below the glamp stand, there were seven additional lamps That we're burning oil in front of the lampstand. If We were to have a lampstand here trying to approximate what this looked like and had seven always burning lights In the front of it, in the foreground, shining its light on the lampstand. What does that convey You see, what it conveys is that there's a highlighting or a spotlighting of this lampstand. It's meant to be Seeing. Now maybe you can s you'll find you'll see where I'm going because Light is given off by the lampstand and by the lights that are spotlighting it. Light is being shed Abroad, bright light, accenting the beauty of the lampstand Your eyes, if you were there, would be attracted to it And its glory, its brightness, I dare say was pretty bright. This reminds us, you see, of several appearances of God throughout the Bible, where he is pictured as unapproachable light. Remember Moses in Exodus 3, with the burning bush, the bright sight of God's presence. Remember Hebrew Genesis chapter 15, where a covenant is being initiated with Abraham. And the animals are laying out, splayed apart. And it says, a burning torch goes before them. Remember the Apostle Paul on the road to Damascus, and a bright light shines upon him. Who is Christ the Lord? So bright that it blinds him. Remember that Jesus said Or it was testified at his coming that when the angels suddenly appeared to the shepherds at Christ's birth, they were overwhelmed with the glory of the light of God's presence. Lord Himself called Himself the light of life John chapter 1. He spoke in John chapter 8, verse 12. I am the light of the world. He that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. Tell me, there isn't a connection there. Look at the showbread. To understand the showbread, you have to go to 1 Samuel 21, verses 1 through 6. This bread consists of twelve loaves made of the finest flour. They were flat and they were thin. Now they were placed on the table in two rows of six each. And every Sabbath day they were renewed. Twelve loads placed on the table Next to the light the light of God's presence. The twelve loaves signify the people of God, the twelve tribes of Israel. Then what do you have here? You have nothing less than God with his people symbolized. You have a manual here. Are you all are y'all tracking with me today? This is amazing stuff. It blows my mind. I was looking for an answer about Aaron's rod and I got that. God showed me that. I wasn't even looking for it. The showbread plus the lampstand on the same table is God present with us. Symbolized. Now we read, what's in the second temple? And I'm sorry about this. If you hope to get out soon, you better think again Huh? Okay. In the second part of the temple There was a golden censor, the Ark of the Covenant, where inside of that ark was a golden pot containing manna. Aaron's rod that had butted, and the table of the law, the law of Moses. You have now entered into the Holy of Holies. The place where no one can go except the high priest once a year. You are now there. And you're seeing this. You see, you can go there anytime you want because the lamp stand And the showbread are there. But there's more to it even than that The golden sensor, this was a vessel in which incense was placed. On the golden altar before the Lord in the temple, according to Exodus 30. The priest filled the censer with live coal. from the sacred fire on the altar, giving Elford a burnt offering, and having carried it into the sanctuary, there threw it upon the burning coals of sweet incense Making an acceptable offering to the Lord The Ark of the Covenant. This unremarkable in its physical presence In terms of size or in terms of uh uh uh uh uh an amazing image uh to see it was filled it was covered with gold it was portable initially But the Ark of the Covenant has what's inside the Ark that's critical for us. In the Ark. There is the golden pot containing manna. Mana, you remember, was that bread-like substance that fell from heaven as Israel Was redeemed from Egypt and on the route to the Promised Land. It was their bread. It was their daily bread. For 40 years, while Israel wandered in the desert, before they got to the promised land, God provided manna every day. But one, which was the Sabbath. And he provided a double portion the day before. But in my way of thinking, and I believe I'm correct This manna prefigures the new manna. Christ, our daily bread. As John chapter 6, verse 50 records, Jesus commenting, This is the bread which come down from heaven that a man may eat of it and not die. He said, I am that living bread, which came down from heaven. If any man eats of my bread He shall live forever. The bread that I will give is my flesh. Not flesh, but sacrificed. which I will give for the life of the world in a strange and wonderful way. Mana, the bread of life Jesus Christ, also includes their fulfillment of the Passover and the Lord's Supper. Kind of like this. Now we get to Aaron's rod that budded. This um came about in the course of a rebellion Against Moses and against Aaron. We read a little bit of that rebellion in the Numbers chapter 16, 1 through 5 earlier, but you have to read that whole chapter. But it's really fascinating. The gist of the rebellion that began was widespread. It was led by Korah and Nathan and a couple of others. But it also included 250 men of renown in Israel. This was no small opposition The gist of their opposition was simply this. Moses, Aaron, who made you God and high priest? We are just as holy as you are. Who appointed you? To the task of leadership and ministry among my people So a test was devised. Two hundred and fifty censors from the men of renown who complained We're placed the next morning in the middle of the camp. And that we read as we go on that the 250 men with the sensors that fire came down. Fire came down from heaven and God consumed them all. He consumed them all simply because they didn't like his leader Simply because they thought that they were entitled to do so. It went on. Verse 42 of chapter 16. The congregation of Israel complained. Moses, you killed it, you killed Korah and those other 250 men. What did God do? Brought an earthquake and swallowed them up. And then others were angry at God again. There are three different Three different challenges to Moses in this section of Numbers chapter 16. Three different challenges. They These were angry at Moses. I don't remember the reason. But Moses said, take these rods of these men and lay them in the tabernacle along with Aaron's. And you know what? The rod of Aaron's butted The rod of Aaron's blooded. Nobody else is dead. What was God saying? Clearly he was saying, I appoint leaders, not you I have my servants. It's my pleasure to appoint whoever I want. To lead you, to serve you But that becomes also translated into the New Testament in this form. God will save his people through his appointed high priest. And that high priest was Aaron then, but it's Christ now. For it is Jesus alone, as we have heard in Hebrews chapter 8. He is the only one that God has sworn you are a priest forever. after the order of Melchizedek. And Hebrews chapter four, verse five, says that no one takes the honor of leadership or priesthood in the kingdom of God on by him. himself. You get you get the picture here? You see how this is all reflecting? God's redemptive plan, it's a grand picture Before the work of Christ, just as the Lord's Supper is a picture that points back to the work of Christ. Of course, in the ark were the tables of the covenant, the law. And it's the law who stands against us. The law stands against us. It condemns us because we can't keep it. Those who are faith are blessed with Abraham. But as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse, for it is written, Cursed is every one that continues not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them You have the law has to be kept perfectly in order for someone to merit salvation. None of us can do that. Nobody can. Only Jesus. Christ you see, and that same text in Galatians chapter three, verse twelve. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by being made a curse for it for by being made a course, a curse for us, for it is written Cursed is every one that hangs on a tree. Only by blood sacrifice, by the high priest God has appointed, our shepherd Jesus Christ, can full blood atonement be made for your sins. Against God's law. The entire inner and outer courts of the Old Testament in the temple, the picture that is presented here points to Jesus. Christ in the shadows, but Christ in the details. It points to Jesus and to the very heart of the gospel. Christ was in the shadows, but now the light of his presence has shined. And we see Why the details are the part of our salvation The gospel you see in this section of Hebrews chapter 9 is here. It's in the details. Search the details. I didn't do anything special. I just looked. It's there. It's not complicated. You can do it. And you will be blessed if you do it. God tells the Jews of old And God has been telling Christians since the birth of Christ, repent of your sins against my law. Believe in my blood sacrifice. For your sin. Believe in the lampstand, my showbred people. In him there is mercy from God and forgiveness. Willow. In this