You can follow along with me as we preach from Hebrews chapter 9, beginning at verse 23 and continuing through verse 28. Hebrews Chapter 9, verse 23 through 28, let us now hear the Word of God. Therefore, it was necessary that the copies of the things in heaven should be purified with these. But the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. For Christ has not entered the holy places made with hands Which are copies of the true, but he has entered into heaven itself. Now to appear in the presence of God for us Not that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enters the most holy place every year with the blood of another. He then would have had to suffer since the, often, excuse me, since the foundation of the world. But now, and you should read in there, he has appeared, once, at the end of the age He has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And as it is appointed for men to die once, but after that the judgment. So Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many to those who eagerly wait for him. He will appear a second time, apart from sin, for salvation. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated. We have been studying through Hebrews, and we've been gaining an increasing understanding of the work of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, on many different levels. And our author has been explaining various different ideas and terms about Christ's sacrifice. Last Sunday we talked about the fact that Christ, your mediator, must die. And today the author is going to talk to us about Christ, your heavenly mediator. And I know that's two sermons about the mediator, but this time I want to more focus on what his presence In heaven means, what it means to you, what it means to the Christian as they seek to live their life for his glory. There's so many things I could bring out through this passage that I don't have time to bring them all out, but I want to say, first of all, that I think that in order to appreciate the author's thought here, you have to go back to what he said in Hebrews 8, verse 1 So let's go back there for just a second. And let us read what he has to say. Now of the things which we have spoken this, spoken, this is the sum. We have such a high priest. Who is set at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in heavens? A minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched, and not man. For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices, wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat to offer also. For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there already are priests that offer gifts according to the law. Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things. As Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle. See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shown you in the mount. But now hath he obtained a more min excellent ministry, and that he there refers to Christ. But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry by how much he is how much also he is the mediator. of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. You've got two thoughts running through this, two scenes You've got the earthly tabernacle or temple, and you've got the heavenly tabernacle. One is built by hands, the other is built by God. One has the sacrifices of animals, the earthly, the other has the sacrifice of Christ. The earthly temple in Jerusalem, the tabernacle, all of that is a copy And at the same time, a shadow of the heavenly. All those sacrifices pointed forward to something. And what they pointed forward to was the coming sacrifice of a better blood, the blood of the Son of God. And now as we go back to our text, this same Contrast, the same idea about the earthly sacrifice temple and the heavenly temple is in play Christ is our perfect, holy, eternal high priest, and he is now seated at the right hand of God in heaven. There he ministers. In the true tabernacle. The one the Lord made. Not the one that the Jews made. Not the one in Jerusalem. The earthly tabernacle has high priests, and they offer sacrifices and gifts of animals in the tabernacle that is built by man's hand Christ offers a sacrifice, even as the earthly high priests do, but his is a sacrifice appropriate for heaven. It is appropriate because it is himself. It's a better sacrifice. That's why John in 1 John chapter 1 29 calls him the Lamb of God. That's why John in Revelation 5, verse 12, reminds us He is the Lamb looking as though he was slain. That's why John back in 1 John, excuse me, John 1, verse 29, tells us that this Lamb of God takes away the sin of the world. The Jesus who enters into this heavenly temple enters through his righteous blood, and he has a more excellent ministry. As such, he is the mediator of a better covenant, founded on better promises. With better blood shed. Everything the author says in our text about Christ's superior sacrifice in heaven centers on you Being able to understand that he has been offered up in the true tabernacle of God, the one in heaven. And there he ministers for you. Let's look at our verses to demonstrate that this is what the text is teaching. Verse 23, it was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heaven, the pattern of things in the heaven should be purified with these But the heavenly things themselves, with better sacrifices than these, you got these pesky pronouns. They're going through here. You've got this these there. That's one of the issues we have to clear up. It says that the pattern of things in the heaven should be purified with these. Now what he's referring to, the pattern of the things in heaven, that is not heaven itself. He's not talking there about the heavenly tabernacle. He's talking about the pattern. And what was the pattern? It was the Jewish temple. And the Jewish tabernacle, the pattern of things, that which looks like or is based on what is in heaven, that they needed to be purified with these, with sacrifices. The heavenly things, the one that Christ is entered into, the one that is made without hands, the one that is the model for the earthly, Those heavenly things are purified with better sacrifices than the animal sacrifices. Blood is constant. Blood is involved. Purification is involved. But there's a difference, a qualitative, and there's a qualitative difference In the blood that purifies the heavenly temple, as opposed to the blood that purifies the earthly temple. And that makes a huge difference. The earthly temple, which is patterned after the heavenly temple, patterned after the things in heaven, it must be purified. And by purification here, I think the only way you can take that is that what he is referring to, it needs to be ritually cleansed. By animals' blood. You remember how the high priests would do such things. Very careful to make sure that everything that was in the earthly temple was cleansed. He himself had to be cleansed. The blood that he offered symbolically, the blood of bulls and goats, when he went into the high place Once a year. That provided a symbolic or ritual cleansing for the people, the atonement blood. But it was a shadow. It was pointing forward to a better blood. It was pointing forward to a better sacrifice. Indeed, Hebrews chapter 10 is going to get at the shadowy nature of this blood and the need for the better blood because it will say. The blood of bulls and goats is not sufficient to cleanse the conscience from sin. It lacked something. It lacked the meritorious blood of Christ. But that doesn't mean it was irrelevant. It pointed forward to a better blood and the need for it It was an annual reminder of sin, but it couldn't cleanse the consciences from acts that lead to sin and death. It could purify the outward temple, the the earthly temple, symbolically cleanse it But it could not do a thing to save the people from their sinful hearts and minds. He goes on to mention the heavenly things, meaning the true tabernacle in heaven, where Christ has now entered He says it's purified too, but it's purified with better faith. It's purified with a better sacrifice. Purified with a better sacrifice than the earthly animals, the blood of bulls and goats Than everything else they shed. Christ's sacrifice needs to have a continuing force about it as well as an incredible efficacy for the heavenly temple For this temple that God has made, not man. It has to have an efficaciousness about it. That cannot be got by the blood of bulls and goats. It has to be more. It has to be better. It has to be the blood, as William Cowper hymned, the hymn that we just sang. It has to be the blood that comes from the fountain. filled with blood flowing from Gymnasial's veins. And sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty state And so you have that little contrast going on there You have similarity, but you also have contrast. You have the similarity in the sense of the earthly temple and the heavenly temple, and that they need purification. You have similarity in the fact that there's blood that accomplishes that purification. However, there's a vast difference between the blood Of animals and the blood of Christ. And there's a vast difference in terms of what that blood accomplishes in our lives. Now he goes on to say in verse 24, Christ has not entered into the holy places made by hands, which are the figures of the true. But he has entered into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us. Did Christ enter into the Holy of Holies and perform the ritual sacrifices? Absolutely not. He did not enter into the holy places made by hands, into the temple at Jerusalem or the tabernacle that Moses built. They are figures. They are shadows of the heavenly temple, which Christ has entered into. When? Now it says, reflecting on his ascension, reflecting on his ascension into heaven. where he currently sits at the right hand of our Heavenly Father. The earthly temple, in fact, the need for the earthly temple and the sacrifices of the earthly temple are done away with. They're no longer operative. They were shadows appropriate for the time. But when the reality came, They were destroyed. The temple, remember the the text in Mark chapter 15, 38 says, at Christ's death, the veil at the temple was rent in two. From top to bottom. And what does that mean? What does it mean for you? It means that through Christ's sacrifice, dying on the cross It means that that blood has now trumped everything about the old. It's better blood, superior blood that has been shed on behalf of God's people. And you now have, as a result of Christ's victory, you now have ease of access. Into the eternal presence of the living God. Jesus has entered into heaven itself. And he enters there as the one who is victorious. He has fulfilled the terms of covenant obedience to God, the great suzerain king. Notice he enters heaven and he appears in heaven in the presence of God. He enters and he appears. You may not grasp the great significance of that But when you stop and think about it, who can ascend into heaven but he who has clean hands and a pure heart? Who can appear in the presence of God but he who is ultimately holy? Who is holy enough to stand before God and receive God's acceptance and approbation? The fact that Jesus stands there and appears for us means that God has received his sacrifice. It means, you see, that that sacrifice needs no more It's sufficient. It's efficient. It does what God intended for it to accomplish. Namely the redemption of the elect of God. For you see, if Christ cannot stand in the If he cannot go into the presence of God and stand there and receive God's acceptance, it means that there is no more, there is not a viable sacrifice. There is not one that God accepts. This is significant stuff. Notice also Please notice also that little pronoun that's attached to the statement, he now appears in the presence of God for us. For you, redeemed child of God, he stands and he appears. For you. In your place. Everyone who believes in Christ is already spiritually there standing with Christ and appearing before the presence of God because you're in union with Christ A union that is indestructible and inseparable. You cannot be taken away from him. You cannot be ripped from his presence. He is there standing in all of his glory. In all of his His redeemed work for you. What incredible statement that is for us. You have read that and I said, wow Wow, that is two little words, but oh what power it has. His blood allows you to stand before God. Did you ever think of your life that way? I never think of my life life that way. I keep thinking about you know I keep thinking about what will it be to stand in the presence of God. There's a part of you that's already doing that, friends. There's a part of you already doing that. Because you're united to Christ. And there's a part of you that's doing that when you walk with Christ. Christ as he leads you. There's a part of that that's already going on. Every time you open the book and start reading the Word of God as the Spirit comes and helps you Ah I wish I had words to say. that could convey the amazing, the amazement I feel about these things. The Lord Jesus stands before God as the righteous, obedient, second Adam. He takes you with him into heaven. And it's into God's presence, so it's he takes you into heaven Glory. Christ your Savior stands with you, and He stands for you, so you might stand before God. And not be obliterated or devastated because of your unholiness. That is all covered by the blood of the Savior through faith. You have a redeemer. Do not forget. You have a redeemer called Jesus. And he has found eternal favor with God. He stands for you. I'm changing the pronoun. Now, from us to you. He stands for you before God. He does so not because he continually offered himself, often as the high priest in the earthly Tabernacle offered those those uh animals. But he stands before you He stands before you, strangely enough Because of something that happened once. He doesn't have to do earthly sacrifices or any kind of sacrifices over and over again. Please notice in 26, 27, and 28, as it three verses, three verses, one right after the other, as it talks about Christ. Shed blood. It makes the statement that the sacrifice is once. Verse 26: Christ is offered just once Now once at the end of the world has he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. End of the world. That does not refer to the second coming. It refers to the first coming. It refers to the fact that at the first coming we have entered into the last days through the death and resurrection of Christ, which will be culminated by his second coming. But we're in the last days. Now we've been there since the cross and the grave. And Christ came in the end of the last days to offer himself once, to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself 27. As it is appointed unto a man once to die, but after this the judgment. Now that initially is talking about just an illustration. He's saying every human being only dies once. We all die, but we only die once. We don't die over and over again. It's common knowledge. Everybody dies once Not twice, not fifty times. Just as every human being dies only once and then goes to judgment So Christ was once offered, verse 28, to bear the sins of many. Unto them that look for him he shall appear the second time without sin unto salvation When Christ returns, he comes again to complete the process of our sanctification, which is glorification. To be with him forever. Why this once sacrifice for the sins of many? Why one time? Again, it gets to the question of the efficaciousness, the ability for the blood to do what it was designed to do. It can save the many from their sins because it is the blood of the infinite God man shed for sinners. It is extremely efficacious. It covers the sins of many, so much so that it not only saves them from their sins, but it also begins the work of cleansing the conscience from acts that lead to sin and death as the Holy Spirit is on unleashed into the hearts of God's people to apply the the blood, the redemption of Christ to the hearts of God's people. Christ dies once for many. Again, it says that Christ died for a specific group of people. It calls them many. It quantifies them as many. It does not say all. It says many. And furthermore, it goes on to say who the what those many do. He died to bear the sins of many, verse 28. And then verse 28 follows up. The many are those are them that look for him. To appear the second time. The many are those who believe, you see, by God's grace, that Christ is coming again. By faith Those who have been given faith to believe in his blood sacrifice and believe that Christ's return is necessary. This teaches all of us. It's another one of those texts that teaches us about the design or the intent of God's atonement. He Christ dies for the many. So that they will have certainty of salvation, not possibility of salvation. The burden of your salvation, you see, rests squarely on whose back? It rests on Christ. It rests actually on the one time sacrifice of his blood Christ either makes a sufficient, substitutionary, one-time atonement, or he doesn't. And if he does not, then of course there's more you must do. Your atonement is either by God's grace or by your works. It's on Christ's back or it's on The fact that Jesus stands before God after his one for all time sacrifice means that God is accepted. Christ's labor, Christ's blood, and won't accept yours. That is the most wonderful thing a sinner can hear. The many Christ dies for are those who look for Him to return. Salvation, whom he will usher into eternal life. By grace they are saved, by the God who designed the atoning work of his son Jesus in eternity to save for sure the many. All of his elect. You either believe your salvation and eternity is all of Christ's work and merit, and rest secure unto eternal life. Or you will be constantly deceived into thinking that Christ's meritorious sacrifice is insufficient. And wrongly, you will believe that you must add something to guarantee that your death will not land you in hell, but that God will see your good works and let you into heaven. That deception is a burden. Your mind, your conscience, your life will never allow you not to try. I know that's not stated well, but I hope you got the point. If you embrace the burden Then welcome to endless nights doubting if you're saved. Welcome to the most unpleasant reminder of all at Judgment Day And to the uneasy feeling that your salvation might not be enough. Your efforts at salvation might not be enough Turn to Christ now. Not tomorrow. Not next week. Not at 6 o'clock today. Turn to Christ now. Turn to his blood. In faith, live a life to serve him. Unworried about your eternal state, doing all the Holy Spirit exhorts you to do And do your good works for the glory of God. Turn to Jesus. Rest in him. Rest in his once-for-all completed sacrifice for your sins. Rest in the fact that Christ is your mediator before God in heaven because of his perfect sacrifice. Rest in the fact that by faith you're united to Him. Rest in the mediator who stands before the Almighty for you. One day, you yourself will stand in person before God's presence. And you will then understand what Job meant when he penned these immortal words. Oh, that my words were now written. Oh, that they were printed in a book, but they were graven with an iron pen. And led in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer lives. And he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth And though my skin, and though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in the flesh I shall see God. Whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not another. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for permitting us this opportunity to look at your word. Pray, O Heavenly Father, that your people will get What you this desire them to get from this message, pray that it will be edifying, pray that it will be encouraging Pray that it will bring comfort to your people struggling. Pray that, Lord, it will bring an ever-increasing desire to worship you and thank you for your Your abundant mercy and your glorious salvation. Lord, continue to work on our minds Continue to work on our heart that we might love and serve the living God with all that is within us, for truly, Lord, you are worthy And you have given us a redeemer who ever lives. Praise to the name of Jesus. Amen.