Let us uh hear the word of the Lord. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee That thou by them mightest war a good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. Which some, having put away concerning faith, have made shipwreck. Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered unto Satan. That they may learn not to blaspheme. Thus far ends of reading God's word. Please be seated. Last week uh or the last time we looked at Timothy, uh first Timothy um We focused on verses 18 and 19, and we uh addressed the matter of the fact that Paul says he has charged Timothy He has given him a task. Uh and uh that task uh is uh is revealed in more description, or it's revealed the first time back in chapter 1 of 1 Timothy at verses 3 and 4. And if you go back there, you see this charge that Paul is giving to Timothy. regarding uh how Timothy is to conduct affairs in the church at Ephesus. He says, as I besought thee uh to abide still at Ephesus when I went to Macedonia. Now, those of you who know your Bible know that The Apostle Paul was pastor at Ephesus for an extended period of time. He stayed at Ephesus more than any other church. He was at. And Paul at a given point determined that the Lord was leading him to go to Macedonia At first he thought the Lord was directing him to go into various different areas nearby Ephesus. But you read in Acts chapter 16 that the Spirit prevented him from going there. And then you hear this story of Paul having a vision in the night where a man says, Come over and help us. And that man happened to be in in Macedonia, in what was Greece. uh uh at the time, uh the nation of Greece. And so uh that's how the Apostle Paul came to Macedonia, and that's how he came to Philippi, and that's how he came to the writing of Philippians as well, where we hear the story of how the church progressed in in in uh in Philippi. But it wasn't just Philippi because it was Philippi was the expansion of the gospel off of the Asian continent into the European continent. So it's a very strategic move for the advancement of the kingdom of God. But as Paul is leaving Ephesus, he doesn't leave there without somebody there to cover the work at the church. And that somebody happened to be Timothy. And he gives him a charge. He says that thou might charge some that they teach no other doctrine. So Timothy was to be the guardian of true Christian faith. He was to be the guardian of orthodoxy. And Paul went on to say, neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies. Apparently the people were were inclined to see something uh in in certain fables or moralistic tales or uh or or some kind of genealogies. He says, don't let them think about that because they minister questions. They just bring up a whole bunch of questions and rather than Godly edifying. They don't have any edification value. These endless fables and genealogies are not edifying So Timothy has this responsibility. Make sure the doctrine is correct and don't let the people go after these fables. Don't let them get caught up in genealogies. And that's his charge. And Paul, back in our text tonight, the verses leading up to our text tonight, he talks about this charge I committed to you. It's still operative. in uh in Timothy's life, this charge that Paul has given to Timothy. Um He also mentions in our text back in verse 18, he talks about according to the prophecies which went before thee, that thou by them mightst war a good warfare. Now when he talks about the prophecies that went on before thee, he's not talking about prophecies so much in the way we think of prophecies. He's rather referring to Timothy's process of ordination and the things that were said about Timothy. as by the elders of the church as he was about to be ordained. You can pick that up if you turn or if you if you turn yourself to to uh 1 Timothy chapter 4 14, where this word prophecy is again used in terms of the laying on of hands of the presbytery, which is ordination. says, neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy. Okay? With the laying on of the hands of the presbytery. And then if you turn over to 2 Timothy 1, verse 6 You read this comment, Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands Once again, referring to ordination. And apparently at Timothy's ordination, there were a lot of good things said about Timothy's suitability for the ministry and about his prospects for the ministry. So Paul is uh is saying Timothy to Timothy as we get to verse 18, remember this charge. Remember the charge that I have given you. Remember the charge the Presbytery has given you. And fulfill the work of a minister. And then in the midst of all that, he switches a metaphor. And instead of fulfill the work of a minister, he says, fight the good fight. Engage yourself in the spiritual conflict. That's raging in the world. Be a good soldier for Christ. I am with you. I support you. The elders of the church. The Lord's church are with you. God is with you. God is behind you. You have been given ministry gifts. It's been recognized. Now exercise. Remember your ordination. I think that is what is entail when he talks about the prophecy that has been said about you. So, Timothy is to take this charge seriously. Once again, he's a war. He's a he excuse me, he's a war. He is in a war. He's in a war for The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And as being in the war, he will be required, like any good soldier, to fight. The fight is not about, is not with what we would call fleshly weapons, but it is with spiritual weapons. It is with the weapons of uh that Paul will uh declare in um or reveal in Ephesians chapter six And these spiritual weapons that God gives you, 2 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul says, has the power to pull down strongholds and every other idea that sets itself up. against the Lord and his Christ. Now, here's where we get to our verse tonight Some before you, Timothy, some that you are ministering to that I'm aware of Have not had a good conscience before God or men. and if not fought a good fight. And he begins to single them out. I always wondered how these two men thought about having their name in Holy Scripture forever. As two bad guys. Hymeneus and Alexander. Verse twenty He said, leads up to this. Some have put away helding faith in a good conscience, which some have put away concerning faith. have made sh have made shipwreck. They have taken their their their faith and they have run it aground and they've broken their their their their their their understanding of what constitutes the Christian faith. Among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander Now he goes on to say, whom I have delivered to Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. And it's from that delivering unto Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme that the whole question of church discipline comes up. Now, what is it that these two men did? And Paul just barely sketches the outline here of what they did, but that doesn't mean he didn't talk about them elsewhere in his epistles In 2 Timothy 2, verses 17 through 19, Hymenaeus is mentioned. And I'll give you a minute to turn there. And we read, their word will eat as a cancer Of whom is Hymeneus and Philadis? Now we have another guy on the scene. There's always somebody else who's joining in the party against God's word. Among whom is Hymenaeus and Philatus, who concerning the truth have erred saying that the resurrection is past already and overthrow the faith of some. Nevertheless, the foundation of God stands sure, having this seal. The Lord knows them that are his. Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. Now the thing that Hymenidus, it's not Hymenaus, and Philadus had done was to teach improper doctrine, to teach untrue doctrine. They said they have erred concerning saying that the resurrection is past already. Now, from an historical point of view, Hymenaeus and Alexander were correct. The resurrection is in the rear view mirror. The resurrection of Christ is in the rear view mirror from their time period. But they weren't talking so much about dates. They were talking about whether the resurrection has any practical significance to the Christian as they live their life from day to day. The resurrection is past already. We've got to go on. We've got to do the best we can. We've got to live our life the best way we can. Whereas when you start looking particularly at Paul's writings, he had some major things to say about the resurrection and its present-day impact in the life of God's people. One such verse would be Colossians chapter three. Where he says, since you are united to Christ that are above, well, how are we united to Christ? How does that come about? How do believers become united to Christ? Well, Romans chapter 6 We're united to Christ in his death. It's a spiritual union with Christ and His death and resurrection. The leading thoughts of resurrection is that. We live new life. We have a new life. We're new creatures, new heart, new life, new leader, new guidance from the Holy Spirit. We unite every Christian is united to Christ in his death and resurrection. And the Apostle Paul in Romans 6 makes it clear that we are not to unite our members to sin, which was our practice previously, but we unite our members in new life to Christ. All of this was in fulfillment of the role of the Holy Spirit as it's been enunciated by Ezekiel in chapter 36 Where the prophecy in chapter 36 says, I'll give you a new heart and a new spirit. And the Spirit will lead you and also cause you to obey my commandments. Not a guy out there saying that the resurrection is past already It's gone. It has no practical involvement in your life. It's very likely they were also teaching as a corollary with this that it's not important that we live a certain particular particular Godly way. It's the Holy Spirit who helps us to leave live in a godly way, right? So this was a pretty for Paul this was a very serious doctoral doctrinal error I'm tempted to say something, but I yeah, I want to say something. Um recently I was at my uncle's funeral, who's Roman Catholic. Or at least he wasn't going to church for the last ten years, but you know, he Yeah, because uh Well but but he did give a profession of faith. Uh you know, and how much of that is mixed up in Roman Catholicism I'm not sure Sure. And I'm not going to comment so much about that, but we went to the funeral and uh I was asked to give his eulogy. And uh the priest made it real clear to other members of the family that he was to preach. And they don't the only thing I could do would or other people. Not just me, it would be other people. I'm surprised you let me talk. The only thing I could do would be to uh uh to give the eulogy. Well, I made an effort to try to put some of the gospel into and uh but I was uh I I I was really shocked uh by what came when he started preaching. Um here we are we're in a Roman Catholic church, it's a modern Catholic church, it's a big Catholic church. He he was a young fella, a young priest From I think Columbia. Very nice outgoing guy. Okay. Up in front of us, twenty-foot-high cross with Jesus on it That in and of itself speaks of no resurrection teaching. Because all that Jesus is, excuse me, that's not fair to say, what Jesus is is simply a sacrifice. Unfortunately, which he has to be sacrificed over and over again. No once for allness, as we're learning in Hebrews. So, but what shocked my wife and I too almost to the point where You know, he says something and we immediately look at each other and say, did he say that? Because he said, he said, we do not come together today to pray for those who are dead. We believe that Ray, because of his faith, is united to Christ now in heaven. Swear I swear to you that's what he right? That's what he said. Right. That's resurrection. That's what you and I basically understand. Union with Christ in his resurrection. Nobody else picked up on it. It was the deadest church I was ever in. I mean uh of course it was a somewhat somber occasion, but it wasn't like going to a wake at a uh at some other churches I've attended in the area. Um but I uh you know uh there's a church that is is is is a Hymeneus church The resurrection is already passed. For whatever reasons, the resurrection has already passed. No practical day-to-day effect in your life. But maybe they're who knows, maybe they're changing. But but then he went on and performed the mass. So I don't know. Just one big ball of contradictions. It's it's amazing, you know, they don't even see it. I don't I don't know. I don't know Vince. Um so anyway, back to where I am. This is what Hymanaeus is teaching. Okay? And what Paul is concerned about is that this particular doctrine can overthrow the faith of God. some going back 2 Timothy 2 verses 17 and following what Hymeneus is teaching could overthrow the faith of some Now, Alexander is a very common name at the time. It is likely that the Alexander that's mentioned in Chapter 1 of 1 Timothy is the same Alexander who's mentioned in 2 Timothy 4 verse 14. So if you go over there for a minute, we can see something about Alexander, what he did. Okay? Paul writing, Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. The Lord reward him according to his works. These two church members are failing. One in his doctrinal error He's already made his own faith shipwreck, and now he's trying to make other people's faith shipwreck because he's apparently teaching it enough publicly that Paul has heard about it. Okay? The second is Alexander who has it's only said that he has treated me evil Which, if you think about it, is the failure to love. It's more in the life, it's more in the practical side of things. Okay. Well I I um Hold on a minute. Yeah, it always helps. Study to show thyself approved. Is that the one? Of whom be thou aw also, for he hath greatly withstood our words. Okay, thank you. He has greatly withstood our words. He has resisted what the Apostle Paul has uh been saying and he has done him thank you for pointing that out. I okay. So you've got you've got a again a um a unwillingness to abide by the words, the doctrine which Paul is teaching. And in Alexander's case, at least, we know that it went further. He actually did harm. He actually did harm, done him great harm to Paul. And therein failed to love him. Now, Paul says that, okay, I have delivered them unto Satan. I have delivered them unto Satan. Now, we know that, uh, or we're confident that this doesn't refer to the fact that Uh Paul killed them and had them go uh assign them right away to hell, but it's the idea that he has As it were, figuratively bound him over to Satan's kingdom. He has bound him over to Satan's kingdom, which is to say he has kicked him out of the kingdom of God. He's kicked him out of the church. He's kicked them out of the fellowship of the Lord Jesus Christ. I have Passed him over. I have delivered him. I have delivered him unto this kingdom, which we know is a kingdom of death, not a kingdom of life. It's interesting. It's the word that is translated also betray, even as Judas betrayed the Lord. Now Paul be be in a sense turns others over to Satan. Satan's getting back. Um So what does it mean to turn someone over to Satan? In an official sense, you have the Apostle Paul with apostolic authority. His situation is analogous but different to the elders of the church The Apostle Paul is an elder. He's a fellow elder, just as Peter refers to himself as a fellow elder. But Paul has apostolic authority. He can act on his own. And the kinds of things he can act on his own, today, since I don't believe we have apostles But we do have their carry-ons, the elders, and it's now the after the responsibility of the elders to act in concert together, not as one, but as many, to discipline someone who is in the same category as Hymeneus and Alexander. Those who teach improper doctrine, those who resist improper doctrine, and those who seek to live in a way contrary to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Alright? And you you you can see that the the the the the the germ the germ of that, you can see the origin of that. in what I had to read earlier from Matthew 18, where where Peter is talking about the steps of church discipline. Where someone sins against you, and the King James says, someone has ought against you. And what do you do? I mean, well, it's a sin problem, right? There's a doctrinal problem involved, but it's also manifesting itself in a personal issue What do you do? Well, you go to him and you try to reconcile, but if that doesn't work, you take two or three witnesses, and if that doesn't work, you tell it to the church Therein, I think, probably refers to the official leadership of the church. And then the leadership of the church takes an action An action which, if it's done properly and it's done in a biblical way, consistent with God's Word, it is designed It is the equivalent of handing someone over to Satan, especially if it goes to the nth degree of discipline, which we call in the Christian church excommunication. If you excommunicate someone because in the church, because that person is teaching error Or that teach person is resisting truth, or that person is, and or that person is acting out in an ungodly way to one another, or to others Then something has to be done. Something has to be done. And Paul actually says to us that they may learn not to blaspheme. Their activities, you see, as one who is teaching One who is in the body of Christ and maybe somewhat of someone that people listen to, maybe even a leader, but it doesn't matter whether they're a leader or not. If they're teaching untruth and people are listening to them, or if they're interacting with one another in a wrong, ungodly way, or if they're constantly resisting what God's Word has to say to them, it may come a time where they have to be disciplined, where they have to be handed over to Satan Placed in his kingdom and taught not to blaspheme. Because their teaching and their actions are affront an affront to God. They are Speaking against God. That's what blasphemy is. Speaking against God, or slandering God, or slandering God's truth. And his word. They're casting insults of God against God. One of the more famous incidents of blasphemy against God occurred with David. And you remember the great servant David, the man after God's own heart, and the great sin that he did of adultery and murder of a man's wife. And then he lived his life in a cover-up mode until God sent a prophet to him, and the prophet Nathan told the story of of David's activities and revealed to David a a s uh it wasn't initially true to David, it wasn't initially David didn't pick up on it right away and he told the story of how a uh uh um Um a man ha took uh had this one uh you lamb that he loved and he cherished, he took care of, and uh someone else came and took the lamb and killed it And uh Nathaniel, uh Nathan says to David, What do you think should happen? He said, David said, That man should be killed. That man should be dead. And Nathan looked at him and said, That man is you You the one. And in the aftermath of that, uh David's actions are characterized by Nathan. All that he did was characterized as blaspheming God's name among the Gentiles, living a lie. Living a lie against God and against His grace and against His glory, living in sin. What is it that okay, uh when when when he talks about being taught not to blaspheme You see, you can say, well, he delivers them unto Satan, takes them out of the kingdom of God, out of the fellowship of believers, and puts them into the fellowship of unbelief and into fellowship of the evil one. What there are people, millions of people today who say, what's so bad about that? It wouldn't even care. And maybe Hymeneus and Alexander didn't care. However, there's an endgame involved And the hope is that by putting him outside them, outside of the kingdom of God, They don't have access to the things of the kingdom of God They're to be treated, as Matthew chapter 18 talks about, as Pharisees and publicans. I uh I could talk more about that, but I I think at the very least that means They're not to be given all the kinds of privileges that members enjoy with each other. They're cut off from regularly being involved in hearing the Word of God. Well, they may read it, but they're cut off from hearing right doctrine. And if you don't get regularly right doctrine, you you may very easily go off in the wrong direction and make matters worse. They're not regularly seeing the fellowship of the saints at work. You know, why does Hebrews tell us do not neglect the fellowship of the saints? What's going on when the saints get together. The saints, every saint has a gift, a spiritual gift. Those gifts are not for our own individual use. They're to be used for one another. They're to be used to build up one another, to edify one another. They cut themselves off from that. They don't hear, as we get to hear, in our individual church, but also in our Bible studies, they don't hear prayer requests being answered. That's a tremendous encouragement when that occurs. Not just for the individual on the receiving end, but also for the church, brothers and sisters that's prayed I mean these are some of the things that they're they're they're cut off from. They're cut off from having access uh to s good spiritual counselors They're cut off from he being able to participate in the means of grace, by which I now at this point I've talked about some already, but I'm also referring to what we did this morning, the Lord's Supper. All of these things which we enjoy and benefit from have a positive impact upon our spiritual existence. And essentially, you're removing all of that from Hymeneus and Alexander, so that they might be taught not to blaspheme. The idea in Paul's mind is that perhaps That will be something that will help turn them around. That God will use to help turn them around People who were disciplined. You know, whenever you use the word discipline, we always have negative connotations regarding that. It's not so in the Bible. The Bible looks at being disciplined as ultimately being restorative. The idea is that the offending brother or sister Can be restored back into the fellowship with God's kingdom. And I think that's ultimately what Paul would like to see happen He also knows that the only way that's going to happen at this point in these guys' lives is if they are not in the fellowship where they can cause more havoc Because you remember, a little leaven leavens the whole lump. The danger always is, is that these false guys, false doctrine, false living Will spread their cancer to the spiritual lives of others. That they will not, that they will succeed in blaspheming the Lord God even more. So the reasons we do church discipline, the reasons why church discipline should be done, and why sadly it's hardly ever done anymore. But why faithful churches should do it is because, and no particular order, the glory of God The reclamation, the spiritual reclamation of the offender, and the stoppage of the spread of the cancer in the body of Christ. And that's uh That's what I wanted to have share with you tonight about this passage, about church discipline. Thank you. Amen. Let us pray Dear Heavenly Father, we are grateful for every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. And every word that you have chosen to have is scripturated by holy men who were moved by the Spirit who wrote the Word of God. We recognize the Lord a as well that uh as as the uh Apostle John writes in his in his gospel that uh the Lord Jesus performed many other miracles and did and said many other teachings. that uh that uh no library could hold them all. But the fact of the Gospel of John, he goes on to say, was written that you might believe. And that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, and that by believing you might have eternal life. Father, these words tonight regarding discipline in the church seem like a A mundane matter, a minor matter, uh insignificant matter, and nevertheless, Lord, we do hold them to be very significant. Very significant because, Father, they are at the very heart of living a life that glorifies you, and that's what we're all called to do. May uh your church, Lord, uh be uh be uh aware of these responsibilities And may your leaders, Lord, not shirk from exercising discipline, spiritual discipline, because Lord, they fear you. And they don't want to blaspheme your name. They want to give the honor and praise to Christ. And they realize, oh Lord, that you have ordained this thing called church discipline, and you have done it for the betterment of your church and for the hope for reclamation of the soul of the offender. To Christ be the glory we pray. Amen.