Amen. She turned your copy to God's Word to Genesis We'll continue our study there this morning in chapter 44. Once again, this is a long chapter. I'll read through it all if you need to sit Please do so. Joseph's brothers have returned the second time now to Egypt for food. They've received it. And now they're being sent off. Let's give attention to God's word And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack. Also put my cup, the server cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, and his grain money. So he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. As soon as the morning dawned, the men were sent away, they and their donkeys. When they had gone out of the city and were not yet far off, Joseph said to his steward, Get up, follow the men. And when you've overtaken them, say to them, Why have you repaid evil for good? Is not this the one from which my Lord drinks? And with which he indeed practices divination. You have done evil in so doing. So he overtook them. And he spoke to them these same words. And they said to him, Why does my lord say these words? Far be it from us that your servants should do such a Look, we brought back to you from the land of Canaan the money which we found in the mouth of our sacks. How then could we steal silver or gold from your Lord's house? With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die. And we also will be my Lord's slaves. And he said, Now also let it be according to your words. He with whom it is found shall be my slave, and you shall be blameless. And each man speedily let down his sack to the ground, and each opened his sack. So he searched. He began with the oldest and left off with the youngest, and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack Then they tore their clothes, and each man loaded his donkey and returned to the city. So Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, and he was still there. And they fell before him on the ground. And Joseph said to them, What deed is this you have done? Did you not know that such a man as I can certainly practice divination? And Judah said, What shall we say to my lord? What shall we speak? Or how shall we clear ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your soul. Servants. Here we are, my lord's slaves, both we and he also with whom the cup was found. But he said, Far be it from me that I should do so. The man in whose hand the cup was found, he shall be my slave. And as for you, go up in peace to your father Then Judah came near to him. He said, My Lord, please let your servant speak a word in my Lord's hearing, and do not let your anger burn against your servant, for you are even like Pharaoh. My Lord asked his servant, saying, Have you a father or a brother? And we said to my Lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age who is young. His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children. Then you said to your servants, Bring him down to me that I may set my eyes on him. And we said to my Lord, The lad cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die. But you said to your servants, unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall see my face no more. So it was. When we went up to your servant my father that we told him the words of my Lord and our father said, Go back and buy us a little food. But we said we cannot go down. If our youngest brother is with us, then we will go down, for we may not see the man's face. Then your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons, and the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn to pieces, and I have not But if you take this one also from me and calamity befalls him, you shall bring down my grey hair with sorrow to the grave. Now, therefore, when I come to your servant my father, and the lad is not with us, since his life is bound up with the lad's life, it will happen when he sees that the lad is not with us, that he will die. So your servants will bring down the gray hair of your servant, our father, with sorrow to the grave. But your servant became surety to the lad for the lad to my father, saying, if I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father forever Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the lad as a slave to my lord, and let the lad go up with his brothers. For how shall I go up with my to my father if the lad is not with me? Me, lest perhaps I see the evil that would come upon my Father. Amen. Please be seated Father, now we ask that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word. That you'd be with your servant, that you'd be with each and every one of us. Here now, as your word is opened. Grant, Father, that it would do all that you have sent it to do this Day. Work in us by your Spirit for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, some of you are still students In school right now. Others have been students. What was your least favorite? thing in being a student. Maybe the test, maybe the examination Maybe you really disliked that Maybe you've not thought about this, but the test examination is really a good thing. How can I say that? That. It's because the test, the exam has many good purposes. The tools, this is a tool that an educator uses designed to uncover various things It might show the failure of a student to study. It may uncover a misunderstanding about a particular subject or Concept. The exam may show that the student was careless and a reminder to pay particular attention. It may unearth the need to spend more time in memorization. And the test may indicate that the student needs additional help, maybe tutoring. In short, if the test is used Correctly, it's a tool which uncovers and exposes something about the student. Today in this passage before us We have a great test, test that's being done by Joseph of his brothers. Oh, we know Joseph has been sold off by his brothers. He's been made to suffer toil and much tribulation while the family is caught in sin. Joseph is being brought closer and closer to the Lord. He has now interpreted Pharaoh's dreams The seven years of plenty have passed. And now his interpretation of the dreams of Pharaoh, the seven years of famine, have come to be. Joseph has been raised up to the second in command, and his brothers have come down because they were subjected to the famine as well in God's providential hand. Came to Joseph. They bowed before Joseph. Been sent back with commands to bring your brother And they have. They've returned with Benjamin. He was the key to entry into Joseph's house, into the grain room But now while Egypt and Joseph has been the survival center in terms of the physical needs of the people. even Joseph's brothers, now it becomes the spiritual survival center. Today, God tests his children to uncover sin and strengthen faith in the substitutionary atonement Of Jesus. God tests his children to uncover sin and strengthen faith in the substitutionary atonement. Of Jesus. We'll see that in three points. First, God tests his children. Secondly, the Spirit exposes the iniquity of his children. And finally, Jesus substitutes for his children. Well, let's jump into our first point. God does test his child. Children. Well, what was Joseph doing? Everyone was married. Chapter 43 ends, and they're at the dining table. And while Joseph's brothers were expecting this one to speak roughly to him, it's just the opposite. They're invited into his house, they're seated at his table, they get the king's food. Benjamin received five times as much. The brothers are eating and drinking, and as we end chapter 43. We have that sentence. So they drank and were merry with him. Seems like reconciliation. Seems like that should be the end. Joseph has seen, he's embraced, he's loved Benjamin, and now the brothers are not in fear But enjoy, dine with Joseph. There's joy in the land. But this couldn't be the end. Indeed, all of Joseph's actions concerning his brothers seemingly have been designed to bring them, to draw them back to God. At this point, there were no writing prophets. No writing prophets have been sent to the people of God, to this family of God. We'll see prophets as the history of redemption continues to march on, and Moses and Samuel and Isaiah and Joel and Amos and Hosea, Jeremiah, and so on. But at this time, there were no prophets in the land. Joseph was, though, in a certain way, acting as a messenger of God. We've seen that in his dream. And we've seen that as he has interpreted dreams, he has spoken God's very words out of these dreams, foretelling what was to come. Profit does more than merely foretell the future. In fact, that's probably a small portion Of what prophets do. Most of what a prophet did was to call the people to return to God, to proclaim truths, covenants, promises, and curses to those who would listen. So here, Joseph, having been made by God to forget his father's house, thus leaving behind bitterness and ideas of revenge or vengeance Was not punishing his brothers. Not in the first instance of being rough with them, not imprisoning them or keeping them. Keeping Simeon bound, and not even in this test. In all of these acts and these proclamations of Joseph as governor or ruler, he appears as the one who is calling his brothers back to God. Joseph was calling them to confess and to repent. He's leading them down a path to remember their sins and Confess them before the Holy One of Israel. This has yet to happen. They haven't done it yet. They get close in their first visit. So Joseph continues to press them and test them. He continues to preside over their hearts. So, what is the test? He tells his steward, his servant, fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack. Remember, we've seen this before. With the return of the purchase money, each and every one of them are guilty. It's as if they've stolen the grain Each one guilty of stealing. That's a significant part of the test, individual guilt, facing punishment for their crimes. But the focus is clearly on Benjamin. There's special guilt for Benjamin. Also put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest and his grand Benjamin is now moved from being the key to the entry into Joseph's house, into the grain storehouse To being the brother with the most guilt, the highest, the most significant guilt. What will be the punishment for the one who's found With the silver cup. And so now the steward pursues the brothers with the words of Joseph in his mind and in his heart. Why have you repaid evil for good? Who has taken this cup? So the brothers, in an astonishment Let down their sacks. They can't believe that he would come after them, having returned their money the first time. They tear their clothes when they find that the cup is actually in Benjamin's sound He is now clearly the focal point. While the others had money in the mouth of their sack, and this would have been bad enough. Now the attention is Squarely upon Benjamin, the one they promised to bring back. And so they return. We can think of that in certainly a physical sense. They go back, but I want us to be thinking about that in a spiritual sense. They make this U-turn. to Joseph. You can imagine what the conversation might have been like on the way. Did you do this? Benjamin, did you take the cop What about the money? Did you guys put that back? How did these things happen? What is God doing? Benjamin now becomes a second Joseph, doesn't he? Brothers have been caught and brought back, and the ruler has been offended Not only was his grain stolen, but his silver cop, the one he uses for divination, so to speak, has been taken and found in their possession. There's no possibility of defending themselves. The evidence has been weighed and they've been found with the goods, the cup in their possession. There is trouble. And Benjamin becomes the focal point of that trouble. What would the brothers do? Would they save their own skin? Would they give this one up? We like Joseph. Would they rid themselves of this one that the Father loved? Would they take the grain that they came for and return with Simeon to live their lives free from all the favored children of Rachel? Would they treat Benjamin with the same disdain that they showed to Joseph fifteen years ago? Would they leave Benjamin behind as they left Joseph behind? And take the peace offered by Joseph. Go up to your pe to in peace to your father. The second time that they've been offered this Go up in peace and live forever in your sin. There's no middle road for the brothers here Joseph's test is designed to bring the brothers back and bring them to this fork in the road. They needed to be pressed. Their love for God needed to be tested. Refined and purified. Were they for God or against God? They were they truth tellers now, or did they remain and continue to be spies, liars, schemes? Deceivers. God clearly works in unexpected ways, doesn't he? Brothers, we're learning that Again and again, they were on their way home. It was a successful trip. Maybe they were even singing as the steward pulls up. Had the grain which they needed. They had Benjamin. They had Simeon. They're going home. Success. And we didn't have to confess our sin. They must have been astonished as the steward pulls up and accuses them of Crimes. God was working in an unexpected way. The brothers thought they knew. They thought they were in the clear. Look, we've been successful here Yes, we were beginning to confess our guilt after the first time, but that was back there. Everything's good now. There's no need to confess our guilt. No reason to bend our knee before God and to seek forgiveness. Our sins have been swept under the rug and ignored by God. And now the The stewards here. They were so confident that they knew what God was doing that they tell the steward, Look, if you find anything with us, whomever of your servants has found, let him die. And we'll be your slaves. Upon them. As the cup is found, the question is: would they run and flee? Or confess and repent? How's God been testing you? We don't always realize when it's happening, do we Joseph's brothers really probably didn't realize that as the steward pulls up as their sacks are let down. As the money is in the mouths of their sack, as the cup is present. They probably didn't realize it immediately. But God does test us Every single person who trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ will be tested. We read it in the Psalm, Psalm 66. For you, O God, have tested us. You refined us as silver is refined. Job knew it, he has tested me. I shall come forth as gold. Peter knew it in his first letter, in his first chapter. He writes about the genuineness of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by Fire. God tests. Do you expect it We should. We should expect the refining of our faith by and through testing. And then the second question is: what do you expect when you receive the test? Is it going to be as you have planned, or is it going to be as God has planned? Because God works in unexpected Ways Yes, we should expect this testing, this ref Finding and brothers and sisters, it is good. Behold, how happy is the man whom God reproves. Do not despise the discipline of the The Almighty. For he inflicts pain and gives it relief. He wounds and his hands also heal. Job chapter 5. We have a lot of impurities, brothers and sisters. They each one need to be burned off. Let us be in prayer that the Lord would teach us all that He intends for us as He tests us Pray that the Lord would give us insight into his testing And change us in every single way that He desires. That brings us to our second point that the Spirit exposes iniquity We have a tendency to bury our sin, don't we? Our iniquity. The brothers did. Joseph's brothers did From what we can tell from the text recorded by Moses, the brothers buried their sin against Joseph for fifteen years. There's no mention during that time frame in what Moses records for us that the brothers speak of their sin against Joseph, that they're that they've got this guilty feeling that no Nothing. No indication that they gave a second thought to Joseph. No indication that the brothers gave a second thought to their sin against God and throwing Joseph into the pit and sending him off to Egypt. Their actions, their words, their sin and guilt had been buried deep within their hearts for fifteen years. That's an amazing feat. Remember, each and every day these brothers were with their father, Jacob. Who is grieving and mourning for his son Joseph? I shall go down into the grave to my son in mourning. Thus his father wept for him Day after day, Jacob is mourning for Joseph, and his brothers are watching and seeing that, and none of them comes. It says, Father, we have sinned. Each one was holding it in, close and deep. Their offenses, they never let it rise to the surface. It's amazing that they were able to do that. Think of Adam and Eve. Their confessions before God were cut off. They were truncated at best. The woman you gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate. They were really not confessions, were they? Neither one actually accepted responsibility. They buried their sin as they blamed God. That's our nature. Brothers and sisters, that's our nature to keep silent about sin. Our nature says, keep your sin to yourself. Don't let it out. There's a problem, isn't there? When I kept silent, my bones grew old through my groaning all day long. I think the first lesson for us here is a question: are you ready to admit that your sin is buried deep within your heart? And so Joseph is using this test to uncover it. He's using this test to dig it up and bring it to the surface, isn't he? So Judah comes, seemingly representing all of the guilty brothers. We see that in other portions of Scripture, Peter. many times represented all the disciples, and here we think maybe, maybe, just maybe, Judah is representing every single one of the brothers. He says, What shall we say to my Lord? What shall we speak? Or how shall we clear ourselves? He didn't just say it once. He didn't just ask one question. He asked three rhetorical questions indicating that there was absolutely no way that they could clear themselves That their guilt laid upon them. It was bare, it was seen, it was open. And he wasn't just talking about Benjamin. He's referring to all of the brothers. Look, he's using plurals. God has found out the iniquity of your servants He didn't say Benjamin. He didn't say servant. It's plural. But there's more. If there was any question as to who he was referring to, now he clarifies that both we and he also with whom the cup was found We're your servants. We're guilty before you. Every single one of us Why? Was it because of the money? Doesn't appear to be Notice Judah's words. God has found out the iniquity. He didn't say your steward found it. It was in our sacks. The steward found the money. God, God found out our iniquity Time and again, inexplicable things were happening to these brothers. The governor, the ruler of the land, was inquiring about their brother and their father. Was bound before their very eyes. Money was returned in their sacks, not just once, twice. They were dining in the governor's house, being given the food of kings, all seemingly good, and then the cup Mysteriously shows up in Benjamin's sect. How were all of these things happening to them? Judah now seems to bring it all together. God has found us out. God has uncovered our guilt. Their sins were now ever before them, and Judah was Confessing them, as he acknowledges that it's impossible for us to justify ourselves. It's impossible for us to be righteous before God. God has found out the iniquity Of your servants. Brothers and sisters, it's the work of the Spirit to uncover buried sin Don't we see that throughout Scripture? Don't we see it in David? As he as he commits horrendous acts with Bathsheba and Hazuriah the Hittite. slain in battle so that he could try to cover up and bury his sin with Bathsheba. Takes the prophet Nathan coming to him And giving him a parable so that the Spirit could uncover to bring that sin up to the surface so that he could Confess it before God and tell even Nathan that he sinned before a holy God. It takes the work of the Spirit. What happened? What happens to you when your sin is buried? Brothers and sisters, what happens to us? For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my vitality was turned into the drought of sorrow. If you love the Lord Jesus Christ, this is what happens. The Spirit works powerfully in you such that you're almost feeling the hand of God upon you, squeezing you, bringing you to that point where you can do nothing other than confess. Do you praise God for this? This is the wonderful work of the Spirit that He would not allow us to languish fifteen years with the sin within our hearts. No, the Spirit chastens, the Spirit tests. Do you pray Praise God for it. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you're rebuked by him. For the whom the Lord loves, he chastens It comes upon you because of God's love for you. Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. Therefore be zealous and re Revelation three, verse nineteen. Brothers and sisters It is a praiseworthy work of the Spirit that He does test us and refine us and discipline us. So we are disciplined by the Lord so that we will not be condemned along with the world. Praise be to God. That brings us to our third point. Jesus substitutes for his children. There's a sense in which this entire passage with regard to Joseph just begins with lying, with deceit. It centers around the telling of truth, then, doesn't it? The brothers begin the account by lying to their father. Jacob. And Joseph knows that his brothers were liars, schemers, and deceivers. And now he wants to turn them back to truth. And Judah does so, at least in part. You might think that the truth had all about Benjamin and Jacob, but in reality the truth had more to do with their standing before God. So in truth, Judah recounts the promise that he made to his father concerning Benjamin. I myself will be surety for him. He repeats. The same that Joseph, your your servant, became surety for the lad, for Benjamin. He now comes full circle, doesn't he? From being a liar, a schemer, and deceiver, to being a truth teller By fulfilling his promise to his father, seeking to reverse or at least at least cause not additional harm to his father. And so Judah steps up and steps in and by doing that which he promised. It's a form of truth-telling. Now please let your servant remain instead of the lad. He was going to be a surety. He was going to stand in the place Of Benjamin. He was going to take Benjamin's punishment upon himself. He was going to pay the debt that was owed by Benjamin to the ruler, to the governor. That's what being a surety is And so Judah demonstrates love, doesn't he? Love for his brother. He's upholding the interest of Benjamin before his own. He's upholding the interest of his father before his own. So Judah's repentance begins to be shown. We've heard the confession. And now the Repentance. He's endeavoring to walk with Jesus in all the ways of his commandments. We read that in Westminster Confession this morning. I thought about my ways and turned my feet to your testimonies. Psalm 1 one hundred and nineteen. Do you see the result of Judah's offer? His offer to take Benjamin's place, to stand in his shoes, to grant him freedom to return to his Father, no evil would come upon Jacob. Jacob would be grieved no further Jacob's gray hair would not be brought down to the sorrow and grave. Benjamin, the one he loved, would return. See, every child of God will return. Every child of God will return to him None will perish. All Israel will be saved. The deliverer will come out of Zion. He will turn away ungodliness from Jacob. But this This is my covenant with them when I take away their sins, Romans 11, 26. How? How will every child of God return? It's only through his son, the Redeemer. We read that For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. By his blood, Jesus brought back all who were captives of Satan. In Jesus' redeeming work on the cross, he became surety of each and every child of God. As Jesus hung on the cross in your place, He fulfilled your debt. He paid Your debt. All that the Father gives me will come to me. Of all He has given me I should lose nothing but raise it up on the last day. Of those whom you gave me, I have lost none. None will be lost. Every single child of God will return to God. The father will not be grieved by the loss of one child This is the work of Jesus. This is the one who would come from the tribe of Judah, the real line of Judah, this is the one who stood in your place, so ultimately you can go home. Like Benjamin, to return to your father Brothers and sisters, are you seeing that as God tests your faith, as He brings you to confession and repentance? That you're being brought to a more pure and complete trust in the suretyship of Jesus Christ. That's what God is doing in your heart today. God tests his children to uncover sin and strengthen faith in the substitutionary atonement of Jesus. I feared examination in school. I dreaded them. They were good for me. God's testing. God's testing is so Good for us. Let's praise the Spirit. He's the one who uncovers the sin. Let's praise Jesus Christ. And trust wholly and completely in his substitutionary atoning sacrifice. Amen. Father in heaven We thank you so much for Jesus. We thank you so much for his substitution, for his stepping in and taking our sins, the punishment for our sins upon him And we thank you, Lord God, that you love us so much, that you would test us, that you would uncover our sins and cause us to come to confession by the work of your spirit and then lead us in our repentance. Father, we are so So grateful and thankful. Father, build up our faith in the atoning work of Christ, that He truly did Step into our shoes, such that there is not one drop left of your wrath for us. We praise you We thank you. Increase our faith. Strengthen your children. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.