And if you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew We'll be reading from chapter eleven. We're actually finishing up chapter eleven this morning. You should find that on page nine hundred and seventy of your Pew Bibles. And for context, I'll begin at verse 25, but the preaching of the word this morning will be on those last three verses of the chapter 28, 29, and 30. Let's give attention now to God's holy word, Matthew 11 at verse 25. At that time, Jesus declared, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Come to me All who are who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. And you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light As far as God's holy word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven I thank you for your word. And we ask now, Lord, as we have been meditating upon the resurrection this morning. But you'd help us to see, indeed, that Jesus is actually speaking of the resurrection in these verses. Grant us, Lord God, this morning, eyes to see and ears to hear. Help us, Holy Spirit. And gain even more understanding and knowledge and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. That passage we read from Job a few moments ago. Contain difficult words. If you remember, Job's children were dead. All of his wealth, his cattle, his sheep, his camels, were gone. His health Was failing. He was afflicted. And his wife had called him to curse God and die. And then we read in chapter three of Job of his cursing the day that he was born. Asking why he just didn't die at birth so that he wouldn't have to suffer. For then I would have lain down and been quiet. Then I would have been at rest. For at that moment in Job's life, death would have been better. Non-existence would have been better to him. Than having experienced what he did. He was in turmoil. He was being afflicted. He was weary. And he ends it by saying, I am not at ease, nor am I quiet. I have no rest. There's a sense in which we can all identify with Job as we walk through this life. A life of affliction, a life of sin and guilt and weariness as a result. That actually takes us to our passage this morning in Matthew's Gospel. Jesus has preached before the disciples. He has been teaching He has called them. He's called them to go out and preach of the good news, the nearness of the kingdom. He's told them that the harvest is plentiful. And he, in fact, has gone out himself healing and proclaiming grace and the kingdom of God. And then most recently in chapter 11, John has sent disciples to ask Jesus whether he was the one to come, the expected one, the Messiah, the Son of God, the Son of David, the one to take the throne. And in a sense, as we get to the end of the chapter, Jesus is answering that question. Once again. In a bit of a different way than he's already answered it in the chapter already. But now he answers it in such a way that we see that Jesus calls all to come. And rest in him from the guilt of sin and the power of death. Jesus calls all To come and rest in him from the guilt of sin and the power of death. We'll see that this morning in just three very simple points. The invitation Secondly the yoke and then finally the rest. Well first then the invitation Again, we're going to focus on these last three verses in Matthew eleven, beginning with verse twenty-eight, if you could look at that right now. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden. and I will give you rest. This verse really calls us to remember and consider the context in which it set forth. Now you'd say, well, you say that a lot, and uh you'd be right. But here it seems even more important that we remember the context in which Jesus provides this invitation. Come to me. We've read about those who have refused to come. In verse 16 of the chapter, but To what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to their playmates, We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not mourn. There's already been an invitation, in a sense. Jesus is saying, we've already proclaimed the word, the nearness of the kingdom to you, and you didn't respond. He pronounces woe. He denounces cities. Where his work had been done, where the supernatural acts of the Lord Jesus Christ had been performed, and there was no repentance. Woe to you, Korizan! Woe to you, Botsadia! For the works, the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon. They would have repented long ago. The good news had gone out. Jesus had been preaching. The disciples had been taking out the good news. And here, even in this passage, we hear of many who would not receive the Lord Jesus Christ nor his message. What then is this invitation? Then there's this. In verse 25, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to the little children. God. Himself is in control as to whether things will be revealed or hidden. We talked about those things last week. And then there's this, the Son will choose. It's only the Son who knows the Father. No one knows the Father except the Son. And anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. No one will know the Father unless the Son chooses to reveal him. The context of this passage would not seem to end this way. This is an ending which doesn't seem to fit. In fact, some might say there's a conflict here. It's hard to grasp God is sovereign. Indeed, that's what's being said to us throughout chapter 11. God is sovereign. O Lord God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? You rule over all the kingdoms of the nations, in your hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand you. 2 Corinthians chapter 20 God is sovereign. The Father has hidden and revealed. He has mercy upon whom he will have mercy. Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. And the Son chooses. He's the only one who knows the Father. And the knowledge of the Father and of the Son is life itself. It is eternal life. Jesus states that in his high priestly prayer. This is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you've sent. There can't be life without knowing the Father. There can't be life without knowing the Son. All of this points to the doctrine of election, doesn't it? That doctrine that tells us so very clearly that God chose his children before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him in love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. Doesn't that put an end to the matter? How is it that Jesus says, Come to me? It's difficult to grasp. And yet here is an invitation to come to Jesus Isn't everything within the providential hand of God? You say, yes, of course it is But in a sense, these three verses are the culmination of Matthew chapter 10 and 11. In Matthew chapter 10, Jesus is sending out his disciples. Healing and proclaiming the kingdom, calling people And he's going out himself to preach the good news, the nearness of the kingdom As the people are rejecting the prophecy of John the Baptist as well as Jesus' message of salvation, as he is being blasphemed as a drunkard and a glutton. Jesus proclaims the will of the Father to hide and reveal. He admits that he alone is the one who can reveal the Father as he chooses. And then these passages culminate in an invitation, come to me. It's a universal call to all. We might want to think, well, despite of these things that he set before us, Jesus calls, but not really sincerely. That cannot be. For that would just impute impure motives to the pure and righteous one. Jesus must be sincere. Come to me, this invitation This call goes out to everyone. And it's not new If we think back upon the prophet Isaiah in chapter fifty-five, we see very similar words, Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, and he who has no money, come by and eat. Come by wine and milk without money, without price. Why do you spend your money for what is not bread, your labor, for which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me. Eat what is good. Delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear. Come to me here, that your soul may live. What Jesus said wasn't new Indeed, Isaiah continued, Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion on him, for he will abundantly pardon. You see, Isaiah didn't limit his call. No, no, just to these people. No, everyone. Isaiah was calling out to everyone, and so does Jesus. He invites according to the will of his Father. Do you see how it has to be? How Isaiah proclaims it and Jesus says, yes, here it is once again. In case you missed it, this is the will of the Father. That this call go out universally to all. An invitation proclaimed by Jesus Christ to come into eternal life. Think of Adam and Eve. Standing outside the garden now, seeing the swords flaming, and the cherubim guarding the way back How are they going to get back in? Well, here's an invitation. Come, all are invited to come Brothers and sisters, while the call is universal and it goes out to all without limitation, there is a limitation Concerning those who will come. Did you notice that? Concerning those who will respond positively, it's right here in the text, come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden. You see this universal call, which goes out to everyone, would be attractive only to those who are laboring. Who are heavy laden. Some would say there these are those who are heavy laden with the traditions, the Pharisaical rules that they had heaped on the people during that time. That may be it. But I think it's more likely that Jesus was speaking about being heavy laden with sin, with the guilt of sin. That those who respond to this call are heavy laden, knowing that they've offended a holy God of the universe, that their sins have been committed against him alone. That they've grieved the Holy Spirit and they are heavy with the weight of their guilt Like the psalmist, I know my transgressions, my sin is ever before me against you. You only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. Do you see the weight? David expresses the weight of his guilt as a result of sending Uriah the Hittite to be killed and taking his wife in adultery. He was heavy, laden, and longed to be purged with hyssop Knowing that his God, his father, could wash him clean. He wanted to hear the joy and gladness He wanted God to hide his face from his sins and create in him a clean heart, renew a right spirit within me. Do you see that being heavy laden? Jesus did issue this call sincerely For he knows that as he preaches this good news, as he issues this universal call, that it will accomplish all that the living God has purposed. Isaiah continued, for as the rain and the snow come down from heaven and do not return there, but water the earth, making it bring forth sprout and giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater. so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth, it shall not return empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose You see, as Jesus issues this call, the very Word of God, he knows that it will accomplish all that God had purposed. Have you responded this morning to Jesus' call to come? If you're here, if you're listening on the stream, if you hear the recording, it's not too late. The call is fresh today, even for you who have not yet responded to it. Your sins are not so great that he cannot cleanse you with his blood. It's sufficient. And so hear it once again, come to me. Before now is the time. Now is the day of salvation. Go to Christ. Brings us to our second point, the yoke Look at verse 29, take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I'm gentle and lowly in heart. Now there are not too many farmers in here, I don't think. I could be wrong. But we kind of need to know what this yoke is. As Webster defines it, it's a piece of timber hollowed or made curving near each end and fitted with bows for receiving the necks of oxen. So I think the idea is that this was a piece of wood that tied together in a sense at least two ox, which were pulling something behind them of great weight Connected for drawing, pulling together That's the idea. That's the picture. And so Jesus is saying, well, take my yoke. Upon you. Indeed, this idea of being yoked to Jesus. Being yoked to him, being connected to him And you say, well, why? What what does this have to do with coming to Jesus? What does this have to do with rest? What does this have to do with being heavy laden and laboring? Well, he tells us very clearly, take my yoke upon you and learn from me So again, I'm not a farmer, but I think we get the sense that maybe a young ox would be paired up with an older ox, they would be yoked. Together and the older ox would be, in a sense, teaching, the younger would be learning from the older one who's mature and knows what to do The season docs has been pulling for years. And so too, you will learn as you're yoked to Jesus Paul writes in 1 Corinthians, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God You see that in Christ is all knowledge, all wisdom of God Himself hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge and he is the exact imprint of the nature of God, he is the radiance of the glory of God. He is the one who upholds the universe by the word of his power. What do you think you can learn from this one? You see all things. We might just think, well, he taught this and he taught that, and that's right. As you read God's word, you are yoking yourself to Jesus. You're learning about what he taught you. You're remembering his commands. But here, it's all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are in Christ. He is the one who is upholding the universe. Who knows all things. And the call is to yoke yourself to him so that you learn from him, not necessarily mathematics. Which is a good thing. But to become like Jesus, you see, that's the second part To become like Jesus. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. He's calling out just a couple of his attributes, just a couple of things that describe his his nature. And he's saying, learn from me, the one who has all wisdom and knowledge, the one who upholds the universe, by the word of his power, learn from me and then become like me, as you're yoked to me. He's gentle, he's humble. Remember the Beatitudes. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. This is how he starts the Sermon on the Mount, and he's saying, become like me, become gentle, become humble, being yoked to Jesus will result in your becoming like him. See here's the problem. In Adam were all full of pride. Every one of us. That was part, a great part, of what led to the fall. Pride crept in into the pure one, into Adam. So powerful. But as you're yoked to Jesus, have this mind among yourselves, which is in Christ Jesus, empty themselves. By taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death even on a cross. Do you see why this is connected to the cross and to the resurrection. Jesus is Referring to himself as gentle and humble, lowly, and he's calling you to unite yourself with him, to be joined to him. That's being yoked to Jesus. Ultimately, it will assist you and encourage you and lead you in submission. Exactly that which Adam was lacking. In his pride, he wouldn't submit. In Christ, you're led to submission He said, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Did you notice though that this while it's an invitation, it's also a command. Come to me, come to me, take my yoke upon you Again, the idea of being yoked is not just that one ox pulls, but that both pull together. It's an invitation, it's a command, take my yoke. You have a responsibility to pull As you're yoked to this one Jesus. That brings us to our third point, the rest. And in a sense, this passage is all about rest Job saw at rest. Satan had afflicted him with God's permission. And it really revealed to Job the unrest that he was in. You say, well, that was a that was because of his children dying and the cattle being taken and the boils that were on his body, and I would say, No, that was because of his sin. All of that was external. And God was revealing to Job the turmoil of his sin. And Job needed rest. He was longing for rest. Indeed, we all seek rest, don't we? Here Jesus speaks of not physical rest, but spiritual rest. Now they're tied together, yes, of course. But here in this passage, Jesus is speaking very particularly about spiritual rest. As we are burdened with sin, our private sin creates internal unrest. For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing, my strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones waste away. There's no rest in what the psalmist describes as a result of his sin. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, and my strength was dried up. Yes, private sin creates internal unrest Public sin also creates external turmoil and unrest. How long, O Lord, will you look on, rescue me from their destruction, my precious life from the lions, rescue me from their destruction? Oh my God, from the hand of the wicked, rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood, for dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me. They have pierced my My hands and feet. Sin creates unrest and turmoil for our spirits. It's only in Christ that spiritual rest is possible for my yoke is easy. And my burden is light. The world seeks rest in everything that is not Jesus. Sometimes we think we can find our rest or peace in our jobs, our employment, or our work. Some may seek to find it in school or education, some in personal pleasure. other in recreation and sports, other sitting at home away from the world, or in wealth and prosperity, or just if we have good health But there's no spiritual rest found in any of those things Jesus states it so unquestionably and unequivocally, all who come to him will be given rest. And thus as a person takes up his yoke, that rest will be found for his or her soul. And the question must be asked, why is Jesus' yoke so easy and his burdens so light Why does being yoked to Jesus lead to rest? It doesn't sound right. If one is joined to Jesus by a yoke and is engaged in pulling with Jesus, how could it be easy and light? It's because he's done all of the heavy lifting. It's because he carried it to the cross It's because even in death he carried it to the tomb And then in that spiritual battle that we discussed even this morning, he defeated sin and death. You don't have to. You can't You see, he had to suffer, he had to labor, he had to pull consistently, perfectly, submissively in order for you to rest this morning. What a joy. When we think of the pulling that Jesus did on the cross, the perfect atoning sacrifice for you going in your place. Shedding his blood, pouring it out, so that you could have life, going to the tomb alone. Forsaken by his father, having the wrath, your sins placed upon him, and then even there in the tomb. Working and breaking the chains to sin, defeating death, binding Satan But even today, as you think upon Jesus is yoke He's interceding for you. Right now. This very moment. Don't discount that. Your king, your prophet, your priest. He continues laboring for you, pulling that heavy load, continuing to intercede with the Father. Proclaiming his blood for you, even now He has pulled the heavy load, and now he's calling you to join. To be yoked to him as a follower, as a believer, as a Christian, and he calls you to pull this morning. He said his burden is light, his yoke is easy. That's because he has satisfied God's wrath. For you. He has broken your chain to sin. He has granted you eternal life And so now all he asks is to be yoked to him in his ease, his lightness. I'd like you to think of it this way this morning. That you think of being yoked to Jesus as your joy. As you participate in good works, as you tell others what's happened, what happened to your heart as he has changed it As you loved your neighbor, like yourself, as you participate even in the service of worship this morning, you're laboring with Jesus. What a joy. What a joy that you've been able, you've been privileged to participate in his labor of building his church, of being that light, reflecting his light. He's called you into the field, into the labor, into the vineyard to produce that fruit which his father desires. You see, you've been given a gift. Are you pulling this morning? Are you seeing yourself as as being yoked to Jesus? And does that bring joy to your heart as you rest in his easy and light yoke? Are you joyful in that labor? Or are you seeing it as a burden? Jesus said, My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Brothers and sisters, Jesus does call all to come and rest in him from the guilt of sin and the power. Power of death. Job finally rested As God spoke to him, Jesus is calling you even this morning. To rest in his finished work on the cross and in the tomb, and even now, as he intercedes for you. Praise be to God, what a joy to serve this one. Amen. Our Lord and our God, sometimes we think the Christian life is difficult, and yet Christ tells us here in this passage that his yoke is easy and his burden is light. Oh Lord God, what a weight you have lifted from us O Lord Jesus Christ, the burden you have pulled from our backs and placed upon your own, we are overjoyed. We are indeed made light. And now we ask, help us, Father, as we are yoked with Jesus, to do so with joy and rejoicing. Oh Father, help us to give you all the praise and thanks. And Father, help us to labor with Christ. What a joy to be yoked to your son. We ask all this in Jesus' name.