If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Jude, I think you'll find that on page 1216 of your Pew Bibles. And we'll be reading a few verses tonight, verses 14 through 16, as we continue our study in this very short letter. Let's give attention once again to God's Word. Jude at verse 14 It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied. Saying, behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment on all. And to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way And of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him. These are grumblers, malcontents. Following their own sinful desires, they are loud-mouth boasters, showing favoritism to gain advantage. Would you pray with me? Father, we come now to this portion of Scripture in which the judgment of the Lord Jesus Christ is not merely mentioned, but in fact emphasized. Help us, Lord. As we open your word, as we study your word tonight, convict us certainly of its truth. Father, how we have transgressed your law. And how, Lord God, you desire by your Spirit to build up your people. To encourage us, to make us more like Christ, and to bring others To bring others into the fold even tonight. Use your word, Father, preached for all of your purposes. We pray this in Jesus' name Amen. A few moments ago, as we read from Genesis We read of one of the most striking examples in Scripture of judgment. As word of the sins of Sodom and Gomorrah had risen up to God himself, he sends angels to Sodom. And they weren't there long before the men of the city sought to commit wicked acts with them. God, through his angels, was seeing, in a sense, from a human perspective, firsthand of the wickedness of men. But it seems that in that passage in Genesis 19, the real focus is on God's judgment. See, rains down fire on Sodom and Gomorrah, sulfur and fire from heaven. And the description is complete. He overthrew those cities and all the valley and all the inhabitants of the cities. There's none left. A description of the power Of the righteous judgment of God being poured out upon the wicked of the earth As we've been studying this letter of Jude, there's a sense in which we've been leading up to this portion of Scripture. As Jude, the brother of our Savior, the servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, is writing to the churches. He's writing to Jewish Christians. He's writing to new Christians. He's writing to a young church. And he's warning them of those that have entered into the church, those who are godless, who have crept in unnoticed, he's called them to contend for the faith, and he has described these that have entered into the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And now, now he's describing that which awaits those that are not in Christ, the godless. Tonight I want us to see that the judgment of the Lord Jesus Christ should lead us to fear And also to joy. The judgment of the Lord Jesus Christ should lead us to fear and to joy Tonight I'd like to see that in three separate points. First, judgment with power. Secondly, conviction with authority. And finally, malcontent with boasting. Well why listen to this passage tonight? You've heard of judgment before. Brothers and sisters, it's possible that we think so little of the power of the judgment of God that He's bringing it back before us tonight. So that each of us would be those who would meditate upon this. Indeed, be fearful, and yet also be joyful. Well, first, judgment with power. In a significant sense, this letter has an overarching theme of judgment. Remember the way in which Jude began, for certain people have crept in unnoticed. Long ago were designated for this condemnation. Verse 4, Jude is already speaking of judgment. Think of the way he describes those that have entered in. He does it first by making a connection with what has gone before. In verse 5, Jesus who saved people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed those who did not believe. With regard to the angels who left their position of authority, left their proper dwelling. He's kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment And then he also mentions Sodom and Gomorrah, as we read tonight, undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. He doesn't even get to the eighth verse before we understand that a common theme throughout this letter is judgment. And this evening's passage brings that theme to a culmination or a head. Indeed, judgment is a theme throughout Scripture We would be remiss if we didn't even think through that and rehearse a portion of that. The truth of the coming judgment began in the garden as the Lord tells Adam. With regard to that one rule, that one law that he had to obey, you may surely eat of the tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely. die. Judgment was pronounced. Adam knew Indeed, as they sin against the Lord God, what happens? He pronounces judgment first against the serpent or against Satan. Because you've done this, cursed are you above all livestock, above all beasts of the field, on your belly you shall go. To the woman, I will surely multiply your pain in childbirth. In pain you shall bring forth children. To the man, to Adam, he tells him, You shall eat, you shall not eat of it. Meaning the tree that he told him to not eat of. Because he did, cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you. Judgment was pronounced as soon as they sinned. But then, then at the end of chapter 3, we see that the Lord drives out Adam and Eve from the garden, certainly Judgment pronounces he removes them from his presence. Pictures of judgment are throughout Scripture. Think of Cain as he kills his brother. God now tells him he's cursed. When you work the ground, it shall no longer yield its strength to you. You shall be a fugitive and wanderer on the earth. Cain said, My judgment is greater than I can bear. My punishment is greater than I can bear. Think of the flood. As the Lord God sees the wickedness that's throughout the earth, what does he do? He floods the entire earth. He blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the ground. They were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left. We've already read tonight of Sodom and Gomorrah. Think of the ten plagues that befell Egypt. Just one of them boils. Boils breaking out on sores on man and on beasts throughout all the land of Egypt, so much so that the magicians could no longer stand before Moses. And then we could turn to Lamentations and we see the judgment of God on Jerusalem. That book opens up with this passage, how lonely sits the city that was full of people. God brought judgment upon his people, upon the city, so that it was now vacant of his people. Judah has gone into exile because of affliction and hard servitude. She dwells now among the nations. It finds no resting place. And then we have statements throughout Scripture of the coming judgment The prophet Joel is known for that. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming. It is near, a day of darkness and gloom. Isaiah speaks of it. For by fire will the Lord enter into judgment and by his sword with all flesh. Daniel prophesies of it. A fire, a stream of fire, issued and came forth from before him. He's speaking of the ancient of days, of God himself. A thousand of thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court sat in judgment. Jesus spoke of judgment. I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give an account for every careless word they speak All will be judged. We don't think of it often, do we, brothers and sisters? But it's clear all will give an account. For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. Each of us will give an account of himself to God. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So that one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or bad. That's just a short rehearsal of what Scripture speaks of in terms of the coming judgment. That would Judas set before us tonight. And here's what I think Judah is really focusing upon. He's setting forth a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ returning in power. Look at verse fourteen. The Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones. To execute judgment on all. That word Which the ESV translates in an interesting way, ten thousands. Not ten thousand But the thousand is pluralized. Ten thousands. That word in the Greek is not precisely defined as we open up a Greek lexicon. It refers to a very large number. Not quite sure how many though. And I think that's the point. The Greek would indicate here that this word, which has been transliterated into English in Revelation as myriad, And as we look throughout Scripture, we see that this word, whether it's in the Old Testament or the New, gives us this impression of too many to count. Daniel, as I just read, a thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. It's a picture of judgment. Those who are serving with God and those who He is judging. In Hebrews chapter 12, we Read this, but you have come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festival gathering. Can't count them. Those who are with God. In Revelation, then I looked and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders and the voice of many angels numbering myriad. of myriads and thousands of thousands. And so as Jude takes the words of Enoch And he repeats them for us here. You see this picture of Jesus Christ returning in power. He will return with more than we can number. A great army, so to speak, accompanying, returning with the Lord Jesus Christ. Why? What's the purpose of this imagery? Why will Jesus return with this magnificent and quite populous army? What's the need? What will he do? The picture is clearly one of awesome power, overwhelming power and authority. Just think for a moment of how the United States Navy goes out to sea. Usually, usually it's with a battle group. That means with not just one ship, but ships upon ships upon ships. And right in the middle is usually that that aircraft carrier, which is power that we can't even understand. You can think of another ship that demonstrated power during World War II. That would be the battleship. Massive power. Able to hurl objec objects as big as Volkswagens. Miles. Why? Why would the United States propel that kind of power? That's exactly what's happening. This mass of artillery and power showing forth just what the United States Navy could do. That's the idea. Jesus Christ returning with this army of angels. Joel tells us about the Lord utters his voice before his army, for his camp is exceedingly great. He who executes his word is powerful. Joel knew. So in a sense Part of the purpose of Jesus Christ returning with this army is a display of his glory, isn't it? Think of how the Lord Jesus Christ came in his first advent. Who is with him? No one. He comes in humility. The Son of God. God Himself comes and takes on a human nature born as a baby in a manger. He came in humility. But his second Advent, when he comes again to judge, he will be coming in glory. Ah we can't even imagine the picture. But the second the second idea here is just this overwhelming massive display of power. At the beacon call of their king, the Lord Jesus, this massive army of angels, he returns to judge the world This army that would be arrayed around Jesus is only a demonstration of those like us with eyes, human beings who don't do not fully grasp the divine power which is in the hands of our Savior. And Lord, he'll be accompanied by these myriads of myriads of angels So what is this power? As corrupt human beings, we don't grasp the power of righteousness, but that's exactly What the power is. The power of Christ's judgment is the power of his righteousness. He'll judge in righteousness. He has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. And so as we think of the power of Jesus' judgment, as we think of the myriads and myriads of angels coming with him, our focus, our thoughts should be on the righteousness of Christ. For that's the power. Jesus himself realized and fully appreciated the power of God's righteousness. Not only did he experience the full brunt of the power of God's judgment, his righteous judgment upon himself, as the sins of the children of God were laid upon him. He knew it even before he experienced it. How do we know that? Think of his prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. Why was it that Jesus asked for the cup of his father's wrath to be taken from him? Well we can think the fact that it would separate him from his father, yes, of course. But he also recognizes the full power and weight of his father's righteous judgment would be contained within this cup of wrath. Yes, of course. Jesus being fully righteous himself knew of his father's righteousness. And then he knew as he poured out his wrath that it would be a wrath of righteousness. And it wouldn't have been a problem for Jesus Christ but for your sins which were laid upon him. So even before Jesus went to the cross, he knew of the extraordinary power of God's judgment of righteousness. And I think that's what we're to see as the myriads upon myriads of angels accompany the Lord Jesus Christ as he returns. It's a display of his righteousness. It's a display of his glory. It's a display of his power And we need to meditate upon that. And if you're in Christ tonight, as you meditate upon His righteousness, And the power of that righteousness, it will surely draw you closer to Jesus. And it's going to make you tend to want to be more like him. Do you see? As you meditate upon his righteousness, you see how it's associated with his power. You're going to want to be more like Jesus. But what does that power mean for the godless? We can't really describe it beyond what we have in Scripture. We can't describe it adequately. Certainly the picture of Sodom and Gomorrah helps us. We know that godless will suffer eternally in the unquenchable fires of hell. We know the power of this judgment is what Jude intended to focus upon. But as we think through that power First, that the power of this judgment will be inescapable for the godless. It means that there will not be one godless, fearless man, woman, or child who has denied Christ Jesus who will be able to escape the judgment. Jesus will judge every single one. None will be able to hide. No one will be able to elude or cover themselves from his judgment. No, all the godless have been and will be condemned. And all the godless will to enter into this eternal judgment. And that means that there will be no escape Now the power of the judgment means that not only will the godless be unable to avoid it, they will be unable to free themselves from it. This powerful judgment of righteousness is of an eternal nature, and thus it will not be a once-and-done. No, the power of Jesus' judgment means that it will continue. Because his righteousness continues. His righteousness is eternal, it's everlasting. And so the judgment of righteousness will be continuing, never ending, a terrifying judgment. that will never end. This power means that no one can escape the grasp of it. If you're in Christ tonight, this should be terrifying and fearful. As you see the power of righteousness. We'll see also that it should be joyful. But if you're not in Christ tonight If you're listening to this message and tonight you're not in Christ, if you're hearing it on the stream or hearing a recording of it and tonight you're not claiming Christ as Lord and Savior, this should be terrifying. Because this is your end, unless you come and confess Christ as Lord and Savior. Unless you repent of your sins, unless you cast off your sins and you run to Christ Jesus And you ask him to cleanse you, to wash away your sins in his blood, this judgment that Jude writes of that is throughout Scripture will be for you. So if you're in your sins tonight, cry out. Cry out to Christ. He will hear. And if you ask to be cleansed, if you're sincerely asking to be cleansed of your sins, he will cleanse you. Cleanse your Lord. Cry out to Christ. That brings us to our second point, conviction with authority. There are actually two portions or two purposes set forth here by Jude for Jesus' return. Now, I'm sure there are more. No, there are more. But Jude breaks it up into two parts for us. Did you see The Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment. We've spoken about that on all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness. The first is for judgment. The second, while related, is different. He is to convict all the ungodly of their deeds of ungodliness. Think of that just for a moment. To convict the ungodly. But the time that Jesus Christ returns The ungodly will be remaining in their sins. They will not have repented. They will not have confessed their sins. And so this should bring first to our minds the need for the godless to be shown and then convicted of their godlessness. In other words, the godless are in one sense blind to their godlessness. And their eyes need to be opened. Their blindness will be removed as Jesus returns. And in a sense, this is part of their judgment. Being able to see with their own wretched eyes their wretchedness before God. At the same time they're being judged for it. You might be thinking, well, they already know. The godless already know that they are godless. Well, if we look to Romans chapter 1, we see that the godless have no excuse. For what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. His invisible attributes, his eternal power, divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. So they are without excuse. I have to keep on reading to understand why it is that Jesus returns in part to convict all the ungodly of their ungodly deeds. For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, their foolish hearts were darkened. They suppressed the truth in unrighteousness. And so even as Jesus returns, those godless are yet repressing, they're suppressing the truth. And so Jesus comes. Jesus comes to lift their hands off of their suppression. Jesus comes to to reveal the truth, the truth that has been suppressed, to relieve them of their suppression. He must release their hands so that they can actually now see. He must do away with the suppression, such that those who are in sin against his father will see it and grasp What an abomination they have been to the Lord God. Think of the Apostle Paul. Even as he's dragging Christians off to be judged, so to speak, the Lord blinds him. And then as he brings him to himself, as Jesus speaks to him, the scales fall off of his eyes, his blindness is gone. That's the idea. As Jesus returns to convict the godless of their godlessness, it seems the scales will fall from their eyes as well. We might ask that question tonight, why? Why is it necessary that Jesus convict the godless of their godlessness? What purpose would that serve? And the answer must be for God's glory. Just think about that for a moment. How is God glorified when godless men, women, and children remain in their defiance? When they remain in their blindness and refuse to acknowledge the truth. No, no, no. God will be glorified as the truth is revealed And shown forth to be what it is, a reflection of his purity and his perfect nature. You see how that glorifies God as the truth is revealed. As the godless now confess, it's a reflection of his purity and a perfect nature. The truth must be revealed to fully portray the glory of the living God. The godless must and will be convicted and acknowledge their transgressions against a holy God. Praise be to God. Praise. Do you see the joy now in the return of Christ and the judgment and this conviction of the godless? Because it brings glory to God. That brings us to our third point. Malcontentment with boasting. Verse 16 appears to be the last description by Jude of those who have crept in unnoticed. He has been describing them in detail. Indeed, as he describes this prophecy by Enoch, he's describing what will happen to the godless. But now he continues his description and really ends his description with verse 16, these who have entered into the church, certain people. Godless people. They're grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires, loudmouth boasters, showing favoritism to gain advantage. This is really that last reference to those who've crept in. Just think of those words for a minute. Grumblers, malcontents, following sinful desires, loudmouth boasters. This is describing one of the two lines that God describes in the garden. In the garden, as Adam and Eve sin against God, and God is proclaiming judgment. He first proclaims judgment against the serpent, and he tells the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. God is saying that there will be two lines. One line of his children and one line of Satan's children. Well that's it. And now we see even tonight in this letter of Jude that these two lines continue A significant theme throughout Jude's letter is one of contrast between these two lines, the righteous and the godless. And we know that's the case because he uses Enoch's prophecy to bring forth the topic of the judgment of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, who was Enoch? Well, he tells us he was the seventh from Adam. And if we were to turn back to Genesis, we would see a description of Enoch. He was righteous He's the only man that I believe we read of, mere man, not God man. He's the only man that we read of who walked with God after the fall. Now we can assume and presume that Adam walked with God in the garden because he recognized his footsteps as he heard him coming, and so we can think, yeah, Adam walked with God. But that was before The fall. After the fall, after the fall, Enoch is possibly the only man that we read of who walked with God. after the fall. He's so righteous that God takes him up before his death to be with him. And this is said in contrast to these godless ones. Think of how Jude describes them in verse 15. Execute judgment on all to convict all the ungodly? Of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and all the harsh things that the ungodly sinners have spoken against him. We get the idea. Enoch walked with God. Enoch was taken up by God to be with God. These, this other line, this line of the Sat of children of Satan are ungodly, ungodly, ungodly. And now we get to the point of seeing why believers have every reason. For true contentment and humility. Did you see how Jude describes these who have entered in, these certain people who've crept in who are designated for condemnation, these ungodly who pervert the grace of our God and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. He describes them as malcontent Even as they are pursuing the sins which they so love, he describes them as malcontents or those who are not content. And he describes them as boasters. Yes, loudmouth boasters. In contrast, and that's exactly what Judah has been setting forth for us, in contrast, believers Those who are in Christ have every reason for true contentment and humility as we think and meditate upon the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. You might be thinking, well, why is that? As this passage is about judgment tonight, we know. We know for certain that Jesus himself was judged. He was wrongfully judged by a human court. that rejected his kingship and ignored his purity. In John's Gospel, as he writes, as Pilate Here's the words of the crowds. He brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat. Do you see the picture? Jesus, the pure one, the innocent one, is being judged. by a human court that throws out the law, that throws out righteousness. He's judged in our place. He was judged unrighteously, so that he could then take upon himself the righteous judgment of his father for you. You Jesus was rightly judged as guilty by his father When your sins were laid upon him. You see, it's so true that all will be judged in righteous power when the Lord Jesus Christ Christ returns. But because he was judged, because the judgment of God the Father has been satisfied. fully and completely in the Lord Jesus Christ. By his blood shed, this eternment eternal punishment for your sins, if you're trusting in Jesus tonight, has been poured out in full. The cup has been emptied into Jesus Christ. So you see, you see, this passage must point you to Christ tonight. For while he's coming, while he will return, he himself has suffered for you. Oh, what a great contrast we should be seeing here between those who are truly in Christ. Who will suffer no eternal punishment because he has. And those ungodly who have crept into the church unnoticed, who will suffer the full wrath, the righteous wrath of God. And so as you think about this, as you meditate upon this truth, as you remember, this should bring you so much joy tonight that you're filled with contentment. The godless are unfilled. In fact, there's a negative amount of contentment. They're malcontents. They have no, indeed, can have no true contentment. All that they lust after in this world can provide no true contentment. And that's why Jude describes them as malcontents. But if you're in Christ tonight. You can say, along with Paul, I've learned in whatever situation I am to be content. Why? Because of Christ. Because of what he's done, because of who he is. He's taken your punishment upon himself so that you are now free. You've been separated from your sins. And death no longer has a stranglehold over you. Yes. This should not only bring true contentment, it should bring each of you tonight to this humble heart. Where you're saying, Lord Jesus Christ, you have done it all. I've done nothing But you have satisfied your father's wrath and you've clothed me in your righteousness. And not only am I truly content in you, I am humbled to be one of the children of God tonight. What a contrast between the ungodly and between those in Christ. Yes. Lot Lot was surrounded, surrounded by malcontents Lot was surrounded by the wicked. But do you see how the Lord spared him of the judgment That was immediately poured out on Sodom and Gomorrah. And he's done the same for you tonight if you're loving the Lord Jesus Christ. And you're trusting only in Him. Amen. Our Father and our God, I thank you and praise you for Christ. Father, we thank you for this passage tonight which is which has taken us directly to Jesus. Oh Lord, we thank you. We thank you for the power of his righteousness. We thank you for the imagery that we have of the myriads of myriads of angels returning with Jesus Christ in his glory. And as we recognize the power of his judgment, Father, we pray that you'd help us to be fearful. And yet at the same time, Lord, To be so content and filled with joy that our hearts would be humbled before Him. I pray all these things in His precious name Amen