If you turn your copy of God's Word now back to Matthew chapter 24 You seek to finish that chapter tonight, that which one that chapter we started this morning. I think that's on page 986 of your Pew Bibles, not 210. This finishes that which we began this morning. Whereas Jesus was asked by his disciples about the sign of his coming. Sign of the end of the age. When will these things come to pass? Let's give attention now to the Word of God beginning at verse 29 of Matthew chapter 24. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn. They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call. And they will gather as elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. From the fig tree, learn its lesson, as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near. So also, when you see all these things, you know that He is near at the very gates. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the sun But the Father only. For as were the days of Noah, so will be the coming of the Son of Man For as in those days, before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day when Noah entered the ark And they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away. So will be the coming of the Son of Man. Then two men will be in the field. One will be taken and one left. Two women will be grinding at the mill. One will be taken and one left. Therefore, stay awake, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming. But know this that if the master of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming He would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into. Therefore, you also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Who then is the faithful and wise servant whom his master has set over his household to give them their food at the proper time? Blessed is that servant whom his master will find doing so when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions. But if that wicked servant says to himself, My master is delayed, and begins to beat his fellow servants, and eat and drinks with drunkards The master of that servant will come in a day when he does not expect him, and an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that day there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. As far in the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we Come once again to this chapter in Matthew. A difficult chapter to understand, but also a blessing. And so we ask now that as we've read it, Father, you'd add your blessing to it and that you'd guide us by your Spirit this evening. Fill us, Holy Spirit. With your wisdom, fill us with understanding, fill us with conviction. And fill us Fill us with the hope of Jesus' return. We ask all these things in His name. Amen. Are you expecting the return of Jesus? If you think upon Noah's day, they were not The people outside of the ark were not expecting and looking for the return of Jesus Christ If you remember that account, Noah spent some time building and crafting the ark that God had called him to make. Not quite sure how long. But it certainly took some time. And through that building, as Peter puts it, Noah was a herald of righteousness. He preached righteousness, even if it was merely through building the ark, waiting upon the Lord, trusting that the Lord was true. That he had told Noah that a flood was coming and Noah was reacting and doing exactly that what the Lord had called him to, and yet No one outside the ark was expecting the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Indeed, through the flood, all flesh died. God blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the ground. Man and animals, creeping things, and birds of the heavens. They were not expecting the flood, nor were they expecting the return of the Lord Jesus. Well, as we saw this morning, Jesus has finished his work among the Pharisees and the scribes. As we read this morning, he has now left the temple. He's left the Pharisees. He's left the scribes. Those who did not practice what they preached. Those who tied up heavy burdens hard to bear, laying them on the people's shoulders, but unwilling to move them with their fingers. He has left the temple behind. He's left Jerusalem behind, so to speak, those who were not willing to accept his loving embrace And now he's with his disciples. They pointed him to the beautiful stones of the temple. And as they do so, Jesus responds by telling them that there will be not one of those stones left upon another, that the temple will be destroyed. Jesus in the first half of this chapter 24 of Matthew's gospel has told them of the signs that will not be the signs of his return. The false Christ, the false prophets who will come, seeking to lead many astray He's called them to endure to the end, recognizing the false Christ, the false prophets, the false signs. And now having stated the negative, Jesus in this portion of Matthew's gospel states the positive, that which will be the sign of his return. So we might sum up the teaching we see here, this last half of Matthew 24, this way. That the children of God are called to stay awake. looking for the signs announcing the return of their bridegroom, even Jesus the Christ. The children of God are called to stay awake, looking for the signs announcing the return of their bridegroom, even Jesus the Christ. We'll see then three simple points or heads tonight. The promise of Jesus' return. Secondly, the sign of Jesus' return, and finally, the day of Jesus' return. As we go through this last half of Matthew 24, again, be asking yourself that question: Am I expecting the return of Jesus? Well, first, the promise of Jesus' return. Again, we have that call, that command, that suggestion, if we can put it that lightly of Jesus Christ. To endure to the end. Those who endure to the end will be saved. And again, that question is ringing in our minds. How Can we endure to the end? And the answer seems to be here in this last half of Matthew 24, by remembering and clinging to the promises of Jesus Christ. There are many promises of Christ. We could go back to the Old Testament. We could consider the promises that were given, the covenantal promises that were given to Abram. Look toward heaven, number the stars, if you able to number them, so shall your offspring be. Or Genesis 17 As the Lord speaks to now Abraham, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you to be God to you and to your offspring after you. One of the greatest, possibly the greatest, covenantal promise that we have in all of Scripture But then here, even in this chapter, the promise of salvation. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. So now Jesus provides more foundation upon which the people of God can endure. Look at verse 30. They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds. It seems that this entire portion of Matthew chapter 24 is based upon these promises, these two promises. First, that Jesus will return And secondly, that through his angels he will gather all of the elect. Consider them. First, the return, the promise of Jesus' return. Remember, Jesus has already said to his disciples in chapter 16, he began to show them that he must go to Jerusalem, suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and the scribes. be killed and on the third day be raised. And now he says, not only be raised But return coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Jesus had come in a humble way Indeed, he had left this earth after being killed, sacrificed on the cross at Calvary. And now he speaks about his return, which will be with the power of heaven and with great glory, coming with angels. This then is the sign, the sign of your coming and the end of the age. Just as John records in his gospel that Jesus has said, I will come again and I will take you to myself. Jesus is coming. He has told his disciples of his return. He has promised his first return. Excuse me, his second return. And a contrast with his first advent, doesn't it? Indeed, we read a portion of that in Isaiah this evening. Luke records the first advent of Jesus Christ, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. Coming in humility, coming as a humble Savior. And Isaiah records that same prophecy, for to us a child is born, a son is given The government shall be upon his shoulder. His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God. As Jesus returns, in a sense, he's taking up those titles, isn't he? Wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And so now what will happen upon Jesus' return? What is the effect of Jesus' return? As he promises it to his disciples, what does he tell his disciples? And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from the end of heaven to the other. Paul records it this way, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. First Corinthians chapter fifteen. That's how Paul understood the return of the Lord Jesus Christ and the gathering of the saints. The gathering of the bride of the Lord Jesus Christ, the elect, the church. Consider this then. Consider these promises. Consider the promise to gather the elect. This is the first to-do item on Jesus' list as he returns. And he will send out his angels with a loud trumpet call. There's nothing that comes before this as Matthew records Jesus' words. He will return, and as he does, the first thing he does is sending out his angels with a loud trumpet call to gather the elect Think of the creation. The last being that God creates are man and woman, Adam and Eve. They are the first made in his image to sin against him And we continue sinning against him up until the day of Jesus' return. Yet the love of the Lord Jesus Christ for his bride is so great that the first thing he will do upon his return is gather her to himself. The first thing he will do is separate the church, the believers, his followers, his bride from all others, and bring her to himself. Give thanks to the Lord for He's good, His steadfast love endures forever. Isn't that what Jesus is saying? The first thing I'm going to do when I return is to get my bride, to bring her to myself. It's a promise. His return is a promise. His gathering of the saints is a promise. We make a lot of promises. The Israelites promise to keep God's laws and to worship Him alone. If the Lord wills, we'll get there in Joshua at some point. And the people answered, far be it from us that we should forsake the Lord and serve other gods, we also will serve the Lord, for he is our God. That's what the people said when Joshua was alive. But the very next book in Judges tells us how many times the people of God forsook him. How they broke their promise. Husbands and wives make promises to love until death Many of those promises have been broken. Parents make promises to their children and tend to forget or neglect them. Christians make promises. Promises to read our Bibles more consistently. Promise to love our neighbors Indeed, promise to pray for a brother or sister in pain or in need And then we turn away and forget. Even the promise to pray oftentimes is never fulfilled. But Jesus. Jesus provides assurance, a guarantee that his promises will come to pass. Look at verse 34. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. Nothing will keep Jesus Christ from fulfilling his promises. His promise not only to return But his promise to gather you as you trust in him as his bride. I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Our Lord. Nothing, nothing will stop the bridegroom from returning for his bride. And the promise of Jesus Christ demonstrates his love and compassion, doesn't it? He could have left his disciples at verse twenty-eight that warning. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures were gathered. Jesus could have said that I'll pray for you in your tribulation. He could have said, go in peace, be warmed and filled. But he promised a return for them and for you. Even you, a sinner, saved only by grace. This is part of Jesus' promise never to leave you nor forsake you. This is part of Jesus' promise to prepare a room for you in his father's house. This is part of Jesus' promise not to leave you as an orphan. I will come to you. So what did the disciples have As Jesus warned them of the tribulations to come, as Jesus was about to leave them, they had his assured, sealed, guaranteed promise to return. And in this they had his love. Do you see the love of Jesus Christ in these promises for you tonight? That brings us to our second point, the sign of Jesus' return. Now remember, the disciples asked about a sign. As he sat on the Mount of Olives, this is verse 3 of chapter 24, the disciples come to him privately, saying, Tell us when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming? And of the end of the age. Now again, I don't think the disciples actually knew what they were asking about, but Jesus gives them the answer, probably, that they weren't looking for. And he'd already given them a clue. If they say, look, he's in the inner rooms, don't believe it, for as lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man Jesus is saying, my return is going to be notable. No one will be able to miss it. And so now he explains more fully in verse 29. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light, the stars will fall from heaven, the powers of heaven will be shaken. That's the first sign. The description by Jesus of these signs are quite unique. I don't think any of of us can say we've seen anything like this before. Well the sun gets dark, yes, at nighttime. The moon will not give its light if it's behind the clouds. But Jesus is saying that these things are going to occur at the same time. The sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light. In a sense, it's neither day nor night. The stars will fall from heaven. Now some may have seen comets streaking through the night sky, but I doubt anyone's seen a star fall from heaven. And then finally the powers of heaven will be shaken These are the signs that even precede or come alongside the sign of the Son of Man. And they see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Have you ever seen someone riding on the clouds of heaven? These are unique, these are singular signs, uncommon signs to signal the coming or the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, and they must be For Jesus Christ is singular. His return will be a singularly unique event in the history of redemption, nothing like it before, and never to be repeated again. There are at least two purposes for these signs. First The signs set forth the unmistakable Christ. We talked about that this morning. How do you recognize the true Christ? And Jesus is saying This is how. In addition to knowing him as the Son, in addition to knowing him as your Savior and Lord, this is how. An unmistakable sign. Remember, the false Christ and the false prophets will arise and seek to lead many astray. These signs that Jesus is setting forth for his disciples confirm the return of the one and only true Christ, the very and only Son of God, the Savior of the world. These signs reassure believers of their Savior's return, of the bridegroom's arrival in the beginning of that great wedding feast. So the sign is confirming the second The signs which have yet to occur give the followers of Jesus Christ confidence that their work is not yet done and must continue. You see what I'm saying? I'm saying that they since they haven't occurred, what Jesus is saying is, you've got more work to do. Think of this. When a marathon road race is being run, the organizers of the race usually put mile markers along the course. 26. 2 miles. And so runners can gauge how far they've gone. And more importantly, they can gauge how close they are to the finish line. And they don't stop until they reach the end. They're encouraged to keep running, given the mile markers or the signs, until they see the sign of the finish line under their feet. It's a long race, likely some uphill portions, just like the tribulations announced by Jesus. But the runner keeps running to the end based upon the signs that guide the way. Signs to provide encouragement and help in finishing the race. So, as these signs that Jesus gives his disciples and gives you even tonight, as they have yet to appear, you await the signs. Even today, but you do not wait idly Remember what we read this morning, and this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, then the end will come. See Jesus is saying, well, since the sign hasn't come to pass yet, there's more work to be done. There's more people in the world that that need to hear the gospel. There's more proclaiming of the good news that that must be done because Jesus hasn't come back yet. The signs haven't occurred yet. And so he's saying, continue. Continue making disciples of all the nations. Continue baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Spirit. Continue teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you. The signs haven't been shown yet. Jesus hasn't returned yet. And so these commands are in place. And the call to continue is in place. Are you expecting the return of Jesus? If you are If you're expecting a return of Jesus, then the question is, what are you doing today? How are you spending today in advance of his return? If you're expecting his return, then you must also be expecting to be gathered up by the angels who will be sent with that loud trumpet call upon his return. So what are you doing? How are you waiting? Are you gazing upon the stones of the temple like the disciples? Or are you seeking to know more of your bridegroom, the one to whom you will be eternally married And taking that knowledge, taking that belief, taking that faith, and sharing it with others. Yes, the signs of Jesus' return. That brings us to our third head the day of Jesus' return. Now Jesus provides that second answer to the two-part question, sort of The disciples asked, tell us, when will these things be? And in a sense, Jesus has already answered Part of that question as he describes the tribulation that's going to occur in Jerusalem into the temple. Now he didn't give them a date, but he told them that was coming. And that's what Jesus began the conversation with, as they looked at the stones, and he told his disciples, not one will be left on the other. And so he's already described the tribulation that's coming. But now Jesus tells them when these things will be meaning and referring to the sign of his coming, and truly the end of the age of this world. The disciples again weren't really asking about that, were they? They were asking about when Jesus was going to come and retake the throne and get the Romans out and re-establish Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the throne of David, as they thought it should be. But now Jesus speaks of the true throne, the true eternal throne, which is in glory. He answers that when part of the question, when will these things be? This is an important question, isn't it? We don't have to look too far to understand the importance of the when question. So many have tried to guess when Jesus will return. Giving exact dates and years and times. But consider your own heart Consider how you've been created in time and space. Each of us have had a beginning, a birth. Each of us will have a death unless the Lord Jesus Christ returns first. A physical end to our physical body in time, at least until the resurrection of the dead. You live by your watch or in time. It's time to go to sleep. It's time to wake up. It's time to eat. It's time to go to work. It's time to go to school. It's time to Push up We plan and prepare according to the calendar, according to the clock. We are a people bounded by time The when question is important to us. But we're also a suffering people, aren't we? Remember the curse. As Adam sinned against God, he curses the ground. Cursed is the ground because of you, and pain you shall eat all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. That's our condition as a result of our sin. And so we're asking, when does this end? When does this suffering, when does this curse come to a close? And the answer is only when Jesus returns. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain anymore. That's when the suffering ends. That's when the curse is over. And that's when you sit in glory with your Savior Jesus Christ as your bridegroom. And so now Jesus gives the answer, doesn't he? But concerning that day and hour no one knows. Not even the angels, nor the Son, but the Father only. No one knows. You may be asking yourself that question or knowing this passage you may have asked in the past, why not? Why has not God revealed that day, that year to us? We can speculate. We can spend the rest of the evening speculating on why God has not revealed that. But very simply, God's plans are not our plans. His thoughts are not our thoughts. His ways are not our ways. And ultimately the answer is that the secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and our children forever. In his wisdom, he's decided not to reveal that to us. And so as Christians, our job is to submit to the Lord and say, we trust you, Heavenly Father. An unexpected day. Not only is the day not known, Jesus states that the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Well what does he mean by that? He gives an example, doesn't he? He first refers to Noah and the flood And all those around the ark, as it had been finished now, were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day Noah entered the ark. Now look, this ship had been built. Not in the river, not around water, but had been built before the people, and they were all unaware until the flood came and swept them away. At an hour they did not expect. Think about the examples that Jesus gives here in this paragraph. Two men will be in the field, one will be taken, one left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken, one left. The idea is seemingly that in the middle of an ordinary day, nothing out of the ordinary As the flood came, there was no warning. They did not expect it. As these are in the field, as these are grinding, there is nothing to indicate That Jesus is about to return. Life on earth, engaged in daily living, grinding wheat, harvesting and planting, that's when Jesus will return in an hour you do not expect. That's the answer. But that's not the full answer. Because Jesus now tells them, stay awake. If you do not know on what day your Lord is coming He likens this to the master of the house who had a burglar coming in at night and he would have stayed awake if he knew when the thief was coming. It's that idea. You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming in an hour you do not expect What does it mean to be ready for Jesus? In a sense, the the text that follows this chapter 24 opens up what it's going to mean to be ready for Jesus to return. The parables, the ten versions, the parable of the talents, both open up what it means to be ready for Jesus' return. But here in this passage the idea is to stay awake. He uses that word on an English version, stay awake or be ready. times and that's the message that he's trying to convey to his disciples at this very moment. Stay awake Obviously, we know the opposite of being awake is being asleep, or in a particular estate where you don't know what's happening around you. Being asleep means that you don't know what's going on, either near or far from you. You're lacking consciousness because you're not aware. You're asleep. Think of those two women or the two men. Two women grinding. Grinding in the The threshing hall are two men in the field where one is taken and the other is left We might consider the idea of staying awake as being applied to these two scenarios, which in essence is actually one. Those who were left behind seemingly were so engaged in what they were doing in their worldly work that they were asleep to spiritual things. They were unconscious to their spiritual state. They were desensitized to their own wretched sin against the holy God and thus their need to be saved The world, Satan, had called them away from considering their spiritual needs, and so their hearts and minds were set upon their worldly employments And thus they were dead to the things of the Lord. They were asleep. Just like those in Noah's day who would not hear his righteous preaching, those who ignored the word of God concerning the coming flood. the coming destruction of all flesh. They were asleep. It ties us back to the disciples who were gazing upon the beautiful stones of the temple. They were enamored with the physical and not yet with the spiritual. They saw the exterior of the building which housed, so to speak, housed the living God. And notably, the disciples didn't call Jesus' attention to the one who dwelt in the temple. They looked at the exterior stones of that which housed God. Indeed, the living stone, the capstone, the cornerstone, stood before them. And the disciples were more concerned with the earthly, the dead stones. Remember, Jesus had just finished pronouncing the seven woes on the Pharisees, one of which was that they appear as whitewashed tombs, beautiful from the outside, yet dead. in their hearts to God. The disciples were displaying some of that deadness at this point in their spiritual walk with Jesus. They weren't fully awake yet And so Jesus was now calling them to stay awake. They'd been with him now for three years, hearing his preaching, hearing the good news, hearing his revelation of his father. to them and life in abundance through him. And so he was calling them out of their stupor to stay awake Isn't that how you prepare for Jesus' return? To stay awake to your spiritual well-being That it's not in yourself. For there's no spiritual well-being in any of us. There's only spiritual well-being and health, and indeed life in Christ. And so while you recognize and confess your sins, you're at the very same time and moment recognizing and confessing God's mercy in Christ. That's your spiritual awakeness, if that's even a word. Your spiritual awakeness is recognizing and confessing and rejoicing in the grace of God in Jesus Christ. That you don't deserve what he's about to do. Return for you and gather you as his bride. Spiritual awakeness is recognizing and confessing and rejoicing in that grace of God in Christ. That's what it is. To be awake and to stay awake in Christ. It's to constantly grab hold of and confess and profess that you have been saved by grace alone through the precious blood of Jesus Christ. So in preparation for Christ's return, in order for you to endure to the end in Christ Jesus He's calling you tonight to stay awake. Yes, the children of God are called. To stay awake, looking for the signs announcing the return of their bridegroom, even Jesus the Christ It was a normal day in Noah's day, as he had finished the ark. And just before the floodgates opened, none were believing in Noah's preaching. None were expecting the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Indeed, none were spiritually awake. Only those who entered the Ark. So tonight, brothers and sisters, the call is for each of us to remain spiritually awake. Confessing and professing and rejoicing in the grace of God in Christ Jesus As you wait for his return. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, I thank you for this chapter, a difficult chapter, and we pray, Father, that you'd help us if we got something wrong tonight, correct us Correct me. And yes, Father, we know. The promises are clear. Jesus is returning And as he does, he will gather his bride, the church. Before he does, Father, help us to be those who are faithful and active. to be those who are spiritually awake. Holy Spirit, alive in our hearts. Make us awake to Christ. Make us awake to his person and to his work. Make us awake to the washing that we've received in his blood. Make us awake as we expect his return. And even tonight, we ask, come quickly, Lord Jesus. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.