Speaking of great words, let's turn to Hebrews chapter twelve. And we continue in our study of Hebrews and this Amazing section of God's Word, verses 22 through 24. uh all of which uh uh that is said here uh the uh writer is speaking to the believers and he is telling them that they have come to um Not the the mountain that cannot be touched, not Mount Sinai, but they've come to Mount Zion and uh to all these other places. the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to the innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn. who are registered in heaven. To God, the judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect To Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel. Thus says the word. And we will be focusing now on the first part of verse 23. um which uh says uh you have come to the church of the firstborn who are registered in heaven. Please be seated Again, once again, uh it's It's difficult to imagine that with uh uh such uh a small sentence they There can be so much of great biblical importance packed into just a few words. I hope that as you uh bear with me and we work through these uh sections that talk about uh what it is that believers uh have come to. I hope that uh this has been as uh enjoyable and as uh and and and as thrilling to think about uh as for you as it has been for me. And uh and if we're if we're thinking about that now just wait until it it really uh occurs in all of its fullness. What a time that will be. And uh and we uh today we uh we come to verse twenty three And um there they're just there just uh two words in verse 23 that uh the word church and the word firstborn Uh and uh and I want to work through those two words, but at the same time I want to work through the thought of the idea of both the the word the the the phrase the church of the firstborn. So we're going to look at all of those aspects of this of this section of God's Word today. And um and I don't mind telling you my my mind is just chock full of a whole bunch of material and I know I'm not gonna get it outright So I'm going to pray that God gets it outright through me. So let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we ask you now And that it might be a glorious testament uh to your grand and and great name, the Triune God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. These things we ask. In the name of your Son Jesus. Amen. The word to the church of the firstborn. Focus first on church The word that is used there in church is so familiar that you probably know the Greek word, the ekklesia. It is sometimes translated differently. You'll see it translated as church most often, sometimes congregation, sometimes assembly throughout the New Testament. But it does mean a gathering, a gathering of God's people Um and uh uh uh uh uh uh and uh literally the word means to be called out of. To be called out of. Now, the New Testament uses this word to traditionally refer to the church, but it's important to note the fact that this word is also translated in one place that I know of in the New Testament It's translated to refer to the Old Testament Israelites gathering together. Now, if you turn, for instance, to Acts chapter 7 and verse 38, you have there part of the words that Stephen spoke in his defense. Before the crowd that was about to stone him for his faith. And Stephen writes This is, he says in verse 38 of Acts chapter 7, this is he, and by he the context is Moses. This is he that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel. Which spake to him in the Mount Sinai, with your fathers who received the the living or lively articles to give unto us. Now, Stephen is reflecting on the history of God's dealing with his people, and he takes this one incident regarding Moses. And he says that Moses was in the church in the wilderness. Now you never ha you never think uh as it were that the Israelites who were in the wilderness because they had come out of Egypt. They had just been delivered out of slavery. We never tend to think about that being a church. And yet the New Testament says it is. The New Testament says that that gathering of God with his people at Mount Sinai. was a church experience. And um and and you remember at Mount Sinai when Moses was given instruction to uh uh uh by God uh to go back to Pharaoh. He was told to tell Pharaoh to let my people go So that they might worship me And we find, in addition to the significance of that event At Sinai, we find not only was it a church, not only was it going to Sinai to worship God, but it was also a place where God was giving his law. To his people. The God-inspired writer of Acts, who is Luke called that great assembly of of the the Hebrews coming out of Egypt, let out Through the blood of the Passover Lamb, a picture of the redemptive work of God, he calls that a church. Now, you can you can call it an assembly, you can call it a uh You can call it a gathering if you want. You can give it its Hebrew name, which is a kahal. But it was A church. And that's what the word says. Now, um Egypt The calling of Israel out of Egypt and leading Egypt to Sinai is a foreshadowing, a foreshadowing of our Savior's redemptive work. It isn't the fullness of his work, it's a type. He brought them out of Egypt by his mighty hand and by the blood. Of the Passover lamb. And he brought them to the place of Sinai. And there he met with them. And there he lives with them. Now, they're not ready to live with him, but he's there. And so it's a foreshadowing of the redemptive work, just as Where God took them out of, which was Egypt, was a foreshadowing of their being in bondage to sin. Just as believers are in bondage. Just as sinners, excuse me, are in bondage to their sin. Now the the the the issue I'm I'm trying to drive home here. The point I'm trying to drive home is That the thought of the church is not a New Testament idea. And it's not a mistake. The very fact that it exists, that it pre-exists the New Testament and stretches all the way back To the one of the signature events of redemption in the Old Testament shows that it's not a mistake. God all along had planned. To have a church. He didn't necessarily call it a church, but he had the idea, and he conveyed that through the covenant. He said, I'll be your God, and you will be my people. I will dwell with you, and you will dwell with me. The idea, you see, is that God is going to bring a people out of sin. And do it through his blood. And then call out his people and constitute them as his people. Is of the very heart of God's redemptive plan And the fact that God's people would come to Sinai to worship him and to receive his law. And to the law that's going to tell them how to live in the presence of God. You see, this is all part of God's great plan. The New Testament church is so important to Jesus. And it's important to Jesus that he would say about the New Testament church in Acts chapter 2, verse, excuse me, in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 18. These words. Now therefore you are no more foreigners and strangers, but fellow citizens with the saints. And of the household of God. And you're built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ being the chief cornerstone. Now in that text he doesn't use the word church, but he says to the church, he says, You are the household of God. See the similarity? God dwelling with his people. And then Jesus would later say that the gates of hell shall not prevail upon the church. And he would also, Hebrews chapter 2, verses 11 and 12 would say: He that sanctifieth, and they that are sanctified, are all of one. For which cause I am not ashamed to call them brothers, sisters, saying, I will declare thy name to my brethren In the midst of the church, I will sing your praises. The church of believers, those who believe in the God of the Bible, is the place Not only where God dwells, not only where Jesus dwells, not only where they dwell with their people, but it's the place that Jesus chooses to declare God's name. And to sing God's praise. And he's singing to his brethren Whom he has bought with his own blood. In this fascinating material. I mean singing to you. Jesus singing to you Can you imagine that? We don't think of him singing. We don't think of the divine warrior singing, but he's singing to you, and he's singing about God and God's praises. And God's glory and God's work on our behalf. This is what the church is. This is what the church is. And this is what the church does. We don't do it very well. But this is what we're called to do, to be the place where Jesus sings. To us. This is what you have come to The church of the firstborn, a called-out assembly where Jesus deems you to be his brothers and his sisters. Bought and paid for by his blood. The only place on earth Where Christ knows that he can sing God's praises with joy and with thanksgiving and without ridicule. Or score. Well, we just got started. And so repeatedly in the New Testament we read of such places. Where Christians gathered, called churches. Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Colossians, Thessalonians, Thessalonians. Thessalonica and uh Jerusalem, Cyprus, even though there's not a letter to Cyprus That's where Timothy Titus was, excuse me. And we are informed as well. That this church. It's called the Church of the Firstborn. Um The word firstborn in the New Testament is used literally as the firstborn in a family. Such as Luke chapter 2, verse 7, in the birth of Christ, Mary is said to have brought forth her firstborn son. And wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the end. But by far, the more frequent use of the word firstborn in the New Testament Is linked figuratively to Christ. And it where it is linked to Jesus' Position as the firstborn, it is also connected in the same verse with other significant redemptive terms. Romans chapter 8, verse 29, for example, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate. To be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Now we know that Romans verse, we've heard that Romans verse many times. We say that it talks about foreknowledge, it brings forth the doctrine of predestination. And we're encouraged by that, we're comforted by that, that we're also that we're being conformed to the image of the Sun, because of God's foreknowledge and predestination, it leads to this transformation. Of being conformed into God's image. But then it at the end it it adds this, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. I take the he there to be referring to Jesus. That the work of God in foreknowledge and predestination, according to his eternal decree, that results in our being conformed into the image of God's Son, is so that Once again, Jesus might be the firstborn among the rest of his elect. Those who are many brothers and sisters over which Christ is deemed to be the firstborn in the sense of, and here's the problem with the word firstborn, not in the sense of firstborn as literal, but firstborn figuratively As if he were having the ultimate preeminence and the ultimate title over his brethren. Number one, if you want to put it. Number one in all things This word verse uh fifteen goes on, excuse me, not verse 15. Colossians chapter 1, verse 15, which we read earlier, goes on to Talk about this idea that Christ is the firstborn of his people by saying these words. Referring to Jesus, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Jesus only is the invisible God's image Jesus only is the firstborn of every creature. In the sense of over everything. over all things. Colossians one verse sixteen makes that point even clearer. For by him were all things created that are in the heaven, that are in the earth visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, dominions, or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and and for him Everything was created by him. Everything, visible, invisible. All of it, everything you see, everything you can see with your eyes, is for him. This is surely true of God the Father. But in the text that I've read in Colossian, it's grammatically true of Christ as well. All creative activity is closely linked to Jesus. He is the creator. He is the firstborn. And that same point is made again in John 1. 1 and Hebrews 1. 2 about how Christ is the creator of all things. This word, firstborn, as applied to Jesus, is then seen again in Colossians 1. 17. He is before all things. He is before all things. By all things, all things consist In other words, you see, there would be no existence if there weren't for Christ. There would be no living if there weren't for Jesus. All things were created by him, and all things consist. And then he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. Hey, another thing. He is the firstborn from the dead See how that word gets used? There isn't any grand and glorious and great thing that you can think of that isn't attributed to Christ. When you bring in this word firstborn, whether it's our redemption or his redemptive work or his person. Christ is firstborn. In no way does that mean he is the first one to be literally born But he's firstborn in the figurative sense of having preeminence over everything. As well as creating everything, and as well as everything existing in him God Himself speaks of His Son's preeminence, his firstborn-ness In Hebrews chapter 1, verse 5 and 6. For unto the angels, for unto which of the angels said he at any time Thou art my son, this day I have begotten thee. And again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. And again. When he bringeth in the first begotten of the world, he saith, Let all the angels worship him. You know, I thought that Exodus twenty verse three said that we should have no other gods before God. We should not bow down and serve anybody else but God. But God is speaking in Hebrews 1. And he says, let all the angels Worship the sun. It's a pretty important text that v validates What we believe about Jesus, that he's God. If he isn't God, then God is frankly, God is violating his own law To command anyone to bow down to Jesus, whether they be angels or people here that live on earth And of course, it wouldn't be complete to think about the word first If we didn't also recognize that that word shows up again in the book of Revelation. And it shows up as you might expect. In the end of the world, as Revelations 1, verse 5 re puts it, from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness and the first Begotten of the dead. Now it doesn't use firstborn, but it's the same word. It's the same Greek word. Just the English is translated differently. The first begotten of the dead. The prince of the kings of the earth, and unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood, hath made us kings and priests. Unto God his Father. To him be glory for ever and ever. Amen. Boy, you know, I wonder what it'd be like if someday we were in a church called the Church of the Firstborn. What you know, they people people always ask, what does the word orthodox mean? And we're sitting there trying to explain what the word Orthodox. Well, how would you explain firstborn? Boy, it'd be a powerful opportunity, wouldn't it? To explain firstborn to people, to try to explain well, you know, I I I'm just scratching the surface, truthfully. But very briefly I want to take and just finally say That let's look at this phrase together, church of the firstborn. You have come to the church of the firstborn. In the Old Testament, in you'll have to read it, Numbers 3, verse 11 through 13, it speaks about God consecrating the firstborn of Israel to himself And that occurred at the first Passover. And the idea that you were consecrated by God to by God um to himself was simply to serve God Later on, it became the job of the Levites. They took the place of the firstborn of Israel. But that thought of the church of the sir firstborn who are designated to serve God Is carried over into the New Testament in the writing of Peter. In 1 Peter 2, verse 9. There is this thought where Peter again, writing to the church, says to them, you You are the chosen people, a chosen generation of royal priesthood. A holy nation, his own special people that you might Declare the praise of him who called you out of darkness into the light. When we say you are the church, when we say and when we understand that we have come to the church of the firstborn We bring with that all of this understanding. It's the place where Christ as God incarnate Celebrates with his redeemed people the glory and wonder of all God has done. To take those who were once evil sinners dead in their transgression and sins and make them alive forever As his holy people. Jesus gathers us. He gathers his church. And he leads them in songs of praise to our God. The creator, King, and Redeemer of the people. Christ is firstborn, as He is the one in whom all things Subsist. All things on earth live through Jesus and exist through him. He is the Alpha and the Omega Of existence. Now you in Christ Are the church of the living God. You are the kingdom of his special people. A kingdom where Jesus rules. Midst of his firstborn church forever. The church of the firstborn belongs to Jesus, the firstborn, forever. Forever, forever. You belong by faith in him to Jesus forever. You are his and he is yours Well, let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, uh help us, Lord, to have our minds opened and to uh Hear these things. Have our hearts open, Lord, to believe them and embrace them. Forgive us, O Lord, of our sin. And we thank you, Lord, that you have and you have Through Christ, by faith in his name, have brought us into your church, the church of the firstborn. For his glory we pray. Amen.