Continue to stand and turn to Hebrews chapter twelve, verses twenty-two through twenty-four. Hebrews chapter twelve verses twenty-two through twenty-four. And let us hear the word of God But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels To the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn, who are registered in heaven. To God, the Judge of all To the spirits of just men made perfect. To Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated Brothers and sisters in Christ, have you fully digested the wonderful teachings that are here in chapters 22 through 24? I don't know that we could ever fully digest them. But they are indeed wonderful. And if you if you take the time to start Reading your Bible and reading about these verses and the things that they're talking about, the amazing blessings that God has conferred upon you through Christ. It will serve you very well to do that. It will serve you well in times of trial, in times of stress, in times of doubt, or temptation. And affliction. Quite possibly there I'm sure as soon as I say this, somebody's gonna Say now you shouldn't have said that. But quite possibly, there are no other no there are no other collection of three verses in succession in the Bible That inform the New Testament believer more about why we need to continue running this endurance race. Why we need to give all glory to God, so that He in His infinite mercy has ch the glory that He has in His infinite mercy has chosen to reveal to you In his mercy, he's chosen to reveal to you your final destination. Think about it You know, through faith where you're going to end up. It's not a question mark. These three verses are at the heart of why our Reformation forefathers chose as the battle cry of the Reformation. Sola scriptura, sola fide, sola grazia. Only by the scriptures, only by faith, only by grace. There is simple testimony in this glorious passage that continues that witness. The witness that we are saved by grace, saved by faith, saved by what God has revealed only in his word. As the sole way of salvation in Christ That God has revealed to you, and that is no small thing. Today we come to the heart of the matter of our salvation, the very core, the essence of God's redeeming grace. The sum and substance of our salvation, and the reason why every Christian should have never-ending joy. You, verse 24, have come to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, to the blood of sprinkling. Remember that? The high priest? To the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. As was the case in all of the previous verses, where that little phrase starts off, you have come. Again, this is a perfect passive tense. It simply means that we have come. Not we will come, not we used to come, but we have come. As Christians, we have come to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and all that that entails. We have come to these blessings. They're already ours, and they're not by our effort, but they're because of an irresistible force strolling you. An irresistible force drawing you to nothing less than eternal life. In the Bible, we call that powerful force the triune God. God, three and one. And it's through his grace, through faith in Jesus Christ, once again Sola Grazia, Sola Fide. We are running, as we have seen previously, we're running a marathon race. And that marathon race leads us ultimately to Jesus or in Jesus. Sola scriptura. Only the Bible reveals to Jesus, reveals Jesus to us as he really is. Not as any sort of figment of our imagination. But it reveals him as the Son of God It reveals him as part of the Trinity, the third person of the Trin er the second person of the Trinity The eternally existing Son, along with the eternally existing Father and eternally existing Holy Spirit, all three are absolutely essential for your salvation. Sola scriptura teaches us about the person of Jesus. He is the one that we have come to. And the one we have come to, by God's powerful direction, is nothing no other than God with us. No other than God in the flesh. No other than God's beloved and begotten Son. As Colossians 2 verse 9 speaks of him. It says, for in him all the fullness of the Godhead dwells bodily. The fullness of the Godhead in Jesus dwells in the bodily. flesh in his body. So the scripturus tells us not only who Jesus is, but of course tells us what Jesus did. How he accomplished redemption, how he perfectly obeyed the Father. In order to give us his obedience, that we might be declared obedient before him. It is to this Jesus that you have come. Again, you didn't do it. God led you there. God brought you there. And that's grace. And the scriptures reveal the truth. And it's by faith that God gives us that we believe what the scriptures say about Jesus. Not because we're smart, not because we're so intelligent. Not because we're so spiritual For in our natural condition, none of us are very spiritual. None of us are all that smart when we compare ourselves to God. None of us are all that wonderful, although many think they are It is to this Jesus you have come. And this Jesus you have come, both our verse And other verses of Scripture describe him as the mediator. The mediator. Now, a mediator is someone who interacts between two opposing parties, sometimes parties that are at war with each other. And he is the one that is charged with the responsibility of bringing peace between the warring parties. 1 Timothy 2, verse 5 puts it this way about Jesus. For there is one God and one mediator. Between God and man, Christ Jesus. Now, did I hear two? Did I hear three Did I hear five mediators? No, I heard one. There is only one mediator because there is only one way To God. And it's only through Christ. It's only through Jesus' death and resurrection on the cross, by faith in that, that we come to God. God will accept only Christ's saving work on your behalf. No one No things, nothing in the universe mediates between God and sinful man but Jesus. Our text declares that we Christians have come to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. The mediator of the new covenant. Again, a mediator is one who arbitrates between two disputing parties. Secular courts increasingly use mediators to get two quarreling parties to come to an agreement. This example is helpful in understanding the concept of mediator, but a human mediator that works for the court can't compare it with the mediatorial work that Jesus When a human mediator works his magic, he generally only has the power of his own skills to bring the war Parties together. He may have excellent communication skills. He may be able to schmooze people well, or cajole them, or even threaten them. And on almost every point, he seeks compromise. That's an important thing to remember. The human meter possesses nothing magical in and of himself that has power to change people's minds and hearts. The only mediator between God and men has the power to change hearts of those who are at war with God. In this verse, Jesus is called that mediator. And he's called the mediator of something called the New Covenant. And if you know a little bit, if you sold a scriptura, if you read your Bible, that word covenant should not be a new word for you. It's a major word. It occurs all throughout the Bible, Old and New Testament. A new covenant assumes there's an old covenant. And God has indeed had many covenants with men for the purpose of displaying his redemptive character. and his fulfilling his promises to sinful people. Essentially at the heart of the covenant, whether it be old or new, is this idea that God will be our God and we will be his people. Over and over again, God has been faithful to execute his covenant promises to be our God. Over and over again, he has been faithful even when his people have not. Repeatedly, men have rejected God, rejected his goodness, rejected his kindness, his favor, and even spat in his face. They rejected his laws. We've abandoned him to serve and worship other gods. We have blamed and cursed the Creator, but such human disobedience comes at the price. Of men reaping God's covenant curses, temporal curses, and eternal curses, which constitutes death And separation from God. Jesus, you see, is the mediator, the superior mediator of a new covenant In God's new covenant, the terms for sinful men to follow are still the same The goal is still the same. I will be your God and you will be my people. But in the new covenant, God does something that he only hinted at in the old covenant. In the New Covenant, God Himself Becomes the redeemer and the shepherd of his sheep. As God did say to Abraham in the first Important covenant. And this covenant foreshadowed the redemptive plan of God for all of his sheep. In Abraham's seed, God said in Genesis 22, 7, Isaac spoke unto Abraham his father, and said, My father, He said, Here am I, my son, and he said, Behold, the fire and the wood. Where is the lamb for the burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb. Lamb for a burnt offering. Now it depends on the interpretation of that passage. Whether you read it, God Is providing a lamb, or whether you can you can also legitimately read it, God will provide emphasis on himself As a burnt offering. Which you see gets back. A promise to Abraham gets back Back to the idea that God will send the mediator. And that mediator would turn out to be, as we've already seen from the scriptures, Jesus, God in the flesh, God with us What's new about Christ as the mediator of the new covenant is simply this, that this lamb Whom Jesus is said to be the Lamb of God, he takes away the sin of the world. His blood shed at Calvary is the blood of the final Lamb of God The final time God remits sin and forming the foundation for eternal life. If anyone is in Christ, he is not simply redeemed. He is not simply In Mount Zion, he is not simply coming to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, but he is also a new creature. God washes us sinners with all our filthy, sinful hearts He washes us in the sense, in the spiritual sense, in the blood of Jesus Christ the Lamb sacrificed. And in that blood, you see, the mediator reconciles the two warring parties. Cleaning up that which is dirty, and making that which is dirty holy in God's sight by faith in the media. In the Old Testament high priestly mediatorial ministry at the Holy of Holies, which we read about in Leviticus chapter 16 earlier. On the Day of Atonement, the blood of various different animals symbolically make atonement for the sins of the people. as the high priest sprinkles it on the altar and on the ark of the covenant The Ark of the Covenant contained the law of God, the tablets of God. Blood sprinkling the tablets. Get the image Blood covering the disobedience of the peoples disobeying God's law. Blood of Christ That was part of the activity associated with the covenant God made with Moses. But these actions of the Old Testament high priest foreshadowed the blood. Of the Lamb of God. Our high priest, our great high priest, that covers the sins of the covenant people And I must remind you, again, Hebrews chapter 10 says that the blood of bulls and goats, all those bloods and bulls and goats in the Old Testament were an annual reminder that people sinned, but they were incapable of cleansing the conscience from acts that lead leave lead to sin and death. And therefore Christ comes with his superior blood, atonement. One more thing. It says that we have come to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things. If you know if you know who Abel is, and if you don't, go to Genesis 4, and you'll find That Abel was the second son of Adam and Eve. And you'll hear the story of how Abel was murdered by his older brother named Cain. And in Genesis chapter 4, verse 10, we read, God speaking here to Cain, what have you done? The voice of your brother's blood crieth out to me from the ground. God did indeed hear of the death of Abel. He heard it through Abel himself. It cried out to him. And I think that the the focus of that crying out, as it would be in any person crying out after you'd been destroyed or dead, it would be a cry Most likely for vengeance, to avenge the murder, for God to adjudicate Cain's crime And inflict divine judgment on Cain for the sin of murder. But the superiority of Christ, the Son, the Holy Son's blood poured out on Calvary for his elect, does not cry out for vengeance. to the Father, although Jesus would have every right to do that. Instead, Jesus' blood speaks, and the there's a present tense used there which said means it is continuing to speak. It is continuing to speak. It's continuing to speak better things. So what are the better things? What are the better things that Jesus' blood as the mediator of the new covenant What does his blood speak, as it were, to the Father? If Cain's blood speaks vengeance, what does Christ's blood speak? Well, we have a couple of passages we can look at. Turn to Hebrews 9, 12 through 15. And this is what I referred one that I referred to earlier. Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. That's one thing it speaks. The obtaining of eternal redemption. Christ's blood. Obtaining eternal redemption for you. And then it goes on. It says, for the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean. That's all Old Testament ritual. Okay? Old Testament sacrificial system. For the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean. Sanctifieth or makes a person holy unto the purification of the flesh. In other words, it makes the flesh holy, but we're more than flesh. It doesn't do anything for the heart. Doesn't do anything for the conscience. Doesn't however you want to put The inner soul of man. It doesn't affect any change there. You could go out and sacrifice a million bulls and goats, and it would have no effect on the heart, the heart of sinners And indeed that proved true over the history of Israel of the Old Testament. And then it goes on, I'm back in uh Hebrews 9, now verse 14. How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered to himself without spot to God Purge your conscience. Another better speaking. Purge it from what? Purge it from dead works. Purge it what to? To serve the living God. See how it speaks? Those are better things. Yeah, you you can have blood crying out for vengeance all you want, but that doesn't doesn't do anything to a person's heart. Does it? Doesn't change the heart. Hebrews 9:10 verses 19 through 22. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiness, the holiest by the blood of God. Here's another better thing about the blood of the new custom covenant in Jesus Christ the mediator. You now have boldness to enter into the holy place by God. Well, where is the holy place of God Temple's gone. Where is it? It's in your relationship between God and Jesus Christ by faith through grace. Because you are the temple of the living God. 1 Corinthians 6. You are the temple of the living God. The Holy Spirit comes to dwell in your heart, and you become The temple. Well, where's the high priest? Well, that's Jesus, your great high priest, aided by the Spirit It helps you intercede in the presence of God with your prayers and your petitions and your praises. Boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of God, by the new and living way which He has consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, His flesh. It's a new way and a living way. Having an high priest over the house of God. Let us draw near, we can draw near. With true heart, in full assurance of faith. Full assurance of faith. See how it's all tied to to Jesus the mediator of the better covenant, having our hearts sprinkled from medieval conscience You know, we're we're not going to a temple to sprinkle blood on the altar of any temple. The work of Christ has sprinkled his holy blood upon Our hearts. And we don't have an evil conscience anymore We sometimes do evil, but we're not under the dominion of an evil conscience. Our bodies washed with pure water Again, the blood of the New Covenant mediator is the blood that speaks better than the blood of Abel. Associated with what I just read from the two passages in Hebrews, other better things the blood of Christ speaks. It speaks of forgiveness for the children of God. It speaks of reconciliation and peace between God and men. It speaks of justification through faith in the blood of the Lamb for those who believe. For the children who were formerly of God's wrath, now being the children in his family. You, of all the people in the world, could have come, you see, to Buddha. You could have come to Hare Krishna. You could have come to polytheism, Taoism, Shintoism, Confucianism. Maoism, Marxism, Allah. Let us thank God that you have come by divine choice through Jesus Jesus, the meat eater of the new covenant. Amen. Let us pray. Most merciful God Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, that by your grace and by your mercy and through the blood of Jesus, our mediator. And you have constituted us a people, even more than that. You have named us as your children. And we thank you, Heavenly Father, that as your children by your Spirit, with the Spirit of Adoption, we can cry out, Abba Father. Bless us, O Lord God, as we rest in these passages, as we take comfort in them. But let us at the same time, Lord, seek Always, as your children, to live for the honor and praise of our Heavenly Father, even as our Savior lived in faithfulness and for your glory. Tanus