Please continue to stand. Turn now to the text for today's message, Hebrews 12, beginning at verse 18 and reading through verse 24 Hebrews 12, verse 18 through 24, and our focus will start today on verse 18 through verses 18 through 21. Let us now hear God's word. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hang down And the feeble knees. Make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed Pursue peace with all people and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. Looking carefully lest any one fall short of the grace of God, and any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble. And by this many become defiled. Lest there be any fornicator as prof or profane person like Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright. For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears. For you have not come to the mountain that may be touch, and that burned with fire. And to blackness and darkness and tempest, and the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words So that those who heard it begged that the word should not be spoken to them any more. For they could not endure what was commanded And if so much as the beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned or shot with an arrow. So terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and trembling. But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God. The heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn, who are registered in heaven To God, the judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect, to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant And to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Thus far in the reading of God's holy word, please be seated. It should come as no surprise that God's words here in this section are connected to the previous section, which has been focused on Esau and his selling of his birthright for a m a small morsel of food. Esau, you remember the one who served his belly without a thought of serving Jehovah, the God of the covenant with Abraham? The God who promised Abraham a seed who would bless the nations forever. Esau traded eternal things, eternal hopes. for that which is temporal. In a sense, you could say he traded salvation for Stu. He traded his birthright. In many ways, he represents the type of person Jesus had in mind. When he spoke in Matthew 6, verse 19, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth Where moth and rust corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust corrupt Where thieves do not break through nor steal. In the text today, Esau's demise is used by God as a backdrop. In order to warn all believers not to follow his ways. God does this by telling believers that they have not come to a mountain that God then proceeds to describe Later, through the inspiration of the scriptures, we learn the identity of this mountain. I've called it in the text sermon Mount Boom, but it's actually Mount Sinai. This is the mountain God says believers are not to come to. And in contrast, he begins also to talk about the mountain believers are to come to. Mount Zion. But today I don't have the time to talk about both mountains. So you get part one this week and part two next week. Maybe more weeks than one on Mount Zion. But I can tell you this Mount Zion is seen as a mountain of blessing. Mount Sinai is seen as a mountain of curses. These mountains are not they these mountains are symbolic too. They're symbolic Of revealing two dispensations of God's one covenant, the old and the new. Or the Mosaic with the law and the gospel of Christ. And as I said, next week we'll talk more about Mount Zion, but today our focus is on. Mount Doom. Because it's doomed for anyone who comes to this mount The first mention that we find of Mount Sinai occurs in Exodus chapter 3. You remember the story. Before the Hebrews are led out of Egypt, Moses comes to Mount Sinai. where he meets with God. At the time, it is not called Mount Sinai. It's first referred to as Mount Horeb And here Moses meets God. And here God tells him, you're to lead my people out of Egypt. And of course we remember the dialogue. Moses, the servant of God, said, why me? And Moses did everything he could to avoid. following God's word. And then finally he said, well, will you at least give me a sign? That what I'm about to do, that you're with me. And God gives him what is really kind of an oblique sign. He says, When you brought the people out of Egypt, you'll worship me on this mountain. The place where God and his people meet, the place where they will come to serve and worship God, Mount Sinai. Consequently, we see Moses coming to Mount Sinai with the Hebrews, and the Egyptians are drowned in the rearview mirror at the Red Sea. Now the Mount Sinai that the people came to are described in what I read earlier from from Exodus chapter 19. It wasn't an extraordinary mountain in and of itself, but because it was the place that God had chosen to meet with his people, it becomes extraordinary. Beginning in verse 10 of Exodus 19, we read, The Lord said to Moses, Go unto the people and sanctify them. Today and tomorrow, let them wash their clothes. Here they are. They're near, they're at the mountain. The mountain is you know visible. They're at the foothills of the mountain. And God says to Moses Get the people ready. And what he wants them to how he wants them to be get ready is to wash, which is symbolic of cleansing. He wants them to be at least externally clean. And he says, but tell them to be ready on the third day. Because then I'll come down in the sight of all the people on Mount Sinai. And then he tells them, set boundaries around this mountain Let no person come up it. Let no beast come up it. If anyone dares to try, or any beast wanders away by accident and steps afoot on the mountain, they're to be stoned. Or shot with an arrow. That may seem kind of perplexing. Why does God do that? What is the point? That he wants no one on that mountain except those whom he commands. And that's really the question that unlocks the key to all of this. Mount Sinai, you see. Is not simply what happened to the Jews After they came out of Egypt, those millennia before. But Mount Sinai is a picture for all people in the presence of God. It is a holy place. That's why God God is present or will soon be present and that's why God's people have to be cleansed And that's why they can't come up on that mountain, for to come up on the mountain would be their death. Because they can't, we in our sinful nature cannot bear to be in God's presence. Mount Sinai Mount Sinai represents As God is coming down, it represents God with his people. But it is, it turns out to be an awesome sight. A terrifying sight. It turns out to be what God is in all of his glory and power. It turns out to be the mountain can't contain God. Smoke comes upon the mountain. Fire comes upon the mountain. And the mountain is quaking. The mountain is shaking so much. This sight is so impressive. So terrifying that even Moses, who has conquered Pharaoh, even he says he is afraid and is terrified. Why? Because it's the holiness of God there. It's the righteousness of God there. The same God that is the God of creation. The same God that you worship as your Redeemer. He has that aspect to him. He has that power. He has that glory. That just the mere sight of him, without any kind of protection, blows people away Moses, the mountain is shaking because of God's presence. Some of you, I know, have been in California during an earthquake. And others of us can remember where we were when the earthquake in Virginia struck. And and I submit to you, I knew where I was, and I didn't know at at first of all what had happened, but very quickly I figured it out. But I could still remember where I was, what I was doing, and almost what time of day it was, within an hour It wasn't the most pleasant of thoughts. Now if you can imagine, you know, a whole mountain And the people are all around the mountain, and the mountain's got smoke, and the mountain's got fire, and there's lightning, and there's a trumpet blast. It's so loud that you can't bear to hear it. And it's quaking all the time. You know, there's bound to be a lot of scared people. And that's for effect. And that's what it should be. We should be Men should be scared to fall into the hands of a living God. Because it's their doom. It's the day of their condemnation. It's the day of God pouring out his wrath upon sinners We don't tend to ever see that, do we? Never seen a day like that But we all will. We all will when our Savior returns We will see a day even more terrifying than this day. The Jews saw that day with Moses. The text starts off in verse in ch in verse um 18. It says, you have not come to the mountain that may be touched, and that burn with fire. When he says, you have not come, Well, he's addressing the reader. He's addressing his audience. He's addressing the believers who are reading this epistle. And he says, you have not come to the mountain that may be touched. And again Sinai's envisioned. Remember, God said, don't let anybody touch the mountain. But he says, for believers, he says, you have come to a mountain In a sense that may be touched. And he's emphasizing, I believe He's emphasizing that which is temporal, not touching the mountain on Sinai, versus that which is eternal Living on the mountain called Mount Zion. There's a difference between the two mountains. There's a comparison and contrast going on between the two mountains. One is earthly, temporal. The other is heavenly and spiritual. We may not be able to touch the mountain called Mount Sinai, but we know by God's grace that we live there. We know by God's grace that we're in that mountain or on that mountain or a part of that mountain. And he says that as a form of encouragement. He goes on to describe the Mount Sinai, which cannot be touched As we've already talked about, the the sound of the trumpet, the voice of the words. They couldn't even hear God's words. Can you imagine that? Couldn't even hear his words It scared them. It scared them out of their mind, out of their wits. They didn't want to hear it. You know, they didn't want to go up there after they heard the sound and they saw the sight. They didn't want to be there All the signs and sounds of Mount Sinai were so awesome that it invoked incredible fear among the people. Again, as Moses records in Exodus 19:21, so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake. Soon after God descended on Mount Sinai in fire, darkness, and tempest, we find Moses being commanded to go up there. Those of you who know your Bible know why he was going up there And this is part of the importance of Mount Sinai. The overall importance Because what he was going up there in the midst of all of that impressive display of God's holiness and glory and power, he was going there to receive the law of God. He was going there to receive God's commandments. The commandments, you see, are framed by the forever. The commandments would be associated by those Israelites who saw that event. as a demonstration of the holiness of God. It didn't do him any good In reality, because they still sinned against God. But it tells us something about Many things about the holiness of God, and it tells us something about how we need to view the holiness of God compared to The text uses Israel's experience at Mount Sinai to contrast their experience with ours in Christ. You've not come to the mountain that might be touched, that burnt with fire. You've come to Mount Zion. The book of Hebrews was written to all Christians. Forever, the terrible sight of God's presence at Mount Sinai will be associated With the giving of the law of Jehovah, who has just ascended from on high upon that mountain. And so it should be We should be fearful. We should be fearful of God's law As a sinner, as a natural sinner, we should be fearful of God's law because of the character of the one behind that law. That's the image that's being painted. Break the law of God, you've got to answer to Jehovah who descended upon Mount Sinai. It's not some God who we're playing around with. It's not some effeminate God It's not some God that we can constrict into our own mind, but this is the living God. This is how he chose to show himself Essentially to scare the living daylights out of his people, so that they would not rebel against him So that the law of God would be held in good esteem by the people of God. However, God's picture is not faulty. The fault lies with us We can't even, our sin is so bad that we can't for one minute Leave that picture and keep walking in a straight line toward God. That picture is not enough to deter us. It's not. That picture isn't enough to make us want to w bow down and worship God, to fall on our knees, say, woe am I? Man of unclean lips. Of course, Isaiah did that. But Isaiah was chosen. The natural man, without being chosen, cannot do this. Cannot look at the terrifying sight of God and desire to serve him The Mount Sinor represents God's judgment and wrath upon all those who disobey God's covenant. The reaping of the curses as part of the penalty for disobeying the Mosaic law And to incur God's wrath. There are several key passages in the Bible that connect The importance of Mount Sinai to the law. Not only do they connect the importance of Mount Sinai to the law, but they show us a way. A way out of the dilemma of being creatures held in the hands of a holy God. Let me uh share with you a couple of passages. They're all in Galatians. Galatians 3, 10 through 14. For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, Cursed is every one that continues not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. The very law which God gave to Moses on Mount Sinai. That very law which should inspire obedience has nevertheless set a standard that our sinful human nature cannot met. Can't do. No man is justified in the sight of God. It is evident. The just live by faith. And the law is not of faith. But the man that doeth them shall live in them. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law and made Being made a curse for us. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law by me being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangs on the tree That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. You don't want to be, you see, on Mount Sinai, and all of God's holy character You don't want to be there when all of that speaks against you And frightens you, it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And everybody will do so unless you have Jesus. Who has redeemed you from the curse of the law by becoming a curse himself for his people? Galatians 3, 19 through 26. Wherefore then serveth the law. In other words, why the law? It was added, because of transgressions till the seed should come, to whom the promise was made. And it was ordained by angels in the hands of a mediator. The mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one. Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid. For if there had been a law given by which we could, by which could have given life, verily righteousness would have been by the law. But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe. Believe, believe in Jesus Christ, who delivers you from the curse of the law. But before faith came, we were kept under the law. Constricted. We were kept under the law. Shut up until the faith which should afterward be revealed. The law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified. By faith. The faith that after that faith has come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster. For you are the children of God by faith in Jesus Christ. The last one, Galatians 4. Verse 21 and following. Tell me that you desire to be under the law. He's dealing here with the Galatian controversy. Those who believe that you can gain salvation by the law, plus faith in Christ, and that may be generous. Tell me that ye desire to be under the law. Do you not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons The one by a bondmaid, the other by a free woman. But he who was of the bondwoman was born of the flesh, but he of the woman was was by promise Which things are an allegory. For these are two covenants. The one from Mount Zion wrong. The one from Mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Hagar. Sinai, law, covenant, bondage, which is Hagar Allegory, but with truth. For this Hagar Is Mount Sinai in Arabia and answers to Jerusalem, which now is, and is in bondage with her children. But Jerusalem, which is above, is free and is the mother of us all. Notice just parenthetically when it talks about coming to Mount Zion in the next section, it says you've come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. For it is written, Rejoice, thou baron that bearest not, break forth and cry, then thou that travailest not, For the desolate shall have many more children than she who has a husband. Now we brethren As now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise. But as then, he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit. Even so, it is now. Nevertheless, what saith the Scriptures, cast out the bondwoman and her son, for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the free woman. So then, brethren, we are not children of the bondwoman, but of the free. Stand fast, therefore, in the liberty wherewith Christ. has made us free. Be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage. So interesting. You got the mountain, the mountain uh comparison and contrast. You've got The statement that you can't be saved by the works of the law, even though the law testifies to the holiness of God, the law scares us The law should terrify us. It should, that's part of the tutoring aspect of the law. It should drive us to our knees to see Who we are, and that we need someone to fill the breach, someone to stand between us and God. Someone to remove the curse of the law, being unable to keep the law. Perfectly. Pursed is every one who fails to do what is written in the law to keep it continually. Brothers and sisters, you have not come to Mount Sinai. You've not come to the mountain of law and God's wrath displayed in all of his holiness. You've not come to judgment and cursing For your disobedience. You have come to a different mountain. You have come to Mount Zion. How did you come to Mount Zion Galatians 3 again, 26. For you were all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you're all one in Christ Jesus And if you be Christ's, you're Abraham's seed, an heir to the promise. In Christ, you have come to Mount Zion. Your heavenly home. And as I said before, that mountain we'll learn more about next time. The unbeliever who may be here today listening to what's being said, you've come to Mount Sinai. You've come to your doom. You've come to the earthly mountain that is so holy with God's presence, that it can be not be touched upon the penalty of death. When God is present on Mount Sinai, it curses you If you dare to even touch it, you lack the needed holiness to come onto that mountain, which your life Abundantly testifies to. And this will bring God's judgment and curse and wrath. Oh, not today. Not tomorrow, not next year, not the following year. You may live all your life with never experiencing the curse and wrath of God, but the grave is not your hope Or oblivion is not your hope. For wherever you are, you will receive God's judgment and God's curse and wrath. For your sin. You cannot escape. There's only one way to get from Mount Sinai to Mount Zion. Surely not your good works. Surely not your best efforts. Surely not the fact that you've tried so hard to be good. God's way is clear. You get to Mount Sinai, you get from Mount Sinai to Mount Zion. Through repentance and faith in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Saved from God's wrath, you see. Saved from your unrighteousness. Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of your sins. You shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. Only Jesus, fully and forever, satisfies the wrath of God for your sin. For your sin of breaking all the commandments of the God who showed himself on Mount Zionai. On Mount Sinai. But you say I still, as a Christian, sin. God's word says to you My little children, these things I say to you, that you sin not. And if any man sin We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. He is the propitiation. for your sins, not for yours only, but also for the sins of the whole world Mount Doom, Mount Joy. Save yourself. Repent and believe in Jesus. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God, we pray for your spirit. To continue to convict us of our own unrighteousness while at the same time Reminding us and solidifying in our minds and in our hearts the righteousness of your Son, Jesus. The only way wherein your sight, believing in his name, the only way wherein your sight we can be righteous in your sight. For those who have faith, who have been given faith, and who have been repenting of, who have repented of their sins, will be declared righteous Based on the righteousness of Christ imputed to our accounts, and they will be prepared to come to Mount Zion Because your Holy Spirit is at work in the lives of saints, preparing them for that day when you suddenly call your people to come home. Prepare us all we pray. In Jesus for Jesus' sake. Amen.