And then now to the other question to Leviticus, we given there in the past of each note, the reader from page 9 and 7 of the property. The only colored palette and may have to put it away from a large east outland. What could I call them after the whole word of that? Because the offering is a sacrifice of peace offering. If an author is an animal from the hold no other or female, he shall offer it without dreaming before the Lord. He shall lay his hand on the head, and his offer and prayer at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and all Sons, the thief, shall show the blood against the sides of the altar. And from the sacrifice of the peace offering as a feed offer unto the Lord, he shall offer the clock covenant the employers and all the flask that is on the employers. And if two could need with a fart that is on and if a worms and the one lobe of the liver, we shall remove with a kidney and landfill. I blame it on the earth and on top of the dense offering. It is on the wood, I'm sorry. It is a fruit offering with a pleasing aroma to the lid. The sacrifice of peace offerings to the Lord is an animal from a flock, may a female, he's called after it the woman. If that is a lamb, he is asking when he shall ask where he further lay. Lay a clean on the head of his arc and put in front of the count of Eden. And on the sons, fled against the sides of the article. Then from the shelf we say to the feet option, you say after the feedback and the little stuff. He saw we move the hair from their top back straight to the bathroom And the fact that covers the empire and all the facts that is on the empire. And the concerns, but the fact that he's on them, it's a long and a long load of delivered that he tried And please that don't end the article as a feed article to the law. The dark end of the gold. You say also to throw the layout and layers home down card and play it in front of the front of meeting, and in front of the landscape flow its blood against the sides of the airport. And you say also it as his article So we feed off into the lid, the flocks have one lampher. And all the stock that is on lamp third and the key couldn't use the stock that is on one is a long and the long load is a little that we study And the two sides branding, and the earth is a key document with a pleasant awareness. First is the year. So we have first to clear that the outer generation in all the airline cases if we need the if we need it, south, no, come to a passage that keeps the fear and things. People remember it What regards He has given us to us. And so we ask, even though it was things we've done many, many years ago, what Raghav is we have a plan for a large to be a colour we could. Before God that you'd help us to see The feast of hell. We don't step forth and attack it. Hallelujah, God. We are in desperate man. That we can consider tonight as as we began the slavery that the Israelites were in. Just as we called for after the killing of these gets called out to the people so that we could deal smoothly with We could put past masteries over them and afflict them with heavy burden. We know that The people cried out to God. We cried at their heaven baby, who cried so that we claim that maybe If he very death, the Hebrew a little amongst the Egyptians. For his bugging. This is heavy burden. Do you know that as many just can only go to deliver the overall rights out of that banding Bravely because he tried to occur not only disbelief but placing a dismal burden upon the back of the Israelites. And the land is not too big. But if I am too many as around, it's uh in the distance promoter phone number book. So I said let's have you word and load a pan by name. Then I load it out and load it out to Yahweh. The triple How we thought we'd think the lamp of rough the round of three rounds of So now it's just moving on in the little tool and tomorrow we want to look at this act when we've separated three from chapter three. You know that with the first five books of the Tentatech and you have Leviticus right in the middle. Some may say that Leviticus is actually the of their first five books. If we see a progression from the sin about a need to be separated from God and when the rest of all ship is bringing the people of God back into community and means we'd be living there. And who understand we have that appearance such with a kind of how that way could be done. How men, women and children, since they're done by way can come a communion, a choice, is God giving those none of their chambers that are their things. Yes, that is laying down the use of how people know and union and children from a state Another place up to this end there is that one problem, even if the moving place is set up, and it's got it with some of the And so as we'd look at the birth after him and then as we'd look at the ground up and then as we look at the Think I think worry. Who is it? Think about the man of the living guy. Tonight somebody can consider the peace action, I wanted to see that the peace brings by Jesus Christ, brings believers into three within live and die. The prejudice, those believers in the pre-within live and drive. The definition of P, definitely the need for P and finally the way of P. Take the definition of peace. So if we just take an overview of the peace after, we know that we have Three times as two to Athens is that's the way the ESP translates it. The NLS is translating his athletes by followers. There are three of them, a big often ground of them and that and I suppose often. It's taken from the herd or flock, a bird, instead of blood was fed and the blink oxen was the entire animal was consumed in fire. The grain of them involved no blood. Paint, dry, air, dumping strength, no leather But the same type of feed off and once again we can't feed that blood letter net and lettermate sacrifice to show. And again This would be two the bent offering, the the beginning offering and now the two steps and the voluntary offerings I think is the presented to us in the case in fact that liberty. Or of course at one of those topics are keep action. Just as the bone atom then There's no command in these three factors to bring it or revolt it So many things that God does set forth mandatory actions in regard to the bank action. Alone is to be flame and brought as a bank often doing it. Because there were multiple aspects So if we see them generally described those, and what we have when we search through practice is a general description of these atoms. By learning a bit of cloud more particularly. Of course we have general descriptions. And so in this, we have a general description of the used to argue and it's what to work for what and it's in different questions. That is just a real summer. Plenty of the business is end of animal it should be death. is an animal from the head, the battery, and the second is an animal from the flask, and the third is a date. And so that's the reason it is cracked here The phones too, regardless of the kind of animal actors, it passed us with the good theory of phones. the animal being altered and hit at the entrance to the point of meeting. And from the thing then, it takes a blood between the yet from the stone of the animal and sprinkled against the sides of the article each okay. And then the world shall receive the side. You see an equation. It's not having rampers, it's not uh uh uh uh uh that is animal seed all his animal loans, it's he's pudding, the load of the lives. Very thin because only food could be but plans expressions in mind. They're the most part of the cloud The concern. The word of the living. All bones and already on top of the gente acronym. So you see this conjunction of the genteacron is the already You see that there's a portion of the army here during burning, a sweet aroma wasping up, that food offering, a sweet aroma and the words and actually some regardless of each animal is quite something we different the problem that's under the animal and where the fight The word for things is false. All is a thought. It's believed. You don't realize the crew chaffen a bit distant from the bird as the birdshaw the entire animal is going to awful light. Here in the creature, it's just a dent And we can look at the detail it can support them. You can compare it to the other kinds of organs, but that is a significant. It's a bit difficult to do a little bit more detail about the peace action. But before we do, let's just prefer the little peace. If you open up a a 2D lexicon, a 3D dix number, you would see all this words that are in the 2D words in a Well-being. In consciousness, a company. To censor. What consideration? Security. What can you do? So I can kind of do not one CD word. It might help we also go to some different pictures where that world is made. And then you can why it is new Easily possibly it might help us understand what the speech are from the validation. In order to come and search the birth of the lead, I would be to the left and we try out on a non-turnation accelerator and we can produce me on the very time operation. Really tiny people. You can give them life. Rust and landing. Rust from violence. Less than a case of control or a new introduced an alarm. Number two. They look up to point me to pain and give you The a lot of black one. Think of that. The prince of the light of dying. The blue game of time. That's the right God's face son of the enemy. There is a new life and the mixed of sin and darkness and marriage. I need a line You cannot seek the peace or the prosperity or the days of your life according to days to be living in a common realm. Because two from Catholic and that's the physical catalyst. And I'm not treating a material or physical work, I'm treating a clear grave expensive. It's lightly. I can actually do it with time. Well I hear the power type of thing all the time If you had paid attention to my commandments, then your peace would have been like a liver. And the life of peace. Required. It's narrow and you see it, you see the waves containing arm and arm is flowing peace. See the connection between paying attention to the commandments of God and peace which is flowing from us. with speech with animals. Animal. With conviction. Instead of how some leaders have masters will be And it's so important here that they become our own and either liquid before perfectly. It's not possible for the liquid to enroll these things. Okay, because if he had beautiful upon the mountains of the feet of him to bring good news. He publishes two feet. He publishes salvation when he says on the body once. You see the passion between peace. The salvation between peace. He gave me even my bad space. Both peace and battles coming back from good news of the very teacher. And that's not What is the community and role of sales if the members of the invisible state and gyllings are? One of those elements is speak of to the state of sad. So therefore, since we have been once decided by three, we have three That's not a lot of information in fact this year. It's just using that one way. I think it's used to But the government wants and understanding the concepts peace action rate to do to the people who have a It's a wrestling game. Just write it. Mm-hmm. And it's particularly awful now the way it's identified in the inner version will be somewhat being the icons are are new for an I didn't have a particular icon to them. I wouldn't give a particular the particular mood that we have on a particular loan's place Satisfies that need. With a prefactor. We don't have learning that God goes through that means The break off them, the drain off them, the spin off them, the break off them. Into one places to place and to our leaves in the fence. When we call it or the way you think of it, thank you a party that we have in the proof. Well you want to think about that just for a moment. You need to mean and fellowship with the living God and say, let's just go to Explain a little bit. Real it will. your human world and going to test. The word God is a riff of man. The man is rose in the earth and with everyone And the south of his part was all evil completely. And the Lord was well if he made manifold. Alright. I get the thing. Don't he what if he takes it The world all has come to double have become greatness. No one gave it. Who the rest? And then he's letter to those that access to we are dead in post publication. Fowling the paint of the power of the And we want motion perfectly. Listen to that for a moment. Firing that day, firing that the living day, not yawning for the living day, but firing the tank of the power Of the earth. Instead of calling it how you can of the end And I think that's pretty queen, their first twin, you as their children, as their descendants, as ones who have inherited the and as we could have all things. It's a little bit easier and he could come back. Insobacter when we come and we're going in That's why they die haven't been moving their life into that. Look at 20 fabbishment And it's very truthful in Canada literally we were against that We were at his will with them. We are those who have been against his law, we are those who have been against his word, we are like you, can't ask his word Having our like our own devices. We have to be our own reason. We have to be kings and queens of our own lives tomorrow And we were opposed again within a year of him fighting for a clear independence And basically we can do no less than in our face. Who can account to be violentness in our lives and we're constantly striving against death? Again, in Paul's letters we take it one and take it as well. For the right of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of God of men who die their unrighteousness to press the truth. What does that mean? If it's kind of done, what made them in the bag we made the three? But I believe things don't I have. We've been made in the womb. And yet in quite a clear word in our heart, we've been fighting against that which has laid upon our heart Okay. This is my news into property peace in unwithout peace. You know. That God exists. He understands that he has written upon our heart with white in his eyes, with young in his eyes. And as we sin that just In all them we have been fighting again. God is good. He is almighty. He is argumenting empower and appeared over and empowered that he chooses to live before him according to his will. Not with any of the bad. It will be the total again what was addressed The question that is immediately free and write and give guidance against the value and living And quietly competed to never find it in my card. That we can get from there. That's where we say. maybe mine other than women in college made the mind the bad why is it from even things wouldn't admit it Release and replace the three and do a channel. If you can feel that kind of thing the main coming is going to come into the living. That exactly. If you want to write two Signifies that in creation controlled and communism. In them God and it's as it were through the baggage. We don't need this for now, but it importance yes and the same. But in chapter seven we get some more details about this peace offering. That's the Bible isn't more than a tiny Maybe some more detail on other things about them, but now you're just concerned about the piece of them. in chapter seven and this is the law of the sacrifice of peace happens that one will offer to the Lord. If he offers it for a thanksgiving of sacrifice Thanks for having. Would the Thanks Thanksgiving sacrifice unleavened legs milk with oil, unleavened weighted, fuel with oil and legs of San Clary? Why not? to do it. With a sacrifice of his heat of them for some students, he shall bring his offering with loads of love and blood. And from it, he shall offer one loaf And the class of the classified of its feet accidentally for some students who are the equals and the day of its electronics. And I see it is a peace gala in the peace galaxy. But the bunch of them in the entire Mm-hmm. But it would be action. I'm doing the fact And you see here, if it's a sound given often, one is to bring that blow along with it with some days, the pick of detects, the cut belongs to the feast. It's to be safe. What about the accounting name? The active actually. What could the name genuine? What is the paper this thing? The world that they have season upon the gun. He goes to his present. He goes to the man who's been on the way. He's banana. The time we speak that means every time you put the The really familiar tricky is M6P. And I can put it as great having serving his father-in-law for many, many, many years, only leads, taking his wives and serving his rocks That man. Father Night game. And Father North Logan is ex-club. He's very ex-quared called to the point that he's born. What do they do? I can do that after the contact and paddle to 15 feet in the What are the meaning of them? UK That's why I skipped the fact that we're Bye. Bye and bite a few. All the energy is bad. The battle is over. So I started, but the reason why is it cannon and down with the one to labor. The picture of the peace fighting. The water's been qualified, the animal is in flame, and blood it's been has been offered. So that and he is watching Taiwan. He is keeping so much there that he invite them in the comments into Because we're going to the many speech. Think for a moment And the ways in which the words speak to fans speak. Well, where is that? Well, speak to find speech in the We are push up and peace and health. I think we are push up on peace from family. And will you then love? Then we'll see to find peace and government. What is your seek-to-find peace and what we always think? As long as Satan continues his work of wickedness and anger, as long as the Put on the worldly name. There will be and there cannot be in the sense of this world And this is like an expense. The components are daggered to speak that speak. We can clean them up with blood with reason and for what it is. And see who's so young for us. No, I would have a great. openly speaking and nothing. What is in fact? Continue to speak about these sentiments that also walk as a burden for God, with ask of moving, the burden within the window will be free. What are you thinking with the words which many will see And it speaks and speaks to them. Jesus said, We are fear of wars and rumours of wars. See that we all might allow him for this The month hate the only thing. Because it's something that really comes. It's indescribable in that part yet. If you guys could be able to say how to think The God which surpasses all understanding. And God is out from mental questions. Because I don't know. We can know a little bit of a time. First twice is the only burning of truth because truth gives truth from a great thing. He was a great account of reality. And he was very simple. Yeah. As many friends behind God redeemed a mourn. And God dies down in death. We see this dominance the purity of women. Why not five anybody who I can have these haven't tried to trust the truth and do what you're not with air to the truth is not He's very common and all the characters and read this anthem size the way the thing of girls have been removed. Jesus comes in his body labor and I've heavy wavelength I will give me things and they're straight. It is a baby. I'm calling that out and know that I think it's given a joke and I over death as a result of your sin. Come on, it began to appeal God. The wages that please God, that could death them of us owes to God. We were required to die for our sins, but Jesus had satisfied the death and eternal So even if some of them tend not to be saved, but to serve and to give life To describe the following land, this follows for it between them. I think that's the good speech of the right weight of Saint It is an united determined death I could just certainly be united to criminal What is the what can I crazy stuff to things? We know that our own self is critical and made it valuable from my brought from nothing. But it needs no longer being a place. When all our new experiences of things The one you've got is uncept things and that's what Jesus has done. He gives you peace because he breaks the point to things. Totally, Satan's television. You're no longer enclosed, you are three because you that fees with God and you've been released from Satan's life. Oh Jesus What does he say in response? But if the fear of God is by the fear of God that I can't say demons and it's Kingdom of God has come upon you. Of letting someone enter a strong house and send it to God and let him think bonds with crime. Bone from the candidate. Of course, you don't have a restaurant. He was born. And we'll only tie it. Kingdom of God is not a matter of eating or drinking, but of light circles and peace and doing. This country community is a patent full of channels. Is it so good and Who is the same thing? And if you keep one bad job that can say And the three things as we live in there. Israelites were able to break free of abandoned those tasks. By work and I really don't like 16. Stephen Five. System liberality work of time. Right by the police If it's the freedom that's meant to be the feeling. Freedom to love. Even though they're bad at home, it's difficult to actually read and everything. Lord God is too nice to present to God. He will be He's the one who learns about the surreal at will entitled We Have Blood and Prince of Family To break our friends, the time to follow our friends, the world and truth would grow our fire in front of the celebration. And then to a thing, to the spirit, and to the something closely thing.