So this is chapter three. You'll be familiar with this particular chapter as this is the chapter in which Adam falls from grace. Genesis chapter 3, beginning at verse 9. Then the Lord God called Adam and said to him, Where are you? So he said, I heard your voice in the garden. And I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat? And the man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate. And the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, you are cursed more than all cattle. And more than every beast of the field, on your belly you shall go, and you shall eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your sorrow, and your conception and pain you shall bring forth children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. To Adam, he said, Because you have heeded the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying you shall not eat of it, cursed is the ground for your sake. And toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. O thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field, and the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. As far in the reading of God's word Amen. If you'd open up your copy of God's word now to Romans, we are in chapter 8 tonight. Romans chapter 8. We'll begin reading tonight at verse 14 as we continue our study. In this letter, we are still in justification as Paul continues to open that up for the people in Rome, the brothers and sisters there. Let's give attention to God's word. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. If indeed we suffer with him, we may also be glorified together. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy To be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children. of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. Not only that, but we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. For we were saved in this hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. Likewise, the Spirit also helps in our weaknesses For we do not know what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Now, he who searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because he makes intercession for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover Whom he predestined, these he also called. Whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also glorified. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in Heaven, as we come to this passage We pray, Lord God, that by your Spirit you would illumine our hearts. We pray, Father, that you would continue drawing us ever closer to Christ We pray, Lord God, that you would help us to understand this passage, not merely intellectually, but, Father, to be made more like Christ. Work powerfully in us tonight. All for your glory, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. When someone comes to our church, to the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, and seeks to join, to become a member Member of this body or any other Orthodox Presbyterian Church, they take vows or they profess faith before God and the congregation. And one of those vows, excuse me, w when those vows are complete, and that portion of the reception is over. The Book of Church Order has this suggested form in it to end that reception of the new member. And it reads this way. May the God of all grace, who called you unto his eternal glory in Christ, after you have suffered a little while, perfect, establish, and strengthen you To him be the glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Well, the reception of a member is a happy occasion Why would the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, why would we, include within that welcoming of a new member such a passage, such a Such words. After you have suffered a little while. Why, after speaking of being called into the eternal glory of God in Christ, would we refer to such suffering? If in fact we would refer to suffering at all. How is that a part of Christian living? In reality, suffering is certainly Part of the life of the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it is such a significant part of that life that those who wrote the book of church order thought it best to include it here as a new member was being received into the body. Tonight, we have before us a portion of Paul's letter to the Church at Rome, which speaks very clearly of this suffering. Paul has been writing about his gospel to those in Rome, telling them that this is the gospel that he presents, wanting them to know exactly the words that he uses that that he proclaims to the Gentiles, to Jews alike And you know that he's been referring to justification for many chapters now. Chapter 3, it began, it continued in four and five and six. We're here in chapter 8, and he's still, in a way, talking about justification, the central portion of this letter. So central to the Christian doctrine that Paul spends a lot of time writing about it. We're going to have to uncover tonight how it is that this suffering fits In to the doctrine of justification. Tonight I would like us to see that the justified believer Is made like Jesus Christ through suffering to share in his glory The justified believer is made like Jesus Christ through suffering to share in His glory We'll see that in three points tonight: the condition, the suffering, and the solution. Well, first, as we begin tonight, the condition As we know, Paul has been writing about this doctrine of justification, all of the truths, the benefits which flow from it. He's informed his readers, informed us that Justification is a central tenet of the Christian faith. And he stated very clearly that justification is of God's free grace. That believers don't really act, they don't really work, they're not really actively involved in being justified. We've seen it many times in Romans chapter 3, being justified freely. By his grace. Romans chapter 5, verse 15. But the free grace is not like the offense, verse 16. And the gift is not like that which came to the one who sinned. But the free gift which came from many offences resulted in justification. And then we see so very clearly that justification is a gift In other letters we see it as well. In Ephesians chapter 2, even when we were dead in trespasses, we were made alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. Well, being pardoned and declared righteous is clearly a gift. It's done by God's grace, unmerited favor. It's bestowed upon the living God, upon all who come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But now Paul seems to take a turn. He writes as if there's a condition. Paul states the justification, or more accurately, the benefits of union with Jesus Christ. Being the joint heir of the kingdom is conditioned upon the believer suffering with Jesus. Look at verse 17. Children, then heirs, heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him. That one word there placed by Paul, inspired If indeed we suffer with him. Being a joint heir with Jesus Christ is conditioned, apparently, or connected to suffering with him. It leads to being glorified with him, but there is this connection to suffering. What does this have to do with justification? Why is it here? And is Paul still writing about justification as he transitions to a different topic? And if not, how is this suffering connected and caught up in being justified? Assuming that he does continue to write about justification, if one is justified, why suffer? What would be the purpose behind it? And if justification involves suffering, then who would want to be justified? This seems to be the second time that Paul is recognizing the reality of life as a Christian, as one who has been justified. The first time occurs in Romans 7, if you remember. As Paul speaks about the struggle that he has with the old man within, that he's continuing that battle, that irreconcilable war as the new man which has been raised up as a result of his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is continually battling against that one who remains within, wanting to lead him into sin. And now he has to explain, or he did explain, why that is, and one who has been justified is still struggling in that way. And now here. Paul's recognizing that the Christian is engaged in suffering even while being justified. Paul is recognizing the reality of life in Christ. And he's explaining to us how justification works even. During this time of suffering. As we think of justification It may be most clear, easiest for us to think of justification as that which makes us like Jesus. We could say that about adoption, we could say that about sanctification, we could say that about uh perseverance. Certainly we could say that about glorification. But this is where it begins. So as we think of justification, let's think in terms of being made like Jesus. Ultimately that's what justification does. Justification is a declaration that you've become like Jesus. It's first a declaration that you've been pardoned. You can say, well, Jesus wasn't. Pardoned, and that would be correct. He was never pardoned, he never sinned, he never needed to be pardoned. But as we are pardoned as a result of what Jesus did, we are being made like Jesus. Washed clean. The filth that was the stain of our sin has been washed off of us, so it's no longer recognizable. That's being made like Jesus. In addition, justification is also that declaration that we have become righteous Not in our own righteousness, not because we are righteous in ourselves, but because Jesus is righteous and his righteousness has been wrapped around us. It's the declaration that the righteousness of Jesus flows out from him and surrounds us. It wraps around us That happens as God credits righteousness to us, the righteousness of Christ, as we come to faith. So in these two ways, the justification is making, that declaration by God is making a person, a person of faith, like Jesus in these two senses. It doesn't make one divine, but it moves one from being a wretched sinner to one who has been fully washed, fully cleansed, and then clothed in the righteousness of Jesus That's what justification does. And that's why justification can be seen as being made more like Jesus Christ. So in essence, justification really aligns a person or unites a person with Jesus Christ. In other words, justification is part of that which brings us into that close union and communion with the Lord and the rest of the triune God As justification makes us more like Jesus, it should be no surprise that we merely not just take on his righteousness and are washed clean, but that we're being renewed in his image. All of it, which certainly includes other attributes or characteristics. And now that brings us to this condition that Paul is recognizing And set forth very clearly that in order to be made more like Jesus, we need to suffer Then, in order to be a joint heir with Jesus Christ, or in order to share with Jesus in the rewards that he has been given a kingdom, then we must share in the other aspects of the life of our Savior. Suffering is clearly in view. Scripture bears this out Not just here in Romans, but in the letter to the second letter to the Corinthians in chapter 1. At first 7, we read, and our hope for you is steadfast, because we know that as you are partakers of the sufferings. So also you will take partake of the consolation. Or in Philippians, as Paul is writing about his desire. Chapter 3, that I may know him, he was referring to Jesus Christ, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings. That was everything for Paul. Or in Colossians, in chapter 1. Paul speaks of rejoicing in his sufferings for the people and filling up in his flesh what was lacking in the affliction. Of Christ. Christ suffered. But clearly the suffering wasn't complete. Scripture bears out this truth that believers justified believers. Are made more like Christ through their suffering. Well, that brings us to our second point: the suffering. What are we talking about? What kind of suffering? We've seen the condition. We've seen that Paul writes of this condition that Christians are to suffer if they're going to share in the airship of the Lord Jesus Christ and his glory. But what kind of suffering is Paul speaking about here? What kind is he writing about? There are many kinds We know that. The children of God can suffer physically. You think of COVID. It's been much suffering. Physical suffering as a result of COVID. The people of God can suffer spiritually. Think of the attacks of Satan upon Job Yes, physical, but ultimately designed to bring Job to curse God's spiritual suffering. We can suffer or grieve the loss of loved ones. We can and do suffer trials designed to strengthen our faith. We can suffer chastisements for sins committed. Lots of different kinds of suffering that Christians experience, but I don't think these are the types of suffering that Paul had in mind as he wrote this letter. Look at verse 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. And as Paul continues to write about these sufferings of this present time, I think he writes of two kinds of sufferings which we need to think through tonight. The first is the suffering of creation. Verse 20, for the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, because of him who submitted. And then secondly, he speaks of personal suffering. Verse 23: not only that, but we also who have the first fruits of the Spirits, even we ourselves groan within ourselves. Two kinds of suffering. Let's open those up just a bit tonight. First, the suffering of creation. Why is creation groaning? It's eagerly awaiting the revealing of the sons of God, verse nineteen. Verse 22, we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. That's part of the suffering that Paul speaks of Like this morning in Lamentations 1, the entire creation here is personified here in this letter that Roe Paul wrote. It groans under the weight of the corruption that has been placed upon it even by God Himself. Where did that happen? Well, we read about it this evening as we went to Genesis chapter 17. As Adam sinned against God, what did God do to the creation? Cursed is the ground for your sake, and toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life, both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field. Do you see the result of Adam's sin? The entire world was cursed It would now produce thorns and thistles in the garden. It was producing delicious fruit. Everything was functioning the way God had planned and designed for it to function. But as a result of Adam's sin, the whole creation was cursed and corrupted. And so creation, as if it were a person with feelings, it suffers. It suffers the corruption of the curse. Creation does not produce in the same way, in the same manner that God had created it to purpose and to produce and to function. Not only were thorns and thistles being produced after Adam's fall, but the animal kingdom was not in harmony. There is death. There are disasters of earthquakes, of volcanic eruptions, of hurricanes, of tornadoes, of droughts, of famine. The creation groans under this Corruption and looks forward to the day when the children of God will be fully and finally revealed. Why is that? Because upon that day the new heavens and the new earth will be ushered in on the day of the Lord. And so we see as the creation suffers, as it groans, so do those who inhabit the creation. See, even as Adam was told that he would eat his bread by the sweat of his brow because the land was producing thorns and thistles. Adam was connected to the suffering of the land, and so are we. Brothers and sisters, we suffer. Suffer through the curse that's been laid upon the earth for our sins. The earth, the land, has been bound, it's been shackled with this This curse and it suffers this futility, and we suffer as a result. It's not derivative of the suffering of the land, but it's within ourselves. Verse 21: But we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit Think of how Paul just qualified this. Even we ourselves groan within ourselves eagerly awaiting the adoption, redemption of our body. Since the fall, no one except the Lord Jesus Christ has been born without these groanings. Our mother is experiencing pain in childbirth. I don't think that's what Paul is referring to. I think he's referring to the fact that we have been born into a sin nature. That we've inherited that and and our body is corrupt as a result of it, and and we're waiting for our bodies even to be adopted. Yes, we've been adopted. If we love the Lord Jesus Christ, if we're If we're in faith in Christ Jesus, we have been adopted. We have been redeemed. But yet we're still waiting for that day when body and soul will be joined together in perfection, in innocence, in purity, and that will only occur in glory It will only occur when Christ returns for us. And so we're looking forward to that day, but today Today our bodies have yet to be redeemed. They're filled with the old man. And so we can just turn back to Romans 7 and listen to Paul as he's Speaking, oh wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? He's waiting for the adoption. He's waiting for the redemption of his body. He's groaning within himself, and that's the picture. That's the suffering day by day as the spiritual war continues to rage within us Within our single human natures the old man lusting after the things of the world and the new man continuing to mortify and cut off the desires and strivings of the the old, there will be and there are sufferings in that until our bodies are fully and finally redeemed by the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is his return. See, both of these categories of suffering are linked to our sin. Jesus Christ Said to suffer for our sins. Not his, but the sins of all the children of God. And now here Paul tells us that if we're to be like Jesus, then we too must suffer. Suffer for our sins. Not the eternal wrath of God that has been suffered by Jesus. We don't suffer to produce salvation. The children of God do not suffer in order to satisfy God's perfect justice. Jesus has done that. But the children of God do suffer for sins, not as eternal punishment, not as dissatisfied justice. But to drive you away from your sin, to cause you to hate sin more and more To give you an insatiable desire to live without sin, to live free of sin. In other words, to live free of the sufferings of this world. To live free of the sufferings of the curse, to live free of the sufferings of our own sins, to live free of the sufferings of our internal battle with the old man All of that drives the believer to desire glory above all other things. Consider the inspired words of Paul from Second Corinthians chapter five For we know that if our earthly house, this tent, is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this, meaning our earthly Tense, we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed with our habitation, which is from heaven. For we who are in this tent groan, being burdened, not because we want to be unclothed, but further clothed. That morality may be swallowed up by life. You see what Paul is saying? We are groaning in this earthly body. And it's causing us to desire that glorified body in Christ. Christ. Is that it? Is that all that Paul is saying? No. The central idea of this passage Yes, we suffer. Yes, suffering Is part and parcel of being a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And yes, suffering prepares a believer for glory, it leads a believer to glory, but it's of no comparison. To glory itself. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed. In us. See the suffering, the groanings, the thorns, the thistles, the unredeemed bodies are all significant. Paul's not saying that they're not. And more so as believers are are engulfed and surrounded and experiencing these groanings today. But in part He's saying today is not forever. Even though our outward man is perishing, yet the inward man is being renewed day by day. Second Corinthians chapter four verse sixteen. Paul refers to our sufferings today as a light affliction, which is but for a moment And that which is working in us far more exceeding an eternal weight of glory. In this suffering, the believer is being renewed In other words, the glory of God is so great, the glory of His Son, the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ is so great that this suffering which we are experiencing today, when compared to the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ, is so small, indeed, he can refer to it as a light affliction. That it's not even worthy to be compared. This suffering which we experience this day is not even to be placed upon the scales with glory. It's not worthy In other words, while this current suffering has its purposes, and while God is using it for the good of His people, and He is, it's merely one of the means used by the Father to prepare you for eternal life. Life with him for eternal glory. Let me ask you tonight, are you seeing and understanding your suffering In this way? Are you appreciating the suffering, the groanings of yourself and of creation to be that which is the precursor To glory, which leads to glory, which prepares you for glory? Or are you seeing it tonight as a hindrance? A hindrance to happiness and to joy? Are you equating this suffering in a small way to that which the Lord Jesus Christ endured and which led to his glory? Are you seeing and appreciating how this suffering is renewing you tonight? Making you more like Jesus? Brothers and sisters, if we're not seeing it, our suffering in this Way. And we need to ask the Spirit to help us. We need to pray that He would work powerfully in us and change and continue to renew our minds and hearts. Hearts, that we would see our suffering in this way. That which is connecting us to the Lord Jesus Christ. Brings us to our third point, the solution. As Paul wrote, we finding ourselves in the midst of this suffering, it's part of our Christian walk. And while it doesn't compare with the glory that is to be revealed in the Lord Jesus Christ, it is yet difficult. With so much groaning, the question then becomes is What do we do? How do we endure or how do we persevere today in this present time that Paul writes of? And here he gives us two ways, two means, here in the Word of God, that God has given to us. To enable us to persevere. First is patient waiting, and the second is prayer. Let's begin with that patient waiting in hope. Verse twenty four, for we are saved in this hope, but hope that is seen is not hope, for why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it. With perseverance. This first means means to persevere in our suffering is tied to the certain hope in the glory of Christ Jesus. Well, Paul began this section of Scripture with a condition We are heirs if we suffer. Now he finishes it with a guarantee or a certain hope. That is the glory of Christ. We know of Christ's glory. Scripture is clear that Jesus has been glorified. We see that in Philippians 2, where God is Also highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. And it's referred to by Luke in Acts Where Jesus is referred to as being exalted to the right hand of God. Jesus has been exalted. He has been glorified as a result of his atoning sacrifice on the cross as a result of his resurrection from the dead, as a result of his love for the Father. But Scripture is also clear that Jesus will be glorified. As Jesus spoke of his return, he said that they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. He also stated that when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory. Matthew 25. Jesus Christ has been glorified. Jesus Christ will be glorified. And here then is that certain hope. That believers will be glorified with Jesus. And here there are no conditions The believer will suffer in this life. The believer will be able to endure or persevere through such suffering in part because of the believer's hope in the glory of Christ. We shall be made like him. Do you see? As Christ has been glorified, as Christ has been Will be glorified. The certain hope that you have in Christ Jesus is that you will be glorified with him. The call here then is to maintain that certain hope and to wait patiently for this hope to become that which is not unseen, but actually The truth is that a true believer can endure much suffering with this hope that is laid up in his or her heart. The truth is that God gifts this hope to each person that He calls and regenerates. And the truth is that the Spirit uses this hope to enable a true believer to persevere through the present time of suffering. But there's a second there's a second means given to the believer to persevere through this timeline. Of suffering. There's a second gift. The first is that certain hope. The second is prayer. Verse 26: likewise the Spirit also helps in our weaknesses. For we do not know what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Paul recognized our weakness, didn't he? He knew of our weakness because of his own weakness. And that really sums up these two categories of suffering, doesn't it? As he refers to our weakness, it it It's reflected by this description of suffering. Paul does not refer to a way, a method whereby the weak Christian can persevere through this suffering in his own strengths. No, Paul recognizes the weakness that's caused by our sufferings. Our bodies are not yet uh redeemed. And as a result, we groan the creation is not yet have the curse removed and as we suffer as we work the land So a true believer must, yes, rely upon faith or that certain hope gifted to him by God, but then Receive that second powerful gift, which is prayer. And it's not just prayer by ourselves, it's prayer that is led by the Spirit The one who makes intercessions for the saints according to the will of God. You see, Jesus Christ is not leaving us as orphans. To pray on our own in our prayer closets. Yes, we should be praying in our prayer closets, but never alone. It's always with the Spirit. It's always being led by the Spirit, the one who makes intercession according to the will of God. It really can't get any better than that Spirit abides within each and every believer tonight And this prayer is a means by which you are able to endure through this suffering, to receive that glory of Christ Jesus, and one way in which you're able to endure is by that Spirit led prayer, because He's the one. who knows the will of God and he intercedes on your behalf according to God's will. Brothers and sisters, sometimes we're tempted to feel alone. This morning as we read Lamentations chapter 1, the city certainly Felt alone, abandoned, people gone, God far from Jerusalem Satan wants you to feel alone. Satan wants you to feel abandoned in your suffering. As your body continues to groan, as the creation continues to groan, waiting on the new heavens and the new earth, waiting on the return of Christ. Satan wants you to feel abandoned in your suffering. He wants you to ask, what kind of a God would allow me to suffer in this way? So the question is tonight: how do you fend off Satan's attacks? How do you respond when he tempts you? in this way. We're given the answer tonight. It's by clinging to that certain hope In the glory of Christ, that free gift that you've been given. And it's by Spirit-led prayer Are you persevering tonight? As you suffer day by day. Are you leaning upon that certain hope that God has given you as a gift tonight? That certain hope of the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. And are you being led in your prayers by the Spirit? If your answer tonight is no, then we need to be praying by the Spirit. And sisters. And you'd be praying that the Spirit would be the one who leads us in our Prayers. We need to be praying that the Spirit is the one who would be reminding us of our certain hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that this suffering that we're experiencing today is but a light affliction. One that's not even worthy to be compared with the glory of Christ. Yes, the justified believer is made like Jesus Christ through suffering to share It's not wrong for us to mention the suffering of a believer as one comes into membership. In fact, it's very appropriate. You see it tonight. Paul not only mentions it, but mentions it in the context of being Justified. Praise be to God. He's given us means by which to persevere through the suffering that is leading us to be more like Christ, so that we can see his glory and rejoice. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord God, we do suffer today. And our suffering is clearly the result of our sin. We know that Jesus Christ has paid the price. And there's no further price for us to pay But yet there are consequences to our sin, and Father, as a result of our sin, you are making us, through our sufferings, more like Jesus. And so while these are difficult days, yet we lean upon a certain hope that is the glory of Christ. And Father, we are led by the Spirit who intercedes for us in our prayers according to your will. We thank you, Lord God, for these means that you've given to us. We praise your most holy name. Help us now to use these means. Make us more like Christ and help us to persevere through this time of suffering so that we can see the glory We pray these things in his precious name. Amen.