Amen. If you'd open your copy of God's word now to Leviticus. I think you'll find that on page one hundred and five of your Pew Bibles. Tonight will be in Leviticus chapter eleven And I'll be reading the whole chapter. This is a long chapter, so if you need to sit, please do. Let's give attention to the Word of God. Leviticus chapter eleven. And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying to them, Speak to the people of Israel, saying, These are the living things that you may eat. among all the animals that are on the earth. Whatever parts the hoof and is cloven-footed and chews the cud among the animals you may eat. Nevertheless, among those that chew the cud or part the hoof, you shall not eat these, the camel, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof. It is unclean to you. And the rock badger, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, it is unclean to you. And the hare, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, it is unclean to you. And the pig, because it parts the hoof and is cloven-footed, but does not chew the cud, is unclean to you. You shall not eat any of their flesh, and you shall not touch their carcasses. they are unclean to you. These you may eat of all that are in the waters, everything in the waters. that has fins and scales, whether in the seas or in the rivers, you may eat, but anything in the seas or the rivers that does not have fins and scales of the swarming creatures in the waters and of the living creatures that are in the waters is detestable to you. You shall regard them as detestable. You shall not eat any of their flesh, you shall not you and you shall detest their carcasses. Everything in the waters that does not have fins and scales is detestable to you. And these you shall detest among the birds. They shall not be eaten. They are detestable. The eagle, the bearded vulture, the black vulture, the kite, the falcon of any kind, every raven of any kind, the ostrich, the nighthawk the seagull, the hawk of any kind, the little owl, the comarant, the short eared owl, the barn owl, the tawny owl, the carrion vulture, the stork, the heron of any kind, the hoopie and the bat. All winged insects that go on all fours are detestable to you. Yet, among the winged insects that go on all fours, you may eat those that have jointed legs above their feet. which to hop on the ground with which to hop on the ground. Of them you may eat the locust of any kind, the bald locust of any kind, the cricket of any kind, and the grasshopper of any kind But all other winged insects that have four feet are detestable to you, and by these you shall become unclean Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until evening, and whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. Every part, every animal that parts the hoof, but is not cloven footed, or does not chew the cud, is unclean to you. Every one who touches them shall be unclean. And all that walk on their paws. Among the animals that go on all fours are unclean to you. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening. And he who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. They are unclean to you. And these are the unclean to you among the swarming things that swarm on the ground. The mole rat, the mouse, the great lizard of any kind, the gecko, the monitor lizard, the lizard, the sand lizard, and the chameleon. These are unclean to you among all that swarm. Whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening And anything on which any of them falls when they are dead shall be unclean. Whether it is an article of wood or a garment or a skin or a sack Any article that is used for any purpose, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening. Then it shall be clean. And if any of them falls into any earth and wear vessel, all that is in it shall be unclean, and you shall break it Any food that is in that is any food in it that could be eaten, on which water comes, shall be unclean. And all drink that could be drunk from every such vessel shall be unclean. And everything on which any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean. Whether oven or stove, it shall be broken in pieces. They are unclean, and shall remain unclean for you. Nevertheless, a spring or a cistern holding water shall be clean, but whoever touches the carcass in them shall be unclean And if any part of their carcass falls upon any seed, grain that is to be sown, it is clean. But if water is put on the seed, and any part of their carcass falls on it, it is unclean to you. And if any animal which you may eat dies, whoever touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening. And whoever eats of its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. And whoever carries the carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. Every swarming thing that swarms on the ground is detestable. It shall not be eaten Whatever goes on its belly, whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has many feet, any swarming thing that swarms on the ground you shall not eat, for they are detestable. You shall not make yourselves detestable with any swarming thing that swarms, and you shall not defile yourselves with them and become unclean through them. For I am the Lord your God. Consecrate yourselves therefore and be holy, for I am holy. You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that crawls on the ground, for I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy. This is the law about beast and bird and every living creature that moves through the waters and every creature that swarms on the ground, to make a distinction between the unclean. and the clean, and between the living creature that may be eaten and the living creature that may not be eaten. As far as a very holy word of God. Amen Our Father and our God, as we now come to this portion of scripture, which is very detailed Lord, we confess it's hard for us to understand. It's difficult for us to grasp. Even if we can understand how how this was set before the Israelites. It's difficult for us to know how this applies to us today. And so we ask, Lord God, that you would move in our hearts. You would cause your spirit to draw us ever closer to Christ. And Father, give us eyes to see and ears to hear, Father, that you might apply this powerful word to us tonight. For it is your word. And thus it is powerful. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen If you remember the beginning of Jesus' ministry You remember that it begins with his temptation. Right after he is baptized, he is taken into the wilderness by the Holy Spirit. Where he spends forty days and forty nights fasting. Fasting and being tempted With the most severe temptations that I believe we can say are ever known to mankind. Satan using all that was within his power To attempt to draw Jesus Christ away from his Father. And yet As we read of those three temptations, as we read of Jesus Christ every time going back to the Word of God as a response. To Satan's temptations, we see that Jesus remained devoted to his father. In each and every instance, he remained devoted to his father. And that's not the only indicator of his dedication, his devotion. It's throughout his life, throughout all the Gospels. We see that his heart was consecrated to his father. That should be helpful tonight as we go to this passage of Scripture, which we find in Leviticus. A passage which is difficult for us to grasp, a difficult passage for us to understand. But we do understand that God has delivered a people That he has drawn them out of Egypt where they were slaves, and he's delivered them to worship, to service. He's delivered them from slavery. And he's redeemed them with an outstretched arms, with great acts of judgment. We know that as we rehearsed Exodus People that have been given a place to meet with the living God in the tabernacle, that he would dwell within their midst, that he they would be able to worship, to commune with him right there where they lived. And as we read the first seven chapters of Leviticus, we saw all the offerings, all the sacrificial offerings laid out one by one. that would enable the Israelites to come and worship the triune God Tonight, as we're not dealing with those offerings, we come to this portion of Scripture And we have to ask a lot of questions. But I want us to see tonight, very simply But the living God calls his delivered children to consecrate themselves and be holy. The living God calls his delivered children to consecrate themselves and be holy. We'll see that in three simple points tonight. First the principle. Secondly, the practice, and finally, the privilege. You might think tonight that we're going to dig very deeply into biology, trying to ascertain why it was that God would call this animal clean and that animal unclean or this fish clean and this insect unclean. It's not what we're going to do tonight. Tonight I want us to think very simply about what it means to devote yourself to God. So first the principle. We see generally throughout this chapter eleven of Leviticus that God presents these dietary laws to the Israelites. He's given them the sacrificial offerings. He's He's allowed Moses and Aaron now to enter into the tabernacle, and we know that there's been strange fire brought before him, and Aaron's sons have been stricken down. Uh all that has taken place and now he is in a sense speaking directly to the Israelites and he's giving them laws to live by in the first section of that are these dietary laws, even what we might call touching laws. Everything, every animal, every bird, every insect, every swarming thing is divided into clean and unclean or edible and detestable. Animals. We have to try to understand the the hoof as being one criteria, whether it's split or cloven, whether the animal choose the cud, that's how God divided them. We see them listed. Fish. The fins and scales seem to be important. That seems to be what divides the clean from the unclean. The birds. All we have for the birds are those that are shall not be eaten. We have the exclusion. So it would seem that all the others are clean and able to be eaten. Then we have the insects and we all say, boy, I that doesn't sound good to me. And yet, God divides even the insects, the clean and the unclean, what you can eat and what you cannot eat. And then the swarming things. Those that crawl on the ground. And not only what can be eaten and what shouldn't be eaten, what would cause you to be unclean, but then what would cause you to be unclean if you touch? And it seems as though we're talking about those animals which are dead, or those birds that are dead, or the fish that are dead, or the insects which are dead, or the swarming things that are dead, the carcasses. There seems to be this transference of uncleanness. So much so that if any of these unclean things falls into an earthenware vessel, you shall break it. Can't even be used. God is separating, he's telling the Israelites that there is this division between the clean and the unclean. We might even say that that is the central teaching of the scriptures, of these scriptures in particular. But I want us to dig just a little bit deeper and construing and understanding what is the principle That the Lord Jesus is driving home to us tonight. What was it about these dietary laws? What was it about these animals, these insects, these birds, these fish? Was there something evil about them that would cause that evil transference if you ate them? Was there something medical about these animals which would cause you to become sick if you ate them? Was that what God was getting at? And I would say no to each of those. Remember, remember that there's only one creature in God's creation That is moral, that is capable of sin or evil. And that would be humans Animals, fish, birds, insects are not capable of being moral, of determining whether or not they will obey God. They're not made to choose between obedience and disobedience. And remember, as God made everything, he declares, he saw that it was a very good. And that would have included the animals and the fish and the birds and the insects and the swarming things. None of those were evil within themselves. The Lord Jesus Christ, because we have the benefit of the New Testament as we open up the Old, declares all foods clean, as he's teaching about sin and what it emanates from. It doesn't emanate from what you eat. It doesn't emanate because your hands were unclean when you ate. No, he's saying the only thing that defiles you is what comes out of you. Not what you put into your mouth. He declared all foods clean. And then as we read tonight, as Peter has a vision, he's in a trance. Ultimately, he's going to go to Cornelius' house and he's going to see that the Lord has has saved the Gentiles as well as the Jews. And so The Gentiles were no longer unclean. That was the whole idea of these animals being let down three times and Peter being told, rise, kill, and eat. But we also have a sense there that none of those animals were really really unclean as God declares to Peter. What God has made clean do not call common. So the dietary laws We're not there to create cleanness or to create uncleanness within the people of God We have to ask, why are they here? What's the purpose? I have to say the centerpiece of this whole chapter can be found in verse 44. Verse 43 begins this way: You shall not make yourselves detestable with any swarming thing that swarms, you shall not defile yourselves with them and become unclean through them. For I am the Lord your God. Consecrate yourselves therefore and be holy. For I am holy. 45 continues, I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy. That seems to be the centerpiece of what is going on here in all of these descriptions of clean versus unclean, of what you can eat, what you can't can't eat, what you can touch, what you cannot touch. The idea of consecrating yourself. Now consecration can take on different meanings depending upon its context. In Exodus 13, the Lord said to Moses, Consecrate to me all the firstborn. Whatever is the first to open the womb among the people of Israel, both man and the beast, is mine. And so there God is saying, take that which is common, and now Give it to me. It's mine. Set it aside. It's no longer as a common use. It's subject to now a special treatment that comes from But here, as it's used in Leviticus eleven As the lexicon indicates, it seems to be this idea of keeping yourself sanctified, or to show yourself as being holy or set apart. Consecrating yourself is a form of a command in the Hebrew, and it's connected to becoming holy. Consecrate yourselves, therefore, and be holy. Or become holy, or become set apart. They're not the same, but they're closely connected. And so we have to ask that question, how? What does it mean to consecrate yourself? It seems here, as we saw last week, the idea to consecrate yourself is to dedicate yourself or devote yourself to God. That seems to be the central idea. And God had already set his people apart, hadn't he? As he pulls them out of Egypt, what has he done? He has set them apart. Indeed, he's made them holy to himself. But even before they were separated from the Egyptians, Abraham who became excuse me, Abram who became Abraham. Was told in Genesis 17, and I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your offspring after you. The offspring of Abraham were set apart back in Genesis 17 to be gods, to belong to him. You see the idea? God had already set his people apart from others, and now Now the call was to set themselves apart, at least externally, to God. And so the call here wasn't to make yourself holy. The call wasn't here to make yourself chosen. The call wasn't here to make yourself elect. God had done that. He had selected a people for himself. But by and through these dietary laws, by and through these related touching laws, if I can call them that. By and through identifying what was clean and unclean as the people of God needed to be clean or pure or blameless So keeping these detailed laws regarding dietary strictions were that which was enabling them to consecrate themselves, to devote themselves to the living God. Once set apart by God Himself, then they were to dedicate or devote themselves to serving God. Not just the priests, not just the Levites. No, this was a call, a command, to all of the people of God. All Israel was to consecrate themselves to become holy or to be set apart to God. All Israel was to dedicate or devote their lives to God. That's the principle. Fairly simple. We can get caught up in the rock badgers and the pigs. And certainly the insects, whether or not they have joints at a particular place or not, but we don't want to do that. We want to see the general principle, and the general principle was all Israel was to dedicate or devote their entire lives. To God. That brings us to the practice, our second point. So there's the question, how do you do that? How did an Israelite, who's already been set apart, who's already been called out of Egypt, brought out, delivered to worship, How now does that Israelite consecrate himself, devote himself, his life, every aspect of it to serving God? Well, we see here in this chapter that devoting yourself, dedicating yourself, consecrating yourself to the living God included the things that you ate or touched. You'd say, well, that's obvious. Well God has made humans, body and soul, physical, physically and bodily, we have many senses. Most of us have a sense of hearing, a sense of sight, a sense of smell. And here the Lord was concerned that the Israelites would dedicate their sense of taste and touch. To God. A life devoted to God with regard to food, with regard to touch. Just think about these verses collectively. That's what I want us to do tonight. God is categorizing, He's setting forth clean and unclean animals, birds, fish, insects, swarming things. Breaking them down. Two categories. That which can be eaten, that which can't. That which can be touched, that's which can't. Also that the people remain clean. Meaning as long as they ate these particular animals, birds, fish, and insects, as long as they didn't touch what was untouchable That they would be externally clean as far as this aspect of their lives were concerned. They would be able to enter into worship with God. They would be able to approach God if they devoted their palates to these particular animals, birds, insects, fish. And swarming things. Just think about that for a moment. If you were an Israelite, and if the Israelites ate three meals a day, I don't know if they did. They would have been thinking about these restrictions all day, throughout the day. What's for breakfast? What's for lunch? What's for dinner? What can I eat The food supply was not a matter of going into or entering a local grocery store where it was stocked with just clean food. No, they had to make a decision. They had to discern throughout the day to select those clean animals, those clean birds, those clean fish, those clean insects from those which were not. Every day, three times a day. This was on their minds, preparing a meal as they wandered through the desert. Because they're considering clean versus unclean on their minds. Were they then not devoting themselves? Their thoughts to God? Were they not thinking God's thoughts after him, even if it was just with regard to food? Weren't they revering God by keeping these dietary laws throughout the doors? Think of Peter's words. I've never eaten anything common or unclean. That was the Jews' mindset. You've given me these dietary laws. I can't eat that. I can't eat that. Constantly discerning, constantly thinking, clean, unclean, clean, unclean. I have to be full of care regarding everything that I eat, everything that I touch. Why? Because I'm devoted to God. You may be thinking, why food? Something so basic, so necessary to your daily life? That this would have been set before the Israelites constantly. If they wanted to live, they needed to heed the Lord's call. He was calling for their submission, he was calling for their obedience. He was calling for them to be consecrated, set apart from the rest of the nations. Everyone else eating the unclean. Everyone else uncaring about what they're touching, coming in contact with. But the Israelites. Israelites are thinking God's thoughts, their practice, constantly before them, devoted to God, dedicated. Dedicated to living in the way that He called them to live. That brings us to our third point, the privilege. Did you notice the basis for all of these commands, all these dietary laws, all the touching laws? It's found in verse 45. For I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God. It seems everything kind of flows into that verse. Consecrate yourselves, therefore, be holy, for I'm holy. You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that crawls on the ground. For I am the Lord who brought you up out of the land of Egypt to be your God The Lord had delivered them. The God of creation had saved them. The Almighty had purchased the Israelites as he passed over their homes during the tenth. Plague of death to the firstborn. He brought them up. He spared them. He saved them. He delivered them. So these were called as those who were purchased, they were delivered by the hand of God to be like him. That was their privilege. You might be walking through this chapter and saying, I can't understand this. Really, how could they live this way? What a burden And in reality, saying, no, what a privilege. What a privilege to be called, to live before the one who has saved you, the one who is remaking you. To be chosen by him, to be selected by him. Egypt was destroyed by the plagues. And God's people were brought out. Separated, spared, to live before a holy God, to be able to worship and serve Him, to devote their lives now To him. What a privilege. I have to ask at this point, do we see it that way? Sometimes sometimes we can see the law of God, the Ten Commandments, and think, oh, oh, what a what a burden. What a burden this is. I'd rather be doing this. Say, no. The laws of God are a blessing. These dietary laws were a blessing to the people because it reminded them daily, hourly, I'm yours. And you're calling me to even eat in a particular way, even eat particular things because you love me. And every time I eat, I'm thinking clean, unclean. You want me to be clean. You've called me to be blameless before you. You see, this wasn't the first time in Scripture that the Lord had called his people to be holy. When Abram, 99 years old, and the Lord is giving him the covenant, changing his name to Abraham, what does he say to him first? I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless. Be in my presence. And obey Obey my word. It was a privilege. Privilege for Abraham. And in Exodus As God is about to give the Ten Commandments, He says, You shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. To be holy. Leviticus has it throughout. Speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel. Say to them, You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy. Consecrate yourselves. And be holy. You shall be holy to me, for I, the Lord, am holy, and have separated you from the peoples that you should be mine In Deuteronomy, you shall be blameless before the Lord your God. And in 1 Thessalonians we read, For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. And then Peter writes, For it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy throughout. the scriptures called to belong to God, called to be His people, and called to be holy Isn't that what Jesus taught? Remember what he said to John the Baptist as he was coming for his baptism? John didn't want to. He said, you should be baptizing me. And what did Jesus say? Let it be so now. For thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness What did he tell his disciples when he had finished dealing with the Samaritan woman at the well? They had gone to get food and they come back and they're offering him food and says, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Jesus was constantly devoted to his father And one chapter later in John, Jesus said, I can do nothing on my own, as I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Devoted, consecrated, his whole life. And he called his disciples to lose their lives If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. See the Israelites likely had their preferences. We make jokes about pulled pork. But they likely had their preferences. They wanted to go back to Egypt where they sat by pots of meat and leeks. But here the call was to set aside those desires, those preferences, and eat as the Lord had called them, just as Jesus was proclaiming the same idea. Whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Devoted. Devoted to God. Consecrated. How do you consecrate yourself? You see, this this call was not merely for the Israelites. You might be thinking, well, we don't have those dietary laws anymore, so I guess that's not for me. That's not right. This is for you tonight. How do you consecrate yourself? How do you devote yourself? How do you dedicate yourself to God? This is not to be saved. Because if you're proclaiming Christ this evening, you've been saved. And we need to move beyond food. For we see that general principle that the Israelites were to be consecrated Or holy before God, and there was no limitation. Yes, we see it in the midst of these dietary laws, these touching laws, but all of life was to be consecrated to God. There are no wiggle room here. Consecrate yourself. Be holy, for I am holy And so the question is, how do you consecrate yourself? How do you consecrate your life to a living God? How do you dedicate or devote your life to God? If he has sanctified you and and if you have faith tonight in the Lord Jesus Christ, he has, if he sets you apart And again, if your trust is in Christ tonight alone, then you have been set apart. How is it that you now live before Him in such a way that you can say, I'm consecrating myself I'm devoting myself to you. Isn't that the question? Isn't that the question that this whole chapter sets forth before us tonight? What about in your family? Some of the most difficult relations that we have are with family members How are you devoting your family life to God Some may be thinking, well, I'm a widow or I'm a single and thus live alone, and yet this question still applies, for you have an extended family, even though your extended family may not live under the same roof. Yet you still engage and interact with them. And if you say, well, my extended family lives so far away, I rarely engage with them, then you still have your church family. So how's your life, your thoughts, your words, your actions, how are they devoted to God as you engage with your family? What words do you use? How do you reflect the love of Christ to them? How do you react or respond when unexpected circumstances or treatment that you receive From your loved ones is not what you would want. Is your first thought, I'm devoted to God And so, God let me respond so that that truth may be seen and heard. Some of you are engaged in full-time or part-time work. How is your work life dedicated or devoted or consecrated to God? Do those who you work with know that you are dedicated? That your life is devoted, it's consecrated to God. And if you think yes they know, then how How do they know that? What are you speaking about with them? How is your language different than theirs? How is your work ethic different than the others Do you see? The Israelites were to be different than the surrounding nations merely by the things they ate. That was the way of consecrating themselves, obeying God's dietary laws. How are you setting yourself apart at work to God? And then finally, what about when you're alone? When no one is around. When you're by yourself, you are yet before the living God. How? How are you devoting yourself to him during those moments? During those times What's going on in your thoughts, in your mind? How are those thoughts set apart or devoted to God God. Brothers and sisters, these are things for us to meditate upon, to pray over. For none of us, none of us do any of these things as God would have us. We need the help of the Spirit, we need the patience of the Spirit, we need the love of the Spirit, we need the compassion of the Spirit. We need the Spirit's work to do any of this. But it's your call tonight, each one of us. Each one of us are called to devote, to dedicate, to consecrate our lives, each and every aspect of them, to God. Yes, the living God calls his delivered children to consecrate themselves. And to be holy. Jesus Christ shows us that. Certainly as he was tempted. But his entire life, his entire life speaks to us of being devoted, dedicated, consecrated to God. Amen. Heavenly Father, we come before you once again this evening. We thank you for your word. This passage tonight was difficult for us. But we thank you for the Spirit's work. We thank you for the Spirit's guidance. We ask, Lord God, that even tonight you'd help us to meditate upon these things. We're weak and frail, Lord God. We don't dedicate ourselves, we don't devote ourselves the way Christ did. But we want to. And so we ask, Lord God, by your Spirit, that you'd work powerfully in each of our hearts and each of our lives. Guide us, help us, Lord God. Help us to be holy, as you are holy. We ask these things in Jesus' name.