Let us turn to the reading of the Word of God from which the scripture, from which the sermon is taken. Hebrews chapter 12 Uh verses one through eleven and uh the focus will be on verse three Hear God's word. Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us. Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. You have not yet resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin. And you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens And scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers Then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we have had human fathers who corrected us, and we paid them respect Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father of Spirits and live? For they, indeed, for a few days chastened us as seemed best to them But he for your profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness. Now no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. We have been uh going through the book of Hebrews in our in our morning sermons. And uh we have come to this point in our in our studies and um in our in our series of tur of sermons. And uh we have just started the chapter twelve, uh, which uh uh reminds us that uh as believers we are involved in a uh in run in the running of a race. A long-distance race that has many obstacles and many pitfalls. These obstacles are caused by our own sin as well as Suffering being brought on by the fact that we live in a fallen world. A fallen world where some are hostile to the Jesus we declare and love. They're not only hostile to him, they're hostile to God to God's people as well. So as we travel through this life, as we run this race, eventually to glory, there will be Various encounters of sin. There will be suffering. There will be unfriendliness. These are the norms. They're not abnormal. If you're suffering, if you're dealing with people being hostile to you because you're being faithful to Christ, uh That is normal. That is normal for the Christian community. It has been so from the beginning, and it continues so till this day, and it will be so a hundred thousand well It'll be so a long time from now. As long as there is life upon the earth Hebrews chapter twelve is not without referencing help for believers as they run the race or as they try to cope with hostility that comes from the unbelieving world and from the devil himself. It speaks about the Lord Jesus Christ, as you might imagine, being our great helper. He is the one who willingly went to the cross to die for our sins, and he concluded his life by being risen to the right hand and seated at the very throne of God. Seated as your universal king and your mediator Christ is also the one who comforts us by answering our prayers for help. Always with an eye out for our spiritual and material good. And the verses that I want to share with you today, verses 3 through 7, but primarily 3 and 4, begin with the word 4. You notice that in verse 3? For consider him. For consider him. That tells us that the content of what comes after verse 3 Of verse 3 and what comes after is linked to the content of what has just been spoken about, namely the running of this race. and Christ as our help. So you might say that three through seven are a further explanation of not only the race that we're running, but also the kind of help that believers can expect in what is a long-distance marathon. Verse three starts off in this way Consider him who has endured much contradiction of sinners. There I'm using the King James. But uh the translation as you will see is hostility, the word hostility. Consider those who endure such Hostility of sinners against himself, lest you be weary and faint in your minds. In other words, think about what Jesus went through When you're running the race, think about the fact that he ran the race. And think about the hostility that he encountered. We're to, when it says consider Jesus, it means we're to take a little bit of time and use the brain power up here to think about him To think about what Jesus accomplished, to reflect on the fact that all along Jesus' ministry, for 33 years, he encountered hostility. Not only did he run the same race that you ran, but he stood his ground. And he held out against what, humanly speaking, were impossible odds. At the very end, it's Jesus alone. Standing for God, standing for truth, standing for righteousness, even his own disciples to some degree abandoned him. In war, we give the medal of honor to soldiers Who fight so bravely against overwhelming hostility. In World War II There were many medals of honor, but perhaps the one I'm going to tell you about stands out. I want to talk for a few minutes about Marine Corps Sergeant John Bassalone. Most of you maybe have never heard of him, even though he won the Medal of Honor. He is the only Enlisted Marine to receive both the Medal of Honor and the Navy Cross in World War II. A great hero. He sudden suddenly found himself in the Battle of Guadalcanal. Where you probably have read enough to know that that was a fiercely contested battle, and a very key battle early in the war. He is said to have been responsible for holding off 10,000 Japanese troops with a 15-member unit, as it was reduced ultimately to two men. He manning the machine gun and one other man. This is what he was cited for in his citation. He returned to the United States He was given a hero's welcome for withstanding all the hostility. It had all the trappings to it. And he could have stayed here in the United States. But on his own He volunteered to go back into the Marine Corps. Two years later, on the first day of the Battle of Iwo Jima, he was killed Consider Jesus. He fought the enemy tooth and nail. He held out against impossible numbers. Only this time the enemy was not Japanese. But the enemy was Satan, sin, and the hostility of all men All sinners. One thing I found out in studying for this and preparing for this is the use of the word hostility. It is generally translated, the Greek word is generally translated as hostility, but it can also be translated rebellion and dispute, and then a strange translation comes in that doesn't seem to be connected at first. The word illogical is sometimes translated for this Greek word. And I got to thinking about that And I got to thinking about hostility, the hostility that Christ has, excuse me, that sinners have to Christ. Jesus, our Savior, full of love and compassion, who gives the free invitation offer of the gospel To sinners. It's an invitation to life It's an invitation to believe. And yet it is met with hostility. How utterly illogical is that? But how utterly sinfully human it is Our Savior faced constant hostility from all types and from all places and from all people. Jesus was confronted even to the very moment of his death by this hostility. And so he is a perfect beacon to draw us. To have one before us to consider as we are going through this life and as we face the trials, the tribulations, the hostilities, as we run this race called Life for Christ. And as we face hostility, as we face trials, as we face suffering, He is the one we should consider. We should consider him. We should consider his ministry. We should consider what he accomplished. How he overcame. We should reflect on that. Instead of, you know, uh there's a certain part of me that that thinks, you know, when when troubles come our way, you know, and when it gets very difficult. And I know the circumstances of some of the people here, and I know you face difficulties Sometimes they seem overwhelming. And they're real difficulties, whether you're going to eat or not, whether you're going to have a place to stay. Whether you can get along with your next door neighbor who hates you because you profess the truth about Christ. These are real hostilities, aren't they? They're real trials, they're real difficulties. And I know I know you face them. And rather than take our lives and kind of throw our hands up in the air and say, woe is me. Look at me. Look at how much I'm suffering. Perhaps we should look to Jesus. And remember the things he suffered. That's what the text is saying If you do not look to Jesus, the one to whom men hated so much They hated so much in their illogical hostility against Christ that they refused to repent and they refused to believe As eternal life was offered. They chose death instead of life. They chose ignorance instead of saving knowledge. They chose the way of darkness rather than light Jesus says that we do not consider, excuse me, the text says that if we do not consider Jesus and his example and his effort, There will develop serious consequences. And it's right here that I think this text is very, very practical and speaks to all of us. All of us today, because we are going through a difficult time We are going through many trials beside the fact beside the fact that whatever's going on in your life personally There's a world out there that is violently opposed to Christ. And those who name Jesus. And you know the names of the main characters. And I don't have to say who they are, that there are many Christians around the world that are suffering. And I believe we're suffering too. I believe the constant drumbeat that we hear about how the church is uh is uh all of its difficulties are being exposed and and how people are doing everything they can to remove the name of Christ from the public arena. You know, it it will not surprise me. It will not surprise me if one day we're sitting here and somebody comes in and wants to do something. to destroy us. That will not surprise me. It's that bad. And if you can't see that, you're blind. You're blind, and that has an impact on how we think. It has an impact on how we live. I don't know about you, but I'm discouraged at times. I'm really I I wonder what's going to happen to this country. I used to think it would never nothing would ever happen that would be bad to the church, but I've lived too long. And I've seen the things that have happened. Did you ever believe that the church would be forced into marrying people of the same sex? When I was young, the word you never said in the church context was divorce. Some of you might be able to remember that. But now it's commonplace. It's an accepted fact of life. And these are just a few examples. These this is the race we're running right now. These are the trials. Where are you going to turn to for help? Consider Jesus. I don't know how God does it, but I do know what the word says. Consider Jesus. I don't know how considering Jesus makes it any easier or makes it less hard, but somehow it does. Somehow when we start looking not at our own particular circumstances but at his reality. He ran the same race, he had the same suffering, the same hostility. When we look at that And we see that, then aren't we more inclined to say, God, with your help I'm going to continue serving you. I'm not going to become, as the text says, weary and discouraged. You feel weary sometimes Do you feel like you've been bombarded by such illogical, sinful behavior that you just want to get out there and choke a few people? Or shake them. Shake them to their senses. Why can't they see it? Why can't they understand? Telling it like it is Well I mean maybe it's just maybe that's just me. Maybe I'm the one who needs to hear this. I'll I'll get at that. I need to hear it. I can't even listen to the radio anymore without getting upset. Oh, Pastor, tell me what I gotta do. If it wasn't bad enough that the text would say to me Consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged, that in the next breath it would say, You've not resisted the bloodshed. Well we haven't. I mean it's true. But it's kind of like saying, you know, Christ resisted the bloodshed. You're not there yet. And why did he resist unto bloodshed? He resisted because he was striving against sin. And you're striving against sin, the same struggle, the same race, the same hostility. But at least you're not dead yet. And then he says something else And you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord. Brothers and sisters Don't you just wish that all of this struggle, all of this prevail, you could just wave a magic wand and say, nah, don't want any of that. Lord, why can't you make it a peaceful journey? I mean, if the race has got to be the endurance race, why can't it be peaceful? Why can't I at least run the race in peace? Well, it's because, you see, that God, I think, is using This is the races that we're running with the hostility that's mounting against us, the pitfalls in the sins, it's another form of God's chastening and disciplining us. It's another aspect of that. Another way in which he does it And you see, a long time ago a Baptist preacher said to me, in the context of some young people, he said God is not as interested in your happiness as your holiness. And I at that time thought he was nuts. Because you see, we're all conditioned to think that becoming a believer is the greatest thing and the most happy thing we can do. Most blessed thing, and it is. But the reality is that Jesus has a big plan for you. And that plan is not to make you happy. In the way in which the world makes people happy. God's plan is to choose you in Jesus Christ before the foundation of the world so that you might be holy. And blameless in his sight. The Lord is working in our midst, in the midst of the struggles and the difficulties To make us holy, to cause us to not look to ourselves or to the world or to our government for help. But to consider Jesus and his resources Ultimately, as we consider Jesus and his resources, which are vast and endless, ultimately Faith will be strengthened. Hope in him. Not in the situation getting better, but hope in him Will be firmed up and trust in him. Lord This is not abnormal. You told me it was going to happen. Our brothers and sisters in the church have experienced this throughout their life. Why should I be any different? Let me look to Jesus. And consider him and gain my strength from him. What should you do? What can you do as you are suffering? Avail yourself of the means of grace is my answer. Avail yourself of the word. Avail yourself of prayer. And finally, avail yourself, according to the reformers, of the sacraments. Where do I get the sacraments? In a faithful church. What benefit does that have to me if I regularly am involved in the life of the church? And I get the sacraments, and I, you know, I have somebody else looking over me and helping me. We are a community. In which God has made us one and given us gifts to minister to one another. And those gifts are for edification. Those gifts go hand in hand. They're another aspect of how God works in making us more and more like Christ. We learn in the church to exhibit the fruits of the Spirit. We learn how to love one another as Christ loved us. We learn how to love God. And we have each other together to deal with this. You will not survive Satan's horrors and the onslaught, if you do not look to Jesus and what he has given you. You will not survive alone out there. Instead, you become the target. Here I am. Satan get me. I don't have any help. I don't have any spiritual resources. Do not think. Do not think that you're strong enough on your own to resist him. Together We have God's help. Alone, I I wouldn't take a chance And I realize to say that about the church is uh it's probably not in in vogue today because let's face it there are a lot of churches that maybe aren't preaching the word of God And there are a lot of churches where people are gathered together where it's the social thing to do. Or they're there for the wrong reasons. Or they want to go and they want to feel good. I'm not preaching a feel-good message today. But I hope by the grace of God that he's taking the word of God and telling you where you can go to feel good. Consider Jesus Take all that hostility directed at you Because you belong to Jesus. One day God will bring you to appreciate that all the extreme suffering of the marathon and the hostility of sinners along the way Directed at you because you're a Christian is preparing you to live in heaven, and that all the chastening is worth it. As Hebrews 12, verse 11 declares, no chastening for the present seems to be joyous. But it's grievous. Nevertheless, afterward, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Amen. Let us pray. Most merciful God, our Heavenly Father You who are the uh the triune God, the one who, in your eternal plan, has existed from before all time. The one who has determined that you will have a people for yourself, a righteous and holy people who will love you with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength. And you've given us the Lord Jesus. to begin to help us to have our sins forgiven and to experience the love of God in that he gave his only begotten son. That through believing in him we might have eternal lasting life, eternal, everlasting life. Lord. Thank you for Him. Thank you for Christ's labor. Thank you for the Spirit. That we pray, Lord, now that the Spirit will Take your words and take the words of this message, Lord, as they are, if they are where where they are consistent with your with your leading, and apply them to the hearts of your people And establish them and ground them in grace. Feed them, Lord, with the Word of God. Help them, Lord, by your Spirit to do the word. And what it says. We pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen