I invite you to turn now to the scripture text this morning from which the sermon comes. From Hebrews chapter thirteen, beginning at verse twenty and going on through verse twenty-five. As we conclude our, well we won't conclude today, but as we're getting close to concluding our study on Hebrews. Let us hear God's word, Hebrews chapter 13, verses 20 through 24. Now may the God of peace, who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant Make you complete in every good work to do his will, working in you what is well pleasing in his sight. Through Jesus Christ to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. And I appeal to you, brethren, bear with the word of exhortation. For I have written to you in few words. Know that our brother Timothy has been set free, with whom I shall see you if he comes shortly. Greet all those who rule over you and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you. Grace be with you all. Amen. Please be seen. I'd like to look at verses 20 and 21, which I'm sure you recognize as a benediction that's commonly in use in the church. I'd like to look at these verses under the general title of Count Your Blessings and Live. Count Your Blessings and Live. And uh I confess to you right now, I probably should have broken this down into two sermons, but I think hopefully you'll see why it's important to Have just one of these sermon, one sermon on this section. There's a lot of material that we could use and expand upon. uh regarding this passage. And I'll mention some of it, but I'm not gonna uh in any way exhaust all the material that's here in these great themes that we have before us in this passage. I want us to look at the first verse, chapter verse 20 And think about what he says about verse 20 from the perspective of reviewing or counting the blessings which our Lord and Savior has given unto us. So let's begin by reading verse 20 again. Now may the God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, Make you complete in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ to whom he glory forever and ever. This verse twenty starts with a clear, unmistakable identification of the one who is giving blessing to his people. He is first called the God of peace. The God of peace. And I think, in light of what this text goes on to talk about, and the implication of what it talks about, we can see That what God has done for you in Christ Jesus, he deserves the title, the God of peace. He has made you a sinner, one who is described as being formally one who is at enity with God. That means you hate him. One who is at war with the Almighty and the Lord with our every breath Now know this. The God of peace has reconciled your disobedient heart unto a Unto his will. He has ended your hostility toward him forever. And he did by one magnificent provision of peace. A peace offering, as it were, a peace offering for all his sheep. who once were at war with him. What did this God of peace do to give you peace with him? That can last forever. You and I, and all men, rebels at war with God, at war with our Creator, in rebellion. What did he do about that rebellion? The text goes on to say, He brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead. He brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, the great shepherd of the sheep. Through the blood of the everlasting covenant. The Redeemer is here pictured before our eyes God in the person of his only begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is brought to our memory Here is the one whose mighty power has brought up from the dead Those who were dead. He has brought up from the dead, or If you want to translate it a little bit more actively, he has led us up or out of the dead. I read those passages from Ezekiel, and you can see the same kind of promises that Ezekiel makes about God being the shepherd of his people He could say the same promises in Jeremiah 23. And over and over again, what strikes you as you read about God saying that He's going to be the shepherd of his sheep. is the statement, I will. I will do this. I will gather my sheep who have been scattered I will restore them to the fold. I will feed them. I will take care of my sheep. Think of yourself as being the beneficiaries of God Almighty, your creator and redeemer. Who loves you in Christ and has led you up out of the dead? For truly dead you were in your transgressions and sins. Shake your heads, yells, hallelujah, I don't care. But you cannot help but be encouraged by that That's you. That's not some hypothetical group of people. That's you in person right now, right here in this congregation, this morning, experiencing that reality. He has brought, led out from the dead, you through the great shepherd of the sheep All of us were at war with God. All of us dead in transgression and sin. All of us now alive. Alive to God. And living. And though, if the Lord doesn't come back, physical death will claim us all. God has made provision for that too. And that physical death is but a transition from this world to the next. Where eternal life goes on and continues in an even more heightened and exalted sense of living Living as you were created in the image of God to be. We see this God Showering exquisite redemptive blessing upon you in Christ. He is not only a God who gives us peace with him, but he's a God of mercy and grace, who delights to give us extravagant blessings. On your own you deserve eternal death, not the blessing of peace, not the blessing of life, not to be covered by the very blood of God. Himself through his son Jesus Christ. What how did God bring you up from the dead? Well I just said it He brought you up from the dead, as the text puts it, from the great shepherd of the sheep. And the word there is mega, the mega shepherd. Very great is a little bit more understandable, but uh Mega makes it more clear that there isn't anyone greater or bigger or stronger or more powerful who could do this. This idea that God would be the shepherd of his sheep is something that is rooted in redemptive and prophetic literature. Again, Jeremiah 23, which we hadn't read, but you can go back and look at it. And Ezekiel 11, excuse me. The text we read earlier, Ezekiel 34, verse 11, and following. Of course, there's also Psalm 23. if you want to add that. There's also John 10, if you want to add that. There uh is also this so the the pickup of the idea of God being the shepherd of his people. here in Hebrews is with great biblical, has great biblical and redemptive history associated with it And it's not just Any God or any mega god who is described as the one who brings the sheep who are let out from the dead by this Great God. He is further identified as the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. Remember again, both Jeremiah 23 and Ezekiel 34, there's this repeated phrase, I myself will do it. I myself will Myself will do it. See, that's who is Jesus? He's God with us. He's the I myself That God was speaking about all throughout His Word I myself will do it. Can you fathom that? Can you fathom the concept That you who are at enity with God and deserve death deserve the judgment of your sins being eternal death. Can you fathom the fact That very God that you have cursed and rebelled against, that that very God would extend his grace to you in his own work. By his own labor, according to his eternal will. You cannot, you cannot fathom that There is no other thing we can relate to in human endeavors or in human life that is anything like this. Even if a good man may at some times die for someone else That isn't, I mean, that's only a reflection of the image of God at work in that man. I myself will do it. And it's by his blood. By the blood of the eternal covenant. The Lord Jesus Christ. And you get into the questions there of the blood, the worthiness of the blood, the the idea that in association with God's eternal promises, he may come with his people. And in those covenants, he he promised, I will be your God, and you will be my And I myself will make sure of that, because I will raise up a seed unto Abraham And in that seed, all the nations of the earth should be blessed. Without the remission of sin, remember? Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. There is no taking away of sin. There is no atonement of sin. Blood, which the Old Testament animals and their sacrifices symbolized. Nevertheless, it wasn't enough to take away. Their sins forever or cleanse their consciences from acts that led to sin and death. There needed to be better blood. Better blood. Not the blood of bulls and goats But the blood of the once-for-all sacrifice, that through his sacrifice, we might be enabled To be with God. Not just in eternity, but each and every day of our life. God with us. Where's the Holy Spirit right now? Where is He In your heart. In the heart of the redeemed. You are the temple of the living God. Right? Doesn't Hebrews excuse me, First Corinthians six nineteen say that Think about this. The blood of this shepherd, because he is I myself God, fulfilling his promises, the blood of this, fulfilling his promises of eternal life with him through the blood of the eternal covenant. That blood, that blood only needed to be offered once It doesn't need to be offered over and over again. It doesn't need to be offered for the sacrifices of sins you're going to commit tomorrow or the sins you're going to commit next year. It doesn't need to be offered for the sins you've committed in the past. It's all covered By the blood of Christ. And the reason it's covered, it's because I myself is Christ. God Himself. Made the sacrifice for you and for me and for all who have had their hearts warmed to this incredible blessing from God. If you want to Hear from the scriptures about God's once-for-all sacrifice, I found four different places in the New Testament where that's referred. I'll just give them out to you and you can look at them at your convenience. One is uh Hebrew, uh Romans 6. 10. The others are in Hebrews. Hebrews 7. 27. Hebrews nine twelve and Hebrews ten ten. God Himself The Prince of Peace, Isaiah nine six, has made peace with you In Christ, by faith. He has led you, his bitter foes, out of eternal death Only because the blood of God's Son Jesus Christ, the Good Shepherd, has been shed for you. God Himself has given you grace through faith to believe in Christ's death and resurrection. That is the same grace he gave to the Hebrews to whom the author was writing. And it's the same grace he has given to everyone. Who believes that Jesus is the Lord and Savior? You're all connected to that one great shepherd of the sheep and his blood You are all connected. And you're all connected, not just with the brothers and sisters here, but with the brothers and sisters around you. You have in common the incalculable, incalculable blessing of eternal life through Christ Jesus. God keeps his promises and he fulfills them in a magnificent way beyond what we can imagine or think or believe. But then then, and I promise I'm drawing toward the end Then the text switches from the focus on What who it is who has given us incredible blessings. And it begins focusing on Those who are hearing in the sense of, what does this mean to me? What does this imply? What must What is it that I, as a child who have been given these blessings by God, what are the expectations of me? And you notice as you read verse 21 again, make you complete in every good work to do his will Make you complete in every good work to do His will. Working in you That which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ to whom be glory forever and ever. I want to pick up again. To do every good work. You can only do every good work, as the text also makes clear, because he is working in you. Because he is working in you. But there's a whole shift that goes on in the life of a believer as they think about the fact that Christ died for my sins. By faith we believe that he died and that he brought peace to us with God We believe that we're led out of death through the blood of God's shepherding son that fulfills the covenant of promises of God. Through bloodshed to atone before God for our sins, and turning away the wrath of God, which we deserve, and taking it on himself And those truths, those blessings, those facts, that fulfillment Says that we are not called to continue in the sin that Jesus paid for. Or any other sin. We are not called to continue in sin that grace might abound. We are not called by God to go on living like we once did In the bondage of our old man, indulging in the lusts of the flesh and their passions. Instead, every believer in Jesus Is called to live in the newness of life out of thanksgiving, gratitude, and praise for what God Himself has done. We live now for His name. We live in the newness of life We walk in the footsteps of faith like Father Abraham. We live now to advance Christ's kingdom. Realize you are a member of that kingdom. And as a member of that kingdom, you're being transformed By the renewing of your mind. And part of that mind transfer is that you're grateful to acknowledge that you are a servant of a living God. You're his new creation You are not redeemed unto disobedience and constant war with God in all things. You're called to live for Him. You're called to serve Him. And you're called to Be like Jesus. Count your blessings Make you complete in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ, to whom he glory. Forever and ever amen. Make you complete in every good work to do His will. You are indeed God's reconstruction project He's doing a number on your old heart and on your old mind. And instead of being at enmity with God, he's leading you to love him. And love doing his will, and love serving Jesus and his kingdom. And what it means to love serving Jesus and His kingdom is to be like Christ. And the Lord Jesus said in Hebrews 10, verse 7: Behold, I have come in the volume of the book it is written of me to do your will, O God. As your master and your Lord, so also you, his servants, are now called. Christ is right now at work in you through his Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, making the necessary radical attitude adjustments, and correcting your heart Maybe even transplanting it and giving you a new, and obviously giving you a new heart. This will lead you to do that which is well pleasing. In the sight of your God. Living for Christ, loving him and not yourself, living as his servants As the great text in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 14 put it. For the love of Christ compels us. Because we judge thus, if one died for all, then all died. And he died for all, that those who live Should live no longer for themselves, but for him who died for them and rose again. Blessings, you see, are in order to glorify God To glorify Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Jesus deserves all glory and praise from us. Even from the entire creation, because he has bought his children by his own blood. Leading us out of death and into life by faith, into union with Him in His death and resurrection. And oh by the way, reconciling us to God, giving us a peace that passes all understanding. They can never be taken away. Paul declares that our obligation to God Is 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20. Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you had from God? You are not your own. You were bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's This is indeed a most profound benediction, a great blessing for God's people. Many blessings are now Ours and forever, as we live with Jesus, the God of peace. So please him and live for his glory. Amen. And let us pray. Oh Lord our God, we pray that You might be pleased to use your words in the hearts of your people, and also, Lord, in the parts of the greater audience that will hear these truths Lord, may those who are searching to know you be led, Lord, to your word. and led to the gospel of Christ, whether it be from these words or but certainly from the Bible itself. And may they see, and may we all see, the wonder of the blessings which you have given unto us in Jesus Christ. We cannot count them all. They're innumerable. They're without number. Forgive us, O Lord, when we live for ourselves, when we're Disobedient and unrepentant. Forgive us, O Lord, when we think that we're the only one that matters in this world. And we must do everything we can. To satisfy ourselves. Create within us a servant attitude and a servant heart, not of ourselves, but to serve the Lord living God and to bring glory to the name of Jesus Christ. May all that we do bring him that glory. Amen.