Our uh scripture reading from today comes from 2 Samuel chapter 9. 2 Samuel chapter 9. Now as you're turning to this passage in scripture, 2 Samuel chapter 9. Um, I want to let you know that this is uh perhaps um one of my favorite stories in all of Scripture. the conclusion to one of my favorite stories in all of Scripture. And that is this friendship between David and Jonathan. And so let's go ahead and read this together. This is 2 Samuel chapter 9. And David said, Is there still anyone left of the house of Saul that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake? Now there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Zeba, and they called him to David. And the king said to him, Are you Zeba? And he said, I am your servant. And the king said, Is there not still someone of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God to him? Ziva said to the king, There is still a son of Jonathan. He is crippled in his feet. The king said to him, Where is he? And Zeba said to the king, He is in the house of Mehir, the son of Amiel at Lodabar. And then King David sent and brought him from the house of Mehir, the son of Amiel at Lodabar. And the Phoebusheth, the son of Jonathan, son of Saul, came to David and fell on his face and paid homage And David said to Mephibashath, and he answered, Behold, I am your servant. And David said to him, Do not fear, for I will show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan, and I will restore to you all the land of Saul your father, and you shall eat at my table also. And he paid homage and said, What is your servant that you should show regard for a dead dog such as I? Then the king called Zeba, Saul's servant, and said to him, All that belonged to Saul and to all his house I have given you to your master's grandson. And you and your sons and your servants shall till the land for him and shall bring in the produce that your master's grandson may have bread to eat But Mephibosheth, your master's grandson, shall always eat at my table. Now Zeba had fifteen sons and twenty servants, and Zeba said to the king, According to all that my lord the commands his servant, so will your servant do. So Mephibosheth ate at David's table, like one of the king's sons. And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Makah, and all who lived in Zeba's house became Mephibosheth's servants So Mehibashef lived in Jerusalem, for he ate always at the king's table. Now he was lame in both his feet. This is the word of the Lord. Can we pray before we dive into this passage? Father, as we hear this story, Of David and Jonathan, of their covenantal friendship. Lord, may we see that this is more than just a grand story of two friends who love one another. Lord, that this is a picture of and a sign of the friendship of Christ to us. Dead dogs in our sins, and yet brought to the Master's case. To be shown fellowship with him. Lord, may we see the friendship of Christ. Lord, here this morning. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Uh I don't know what stories uh your mothers or fathers uh said to you when you were growing up as you were uh getting ready to go to bed, um, but my mom would always read me Bible stories. And she would always ask me, uh, growing up when I was in kindergarten and she was reading to me as I fell asleep, you know, what Bible story do you want to hear? And I would always say, you know, Mom Tell me the story of David and Jonathan again. She's like, again? We've written that every night for the last two weeks. Why do you want to hear this story again? And I would tell her, well, because it has the name Jonathan in it, and my name is Jonathan, so you know, and like every selfish kindergarten kid, you know, you want the story to be about you. And I I and so she would read the story very patiently, very lovingly. this scripture and I just was always fascinated with the story growing up. Because there's just so many dimensions of the story. And as I studied it in seminary and as I as I got into ministry, I just fell more and more in love with the story. story. Not not because it has my name in it now, mind you, right? But because of how this story represents the covenantal friendship of Christ. I I love the story. This is a story of two friends from incredibly different backgrounds, motivations Lifestyles. It's a story about the friends that we long for, those the friends that we wish that we had here on this earth. It it's got all the drama you would expect from like a prime time television series, you know. It's got family betrayal, it's got friends marrying each other's sisters. It's got Philistines dying. It's It's like the perfect Old Testament story. And it's it's a perfect story to answer this question of what does it mean? To be a covenant friend. What does it mean when Christ is a covenant friend to us? So let's dive into the story and and in doing so I'm gonna be sharing uh uh five things that covenantal friendship Is. Five things that covenantal friendship is. And so we see in this passage in 2 Samuel 9, this is the conclusion of the story. But let's start at the very beginning. So hold your place here in 2 Samuel and flip to 1 Samuel chapter 18. 1 Samuel chapter 18. And while you're turning there, I want to give you a little bit of context. Okay? Um David at this point has just finished slaying Goliath. Right. And we he's now reached the point where he's become an instant celebrity in the kingdom of Israel. Everyone knows his name. He's brought before the courts of the king. And in that moment, think about this, your whole entire life is now completely uprooted, overnight. Alright? Now look at chapter 18, verses 1 to 3. So this is David. As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David because he had loved him as his own soul. Think about this. You are now being told by the king that you must uproot your entire life and move into the king's court. Everyone knows your name, everyone has an agenda with you. Right? Who do you trust? Who are the people that you can really turn to? For David, this was Jonathan. And notice the kind of intensity of this covenantal relationship. The soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David. Right? Because he had loved him with the like he loved his own soul. So my first point about covenantal friendships is that covenantal friendships are more than contracts. and contracts. I mean think about this. Most of our relationships today, if we were to take an honest reflection and look at them, are contractual relationships. We're searching for the thing that this friendship can give to me. We're searching for the boundaries and the limitations of the limits of our friendship. Or the limits of our relationship, sort of a uh quid pro quo, right? You do this for me, I'll do this for you. You fulfill this role in my life, and I will fulfill this role in your life. And we're we we're very measured and calculated in many of our worldly relationships today. Not so with this covenantal friendship. Think about it, there's nothing tying together David and Jonathan contractually David is the country bumpkin shepherd. Jonathan is the king who grew up in all the wealth and prestige of the king's court. There's nothing that they would have in common. And yet the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David. And we don't talk like this anymore now, do we? In our culture. It almost seems laughable. In fact, you know we we can even try this right now, right? Go ahead and look make eye contact with someone here in this room and just try and say without laughing, right? I love you like my own soul. Go ahead and give that a shot, right? Go ahead and try and make eye contact and do it. It's very difficult, right? It's almost a very awkward thing for us to say Why is that? Because we view many of our relationships contractually and not covenantally. Covenantally. They didn't develop this relationship over a period of hanging out at Starbucks. They didn't it just happened because they made this commitment to each other. It was the Lord sovereignly bringing two people together. This is important for us as we think about our relationship with Christ and Christ's relationship with us, isn't it? So many of us we we we sort of put God on a contract, don't we? We say, Lord, I will follow you and I will work. And I will give you all my devotion as long as you do this for me. Lord, I will love you, not like my own soul, but I will love you to the intensity that as long as you don't take this thing away from my life. I will follow you and will serve you. But think about the way in which Christ has loved us Think about the way in which he is related to us, not contractually, not because we have anything to give to him, not because we are uh he is somehow contingent to us. But because Christ loved us like his own soul, Christ laid down his life for us. Covenants are much more than contracts. And this leads us to our second point here. Covenants will be tested and tried. Covenants will be tested and tried. Now, after David and Jonathan make this covenantal friendship, right? What happens in the story is quite amazing. David marries into Jonathan's family. He marries Jonathan's sister. And at this point, the first tests of their friendship come into play. Because see, here's the reality of all covenantal relationships. All covenantal relationships will find testing and trial that will come in the hardest and most difficult of situations. Think about this. In chapter 18 we see that David when Mary's McCall, David is now in line. It's become King. Now if you were Jonathan, how would you feel in this moment? Would you feel threatened? Would you feel like it's all that David had an agenda? Would you feel like as if David was trying to go after your throne? And not only that, David sort of does this in a very sort of uh very sort of kingly kind of way. Saul says, You can marry my daughter for free, and David said, No, I want to prove it. So d so Saul says, Okay, I want you to kill a hundred Philistines. And he says, A hundred? I'll kill two hundred. Right? And so David goes and sort of proves himself as this warrior king who marries into the king's court. What would you feel in these moments? What would you would would you feel as Jonathan as though David was positioning himself? Being calculated, no. Instead, Jonathan remembers the covenant that he had made When Saul tries to take his life, and this is chapter 19 now, when Saul tries to take David's life, hear Jonathan's response. And Saul spoke to Jonathan, his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, Saul my father, seeks to kill you. Therefore be on your guard in the morning, stay in a secret place, and hide yourself. And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are, and I will speak to my father about you. And if I learn anything, I will tell you If Jonathan were a lesser man, you know, he might respond in a way of saying, Good, I'm glad this threat to my kingship He's gonna be taken away. I'm glad. I always knew there was something weird about David. He's from the country, you know, there's something weird about those country folks, you know. And no. Jonathan here remembers the covenant he had made Remember, the covenant is going to be tested. Covenantal relationships both within the church and forces outside the church. Church will continue to test and try us. Make us want to think about whether or not it's worth it to keep the covenants we have made. Remember how Christ Relates to us. When Christ was tempted in the wilderness, when he was tested and tried there, he remembers the covenant He remembers his promises. He holds on to God's word. When Christ is hanging on the cross and the thief is telling him to save yourself and us, Christ remains there for us, for ourselves. The covenant is going to be tested. The situations that surround the covenant don't determine whether the covenant is kept. The situations that surround the covenant don't determine whether the covenant is kept. So this has a a a a very strong application for us here today. Husbands and wives, um your spouse's behavior does not dictate whether or not you are called to keep the Parents, your your child's academic or athletic success does not dictate the necessity for you to encourage them, to love them, and let them know how much You care for them the same way that Christ has cared for you. Even church members, so the difficulty of living in gospel community Should not dictate whether or not you are called to show and demonstrate grace and charity and the mercy of Christ to one another. The covenant will be tested and tried. Now I've been working in um with middle schoolers and high schoolers for the last fifteen, sixteen years of my life, uh both as a public school teacher and also now in youth ministry. And one thing I can tell you is that is that uh you know kids have a hard time understanding this. Uh they they really do. Um young guys on the basketball court when they when they uh you know make shots and there's one who's uh maybe a little bit of a ball hog, right? Instantly they they let a ball and a net come between them and their friend and their relationships. So easy. Um what happens when, you know, what I see in a lot of especially middle school and high school girls is when like two lifelong friends, right, when one of them starts spending time with another friend. Right. You all know what happens, right? When the other friend gets jealous, how come you're spending time with that person, right? You're not their friend, you are my friend, right? And it becomes contractual when the the the slightest form of testing turns into an easy way to break relationship, to break fellowship. But Jonathan, in his covenantal love for David, even if it would cost him his family Even if it would cost him his position on the throne, he remembers the comfort. Turn to chapter twenty now as we continue on in this story. Okay? So not only does he affirm and tell David that he is going to warn him He actually fulfills this promise in 1 Samuel 20, verses 13 to 17. And we are now get to the third point about covenants, and that covenants need to be reaffirmed. Covenants need to be reaffirmed. Okay? So, number one, covenants are more than contracts. Number two, covenants will be tested and tried. Number three, covenants need to be reaffirmed. Look at verse 13. This is Jonathan talking now to David. But should it please my father to do you harm, the Lord do so to Jonathan, and more also if I do not disclose it to you. And send you away, that you may go in safety. May the Lord be with you as he has been with my Father. If I am still alive, show me the steadfast love of the Lord that I may not die. And do not cut off your steadfast love from my house forever, when the Lord cuts off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth. And Jonathan made a And Jonathan made David swear again by his love for him, for he loved them as what? As he loved his own It's beautiful. This picture again that covenants aren't just something that you say once and they be, but they they are there's this continual reaffirmation. of the covenant. And we don't have time to get into it, but you'll see this covenant reaffirmed again and again and again in David and Jonathan's life. As they're walking through together. Even when David uh has to run away from Saul, Jonathan finds a way to meet him just to reaffirm the covenant again with him. It's a beautiful picture. And it's instructive for us about our gatherings here on the Lord's Day, isn't it? Every time we gather here, we are reaffirming a covenant, a promise that Christ has made to us that He would not leave us nor forsake us. That we are forgiven of our sins. That we are cleansed by his blood. That as we have fellowship together with believers in this body, As we look over to our neighbor left and right and see how God has been faithful in their lives, we are reminded again how God is faithful to us in our trials and in our weakness. We see in this covenantal reaffirmation that our hearts are restored because we remember our God is faithful. Our Christ has been faithful to the end when he fulfilled that promise on the cross for us. This is the beauty of this friendship. This is why it is good to encourage one another in our lives, because we will be led to doubt our convictions of the strength of our relationships to one another. Isn't it? And sometimes all it takes is the smallest disturbance in the closest relationships that we have to make you doubt their love for you, isn't it? Right? Um there's this quote that it's not necessarily about the severity of the offense, but the proximity of the person that does it Now what does that mean? Someone whom you don't know, and you're not close to at all can do something horrible to you. And you could just brush it off, right? Because you don't know that. But maybe the person that are closest to you, that ha that that has the closest proximity to you, they can harm you just by saying just something very, very casual You look kind of strange today. And you feel like all of a sudden just weak and stripped and you feel like, oh gosh, like my day is ruined now, right? Why? It's not the the severity of the offense, it's the proximity that they have And life of the church is no different. And so what we need to do is sometimes we need to reaffirm our covenant soul relationships with one another. To encourage each other. Thank you for leading worship every single week. Thank you for serving our body. Thank you for being involved in the church I can't imagine how difficult it must be. Thank you. Being an elder at this church, thank you for being our elders. I know it's difficult and it's confusing and we complain a lot, but we love you. Right? We love you. Thank you so much. Why do we do this? Because the covenants need to be healed. But more than that, and here are my last two points about coming into that ships, and these two sort of tie everything together. Why is it so important? Because eventually covenants will carry point four covenants will carry Christ like suffering. Covenants will carry Christ-like sufferings. Let's look at chapter 20 and look, let's look at verse 27 to 34. 27 to 34. Okay. Here we go. Well on the second day, David has now fled the the the the the the k the kingdom. On the second day, the day after the new moon, David's place was empty. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, Why has not the son of Jesse come to the meal either yesterday or today? Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem He said, Let me go, for our clan holds a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to be there. So now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away and see my brothers. For this reason he has not come to the king's team. Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, You son of a perverse, rebellious woman. Do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother's nakedness? For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, neither you nor your kingdom shall be established, therefore send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die. Then Jonathan answered Saul his father, Why should he be put to death? What has he done? But Saul hurled his spear at him to strike him. So Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David to death. And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger and ate no food the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David, because his father had disgraced him. This is the truest test that comes all into play. Jonathan here is essentially given a choice to give up his life. His king his his promised kingship, the wealth and honor and prestige of all that he has lived his entire life for. He's given the choice to either listen to his father and his family Or to put himself in a situation where he has to be faithful to the covenant and surrender all those things. Now Jonathan is not responsible for any of the strife that's between Saul and David, but now he has to make a choice. So think about this. Alright, let's just picture this for a second. The son of a king gives up his rights for the sake of a sinner. David's going to become a future murderer, adulterer, right? And for the sake of the redemption of that said sinner, so that this person might have an inheritance in the kingdom, he suffers under the Father's wrath and is disgraced for the sake of his choice. Does this remind you of anybody? See Jonathan here is carrying Christ-like suffering, isn't it? He's displaying for us in this passage right here the truth of what Christ has done for us. The son of a king gives up his rights for the sake of us. Murderers, adulterers, liars, gossipers. Filled with pride, anger, malice, bitterness, Christ sacrificed his kingship for us, so for the sake of us that we might have an inheritance. How does this radically change the way that you think about your relationships and your friendships with others? In covenantal relationships So many times we are we are given to think contractually, aren't we? But you don't know what this person has done to me. If you only knew what they did, you would understand And my my my answer to that is, is that how Christ relates to us? I'm so done with that person. I want nothing to do with them because what they did was so hard. Is that how Christ relates to us? Covenantal friendships will carry Christ-like sufferings. Jonathan would spend the rest of his days in disgrace. He would actually die in his father's war. And he would die ashamed. He would have a son that would be, as we read in today's passage in 2 Samuel chapter 9, lame in both his feet. Which back then was a sign of God's judgment. A sign that truly that Jonathan's disgrace was justified, at least to the people of Israel. That's what they thought. So Mephibosheth grows up with a disgraced father, with an even more disgraceful grandfather, lame in both of his feet. And here's the last point about covenantal friendships. Because here's here's where this story wraps up and why I just I love this story. is that covenants will share in Christ-like glory. Covenantal friendships will share in Christ-like glory. So not only do we carry Christ-like sufferings, but we will share in Christ-like glory. So here's just to set the scene a little bit. David has now become king. He has now become king. The promise of of David's kingship and and all that's that surrounds that is is now being established. And David remembers the kindness of Jonathan. David remembers the covenant that he made with him. And so he inquires about whether or not anyone of of Jonathan's family is there, and he finds Mephibashat. And he asks Mephibosheth to come in. Now, what's so interesting about the name Mephiboshev? I mean we don't go naming our kids Mephiboshev now today, right? That's a little bit of a of a of an awkward name to give to a child, right? Unless unless you know what Mufibasheth means. Mephibashev, Jonathan named his son Mephiboshev, because Mephiboshef means the one who will remove my shame. Shame exterminator. Now isn't that interesting? Why would Jonathan give his son that name? After all that he has been through, why would he give him that name? I believe it's because he knew that David would remember Jonathan. As as Jonathan made David promise, remember my family, remember it. And this is what happens. Now this lame and crippled son of a disgraced father. Enters into the king's court, is given a seat at the king's table for all of his days, and is brought into the kingdom to be disgraced no more. Who does this remind you of? This is what happens when we share in covenantal friendships and when we see the covenantal friendship of Christ, we are brought into The king's though we come lame, though we come disgraced, because of our sins were the sins of our fathers. That we come broken, that we come condemned by the world. Thinking that every that that the world thinks that everything that we have done up to our point in our lives has been deserved. Christ redeems us and invites us to sit at his table and enjoy sweet fellowship with him for all eternity. This is the covenantal friendship of Christ to us So I want to encourage you today to look at how Christ has been a friend to you. I want to encourage you to worship him more deeply. I want to encourage you to see that Christ has has been through every test and trial. That Christ reaffirms his love for you. That Christ suffered and died on the cross for your sins so that you, by having faith in him, By trusting in the finished work of the cross and his resurrection and the righteousness that you could not earn that is imputed to you on his behalf, that you can now enjoy this sweet friendship and share in Christ's glories today and forever. This is the promise of the gospel. And then from that I want to encourage you to think then, how does this radically change the friendships that you have here in this church? And also what the world around you. How can you reflect the same kind of friendship that Christ has shown to you? That is my hope for you here this morning. As you read about these two figures. And I wish we had time to go through every single verse about this. This is this is just a beautiful story. Do it on your own time. But this is what I believe um is just amazing picture. This story is an amazing picture of Christ's covenantal friendship to us. So let's pray. Father, we thank you. Once again, reminding us through this story in the Old Testament, which is really just all a foreshadowing of your son. Of how you are a friend that is more than contractual, you are a friend who has stood through every testing and trial, your friend that reminds us of his love, who suffers for us and more Helps us to partake of your kingdom, Lord. This is the promise that you can only give us Thank you for this Jesus that we worship. We thank you for this time in the Word together. And we thank you for the fellowship that we have, the friendship we have with one another. That we pray would reflect the friendship of Christ. And in Jesus' name we pray all these things. Amen