Take your Bibles, please, and turn in them to Matthew chapter 5. We're going to be reading and studying from verse 17 through verse 20. And if you notice a little difference between the version I read and the version you have, it's because I like the New American Standard Bible. And I think it's good for people to have comp to compare one translation with another and see see how they differ, because when you do translate from one language in another, you can never do so perfectly And there's always little nuances that are there that you might not pick up. Here now, God's holy, infallible word. Jesus says, do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth shall pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law until all is accomplished. Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments, and so teaches others, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever keeps and teaches them shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you, that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Bow with me in prayer. Father, as we look at this passage this morning, we simply ask this that you be with the one who proclaims your word, that he do so in a way that is clear and understandable. So that any of his ideas are are put aside and that Lord uh any of his personality may be diminished And that all glory and honor would go to our Savior Jesus Christ. And we pray for the hearers, Lord, that they would open their ears and they would hear your word. And they would act upon it, Lord, that as they leave this place, they would go and walk in the ways that would please our Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen You all know the story of the three little pigs, don't you? I hope so. You know, these three little pigs, they left their mother's house And uh they went out on their own and one of them went and he built a house full of sticks and straw. Or or sticks, excuse me. And along came the wolf and he did his thing, you know, let me in, let me in. And pig says, Oh no, you're not getting in here. So pig says, I'm gonna huffin' I'm gonna puffin' I'm gonna blow your house down and he did So th the little pig who had built his house out of sticks ran to his brother who built his house out of straw. And they were in there cowering together, not sure what to do, and the wolf came around and D did it the same thing, I'll huff and I'll puff, and uh he did, and he blew the house down. So then they ran to the third brother's house who had built his house out of bricks And uh wolf huffed and he huffed and he huffed and he huffed and the only thing he blew was his lungs out. Moral of the story. Build your life on solid principles. Build your life on solid principles. In this passage, Jesus is not just talking about his relationship to the law, nor is he making a comment about the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees With this statement, Jesus is building a bridge with what he has already said And what is yet to come. Now we are in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount here, or at least on the beginning part of the Sermon on the Mount And he starts out with what we call the Beatitudes. And in the Beatitudes, he is describing Christian character. what the Christian character is like. And then after he describes Christian character He describes how the Christian is to relate to the world. You are to be the salt and the light of the world. But the question is, is how does the Christian develop those characters? And how does he become the salt and the light of the world? And that's what Christ is talking about here. He's describing the how. In fact, William Hendrickson, a great commentator uh uh on the New Testament, says, here you have, quote, the high standard of life develop demanded by the king. Being set forth. And what foundational principles does Jesus give you and me in this statement? Two things First of all, he gives you a credenda, then he gives you an agenda. Now I'm not trying to be fancy here with using Latin words, but Credenda simply gives us the word creed, the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed, the Athanasian Creed. It's something to believe. And credenda, that's a w uh I mean agenda. Well we all know what an agenda is. Session meets, they have an agenda. Presbytery meets, it has an agenda. A General Assembly meets, it has an agenda. These are the things we're going to do. So what Jesus gives you in me here is something to believe and something to do. So the first principle that Christ sets forth is right belief. And where is the object of right belief? I have talked to too many people who say it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you have faith. As long as you have faith in something. Well that's nonsense. That's absolute rubbish. What if I says I believe I can jump off of this uh roof without being hurt? Well, prove it to me. And I fall and I break a leg. You have to believe in the right thing. And Jesus says you have to believe in the law and the prophets. That's what he says in verse 17. And the law and the prophets is a catchphrase used in Israel at that time and used in the Bible to describe the entire Old Testament, which was the entire Bible at that time. The law, which consisted of the first five books of uh of the Bible that describe the ceremonial law and the moral law and the civil law and the prophets which are the rest, not just Isaiah and Jeremiah and the min major min uh prophets and the minor prophets but all of the rest of the Old Testament. I remember being in seminary, we studied the former prophets from uh Joshua all the way up through uh Esther and then eve even the Psalms and the later prophets, all of the others, the major prophets and the minor prophets, all the law and the prophets And then when in verse 18, when he just uses the word law, he's just using that one word to represent both. Now that he's explained this, you pick up the rest. Now to see the importance of this credenda, this something to believe, I want to first look at verse 18 before we consider Verse 17 a little more. And verse 18 says, For truly I s Jesus says, For truly I say to you until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law until all is accomplished What Christ is simply saying here, people of God, is his word is going to outlast this world Will stand firm. It is settled forever in the heavens. When he says, not the smallest letter or stroke shall passed away. He's talking about something that's w when you consider it is very interesting, if not incredible. The smallest stroke or letter or stroke in in in in the uh i i in the Greek language the smallest letter was the the iota, which is like our s our our lowercase i, when you print a lowercase i, without even the uh the little dot on top And in the Hebrew alphabet, the smallest letter looks like an apostrophe. Just a not even one of those is going to pass away. But then he goes on to say, not even a stroke. What's he talking about when he says a stroke? It's a serif. Well, not everybody knows what a serif is Now if you open up your computer later when you get home and you look at all the different fonts you have, look at that very well-known font called the Arial, and compare it with that other well-known font, Times New Roman. And you'll see that in i in in Ariel all the letters are straight with no little extra things attached to them. But when you get to the Times New Roman, it has those little extra things. Uh for instance, the number seven you can write the number seven this way, or you can put a little serif on it and write it that way. That little serif in in English language in an American alphabet Isn't all that important. But it was very important in the Hebrew alphabet, because you that's how you could tell the difference between the Hebrew letter Kat and B or Bet. Because of a little stroke. Jesus says not even the smallest letter, not even the tiniest stroke. O His Word, of what He has promised, of what He has given you. Not even the most littlest bit. is going to pass away. Now what Christ is not talking about is the preservation of the uh the word. Now when we open up uh w when those who study the the the New Testament and Uh and the old they noticed that w when these things were being transmitted and back then they didn't have printing presses, they didn't have copy machines And scribes and monks would sit there and they would have in a manuscript and they'd copied that manuscript. And sometimes they erred. The manuscript may say the Lord Jesus Christ and they might just because it's tired they're tired and they're working by candlelight might just say the Lord. But they might just say Jesus Christ. And so you have these vari variants in your manuscripts. But it does not affect the word at all. What Christ is promising here is that our immutable God Has given us an immutable word. Until he comes again, his word will stand. And when he comes again, we will have the living word with us. And the written word will be put aside. Because we have the living word Jesus Is given to us as the epitome of that word That's the theme of the credenda here, going back to verse 17. Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come. to abolish but to fulfill. Everything in the Old Testament, everything points to Jesus Christ. He is the one who fulfills the law and the prophets. He satisfies the demands of the law, the demands that the uh uh that the law has placed on you, he satisfies for you He satisfies the demands of the law. He satisfies the penalty of the law. I'm so glad that Ken brought up that word propitiation, which many translations uh uh uh uh translate as atoning sacrifice and that it is. But there's a nuance to that word propitiation that I don't want you to miss. What it means is this that Jesus Christ absorbs. Absorbs, like a sponge absorbing everything around it, he absorbs God's wrath that you deserve. He satisfies the penalty of the law. He fulfills the object of the law. All of those ceremonies in the Old Testament, all of the sacrifices. All of the building of the tabernacle and the temple, all of the clothing and the fancy dress uh of the pr high priests, all of these things point to Jesus Christ for He is that sacrifice. He is the temple of God. He is the tabernacle. He is the high priest. He is the perfect or the second Adam. He is the seed of Abraham. He is the great prophet. He is the sympathetic high priest. He is the great king. He is the sacrificial lamb. And again, he is the temple of God. This morning, you have a credenda Something to believe. You have his word set before you His word that is to guide you, instruct you, teach you how to live. His word, which is to constantly point you to Jesus Christ. so that you may live a life thankful of him. I cannot remember the exact phrase this morning, but I was on a Facebook page that simply Simply everybody that's on that page uh uh puts in quotes of of Puritans. But one of the quotes, you know, paraphrase it, you cannot serve God adequately, properly, unless you love him fully, completely And you will not love him completely until you see all of the beauty of Jesus Christ as found in his word. So to live a life based on a solid foundation, remember the predenda. Then you can fulfill the agenda. Verse 19, Jesus then says, whoever knows one of the least of these commandments and so teaches others shall be called least in it. But whoever keeps and teaches him shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Jesus is saying here is it is necessary for you to give one hundred percent Of your energy, of your drive to living for Him. He starts off by saying, whoever announced one of these commandments, Now how do you annul a commandment? To null makes it sound as if you do away with it and you make it of no accord. Well that's it exactly. And there's many ways you can annul the commandments. You and I do it. And how do you and I do it? When we do something where someone looks and says, Oh, now sometimes d people do this wrongly But when you do something that brings discredit upon Jesus Christ Not when someone says, Oh, you're a Christian and you believe or you can do that. No, that's not the idea because the world is always ready to accuse you, always ready to accuse me But when you do something that brings its credit upon God. When you break his commandments uh in a way that others can legitimately go, this But then there are others who annul God's word. High by distorting it By making it of no accord, or who distort it in such a way that the world laughs at them Now perhaps I'm not supposed to name names, but I will. Because I don't want anybody to be led astray. There are those people out there we call the prosperity gospel preachers Who say if you have enough faith, God will give you everything that the devil tempted Jesus with. You think about it, that's what those prosperity gospel teachers are are teaching They're promising you everything that the devil tempted Christ with. There's Joel Osteen. Creplow Dollar, Joyce Mayer, T. D. Jace, Ken Copeland, Benny Hinn, Paula Wade, John Hagee, and scores of others And if you're listening to them, if you're watching them, get away from them. Because they are annulling the law and the prophets. They are making them of no accord. Do you know how people that non-Christians look at them and laugh at them and go, is that what the Bible teaches? I want no part of that silliness. And then there are other cults. People like the Jehovah's Witnesses who deny the the deity of Jesus Christ. The Mormons were wonderful moral people, at least on the surface, who teach a fantasy, almost a science fiction fantasy. When it comes to teaching God words. And then there's liberal Christianity, which denies the main tenets of the faith. I have somewhere in my file or someplace a booklet, and in the booklet The man says sometimes to preach the Bible you have to preach that the Bible is not true. That's an annulment. That's an annulment. They shall be leased in the kingdom as they degrade and pour contempt on God's word. John Gill says, such shall be cast out as worthless persons. The Geneva Bible study says they shall have no place in the church. But if they are least in the kingdom or have no part of it, Jesus says, But whoever keep keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom. So who's greeting the kingdom? Well, people like John Calvin for sure. Paul the Apostle and the other apostles. Martin Luther, some think of some of the fantastic preachers today. Think of Uh R. C. Sproule. Definitely great in the kingdom. But then so are those who faithfully come to church every day Sunday morning, who teach Sunday school, who give of their tithes and their offerings, who live daily for Jesus Christ, even though you don't know their names The deacons and the elders, those who accompany worship with whatever gifts they may have, those who stand at the door and grief Those who put together the bulletin week after week, Sunday after Sunday, year after year. These will be great in the kingdom of heaven. These will be great in the kingdom of heaven. But then Jesus says this very curious thing. For it saved you Unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Oh wow Oh wow, put yourself in the place of a Jew in that time and place. Who were the holiest people of all? Why, it's the scribes and the Pharisees. They walked around with the oversized phylacteries upon their head and the extra long tassels on their garments. They walked around, they had time and money in order to study God's Word all day long. They were able to to to uh uh proclaim extra laws on how far you can walk on the Sabbath day w without breaking the Sabbath. All kinds of ceremony things, how many times you have to wash your hands before you can eat Oh, all of these fantastic things they could do and were able to do. And you're telling me? A simple shepherd? You're telling me? Just a young mother? You're telling me a widow? You're telling me a stonemason? That my righteousness has to exceed their righteousness. You know what Jesus says? Yes. Well how can that be? How can that be Very simple. By having the righteousness of Jesus Christ, by believing him. By putting your faith in him because when you put your faith in him, and this is the theme of the book of Romans You are granted Christ's righteousness. And there is none more righteous than Christ. You don't earn Christ's righteousness. You don't buy Christ Christ's righteousness It is granted you the fancy theological term is it's imputed to you. It's credited to you And I hope I've used the Heidelberg Catechism in this church before when describing Christ's righteousness. If not I'm gonna do it now because it is one of the greatest explanations of Christ's graciousness. It ought to knock your socks off. It ought to blow you away. If you haven't heard this before, you ought to be amazed What it means in this Heidelberg Catechism, question and answer 60, it means that God grants in credits to me The perfect satisfaction, righteousness, and holiness of Christ. Let me read that again to make it a little bit more personal. God grants and credits to you, every one of you here, the perfect satisfaction of holiness of Christ. Now here's a kicker. Check this out. As if you had never sinned nor been a sinner. As if you had been as perfectly obedient as Christ was obedient for you I almost don't know what else to say. Because people as we look at the credenda agenda, I took it right back to to the credenda, something to believe So that now you can go out and do the agenda. Walk in that righteousness that Christ has given you Let's bow in prayer.