Now if you turn in your copy of God's Word to Matthew, that is the correct reading. Matthew 27. That's on page 990 of your few Bibles. Return to our study of this gospel after about a month off. Let's give attention to the very Word of God, Matthew twenty-seven, beginning at verse one. When morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death. And they bound him and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate the governor. Then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind. And brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, saying, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. They said, What is that to us? See to it yourself. And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed and went and hanged himself. But the chief priest, taking the pieces of silver, said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury since it is blood money. So they took counsel and brought and bought with them the potter's field as a burial place for strangers. Therefore that field has been called the field of blood to this day. Then it was fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel. And they gave them for the potter's field as the Lord directed me. Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus said, You have said so. But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he gave him no answer, not even to a single charge, so that the governor was greatly amazed Let's find the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we need your spirit. It's not possible for us to understand your word, to grasp it, to have it applied to our hearts. Unless your Spirit is working powerfully in us. And so we pray, Holy Spirit, help us. Guide us this morning. This is an important passage of Scripture. We need to understand it and grasp it and And we pray that you would apply it to our hearts, convict us of sin, and remind us of the promises of Jesus Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen. What do you need to cover? In a sense, that was a question that Adam and Eve were asking themselves as they sinned against God. After taking the forbidden fruit and eating it, Moses tells us that the eyes of both were opened and they knew that they were naked. Their shame was now exposed. Their knowledge of their nakedness was their guilt springing forth. They saw it in each other. And they were experiencing this guilt flowing from their sin, pictured by their nakedness. And so as Adam did not want Eve to see his shame, and as Eve did not want Adam to see her shame, they attempted to cover. The fig leaves. And as we know, an inadequate solution to their very significant problem. What do you need to cover? Jesus has been betrayed by Judas. He's been arrested. He's been taken to the high priest, and they have conducted what we might refer to as a trial before the chief priests and the elders. In that trial, not only were false witnesses brought forth, but Jesus confesses that he is the Son, the Son of God. And this is called blasphemy by the religious leaders of the day. All the while, as this is happening, this trial, so to speak, Peter was outside. within the sight of Jesus, denying him three times. We get to this passage this morning in chapter 27. You see, very simply, the decision of the chief priests and the elders to put Jesus to death We see the suicide of Judas as he confesses sin. And then finally we see the silence of Jesus before Pilate. If we go through this passage this morning, I'd like us to see that a contrite heart will seek to cover the guilt of sin. With the righteousness of Jesus Christ. A contrite heart will seek to cover the guilt of sin with the righteousness of Christ. We'll see that in three points this morning, three heads, three truths. First, a contrite heart confesses sin. Secondly, a contrite heart exposes shame. And finally, a contrite heart seeks Christ. So as we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be remembering that question and even asking it of yourself, what do I? Need to cover. Well, first the contrite heart confesses sin. Look at verse 1 here in chapter 27. Look at the way it begins. When morning came Many times we just skip over words like this. They seem unimportant. But don't miss the way this chapter begins, when morning came. As we envision the daybreak, even today a glorious, glorious daybreak, we think of the sun rising, we think of darkness being shed, we think of streams of light beginning to penetrate. The blackness of the night we we consider that welcomed heat and brilliant light of the sun breaking into a new, a fresh day. When morning came. Remember, there was darkness growing at the end of last chapter in 26. Jesus had been brought before the religious leaders of the day, the chief priests and the elders who had arrested him, had now placed him in confinement, treated him as a criminal, a lawbreaker who deserved their condemnation. The Savior of the world was on trial. False witnesses spoke against him. Bald lies were leveled directly at and against the face of Jesus Christ, and the high priest, as he called upon him to testify whether he was the Christ, the Son of God, he confesses it, and it was claimed that day that he uttered blasphemy. It was dark, but it got darker Behind the scenes of that trial, there was that picture of Peter. As the trial is going on, at the very same time as his Lord, his teacher, his leader, his savior, his master was suffering at the hands of the chief priests and the elders, Peter was denying Jesus three times. Now we know it will get darker on the cross. But before the cross, Matthew is presenting an extremely dark hour. Certainly amongst the Jews who had congregated at the high priest's house and also in the heart of Peter. But our expectation now is as Matthew writes, when morning came, that there is going to be this burst of light to shine through the darkness that we've experienced and read about in chapter 26. A new day must usher in revised thought and action when morning came. Seems to suggest that as the new day dawns, as the sun has risen, that darkness is faded, and we can expect righteousness now to prevail. But that's not the case. Even though the light of Christ was shining brightly Even though Jesus was very close to the cross, even though his righteousness is being highlighted through each and every one of these events, yet there's much darkness surrounding Christ. John describes it this way in his gospel, the light shines in the darkness. It's exactly what was happening in this place. Chief priests and the elders had refused to receive Jesus as the Messiah. Not only had they individually determined that he had blasphemed and that he deserved death now, they took counsel against him. The darkness continued, even as morning had broken. They had the night to consider their thoughts, their words and actions. They had time to reflect upon those events that had occurred in the high priest's house, had they arrested Jesus and brought him and tried him, so to speak, with false witnesses. And now as daybreak has come, what do all these priests and elders do? They come together as one and they take counsel against Jesus. No longer were they speaking individually. No longer was the high priest questioning them. Well, what do you think? What do you think? Now they come together as one, collectively, just as we read in Psalm 2. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. Or as John wrote, he came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. These chief priests, these elders wanted what they wanted, and they didn't want Jesus. They didn't want any notice or suggestion of their sin. They don't want to acknowledge their sin. They were totally depraved. Even as Judas had come before these priests and elders to confess sin and to return the payment, they said, What is that to us? See to it yourself. Coming to the ones who should have acknowledged his sin and told him what he needed to do to find reconciliation. I said, that's not for us. We don't deal with sin. Even acknowledging that it was unlawful to put the money returned into the treasury because it was blood money. There's no recognition of their sin. They don't see that they participated in wrongdoing. There's no confession. There's no remorse. And thus there's no attempt to cover. Even after an evening, a night, even after the breaking of the dawn, even after much time to consider their thoughts Their words, their actions. There's no confession. There's no recognition. There's no acknowledgement of sin against God or against the Son of God. And there's no evidence thus of contriteness within their hearts. Remember what we read in Psalm 51. As David pleads, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. These chief priests, these elders, forgot that. They neglected that. They had no time for that. They were fixed upon ridding themselves of the one who would call them to confess their sins. What about you this morning? Do you confess your sins? Do you acknowledge that you have broken God's law The chief priests and elders didn't. This will be one of the last times that they're referred to in Matthew's gospel. It seems to be the end of them. Without confession, they would not be able to stand before a holy God. What about you? Jesus calls us to confess our sins. It seems to be the first evidence of a contrite heart. That brings us to our second point. A contrite heart exposes shame. As we consider now Judas, who is sandwiched in between the the taking of Jesus to the governor and the governor's interaction with Jesus, Judas stands behind all of that action. And you might say, here's the breaking of the dawn, here's the light pouring forth. It's coming from Judas as he confesses, I've sinned by betraying innocent blood. There. That's the dawn breaking forth. He recognizes, he returns, he changes his mind. But if that's the case, we need to ask, what was this? Was Judas' heart really converted? Did this indicate that Judas was biblically repentant? Did Judas come to saving faith in Jesus? Is that what this is? We know that one must have a poor spirit. We must have a broken and contrite heart. Jesus uses those words in the Sermon on the Mount, basically the introduction to the gospel. As he preaches, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. We've studied these words. We've seen that this is the description of those who will enter into the kingdom of God, those who are saved. will have a poor spirit. They will mourn over their sin Webster defines contrite as a brokenhearted for sin, deeply affected with grief and sorrow for having offended God. That's a contrite heart. Is that what was happening in Judas? Was Judas' heart contrite? Was Judas poor in spirit? Was he mourning over his sin? Is that what we hear when he says, I've sinned? Matthew also records that Judas changed his mind. He felt remorse as some other Bible versions put it. That word in the Greek is is defined as having regrets. Wishes someone wishes that what he or she had done could be undone, being sorry, being regretful. That's The Greek word changed his mind, felt remorse. Not only that, not only does he return the thirty pieces of silver, but he he confesses, I've sinned by betraying innocent blood. He speaks. He speaks correctly. He did sin. Jesus was innocent and is innocent. And he did betray him. Judas had turned on the one who had befriended him, the one who had washed his feet, the one who had brought him into his inner fold, so to speak. The one who had taught him and led him the way. And yet, despite all these kindnesses, despite being the beneficiary of all this goodness, Judas sought these thirty pieces of silver instead of continuing his fellowship with his friend Jesus. And so he confesses it. He accurately describes his sin. Was that picture of contrite heart? Well, to help us understand what it is to have a contrite heart, we we might want to consider David who wrote about having a contrite heart in Psalm 51. And if you remember, he wrote this psalm as a result of his sin with Bathsheba. His adultery with her. And then subsequently seeking to have Uriah the Hittite killed, sending him to the battlefront, making sure that he would he would be murdered. And cover David's sin. Remember, David refused to confess his sin. Before a holy God. He refused to acknowledge his wrongdoing until Nathan the prophet comes to him and gives him that parable about the rich man who takes the poor man's lamb. And David said, This man deserves to die. And Nathan tells him, You're the man. And as a result, he pens Psalm 51. As a result of now recognizing and confessing his sin, he pens 51. He acknowledges that he's offended God by his wicked thoughts and actions. Against you you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. That's where contriteness reigns In the heart, in the depths of the heart, in the poorness of spirit. He's recognizing that he sinned against the holy God and confirms and believes and know by this he's offended God. And this offense is not a mere inconvenience for God. No God is grieved by our sins. David was recognizing that. Isaiah writes in chapter 50, excuse me, 63, they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. Every time we sin, we're grieving the Spirit. And God is justified in pouring out His judgment on us. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. David recognized that. Every sin, every sin is an abomination to God. Whether it be a lie, bitterness in your heart. Whether your sin is disobeying your mother and father or treating a neighbor not as you desire to be treated, but as one who's inferior and not worthy of your time or your love. Every time That you think a thought or speak a word, that you behave in such a way that's contrary to the law of God, you become an abomination to God. And it's only when you recognize this And confess this truth that you begin to foster and further that which is a contrite heart. And that's what Judas lacked. His confession of sin did not include a contriteness of heart. His spirit was not poor. He did not mourn over his sin because there's absolutely no recognition that he understood that he had offended a holy God. Shame and wanting to cover shame before men is not the same As recognizing you've offended a holy God. We all sin. We all experience guilt and shame. But the question is, what are you ashamed of? Is your shame your embarrassment before other men, women, and children? Is that what your remorse flows from? As you sin, as you break the law of God, as you transgress, what are you grieving over? What needs to be covered? Judas's problem was that he thought he needed to cover his shame before other men. He was embarrassed, if we put it lightly. He couldn't stand the thought of being in the presence of those disciples, those priests, those elders, the crowd who knew what he had done. And so he attempted to cover his shame with death. Judas needed just the opposite. Not a human solution to his shame. But Judah Judas needed to expose his shame to God and to plead for a covering. Just as Adam and Eve needed to expose themselves to the Lord, not to hide in the trees. Not to attempt to cover their shame with fig leaves before one another. No, like Judas, they needed to expose so that the only one who could cover their shame could do so. What do you need to cover? You see, if your answer to this question is anything other than my offense against a holy God, That's what needs to be covered. If that's not your answer, then you don't understand sin. You see, that was Judas's problem. He used the words, I have sinned, but he did not understand that that meant that he had sinned before God. And still he refused to expose his guilt before the Lord You see, if you understand that you need to cover your shame before the Lord, you'll begin to understand that you need to expose Your shame or guilt to the Lord. For He is the only one who can truly cover it. That brings us to our third point. Excuse me, a contrite heart seeks Christ. And now we see the light, we see the contrast, don't we, as we come to verse 11. Now Jesus stood before the governor. Matthew takes us back to Jesus. We've seen the wretchedness, the darkness of the elders, and the chief priests, and Judas. And now he brings us back to the light. Now Jesus. We see that contrast. We see the light. This this is the light, isn't it, when morning came. The darkness which was all around Jesus, which would not retreat on its own, was now penetrated. Everyone else in this passage was bent on breaking the law of God. Everyone else loved the darkness and hated the light. Everyone else desired to remain in the darkness and ran from the light or tried to cover or extinguish the light, but they couldn't. Even in the weakness of his flesh, the light of Jesus was burning brightly, shining forth as the daybreak. You may be saying, well, where's that in this passage? Well, it's actually in his silence, isn't it? Verse 12, but when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer. Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he gave him no answer. Jesus was silent. And silence in part was to fulfill the word of God. Isaiah writes in in chapter 53, the suffering servant, he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that's led to the slaughter, and like a sheep before its shears that is silent, so he opened not his mouth. Many times in Scripture when we have something repeated twice or even three times, what God is doing is He's just confirming the truth of that word. He opened Not his mouth. We see the same thing here in Matthew's gospel. He gave no answer, but he gave him no answer. This is the beauty of Christ. This is the light of Christ, isn't it? As he is aligning his will perfectly and completely with that of his father, he's acting in a way that brings glory upon himself and glory to his father by remaining silent. In fulfilling the Word of God, the prophetic word, and thus ensuring that the covenant promises would come to pass through his silence. Think of that. If he had uttered a defense, what would Pilate have done? We don't know because it didn't happen. But he doesn't utter a defense so that he will go to the cross. And fulfill the covenant promises of God. But that's not the only way in which the silence of Jesus shines forth his beauty For in contrast to to Judas, Jesus had no shame. Do you see that? In Judas's pride, he sought to hide his face from others, and so he was ashamed of what he had done before men. But Jesus had no shame to cover. Certainly not from Pilate. And so he remained silent. There's no defense. Jesus had committed no offense. There's no covering. There's no need for words. Because he's pure. Isn't that the light of Christ? Just breaking through into the darkness. That he needs no covering. There's no transgression within Jesus. There's no evil within him. There's no bitterness, no malice, no debauchery, no lust, no slander, no ill will, no envy, no strife, no discontentment, no lack of joy, no strength. No coveting, none. Nothing that needed to be covered. His heart was open. It's completely open. Everything about Jesus is open, revealed, and shining forth. A joyful, obedient, pure, holy, submissive, loving Son. Surrounded and immersed in darkness of others. That's this beautiful glory, isn't it? Shining brightly for you to see, even this morning. What do you need to cover Are you experiencing guilt and shame this morning? Are you knowing and confessing sin and yet still feeling covered in your shame and filth? Are you crying out for the right covering? Knowing that you've offended a holy God. Whatever guilt you're experiencing this morning, whatever guilt you've accumulated by offending the living God and thus needs to cover over Jesus is able and willing to do it. Is it sexual immorality Is it impurity? Is it idolatry? Is it enmity? Is it strife? Is it jealousy? Fits of anger Paul writes that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God because they need to be covered. They must be covered. And Jesus can and will if you ask him Because he's the light. Because his heart is pure and holy. Because he needs no covering. And he will give you his righteous robes. And completely cover you with the beauty of his radiance and purity. Call out to him. Plead with him. He will lovingly cover you completely in his righteous robes. Yes, a contrite heart will seek to cover the guilt of sin with the righteousness of Christ. Adam and Eve tried to cover their shame, that which was absolutely ineffective. But Christ, Christ can cover your shame. Ask him, plead with him, and he will lovingly give you his robes. Amen. Our Father and our God, we need covering. Each and every one of us. And so we plead, Lord God, that you would work those contrite hearts in us, humble our hearts, give us hearts that mourn over our sin, hearts that know we've offended you, and Father, we pray. Convict us of Jesus' purity, his innocence, his beauty. And we pray, cover us with his righteous robes. That you might not see our sin, that we might be blameless and pure in your sight, because we're in Christ. We ask all this in his precious name. Amen.