And returning your copy of God's word now to Leviticus. I think that's on page one thousand excuse me, one hundred and twelve Of your two Bibles. Be reading chapter sixteen tonight. The uninspired words in this particular version provide a title to this chapter, The Day of Atonement. Let's give our attention once again to the reading of God's Word. The Lord spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron when they drew near before the Lord and died. The Lord said to Moses, Tell Aaron, your brother, not to come at any time into the holy place inside the veil, before the mercy seat that is on the ark so that he may not die. For I will appear in the cloud over the mercy seat. But in this way Aaron shall come into the holy place with a bull from the herd for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering. He shall put on the holy linen coat. And shall have the linen undergarment on his body, and he shall tie the linen sash around his waist and wear the linen turban. These are the holy garments. He shall bathe his body in water, and then put them on. And he shall take from the congregation of the people of Israel two male goats for a sin offering and one ram for a burnt offering. Aaron shall offer the bull as a sin offering for himself, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house. Then he shall take the two goats and set them before the Lord at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and Aaron shall cast lots over the two goats, for one lot for the Lord, and the other lot to the For Azazel. The Lord shall present the goat on which the lot fell for the Lord and use it as a sin offering. But the goat on which the lot fell for Azazel shall be presented alive before the Lord to make atonement over it, that it may be sent away into the wilderness. To Azazel. Aaron shall present the bull as a sin offering for himself, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house. He shall kill the bull as a sin offering for himself. And he shall take a censer full of coals of fire from the altar before the Lord, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten small, and he shall bring it inside the veil. And put the incense on the fire before the Lord that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is over the testimony, so that he does not die. And he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger on the front of the mercy seat on the east side. And in the front of the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times. Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering that is for the people, and bring its blood inside the veil, and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the bull, sprinkling it over the mercy seat and in front of the mercy seat. Thus he shall make atonement for the holy place because of the uncleanness of the people of Israel and because of their transgressions, all their sins. And so he shall do for the tent of meeting, which dwells with them in the midst of their uncleannesses. No one May be in the tent of meeting from the time he enters to make atonement in the holy place until he comes out and has made atonement for himself and for his house and for all the assembly of Israel. Then he shall go out to the altar that is before the Lord and make atonement for it. And shall take some of the blood of the bull and some of the blood of a goat and put it on the horns of the altar all around. He shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times and cleanse it and consecrate it from the uncleannesses of the people of Israel. And when he's made an end of atoning for the holy place and the tent of meeting and the altar, he shall present the live goats And Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of a live goat, and confess over it all the iniquities of the people of Israel, and all their transgressions, all their sins. And he shall put them on the head of a goat, and send it away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who is in readiness. The goat shall bear all their iniquities on itself to a remote area, and he shall let the goat go free in the wilderness. Then Aaron shall come into the tent of meeting, and shall take off the linen garments that he put on when he went into the holy place, and shall leave them there. And he shall bathe his body in water in a holy place, and put on his garments, and come out and offer his burnt offering in the burnt offering of the people, and make atonement for himself and for the people And the fat of the sin offering he shall burn on the altar. And he who lets the goat go to Azazel shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp. And the bull for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, shall be carried outside the camp. And their skin and their flesh and their dung shall be burned up with fire. And he who burns them shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp. And it shall be a statute to you forever, that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict yourselves, and shall do no work, either the native or the stranger who sojourns among you From this day, atonement be made, shall atonement be made for you to cleanse you. You shall be clean before the Lord from all your sins. It is a Sabbath of solemn rest to you. And you shall afflict yourselves. It is a statute forever. And the priest who is anointed and consecrated as priest in his father's place shall make atonement, wearing the holy linen garments. He shall make atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make atonement for the tent of meeting and for the altar, and he shall make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly. And this shall be a statute forever for you, that atonement be made for the people of Israel once in the year because of all their sins. And Aaron did as the Lord commanded. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Father and our God, once again we come to a difficult passage to grasp There's so much imagery here, so much truth. So much doctrine and encouragement and blessing We thank you for it. We pray, Lord God, that you would help us to see as much as you would have for us tonight. Work in our hearts. Have your way with us, Lord. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. In Luke's gospel, he records an event of Jesus going to a Pharisee's house for dinner. And if you know this particular passage, there is a woman who also goes to the house who was a sinner She had brought an alabaster flask of ointment with her. And apparently during the meal, she's standing behind the Lord Jesus Christ, and she is weeping So much so that she is wetting Jesus' feet with her tears and takes the hair of her head to wipe off his feet. Kissing them and anointing him with oil. The Pharisee believes that Jesus doesn't know who this woman is and that she's a sinner and if he knew that he just wouldn't allow her to touch him Jesus then speaks to the Pharisee with regard to love. And he places that parabod before him. If one has a large debt paid off versus one who has a small debt paid off, who's going to love the one who pays off the debt and the Pharisee answers the one who had the larger debt, and Jesus said you're correct. This woman Loved Jesus so much because of what he had and was going to do for her on the cross You see the overwhelming joy of knowing that her sin had been atoned for, that she would be forgiven. So much it's too much for her to hold within. Her joy is being expressed through weeping. And anointing Jesus and cleansing his feet. There's a sense in which we have that tonight in this passage that this passage in Leviticus leads us to the same place where that woman was. As she went to the Pharisees' house. In a sense, in Leviticus, we have just been moving closer and closer and closer To God reestablishing fellowship and communion with his people There's a sense in which it's taking a long time for us to get there as we've gone through Exodus. We've gone through the 12 tribes being in slavery. We've gone through the 12 tribes being delivered. We've gone through the 12 tribes being in the wilderness The fourteen years Not yet actually. But as they're in the wilderness, and as they are seeking to worship, And as the tent of meeting has been established and set up and as they've been given the regulations, the the ceremonial rites with regard to s the sacrifices needed for them to enter into communion with God. Now we come to this chapter where Aaron is finally able to enter into the Holy of Holies. Coming as close as possible in that time, in that day, to being in the presence of God Himself Tonight, I want us to see that Jesus Christ atones for and separates sinners from sin. such that they may enter into his Father's glory. Jesus Christ atones for and separates sinners from sin, such that they may enter into his father's glory. We'll see that in three points tonight. Very simply, one priest, one day, and one result. Well, let's begin. One priest In this chapter we see significant limitations. Indeed, there's more than one. But here we're going to focus on one of those limitations, and that was that there was one man who was allowed and enabled to enter into the holy of Holies. We read about that tonight in Hebrews, but I think we need to just review this for a moment to understand what was happening. What was Aaron being called to do? What was he being allowed to do? It's important that we understand the structure, the tent of meeting, so we can know what Aaron was up to. Well, the holy of holies or the most holy place was referred to back in Exodus as Moses was given the pattern for the tent of meeting or the tabernacle Verse 33 of chapter 26, and you shall hang the veil from the clerk clasp and bring the ark of the testimony or the ark of the covenant In there within the veil, and the veil shall separate for you the holy place from the most holy. Or as the New American Standard puts it, the Holy of Holies. And so if we understand the construction of the tabernacle, there were two rooms, so to speak, within the large tent, just two, one being called the holy place. And the other being called the most holy place, and they were separated by a veil. The room, the most holy place, or the holy of holies, was the room, the space in which the Ark of the Covenant or the Ark of the Testimony was placed. Nothing else was in that space. A veil was separating it from the holy place, from the rest of the tent of the meeting of the tabernacle. All other furnishings were in the holy place. Only the Ark of the Covenant was in the Holy of Holies. Now if you remember the Ark of the Covenant, it was described again in in Hebrews, but if we read of it in Exodus We're told that it was a small box, and it was to hold the two tablets of the Ten Commandments. Now the writer to the Hebrews tells us that there was a bit more. A golden altar of incense, excuse me, a golden urn holding a manna, a jar of manna that was saved. And then Aaron's staff that butted along with the tablets of the covenant. This was inside the box of the Ark of the Covenant. And then on top of the box, sat what is referred to as the mercy seat or maybe more appropriately titled the atonement cover. And along with the mercy seat, there were two sculptures of angels, cherubim, looking in. That's what angels do. They so want to look into God's mercy, which triumphs over justice. The two tablets representing the justice of God, the mercy seat of the atonement cover representing the mercy seat, the mercy of God and the angels looking into God's mercy that He has upon His people. When the Ark of the Covenant was not being carried from place to place as it was to be carried on the we're using the poles on the Levites' shoulders, it stayed in the Holy of Holies. Throughout the year, as the priests ministered in the tabernacle in the tent of meeting, none of them None of them would go in the Holy of Holies. All of their ministry took place either outside the tent as they were sacrificing animals or Or inside the holy place, as they ministered before the Lord with incense, with the bread of the presence, or with the lampstand Or possibly bringing some blood in to the holy place. But never, never entering into the Holy of Holies. It couldn't even be looked into. The veil separated it. It was completely shut off. We might be asking ourselves the question why. The Lord told Moses that the Ark of the Covenant was the place where he would meet with Moses. There I will meet with you, from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim that are on the Ark of the Covenant. I will speak with you about all that I will give you in commandment for the people of Israel. This was the place representing the presence of God. And so that's why it's referred to as the Holy of Holies or the Most Holy Place. And only Aaron, the high priest, was allowed to enter in one time per year. Indeed, there are about 49 references in Leviticus 16 to either Aaron or one of the pronouns referring to Aaron, he, his, himself. It's not that it was all about Aaron, but it was all about one person, one priest, one man being able to enter in. to the very representation of the presence of God. But in this way, verse 3, Aaron shall come into the holy place Verse 12, and he shall take before a censor of coals of fire from the altar before the Lord two handfuls of sweet incense, and he shall bring it inside the veil. Verse thirty four. And Aaron did as the Lord commanded Moses. We also saw that in Exodus. Aaron shall make atonement on its horns once a year. No one else. Look at verse seventeen. No one may be in the tent of meeting From the time he enters to make atonement in the holy place until he comes out. No one else. Sort of. The priest was not truly alone, for he always carried He always carried with him the blood of another. He had to. The priest brought the blood of the bull and then the blood of the goat. with him to sprinkle before the Ark of the Covenant. He had to be accompanied by blood And he was chosen and equipped by God for this. Remember, Aaron was a Lev, and it was the Levites who were chosen by God to be priests, to serve before him. Aaron was the first. Thus he was the high priest. Indeed He was also equipped by God. In Exodus chapter 28, we have a whole chapter devoted to the priestly garments and the headdress that Aaron had to wear. You shall make a plate of pure gold engrave on it, like an engraving of a signet, holy to the Lord, fasten it on the turban by a cord. It shall be on the front of the turban, it shall be on Aaron's forehead And Aaron shall bear any guilt from the holy things that the people of Israel consecrate as their holy gifts. One man. Only one allowed to enter into this communion with the living God You see Jesus in this? The one God man. Think of Isaiah 53. It's all about one person. For he grew up before him like a young plant, like a root out of dry ground. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows acquainted with greed. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquity. I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death. And was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession for the transgressors. The prophet Isaiah speaks of one. And Paul says the same thing very explicitly. In 1 Timothy chapter 2, there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. One intercessor, one mediator. And then the writer to the Hebrews. Consequently, he's able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for him. Just One, just Jesus. And no one could enter with him In fact, that's what we saw this morning as we were learning about the upper room discourse in John chapter 13. What was it that Jesus told his disciples? Where I am going, you cannot come. Simon Peter asks, Where are you going? And he answers him again, where I'm going, you cannot follow me now, but you will follow me afterwards. Only one. In fact, no one actually wanted to enter with Jesus. Remember, as Peter was confessing that he would never deny his Lord and Savior, that what he does is he denies him actually to his face. And we have it recorded for us as Jesus was arrested and they all left him and fled. No one could go with Jesus, and indeed no one wanted to go with Jesus. But unlike the priests, Jesus brought no bull and no goat, only his own blood. And he was chosen. He was equipped by God, wasn't he? Just as the high priest was specially chosen of the tribe of Levi, and just as the high priest was clothed in the garments which enabled him to approach the living God, the Lord Jesus Christ. was prepared and was equipped by his father to do all that his father had for him. Think of the contrast between Jesus Christ and the priests. The priest had to be fully clothed, fully garbed. in garments designed by God such that their sin would not flow out of them and offend the holy God. They had to be clothed in the clothes that God had given them. And what clothing was Jesus wearing on the cross at Calvary. Only his righteousness Everything else had been stripped from him. Jesus was fully clothed in his purity, in his righteousness, and the Spirit of God was covering him as he hung. on the cross. Writers of the shorter catechism ask this question Who is the Redeemer of God's elect? They don't ask the question, who are the Redeemers? Who is The Redeemer of God's elect. And the answer is the only Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ. It's only one. This passage that we have tonight before us, this Day of Atonement, screams at us, there's only one Savior. There's only one Redeemer. There's only one. And it's the Lord Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, as you know this, this has got to be taken out to so many who believe that there are so many ways for them to be saved. even if they believe that they have to be saved. Proclaim Christ As our only redeemer to a lost and dying world. It brings us to our next head, and that is one day This is the second limitation. That's a limitation of time. This Day of Atonement was obviously limited only one day of the year. One day out of three hundred and sixty-five days was this one man admitted, able, and even invited to enter into the Holy of Holies That which represented the presence of the Almighty, one day. Only one day was he enabled to enter out of the entire year. Look at verse 34. And this shall be a statute for you, that atonement may be made to the people of Israel once in the year because of all their sins. Exodus 30, Aaron shall make atonement on its horns once a year. Hebrews 9. But into the second only, meaning the holy of holies, the high priest goes, and he but once a year. Think of that. Not more than one day. And only a portion of that day did this one man, this one priest Is he unable to come into the closeness, into the presence of God? No one else, and no other day, at no other time. This most intimate communion, this appearing before the living God, was limited to one portion of one day in the entire year. And again we might be asking ourselves, why was that? We must go back to the sinfulness of man No man, not even the high priest, was sinless. Obviously, the high priest was a sinner. And so, even with all of the preparations Even with all of the ceremonial clothing and garments, even with the anointing oil, even with the blood of the bull and of the goat, even with the burning coals which the incense was spread on top of to create this cloud before before the Ark of the Covenant and the Mercy Seat This one could only stand before the living God for a moment. Long enough. To sprinkle the blood of the bull and of the goat. That's it. One day, one portion of a day to accomplish all that the Lord had for him, the atonement for the entire nation of the people of God. One day to enter into that communion and union. with the living God, just a portion one day. We'll consider the result of this Day of Atonement in a moment. But As we do, I want us to begin to grasp the power of God. For this picture shows us As we think of this limitation of time, this single day in one year, the cleansing power of the Almighty His power is so mighty, so unbounded, so immense, that he is able to cleanse all of his people from the wretchedness of their sin in an instant. Think for a moment how deeply your sin affects you. In the depths of your heart. How hard it is to to wrench it out, to be rid of it Besetting sins are those which continue to plague us, sometimes all of our lives. And yet here is this picture that God is able to overcome the incredible power, the wretched filth, the deadly disobedience and poison from our hearts and minds in an instant. He's able to separate that which resided within the hearts of his children, that is sin, from as far as the east is from the west, in the blink of an eye. And the time it took the priest to sprinkle the blood, the God of creation is removing eternal guilt. That's the picture we're given. And the time that it took to send off the scapegoat, God separated sin from the sinner as far as East is from the West. That was the annual picture given to the nation, that which they would be looking forward to, the power of God Now think of Christ. And think of how His ministry is set forth before us in all of the Gospels. How long did it take Jesus to rid individuals of their sin? It was instantaneous. Remember the paralytics carried by the four men down from the hole cut in the roof as he's lowered down. Jesus Christ sees their faith and he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Immediately, in an instant, just as this is pictured for us in Leviticus chapter 16. Think of the woman Who is washing Jesus' feet with her tears as she's weeping and crying over the joy that she had in her heart He said to her, Your sins are forgiven. In an instant, in one heartbeat, the Savior of the world was able to and did forgive. Because he was headed to the cross. Think of that just for a moment. We have such a contrast given to us. The priests who are going into the Holy of Holies and entering in and providing that atoning sacrificial blood before the Ark of the Covenant, before the representation of the presence of God. The priests on the annual Day of Atonement offered up the sacrificial animals and then were called to appear before God just for mere moments. There was likely some fear and trembling in the hearts of those men as they entered into the most holy place. Place that was cut off. For three hundred and sixty-four days of the year, that day came and likely they were in fear and trembling before God, and yet they did so only once each year, and only for moments. And they could remain in that place for only moments, for they were sinners standing before the representative presence of the living God. There was no suffering Do you see that? There's no suffering described in this passage for Aaron. Nothing. None of the priests suffered. It was the animals. The animals were slain. They suffered under the knife of the slayer. But the priests, the ones who had sinned, didn't suffer. And yet they were being cleansed without suffering It's a picture, it's a type of of a holy nation of priests. Isn't that what Peter writes? You are a a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God Cleansed by the Lord without suffering that which each one had earned And then we have Jesus. It's really the cross. Where the type or the picture of the Day of Atonement comes crashing down, so to speak. Yes, the Day of Atonement described here certainly points to the cross. It points directly to the cross. It needs the cross in order for it to make sense. And the crucifixion, the suffering, and the death of the Lord Jesus Christ did in fact occur on one day. And so there we can see, in a sense, a parallel But that's where the comparison must stop. And that one day Jesus Christ suffered an eternal wrath. He suffered an eternal judgment. And this is likely one explanation for his cry on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The innocent one. For the guilty, the sinless one. For the sinful The moments in the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement turned into an eternity on the Cursed Cross of Calvary. The timeless Son of God in his human nature, suffering in eternal anguish, as he was the recipient of just wrath of his father for each of his children. There was no limitation to the wrath of God for his son. It had to be poured out In the fullness of its strength, so that you spirit from even wander off on the day of judgment. Certainly one of the results is a reminder of sin. The writer to the Hebrews picks this up in chapter ten as he writes of this day of atonement He writes that it had to be continually offered every year. And said in these sacrifices there's a reminder of sins every year. It's not possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. And so this Day of Atonement was an annual reminder of sins. Did the Israelites really need to be reminded? Yes, every year. As the high priest would go and every year the entire nation was being reminded of their sin. Ceremonial rites were not truly washing the Israelites clean, were they? But if they were trusting in God, they they were cleansed. But if they were not trusting in God, they remained in their sins. The blood of bulls and goats did not remove their transgressions. They needed to be reminded. David needed to be reminded. Remember as he sinned with Bathsheba and had her husband killed in battle. He had cast off his sin, hadn't he? Nathan the prophet had to come to him and remind him of what he had done and how that had offended a holy God. And as a result, David writes the Psalm that we know, Psalm 51, for I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. David had to be reminded. And so do we. That's not the only result. Obviously the atonement seems to be the central focus of this entire chapter. Now, you might be asking, well, what does it mean to atone? The Hebrew word seems to have this idea of covering someone's face Go, what does it have to do with atonement? Well, if somebody's upset with you, if somebody's angry with you, if you have hurt somebody, injured someone, if you owe someone something and they're mad about it, well you need to cover their face because you can see the anger in their face. Against you. That seems to be the idea of atonement. Because we've offended God. There's anger, there's wrath. In the face of God, if we can say that. And so he needs to be appeased. Just like Jacob, as he's going back home, right, and he has offended his brother Esau. By taking his birthright. And now he's going back home many years later. What's he do? He sends first a whole bunch of animals. Two hundred female goats, twenty male goats, two hundred ewes, twenty rams, thirty milking camels and their calves, forty cows, ten bulls, twenty female donkeys, ten male donkeys. as an appeasement to cover his face so that he might go home in peace. Daniel. Daniel writes, but seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city to finish the transgression to put an end to sin and to atone for iniquity. The seventy weeks were kind of a substitute for the punishment that they deserved as a result of their sin. That's the idea. To cover over To appease, to make satisfaction And so that's what this day of atonement is all about. For this day, for on this day you shall atonement, for shall shall atonement be made for you to cleanse you. You shall be clean before the Lord from all your sins, verse 30. And the priest who is anointed and consecrated as priest in his father's place shall make atonement And verse thirty-four, and this shall be a statute for you that atonement may be made for the people of Israel once in the year because of all their sins. That was what Aaron was doing. That's what he was picturing. That's what God had commanded him to do. To satisfy, to make satisfaction for all of the offenses of the people of God, all of the Israelites. Satisfy satisfy God's justice. So think of that. Think of yourself as an Israelite watching on the Day of Atonement as Aaron now is coming out of the tent of meeting. Whatever he was using to carry the blood into the Holy of Holies is now empty. And you're watching. And you know that before he went in there was this weight This great weight of your offenses against the holy God were bearing upon you. And now as Aaron walks out of the tent of meeting, now you've been relieved. It's gone. As the people of God looked on as the priest exited the tent of meeting, Now without the blood which he had carried in, the picture of that great weight was being lifted off of their weary souls It's a gift. It was a declaration by God that they've been cleansed. At least for that year. Atonement. Another result was the scapegoat. Now, as we read it, here in the English Standard Version, we read, an Aaron shall cast lots over the two goats, one for the lot for the Lord, and the other lot for Azazel. Well who is Azazel? It's actually a transliteration of the Hebrew word, and there's certainly some uncertainty about the Hebrew word and what it means. The New American Standard translates that word as the scapegoat, which I think is probably appropriate. One goat was used as a sin offering for the people of God. That goat was slain. Its blood was taken into the Holy of Holies. The other goat was also for a sin offering, but it wasn't slain. Hands were placed upon it, in a sense, transferring all of the sins of the people of God to this goat who is now sent off into the wilderness to carry that picture of carrying their sins away from them. It's a picture, it's a type of God separating the sins of his people from them. Gee, it's one thing to atone for sin. It's one thing to satisfy God's judgment for sin. It's another to have your sin separated from you. It's another to be purged of your sin. It's another to have your sin removed and replaced with righteousness. Isn't that what Paul writes of us? He writes to the Church at Rome. How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know That all of us who've been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death. We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death in an order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, We too might walk in newness of life. You see that sin has been separated from us by the work of Christ. And now righteousness stands in his place. And we know that Jesus is the true scapegoat. This is exactly what he does, isn't it? As John the Baptist declares, he saw Jesus coming toward him. He said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. One of the results of the Day of Atonement. And then there's that solemn rest. So we read in verse 31, it is a Sabbath, meaning the Day of Atonement. It is a Sabbath of solemn rest to you, and you shall afflict yourselves. It is a statute forever. Isn't that the end of the atonement? Isn't that the end of the scapegoat? That you enter into rest. It's what the Israelites were called to do. It's what Christ does for us. Come to me, all who are All who labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. You see then the results of the Day of Atonement It's a reminder of sin. It was a blessing of atonement, judgment satisfied. It was sin removed as far as the east is from the west. It is Sabbath rest. That's why the woman was weeping at the feet of Christ. And that's why you're able To also enjoy these things as you think upon what Christ has done on the cross Satisfying the justice of God and separating your sin from you as far as the East is from the West. The result. The one result. That's what the title is, isn't it? To this third head. It's actually the glory of the Father, isn't it? All of these things. Reminder of sin, blessing of the atonement, sin removed as far as the East is from the rest. West, Sabbath rest. It's the glory of God. Isn't that the one result? Isn't that what Jesus Christ did as he went to the cross? As he defeats sin and death, as he's raised from the cross, as he's exalted to the very right hand of God the Father, is that not all the result of God's glory? And is that not what you are able to enter into because of what your Savior has done? Yes, Jesus Christ atones for and separates sinners from sin, such that they may enter into the Father's glory. The weeping woman loved much because she had been forgiven much. All the results of that Day of Atonement are ours tonight, as Christ Jesus has enabled you. To now enter into his father's glory. Amen Father and our God, this chapter is so full, this blessing. And we ask, Lord God, that we would continue to meditate upon it, that you continue to teach us, as once again we have merely scratched the surface. And guide our hearts now, Father, as we rest in Christ. Help us to be Just as joyful as that weeping woman was, who loved her Savior. The Day of Atonement gives us even more reason to love the Lord Jesus Christ. Guide our hearts. To do just that. We ask this