We turn now to the continuing study in the book of Timothy, qualifications for deacon. Timothy chapter 3, verses 8 through 12. Follow along with me as I read the Word of God. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given too much wine. Not greedy for money, holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. But let these also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons Being found blameless. Likewise, their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things Let deacons be the husband of one wife, ruling their children in their own house as well. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing, and great boldness in the faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Now, um, as I was uh uh if you read through this in the King James, the The old King James Version, verse 13, which will be the focus tonight, says that deacons who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a high or a higher standing. And tonight I'd like us to talk about the deacons who are of the higher standing. As we uh as you've undoubtedly heard me say before, and as we read even again tonight. From Matthew chapter 20, verse 28. The word deacon is a noun and a verb. And as a noun, it means a servant. It sometimes will be translated minister. And as a verb, it means to serve. To be uh and so you get uh the very clear idea that uh uh serving is part of the role, the activity of the deacon. And he is serving God as he serves God's people. And he serves God's people in a number of different ways. For now we read that they who have used the office of a deacon well purchase to themselves a good or high degree and great boldness. Now the uh Again, this word deacon not only is a noun and a verb that means serve, but it's most um Its greatest example of one who is the consummate superior deacon is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the one who the scriptures refer to as the one who came not to be ministered unto or Served, deaconed, if you want to use it as a verb, but he came to minister, deacon. He came to deacon, be a deacon to others. Um and to give his life as a ransom for many. This um And so we need to appreciate the fact that the highest expression of a deacon, of a deacon's work, is how the Lord Jesus Christ. Cares for his people. How he serves them, how he takes care of their needs spiritually at the very highest level, and then under that also their physical needs, because the Lord Jesus didn't stop simply with our spiritual needs. He also tended to the physical as well, as those who had many diseases can attest to, and as those who were hungry on the hillsides outside Capernaum. can testify to as well. This word, be a deacon, be a servant. It says that when you remember that how a person serves is also, serves the Lord or serves others, is also a criteria. that the Lord Jesus uses in some cases to let some into his kingdom and to bar others from it. In Matthew chapter 25, and the familiar story that Christ told about the sheep and the goats You might recall that the passage says that those shall say to him, Lord, When did we see you hunger or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison? And did not minister or serve, deacon you. And remember Christ's response. Surely as you've done it unto the least of my brethren, you've done it to me. And the fact that they failed to do so, as you go through that passage, you see that the whole question of their eternal life in Christ was forfeited. They thought they were in good shape, but they really were not servants at heart. So this is a very important concept The Lord Jesus also takes this concept of being a servant and applies it to the New Testament church to describe biblical leadership in the church. He says, in the very words of the Matthew 20 passage, And also it's parallel in Luke 22. He talks about the kings of the Gentiles who exercise authority over their subjects. Um uh they they are the ones who speak and command and it's done They rule them, and oftentimes they rule in a very despotic way, in a very authoritarian way. But Jesus looks at his disciples and he says, You shall not do that. It shall not be said of you. This shall not be the case with you. For he that is greatest among you, let him be the least, and he who is chief, let him be one who serves. For whether is greater he that eats or he that serves, is it not he that eats? But I am among you as one who serves. Again, the whole idea of leading in Christ's kingdom is uh discernible, the greatest leader is the one who is the greatest servant the greatest servant of God and the greatest servant of the people. Ultimately that is Christ. But he allows deacons in a sense to model his ministry in the contemporary church. They are Servants of the Lord and servants unto the people. John chapter 12, verse 25 and 26, Jesus says, If any man serve me, again, there's the word deacon. In the verb form, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. And if any man serve me, If any man do the work of a deacon, him, my father, will honor Him my father will honor. So you have many thoughts coming together with this word servant. You know, when you hear the word servant or you hear the word slave, That those words are looked at very negatively in our culture and probably in many cultures throughout history But in God's kingdom, because Jesus took on the work of a servant for his people, That word is among the highest of words in the most significant, the most important the most honorable words in our Heavenly Father's vocabulary, because it pictures Jesus' ministry to us Which after all is a reflection of the father's love A good servant of the Lord, if he wants to be honored by the Father, if he wants to be great In the Father's eyes, if he wants to receive high status and high praise from God, he will have to reject Every concept of leadership that is contemporary in our society And apparently was contemporary in the Roman society as well, as it ruled over Jerusalem. The deacon will have to make a conscious choice regarding not only who he serves, but how he views what is great. And the choice will be before: will he adopt the world's model of greatness, or will he embrace God's model? And will he serve others like Jesus did, without a thought for payback? Or even honor from those he serves. If he serves well Like Jesus served his father well, and like Jesus served us sinners well, the deacon will have to reject the ways of the world. And will have to reject the world's definition of greatness. And he will have to reject all the rewards the world holds out there for those who are great. The deacon who serves God's well God well must be willing as well to wait Until the end, when the Heavenly Father will reward the deacon, even as the Father rewarded Christ at the end of his ministry. It is at that very point that the deacon will have acquired for himself a high rank. See as it reads here. For they that have used the office of a deacon will purchase to themselves a high degree, a high standard. A high status. A high status. They will have acquired for themselves a place of honor in God's kingdom You remember, interesting thing to think about. The two apostles of Jesus are arguing about having a high place of status in the kingdom of God. And they want to be at God's right hand and at his left. Two apostles after all want this. It appears that the rest of the apostles want it too. Because they're thinking as men tend to think about honor and status But Jesus said to them, along with this whole discourse on greatness and serving, Jesus said to them That place is not mine to give. It is reserved for my father's discretion. And i I begin to wonder if it isn't maybe reserved for some superdeacon somewhere Well, think about it. Some f some faithful deacon in the church. The whole question of understanding the idea of being a servant deacon Uh reaping high praise in God's kingdom is a matter, after all, of a person's heart What is that person's priority, and whom does that person serve are matters which must be addressed. So the person who does serve well in God's kingdom purchases to themselves, and I'm not sure why it uses the word purchase here. This word is only used one other place in the New Testament and it's not helpful to go there and look at it because it de describes it as purchase as well. I'm not sure what they're purchasing But anyway, I'm not sure why they use that word, but it it just focus on what he purchases. Again, a high standard or high status, a high degree, which we've already talked about, being great in the eyes of God. And secondly, great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Now that word boldness is used quite a few times in the New Testament And it is almost always linked to Christ's ministry or one of his apostles' ministry. The first time in the New Testament it shows up is in Mark chapter 8. Beginning in verse 31 and 32. And uh it shows up kind of obliquely here, but it's uh it's important to look at Christ began to teach his disciples that the Son of Man must suffer many things. Recall this was right after, that's right after Peter. uh uh professed Jesus to be the Christ, the Son of the living God. Immediately after that, Jesus began to tell his disciples that he had to go to Jerusalem. that he would be dead he would be crucified by the chief elders and the scribes, and on the third day he would rise again from the dead. And the text says, he spoke to them openly or boldly. He had a very frank discussion with them. Peter At that point, took Jesus aside and began to rebuke him, the passage goes. For speaking so openly and so boldly about his own death, his own demise. And you recall, Jesus looked to his disciples and he rebuked Peter. And he said, get beside me, Satan. For you do not have in mind the things that be of God, but the things that be of men. And I'd just like to make the point. That when Jesus spoke openly, when he spoke boldly, even his friends didn't want to hear what he had to say. And he got criticized for it. And that comes into play in the whole idea of the deacon's work. A similar occasion Of Jesus being criticized for speaking something openly occurs in Matthew 9, verse 23. Where he boldly comes to the house of the ruler. This is not Jairus' daughter. This is another situation in which a ruler's servant is ill. He comes to the house and the ruler's house And the people, there are some people outside singing, and the people are wailing or whatever they're doing, they're making noise. And Jesus said to them, Give me way. For she is not dead, but is sleeping. All this he spoke openly. He spoke boldly. And you know what the next phrase says? They laughed him to scorn. When you speak boldly the things for the Lord, you may get criticized. You may reap other people's disdain, and that may even come from friend or foe. And I would submit to you that there are times in the work of the deacons where they must speak boldly. Even though they may reap some scorn, or some they might experience some blowback from their friends But by and large, this word boldly has another important connection. It is more frequently used in the New Testament to characterize The way in which the disciples and the apostles spoke about the gospel Peter on Pentecost says to his audience, Men and brethren, let me speak boldly unto you. Peter and John, before the Sanhedrin, begin testifying about Jesus. And that they sent Hedron, the chief priests, and the scribes in Acts chapter 4, verse 13, it says, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled, and they took knowledge of them and remembered that they had been with Jesus. See, boldness accompanies basically their preaching, the ministry that they're bringing. Later on, Peter and John are threatened to shut up. And then they'll be let go. And they say They say to the Lord, Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak thy word. And and we see that not just with um Others that we know of who are effective evangelists, we see that with people who are suffering. You know, they're they got a gun pointed to their head and they're uh they're saying renounce the faith and they won't do it and they will testify to the truth Where does that boldness come from? It comes from the Lord. And it comes particularly from His Spirit. Those who were praying for Peter and John, remember there was a group in Jerusalem that were praying for their release. Or praying for their welfare. And it says that Peter and John showed up at the door where they were praying. And it says the place was shaken where they were assembled together. They were filled with the Holy Spirit. And they all spoke the word of God with boldness. Again, associated with sharing the gospel, proclaiming the gospel. Barnabas speaks of Paul in Acts chapter 7, verse 27, Acts chapter 9, verse 27 and following, right after Paul had become a Christian said he shared with others how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus Christ. And it just there's so many other incidences as Paul begins his ministry, actual go going and visiting various churches and establishing new churches He goes to Iconium and said that there he spoke boldly in the Lord. At Corinth, Acts chapter 18, verse 26, he spoke boldly in the synagogue. Acts chapter 19, verse 8. Paul goes into the synagogue, and he spoke boldly for the space of three months. regarding the things concerning the kingdom of God. In Acts chapter 3, verses 11 and 12, he talks about where the boldness comes. He says there according to this eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence by faith of him. that he asked the Ephesian church to continue to pray for him, that he might open his mouth boldly and make known the mystery of the gospel. In the Philippian church, almost all the churches Paul works in, he he refers to either a prayer request or he actually does speak with boldness. Philippians 1 20 According to my earnest expectation and hope that of nothing I shall be ashamed but that with boldness, as always So now also Christ shall be magnified in my body whether I live or I die. So our text again, he Who serves well as a deacon obtains for himself a high status, a high standing in God's presence in the faith, and he obtains great boldness. Now, he obtains that high standing because he chooses the way of God, the way of obedience And the way of kingdom service over the false values of the world. He chooses to be a servant like Jesus And for his kingdom's sake. And as God honors his son, so he will honor all. Deacons or any of his people. Who seek to serve God first and serve the interests of his kingdom and his people. And the deacon is promised also great boldness in the faith, which is in Christ. He's promised to grow in his ability to testify to the gospel and to speak to others, witnessing to them about Jesus Christ. Even if he endures scorn from his friends. for doing so. Why does the deacon need that boldness in his ministry as he serves others? Well, it's because the ministry of the deacon is a whole, not that other ministries aren't in the church, but it's a holistic ministry. By that I mean it is not just to minister to people's physical or material needs. If that's all it was, we might as well have a welfare system in the church. But a deacon's Most important ministry is to boldly give those he's speaking to the eternal bread of life, the Lord Jesus Christ. And exhort them to feed on him. First and foremost, for that the deacons need boldness. They need faith in Christ as they serve him May God bless the ministry of the Word. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that You will continue to give to the church men who are qualified to serve as deacons, who have the heart, For the things of your kingdom. They have the heart and they make the things of your kingdom their priority. in life. But they make the sharing of the gospel with others. Their fervent desire, recognizing, Lord, that people have a multitude of needs Those needs range in the spiritual side and also in the material side. And Lord, that as there are there is means to do that ministry, we pray that You will bless our deacons with our deacons and the deacons of the church faithful. You will bless them with fruitful ministries. We do ask these things in Christ's name, and we pray, Lord, that you will give us other deacons. In Christ's name, amen.