Our passage today uh comes from Romans six. This uh Q Bibles uh one thousand one hundred and twenty. Romans chapter six. We're gonna look at the the first eleven verses Romans 6, 1 through 11. The Apostle writes, What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in a death like this, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. for one who has died has been set free from sin. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin. And alive to God in Christ Jesus. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Please have a seat. Friends, um I want to look at this uh uh this passage in Romans uh through one question. Okay, I wanna I wanna I wanna set this up. I wanna set up the application. Just one question. How do we how do we send less? Right. I think that's uh uh pertinent to to to everyone, right? That we love God, that we want To be grateful to him, that we want to live a life that is pleasing to him. That he has opened our eyes to see that the precepts, the commands, the standards, all of it that is for our good That non-believers will sit there and be like, you really believe in this stuff, right? That you really do this. You are wasting your time. How can your good, your best, come out of constraint? come out of adherence or obeying something else. But we who have been opened, uh touched by the Spirit, that have been renewed in mind and in soul, we know that His law is good, it is perfect, it it it revives her soul. But sin still remains, doesn't it, right? That the battle still continues. How do we sin less? Let me say it a different way. You know that the direction of the Christian life, the progression, the aim of the Christian life is to be more holy. Right to become more and more like Christ, to eradicate uh sin from our earthly lives. How do we how do we do that? As as um Puritan John Owen famously wrote, uh be killing sin or it will be killing you. How do we do that? Understand how Paul has led into this section, you know that um for our church we've been going through this this epistle um and so we've been we've been I've been preaching through it um Verse by verse, chapter by chapter, but for for you, I'm just dropping you in here. And so understand how Paul is kinda the context in which we find this, he has written extensively about the doctrine of justification. By faith, right? What is justification? Justification is an act of God's grace, whereby He does two things: He pardons us and He accepts us He forgives us, and then he clothes us with Jesus' righteousness, and he accepts us in that so much so that when he looks at us, He sees his beloved son, right? Now, um understand that justification is everything that is outside of us, right? Everything that is over us. We contribute nothing to the process. It is all God forgiving us and receiving us. And so in that justification, that doctrine doesn't deal with The sinner in us, right? It doesn't deal with what's on the inside. It only deals with what's on the outside. That's why uh Martin Luther described a Christian as simultaneously just and a sinner, right? And therein lies that dissonance. I think that's where the struggle is, because we know that the gospel produces radical change, right? We are changed inside, out, sinners to saints, children of wrath to children of God. To being enemies Of God to being loved by Him. We know that this is the gospel power, as well as we know that God doesn't promote or condone a continuing life of sin. And yet the reality is that we still do sin, right? We still struggle with it. And so what are we to do, right? What are we to do? I think the Bible is clear we will never attain sinless perfection in this life. Nonetheless We are to strive to put away all these sinful desires. Therefore, we're talking about not about sinlessness but about sinning less, right? How do we how do we do that here uh in this sh sixth chapter, uh Paul provides multiple steps into this one topic, but for today I'm just gonna go through the first one. Alright? Um it's quite simple. It's quite profound. I mean admittedly at my home church as I was studying for this I was tempted to do this whole sixth chapter in one fell swoop because it all kind of fits together. Uh 'cause uh this first part is so simple. And yet as I studied it, I was like, no, no, no. I need to put this out there isolated by itself so that you can just marinate in this. Right? And then uh I'm coming back next week, Lord willing, and I'll give you the rest. Right? For today, we're just going to kick this off with the first and vital step. Alright. And so let's begin there. Let's start with what is sin. What are we talking about? When we talk about sinning less, let's define what sin is. A shorter catechism, a divine sin is this, any want of conformity unto or transgression of the law of God. Right? Want of conformity unto, meaning you want something, that there is a disparity, that there is a lack of something, meaning you are not aligned with God. You are not doing all fully what He has told us to do. And then transgression of, meaning straight up violating it, straight up crossing it, right? Uh I think uh most of you know this. This is Omission is the things that we neglect to do that God has called us to do, and commission is doing the opposite of what He has taught us. But plainly speaking, when we're talking about sin, what we are talking about is the standard of God, right? This is how uh one of the things that we have to press home, especially to our young ones, sin is not just murder and theft and lying and all these things. Those bad things are sin, yes, and it's easy to see, but it's also not doing what he has told us to do. You know, as I preach in other reformed congregations, I have to press this home, friends. Grace is a command as well Right? We love our theology. We love correct doctrine. Hospitality, compassion, forgiveness. tenderness, all these things, all these unquantifiable things, right? If I if I steal money If I cheat on my wife, that's quantifiable. You can see that. But not extending grace, mercy, love, kindness, compassion. Those are also commanded of us as well. That's what we're talking about with sin. When it's disordered in that way. Sure, the nasty stuff, the bad stuff, but also when we do it the right thing in the wrong way. or the right thing but over too much of it. All these things we are talking about is sin. Plainly speaking, what are we talking about with sin? We're talking about the first commandment, right? No other gods. He says whatever uh goes and and and that's That's what it is. Friends, church, uh uh uh Jesus didn't save you, so you can live however you please, right? He saved you so that he can you can live however he says so You know, um before um I got first ordained in the PCA, uh my first call as an ordained minister was uh uh a youth pastor of um uh it's a pretty big uh Korean American church. Right. Uh uh we had about a hundred and sixty students from middle school and high school and I was in in charge of all those things. Man, kids these days you just It's just weird, right? Like it's not it's not the same. I used to help out youth ministry when I was in college and then like you know I stepped away and then I did seminary and then I came back and I'm like, oh I know how to do this, right? Like like it's riding a bike, but then I'm trying to like like like like poke them and prod them and do stuff and they won't do any of the stuff that I used to like where I thought that would work. I'm pulling a lever and it's not supposed to doing what it's supposed to do. So with these kids, these studious Maryland suburban competitive kids, right? That academically driven, you know what I did? I I got locked them in a room, I gave them all paper and pen, I told them to write something And they sat there and they wrote it. It was incredible. I I didn't I that wasn't my first resort because I hated doing this when I was in youth group. I would have never done this, right? I forgot what the prompt was. I forgot what the prompt was, but I just wanted to see their answers and one answer to this particular writing exercise I still remember One of the girls uh she was so honest because, you know, like no one's gonna read except me and she said, Um, I believe in God. I believe that he exists. You know, I believe he's out there and stuff and I believe all this is true is just I don't want to be serious with my faith right now You know? I just want to go do my own thing. And then when I get older, after I've experienced life, after I've done things, then I'll come back You know what's so profound about that is she had it right. She just interpreted it wrong. She had this kingship right, right? Because yes Believing in God, you lose your independence. That's correct. That's why she didn't want to submit all of herself. What's incorrect is that she thought there was life out there By herself, which she didn't understand. But I I bring all that up to say that's what we're talking about, sin. What he says goes, right? It's not just the bad stuff, it's not just the neutral stuff. It could be good stuff used in the wrong way. He says go, right? And if we're being honest with ourselves It's really hard to live that out, right? To live out, to live in in subjection to him. That's why we continually struggle with sin, right? And so, um, what are we to do, friends? What are we to do You know oftentimes people just this is uh why I think people walk away from the faith. It it's too it's too hard so they don't want to keep failing. Or they like turn it into they move the goalposts and it's like oh it is what it is I'll accept it. Jesus accepts me on all my failures. Kinda, I guess, right? But but look at what are we to do with this? What are we to do with this sin? What are we to do with this remaining rebellion and corruption? Look at verse two Look at verse two in our passage here. What does Paul say? Are we to just continue to sin so that his grace may abound? He says, by no means. And here it is How can we, who died to sin, still live in it, right? That's the solution. It says, we have died to sin in Christ. We have died to sin. Friends, I want you to note the wording of verse 2. It's not that we have died of sin. Right? Because that means something different. It's not that we have died for sin or that we have died in sin. No, we have died to sin. What does Paul mean by this, that we have died to sin? Because it sure seems like sin is still alive in my life, right? What does it mean that we have died to sin? Let me tell you what it doesn't mean first, right? It's not that we no longer sin. That's not true, right? If we're being honest with ourselves, we still sin. It's no longer that we don't want to sin. No, I there are many times that I still want to sin I still want to take control of my life. I still want to do what I want to do, right? It is not that sin has no more power or influence over our lives. No, no, no. It feels very strong to me at times, right? Somebody does something this stuff comes out and you're like, oh shoot, I why is that still in there? I thought I I got rid of this stuff. It's not what that is. But it's also not what is theologically correct. It's not that we are dying to sin daily. Even though that is true, that's not what Paul means here. We have not renounced sin. We have renounced sin as we profess faith in Christ, but that's not what Paul means here. It's not that we are no longer guilty of sin. Friends, praise be to God that the condemnation, right? Death has lost its thing in Jesus. But that's not what Paul Paul's talking about here, right? What does that mean when we have died to sin? What Paul is talking about is a transfer. He he's talking about a a transfer of realm, a transfer of kingdom, a transfer of dominion in Adam, right? All of us are born in Adam and what happens sin reign, death. reigns in Adam. Right? But when when Paul writes that you have died to sin, now it means we have been transferred from Adam into Christ's kingdom where grace reigns now. That's what he means. He's talking about a positional difference. And the best way that I can I can think about this is is is athletes and being traded to a different team, right? You're wearing a different uniform. You have uh a new coach. Right? A new owner of a team, new facilities, a new location, new teammates, new colors even. Like everything has changed positionally. That's What he means, right? That we have been we're switched from in Adam to in Christ. How did this happen? It's because as believers, we are united to Christ. Look at verse 3. This is why Paul talks about baptism, right? Do you not know? That all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death. Why does he talk about Baptism here. Simply put, he's not talking about the water. He's not talking about the mode of baptism. He's referencing baptism because it's another way of saying this is a true believer. Right? Because baptism means to be identified with something, to be immersed with something. Right? That's why in First Corinthians ten, uh Paul writes, I don't want you to be unaware, brethren. That our fathers, back in the wilderness wandering, talking about the Old Testament area. What does he say there? He said, all of us were baptized into Moses. When you mean baptized into Moses, it means that you have identified with Moses, right? Moses is your priest. Moses is your representative. And you identify with him. And in a similar way, but a much more significant way, we have been baptized. We have been identified. We have been spiritually immersed in Christ. That's how we have changed, right? Not about the water. It's not about the act. It's not about the right Believers are baptized into Christ, into his person. You are bound with him. You are in covenant with him. You are united with him, and you are the beneficiary of all that he has accomplished on the cross, right? This expression is about our union, our solidarity with Christ, and all of that comes by faith, right? We haven't transferred into him, right? And so here it is. Here it is. How do we sin less? How do we sin less, right? Look at verse 11. All of this has happened. And I think you have good pastors, yeah. I think many of you have been taught this about union with Christ, right? But then let's get practical here because the sin, I don't know about you, but if you're anything wrong to me, I get so broken up sometimes over this, right? Right? How do we sin less? And this is why I isolated it here. Look at verse 11. He says, so you also must consider yourselves dead to sin. and alive to God. Right? That's what that means. That word consider means to reckon It means to count it. It means to put it in your leisure, right? In chapter four, uh Paul quotes the Old Testament. He said, Abraham believed God, and it was considered, counted, reckoned to him as righteousness. And in the same way that God did for For Abraham, you are supposed to do that for yourself. You know what the weird thing about this is though? If you're skeptical like me, you start thinking, okay, fine, I start thinking about this You just I just gotta think about it. I just gotta consider it. That that's it. But but here's where I want to drive this hole for us, right? Understand that 611 is the first command that Paul gives in this entire letter from beginning to end. This is the first one. For five chapters and change, he has been talking about the glories of the gospel, about the calamity of sin, and how God has rescued And then here, if you're anything like me, it's like, okay, give me something to do now. I got all this theology. I want to overcome this sin. Give me something to do. And he starts with, think about it. Think about what Christ has done for you. Think about your union with Him, right? When we talk about united, that means it's very real. First, we were united to Adam, meaning in the garden, as he transgressed and as he disobeyed God, he reached out that fruit and he ate it. You're united to Adam in so much that it's as if you ate it yourself. And then here in chapter 6, he says that by faith that we have been transferred into the realm in the kingdom of Jesus, so that when he died, it's as if you went into that grave And when he resurrected, it's as if you came back alive as a new life. That's what he talks about throughout this all of it. And what's the first thing we gotta do? Learn theology? Go to church more? Pray more? Live out all these things? No, when we have to die to sin He says first you think about it, consider it, reckon it, count it as done, over and done with. This is the new you Now, let me drive it home like this. You know, as I was I was thinking and researching about this, again, I'm like, what does this have to do with anything? How does this practically help me? It's fascinating to me when I research psychology and it echoes and mirrors the ancient wisdom of scripture, right? Here's what I found out. There's this thing called identity-based habits. The the premise is how come people lose weight easier? How come people go to the gym easier? How come people can change their habits and be disciplined like this while others struggle so much? Right? Some people are like, okay, January first, I'm gonna be uh healthy this year and I'm gonna go to the gym. Some people they last for two weeks. Some people they can stick with it and they're like, what is the difference between those two people? Is it just greater willpower for some people and less. And here's what what what what what neurologists, what psychologists have have said is that studies have shown linking behaviors to self identity increases motivation and activates regions of the brain involved in goal pursuit and self-regulation. If I were to code this, it's like, aren't we pursuing holiness? Aren't we trying to discipline ourselves to sin less and to obey God more? These, in a practical sense, these are habits too. How come some people make it easier to obey than others, right? It says uh this study is about self-identity It's a self-concept, the way you view yourself, reinforces bad habits or good habits, right? So here's the bad way. When we say things like, you know, I'm just a person who procrastinates. I've never been good with routines. Or these thoughts, these things shape uh our behavior and make it harder to change, right? They become a part of the script and our brain runs on repeat, it says. But on the flip side, if those bad things are true, then psychologists also say the Good things are true as well. And that's how you build lasting habits that don't just let stick for a time. And how that happens is you have to start seeing yourself differently. Start telling a new story, one that where desired habits sit, who they are, not just something that they're trying to force. And they give you an example. So let's say you want to become uh uh somebody who writes in your journal more constantly or something like that, or more consistently. If you say, you know, I'm just I'm trying to write every day, you know, I think it's good for me, I'm trying to write every day You're still framing it as somebody who doesn't write, who's trying to write. So what these uh psychologists say is change the way you view yourself What are you now? You're a writer. And what do writers do? They write. Do you see the wisdom of what Paul is saying? It's so simple. It sounds Dumb. It sounds no practical good, right? But where does he start? He starts with your identity. You are dead to sin now. You are united to Christ now. And in that, what does a person who is revived, united to Christ, do? We sin less. Isn't that amazing, right? It it taps into this. In fact, it says that when you change your identity The positive thing happens where your brain, your neurons, they defend you and they defend that self-conception. Perhaps what Paul is getting at here is we start there. We're not sinners who have been revived. What does the New Testament call us? Calls us saints. Are you a saint? You wouldn't call me a saint if you knew all the thoughts. and things that I did. Then why why why does the Bible call us that? Is it just lip service? Is it us trying to be positive? No, that is who you are now in him. United to him. Do you believe that about yourself? That's where the battle starts. It starts with identity. It starts with self-conception. And that's why Paul begins uh to tell us to do anything with that. Consider it. Think about it. Friends, I'll be back here next week. And so for for this next week, let's just try this exercise. Driving to work when you're at alone at home with your thoughts right before you go to sleep. Uh when you're you know, whatever you're doing and you have time to yourself Think about it. I am Christ. I am united to. I am dead in my sin. I all the The things that I've done has been paid for. When Christ sees me, he sees me as his beloved daughter, his beloved son. That I am a saint. I am no longer a sinner. That's where this comes from. This is not just some fake, dumb, positive thinking or whatever it is. This is a spiritual reality that we need to sear it into our brains. Again, as I said, so simple and yet so profound, isn't it? Because this is um Lanham, we're close to DC. Y'all y'all associate with DC, right? Let me let me um uh let me tell you let me close with an amusing thing that I remember. Uh do you know who Bryce Harper is Yeah. He's a baseball player, he used to play for the Nationals, right? And then um uh baseball you you play for like seven years and then that that's where you make the big bucks, right? For seven years you're You're you're you're nobody and and and and and because of the collective bargain agreement you don't make any money. But then the superstar after after seven years of stuff, the money explodes, right? But nationals they don't want to pay him. So he left in free agency, he signed for three hundred million dollars for for the Phillies, right? And then you know what you do with big time people like this, right? Not role players, not small players, but with Big time prayers. You get the press, you go to the stadium and a beautiful day, and you put the jersey on them, the owner's there, the GM's there, and then they do a little press conference, right? And Bryce Harper's out there and he's is in Philadelphia, in their stadium, and he's you know, he's he's showing how excited he is to be a Philly and He's saying all the cliche stuff like, you know, I'm gonna give it 110% and stuff like that. And you know what he says? He says, I'm gonna give it my all to bring a championship to Washington, DC. And he gasped. The funniest part is that was twenty seventeen when the Nats actually won the World Series the year after. But my point is old habits, it dies hard, doesn't it, right? Even this kid, I think he he went to high school or junior college in in Los Nevada, Las Vegas or whatever. But he's been here living, you know, probably like Ashburn or something, but living around here for seven years, right? For he's been with the Nationals for seven years. He wasn't grown. He wasn't born here Right? But it was ingrained in him as his identity. Three hundred million dollars and TVs and press and everything. That doesn't change what you're used to like this. Why do we have to consider think over and over again? Because if if that doesn't work for him, right? Or even think about it in yourselves, right? For you ladies who are married, you have been that last name longer than you have been your mom's last name, right? I remember my first time I uh uh somebody called me Pastor John. I'm like I'm like who's that? Oh me Right? Now when young kids call me John, I'm like this disrespect, you know you know what I'm saying Identity change doesn't happen overnight. I think that's the wisdom, the simplicity of the wisdom in this. Think about it over and over again. Who are you? You are dead to sin. You're alive in Christ. That you are his, that you are united to him. His resurrection, your resurrection. When God sees you, he knows all about your sin, but he doesn't see that. He sees the perfection of his son that is clothed on you. It's not that God needs to see it or believe it. It is you need to see it and believe that about yourself. That is what faith in Christ has done. That is how God treats us. Let's pray. Friends, I'll give you some time to respond. Sit with that thought. What does that mean to you? All of us live different lives, struggle with different things But it's abundant grace that you have died to all of that. Some of us we sin. By taking the power out of the gospel. We can't believe it. At times we're too prideful, we don't want to believe it. But you have died to it. He has paid for it. And you have renewed. That is who I am. Think and respond in prayer for a little bit and then we'll close with a hymn of response.