Now I'd ask you to turn to God's Word through 1 Timothy 5 verses 17 through 25. 1 Timothy 5 verses 17 through 25. And the concentration of our verses tonight will be 1 Timothy 5, 19 through 21. Let us uh hear God's word. Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor. Especially those who labor in the word and doctrine, for Scripture says, You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain, and the laborer is worthy of his its wages. Do not receive an accusation against an elder except from two or three witnesses. Those who are sinning rebuke in the presence of all, that the rest also may fear. I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that you observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing with partiality Do not lay hands on anyone hastily, nor share in other people's sins. Keep yourself pure. No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for your stomach's sake and your frequent infirmities. Some men's sins are clearly evident, preceding them to judgment, but those of some men follow later. Likewise, the good works of some are clearly evident, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden. Thus far is the reading of God's Word. And uh last week uh we were discussing uh Timothy's uh the instructions of the Apostle Paul to Timothy in the church. regarding how the church is to, the the members of the church are to interact with the elders of the church and how the elders of the church interact with the members as well. And we saw that this is part of a pattern, a recent pattern of Paul's uh uh instruction to Timothy uh because he's been dealing with uh the interaction between the church and various groups that would be typical in any particular congregation. He talks about younger and older men and how Timothy is to view them. and how he is to utilize them in the life of the church. He talks about discerning the difference between young widows and older widows and which of those categories is is a suitable subject for diaconal assistance and what kinds of uh uh What kinds of things that ought to be seen when you're thinking about giving diaconal assistance to widows? And then we began this discussion about elders and talking about elders ruling well in the Word and in the doctrine. But uh tonight we're going to look at some more instructions dealing with elders and the people in the church. And These instructions have to do with how do the people in the church interact with an elder who might be wrong Who could be wrong in doctrine or in the way in which he's living his life? And surely this subject comes up in the life of the church. And surely there are many different ways to deal with it, but there's only one way to deal with it correctly. When it happens. And that's that one way which we will be looking at tonight. Verse 19. Against an elder received not an accusation. But before two or three witnesses. This uh This kind of uh statement from the Apostle Paul, uh, I cannot help but chuckle. It it must be Clear in Paul's own ministry that he's often been the victim of people not following this, this exhortation. It's also pretty clear that Paul is a realist about life in the church, that there will be people who will not always be on board with the elders. activity with the elders leaning and teaching. And s sometimes in Paul's case Uh there the the accusations are made uh that um that really do not have merit. They're unfounded. Uh people don't like what they're hearing They don't like how it's being presented. They have a personality conflict with Paul. Apparently Paul was a strong, had a strong personality and was not shy about being direct with people. And someone might have taken offense. But as you think about this, it does clearly indicate that there will be conflict within the church There will be conflict caused by differences in personality and differences in understanding of doctrine or theology. And those those those conflicts are real and they need to be addressed. They cannot just be put on the back burner to simmer with the hope that they will go away. Because, you see, there are conflicts And the reason that there are conflicts is that everyone in the church is not perfect. Everyone in the church is in someplace along the the the line of progressive sanctification They don't all have the same understanding. They aren't all reading their Bibles on a regular basis, and the Spirit isn't always applying the Word of God consistently to people's lives. And oftentimes we act sometimes out of frustration, sometimes out of anger. We let the old man Rise up, and if you have a problem with somebody, particularly an elder in the church, and that problem isn't being addressed You can just imagine how that anger is going to constantly be simmering, and one day it'll reach the boiling point. Now here Paul i Paul is very careful about the words that he chooses. He uh talks about An elder that, and and I believe here he is uh addressing Timothy and the rest of the leadership of the church, and he's saying to that Leadership in the church, you should not receive an accusation against an elder except by two or three witnesses. Now, if you can imagine how easily uh this one uh goes by the wayside, oftentimes People believe that they are, sometimes people believe that they are the saviors of the church. And that such a person has said something really, really so horrible, or they haven't said it exactly, that rings the bells of the individual who's who's uh complaining. Um and they feel like, well, we have to uh we have to we have to correct this man. We have to go on the the what's called the heresy hunt And make sure that everybody's towing the correct theological doctrinal line. And sometimes, you know, um I admit it, and I know others who have admitted, you come out of seminary in particular and where you live in a kind of an ivory tower kind of world. It's a great world, but it's not real. I mean, where in the world are you going to be with people, many, many people who know the Bible much better than you do? And they're all that way. You know, and and that isn't going to exist in the normal congregation in the church. And uh and you're you have the luxury of talking about theology, but you don't you don't often see seminary professors at home with their families and how they interact with their families or how how seminary students interact with their with their families. You don't see all that head knowledge getting worked out in life A lot of it comes, maybe by God's grace it comes later in a person's life. But Here we're kind of dealing with a normal kind of church situation where an accusation is being made. And that word accusation Generally has the connotation of a sin and a public sin. A public sin. By public sin, I mean either it's a sin that is known to several individuals For example, when I just read that thing about 1 Corinthians, you know, there's a public sin, even though it was a private sin that was committed between the man and the wife, it appears very clear that the entire or good portion of the church knew about it. Okay, so that's that's one way in which to understand a public sin. Another way to understand what constitutes a public sin Is uh maybe not the entire church knowing about it, but it's been the the the the the uh the the sin itself has been committed in the general public, maybe not within the church, but outside the church in the general public. And not necessarily known to anybody in the church, but certainly known to outsiders. For example, you can think about some of the The rash of problems that certain ministers had a few years ago with Ungodly sexual activity. That wasn't n necessarily done within the church. I'm talking about some prominent ones, and you could probably know who I'm talking about. But it was done to another person out or per group of people outside the church And that outside community of unbelievers generally may have known about it. But the church didn't. So This word accusation has envisioned an elder who has committed some sort of public offense. Some sort of sin. Or you hear that an elder has done that It is very clear that what Paul is going to lay out here for how to approach and how to deal with that, it's clear that he follows the pattern that the Lord Jesus Christ. laid out in Matthew chapter 18. And I'm talking about, you probably remember the discipl the pattern. The pattern is this If you have a sinful problem with another person who you believe has committed offense with you, the first thing you do is you go and you talk about him behind his back. No? Why do I see that happening a lot, you know? No. I'm just being f facetious. I'm being sarcastic. The first thing you do is you go and talk to the person facing you. Face to face. Right? And then i if uh the um okay, um first of all you go to face to face. You confront and if he listens, you've won your brother. If he makes he says, Yes, I'm wrong, uh And he repents, you've won your brother. If, however, he disagrees or he doesn't repent, then you bring someone else along. And you bring At least two witnesses. They're not necessarily witnesses to the sin, although they could be, but they're witnesses to how the interaction goes, how the discussion goes. What is the what you know witnesses to uh to try to discern if uh truth has been spoken and how truth was related, was reacted to. And then if again, if you've uh if if there's reconciliation, that's great. You stop the matter, you don't proceed any further. But if there's not. Then you take the matter to the church, it says, but in a Presbyterian system, that means you take it to the leadership of the church And generally speaking, in other churches, you would take it to the leadership of the church, and there, even there, Those that leadership should not listen to the accusation unless this process has been followed. Unless there are two or three witnesses who are willing to come along with the individual offended and bear testimony to the fact that yes, this was said, yes, this was done, that sort of thing Otherwise, you're you're opening up the leadership of the church for uh disfrontled people who who are upset because you don't have the s same agenda that they have. And and that could be, you know The church could find the leadership of the church could constantly find itself trying to resolve conflicts that should have been resolved at a lower level, spending its time there. And believe me. Discipline cases take an ordinate amount of time. And an ordinate amount of time and an ordinate amount of energy. Because they're usually complicated. So again, that idea that we take two or three witnesses along That's something that Matthew 18 Jesus told Peter. That's how you establish the truth of a matter. But even before that, God told his church in the Old Testament. But that's the way you establish the truth of matters, is you take two or three witnesses along. Deuteronomy chapter 19. Verse 15 is where you can find that exhortation. Okay. After there's been this This evaluation that goes on, it goes further in verse 20, them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear. Again, I think it's really important to be careful here for many reasons. Wherever there is sin, there could be rebuking that accompanies it But that rebuking may not necessarily have to be public. It is public in the case of 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Paul made it public. And he had reasons for doing that. But sometimes the offense is not public. Sometimes it's just private. Sometimes it's just between you and me. And if there has been a confession of sin, you might go to that person and say to that person, well, in Christ's name I receive your uh your your your confession as a uh uh as a as genuine, but I think you also ought to understand that uh there are consequences of your sin Number one, and number two, consequences to you, but also consequences to me, and consequences to anybody else you've done, or you've said this to, or done this to. So you could say that rebuking could attend to any sin that has been confessed. But in this particular case, given the context in which this is found, and the public nature, I mean it's found in the context of elders. And if there is an elder who has committed a public sin, who repents of it, there is warrant for publicly rebuking him. For the simple reason that he's held to a higher standard. He represents Christ. He has made vows to God to the effect Of maintaining his purity before God and the rest of the world So these are these are things to keep in mind. The public rebuke is essential if there is an elder involved who has committed a public sin. Does all that kind of make sense? Every sin is detrimental to the life of the believer. It's detrimental on the believer who has committed the sin. Because unless he repents, he has no right To continue to profess his faith as a believer. And he needs to be awakened to the fact that sin has clouded his mind. And his understanding of things. Proverbs chapter 4, verses 14 and 15 say this. Enter not into the path of the wicked and go not in the way of evil men. Avoid it Pass by it, turn from it, and pass away. Isaiah chapter 3, verse 11 writes, Woe to the wicked, it shall be ill with him For the reward of his hands shall be given him. We don't always know within the congregation of God's people who are the tares and who is the wheel. We don't always know who the goats are and who the sheep are. And so sin in the life of the tear or in the life of the goat Needs to be rebuked for his own good. To warn him that if he continues on that path, eternal ill is coming down upon his head. For he will be subject to judgment. All sin is detrimental to the rest of the body of Christ. As we read in that 1 Corinthians chapter 5 passage, there was only one guy who was committing incest in the church of all things. There's only one guy who was doing that. But it had the effect on the rest of the people in the church to change their perception of what was right and wrong. Instead of being incensed that this was going on in the church, as Paul puts it, you were puffed up. And you sh and he says that uh ha y have y you have not rather mourned That who did this deed might be taken away from you. They did, they let it go. They let him remain in good standing. And as a result It didn't give that man the things that he needed to repent, but it also didn't give the church, it let the church think, well, he can get away with it, we can too. And what are we as human beings going to gravitate toward? Get away with as much as we think we can. In our sinful nature, that's the way we go. This becomes a very real temptation. Paul said in that 1 Corinthians 5 passage I want you to turn this man over to Satan. Deliver him for the destruction of his flesh. That his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, what he's saying there is that this man's sin is a very fleshly Sin. And he needs to be turned over to Satan, which is out of the church, into the world. Where he no longer has the support of the fellowship of believers. He's no longer under the discipline of hearing the word of God out of the church, into the world, into the world of Satan, who has control over the world. So that he might learn to have his, he might have his fleshly lusts destroyed. He might, in a sense, come to his senses. He might begin, like the prodigal son, to learn that eating in the pig sci of the world's life, fighting pigs for food is not as good as what he had it with his father's home. And certainly it's not as good as he has it in the church. So that his spirit might be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. And I want you to understand that Though we have on occasion had to turn someone over to Satan. We call that excommunication in the church. Though we have done that. We have not done that as the first resort. It is always after a prolonged effort to bring that person back And it's not pleasant. But why do we do it? Because we really believe that that's the way God chooses To get through to some sinners. And we hope for their repentance. We pray for their repentance. We pray for God to bring them to their senses and cause them to long for the good fruit of the fellowship of God's people. Under God's word. He went on in that same passage. He says, Your glory is not good. Those guys who were puffed up and bragging about this guy, getting away with it. He says, Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leavens the whole lump Well, many of you ladies, I'm sure, can talk to us about the leavening power of leaven. I hope. I'm sorry, Dan. You're correct. The man who makes the the great chocolate cake. Any baker can tell you about the leavening power of leaven. Sins that are persistent, without repentance, and public demands that the elders address those sins. And if necessary, apply discipline for the reasons above Bring the sinner under use the means that God has given to the church to hopefully bring the sinner to repentance. Save and protect the rest of the flock by being influenced by sin. And thirdly This is a great dishonor to the name of Jesus Christ. We want to preserve his good name as much as possible. especially when those who are well known and well associated with the gospel, for whatever reason, for a season of time, commit public sin and refuse to remain. repent. It has to be addressed. The church has to take action. It can and if the the the uh and if the sin is of such a nature Such a public nature, the form of discipline must be public. And it must be a public rebuke. It can be no less whether it's a member of the church or an elder in the church. In fact, because he is an elder in the position of rule of Christ's church, representing Christ, that the elder's sin is all the more egregious. Now, a rebuke is generally a term that is has a generic meaning and a and a um and a technical meaning. Generically, what we mean by a rebuke is that it is It is any time that the sinner sin is confessed and repented of. And there needs to be some corrective given to the sinner. It's generic. That correction, though, can come in a variety of different forms. And in it can come in a ascending Degree of severity. And when it comes in an ascending degree of severity, there are different names for it for the rebuke. Let me explain what I mean. In the OPC, and this would be true of most Presbyterian churches that are serious about following discipline, we have something called the Book of Church Order. And in the Book of Church Order, you heard me read from it today. with regard to the Lord's Supper, it has uh uh what we call forms of worship Okay, for for how to conduct worship, but also how to do baptisms, how to serve the Lord's Supper, how to do burials, how to do marriages. All that kind of stuff is in the the book of uh of worship, the directory for public worship. And then there's another part of it which uh uh which is called the form of government and that has to do with um matters uh of uh Of what is a session, what are its uh abilities, what are its uh limitations, what are its powers how the church is governed, what's a presbytery, what's the general assembly, you know, those kinds of discussions of, you know, how how how the church kind of functions in its daily rhythm of life. Then there's something called the book of discipline. And the book of discipline is used whenever there are disciplinable cases within the church It is used when after there's been attempts to deal with sinners, there is no willingness on the part of sinners to repent. And you can actually have trials, church trials, and we've had church trials. And it's always difficult. But after the churches go through a trial, they usually will Have some sort of rebuke attached to it. The lowest form of rebuke is called an admonition. An admonition consists and these are not just terms that I mean these are terms, but you'll find these terms Either directly or indirectly connected in the Bible. Admonition. Those of you who go astray, admonish with tears. Paul says. Do you not remember that night and day I warned you with tears? In Acts chapter 20. That's the word admonish. It consists of a very tender and but solemn Confrontation of the offender with his sin, warning him of his danger, and exhorting him or her to repent. And to greater fidelity in Christ. It's usually not public. It's usually very much just it it's not, it doesn't reach the threshold of being Done in public. It's more of a personal matter between that person and someone else that finally gets resolved Nevertheless, it created offense, and that offense needs to be dealt with. Rebuke is the next level in a technical sense Rebuke is more technical. It is a form of church censure more severe than admonition. Now, sometimes it becomes very difficult to draw the line, and it's a judgment case. As to where you draw the line, whether it's admonition or rebuke. Rebuke consists in setting forth the serious character of the offense. Serious in terms of how the Bible and how God sees it, it consists also of reproving the offender. And by reproving, we mean not only confronting him, but making sure he understands how much jeopardy he's in and how much if he doesn't change and how much how much hurt he has caused to someone else Or the name of Christ. You remember when when David committed the sin with Bathsheba? You remember that David's The way in which Nathan responded to that sin was in degrees. You know, there was there was there was there was the uh admonition in a sense In that he said to David, David says, surely that man must die. After he hears the parable from Nathan, uh Nathan says, you are the man. That's pretty direct. That's more than admonition. But as it plays out, Nathan comes back and says, you shall not die. And then he goes on to explain to David, even though you don't die, the consequences are not going to be fun. The sin which you have committed God will replicate so that someone else from your own family does what you did in secret in public. In addition to that, the succession to your throne will be marked by bloodshed. You've caused the whole group of the nations around you to blaspheme the name of God. That's That's reproof. Showing him how his sin has impacted his relationship with God and how others are seeing that relationship. Rebuke consists of reproving the offender and exhorting him to repentance and to more perfect faithfulness in Christ. Suspension is the next form of discipline. And this can come to a member of the church or it can come to an officer. Suspension is that the it's a censure in which The individual involved is deprived of the privileges of membership in the church It could be for an indefinite time, or it could be for a definite time. And when I say suspended from the privileges of membership, we're talking At the very minimum, not able to vote in congregational meetings, but more specifically, not able to take the Lord's Supper If it's an officer who's being suspended for a sin It can be again indefinitely or definite or definitely for a period of time. And it would include Um the removal of the privileges of membership But generally not for an officer, generally not the rep the re removal of an o of his office. It could, but generally not at this point. It all depends on where it goes from there. If it's indefinite or definite, the whole reason for that is for the the the the the rest of the government, the rest of the eldership. To look at how the individual is reacting to what has come down upon him How he's reacting to not being able to take the Lord's Supper. How he's reacting to not being able to perform the functions of the minister of the church. What's his attitude? You still have the same hard heart, still doesn't care. Then you might proceed further And there are provisions for do that. If you the next form is called deposition. Deposition can only occur to an officer. And by deposition we mean That that person is no longer an officer in the church. His office, whether it's the office of elder, or pastor or teaching elder, ruling elder, or deacon, he's no longer that. And when that happens the uh the rest of the presbyteries informed and the clerk of the presbytery tells the entire deni tells the presbyteries Particularly when it's a a pastor, they tell the Presbytery that this man is no longer a minister in the OPC. Finally, if and you know, all along these steps These steps, the the the degree of severity is always influenced by whether there is progress in the offender seeing the seriousness and whether he's brought forward. And if there's not, then you have to keep going. And finally, if the last form of Rebuke would be the rebuke of excommunication. Not simply you're no longer an officer in this church not simply taking away the Lord's Supper, but removing him from the church. You're no longer a member of the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. You should not consider yourself a believer You may, it may turn out that he is a believer, but you're not to treat him as though he is. And you know that phrase, treat them as a Pharisee and a publican, you probably heard me say what I think that means. I don't believe that means that you shun the individual if you have occasion to deal with him, but I do believe it means that he becomes subject A subject for preaching the gospel to. Because Pharisees and publicans are who Jesus preached the gospel to. And that's how he treated them. Paul further reminds Timothy that rebuking is this strong A public warning to a church member and particularly an officer urging them to repent of their sins and to continue in a repentant attitude And warns the Christian of the danger of continuing in sin. It does have the effect of causing others to fear. If it's done properly, if it's done, if it's consistently done If it's done when everybody understands that this is kind of the last resort, it reminds the people that there is a holy God, that he does have standards And we can't be named as his people without adhering to those standards with the Spirit's help We can't violate. We can't sin with impunity and consider ourselves to be Christians. Can we sin occasionally? Sure. But always when we sin, the difference between sinning occasionally and sinning with impunity is what do you do next? Do you suddenly hear the Spirit exhort you to repent? And when you hear that, do you fall on your knees or do you ignore it That says a lot about the condition of one's heart. So um that's where I uh I w I I wanted to go on just a little bit more. I'm going to just talk briefly about verse 21. He says, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels. That thou observe these things without preferring one before another. Do nothing by partiality When he says he charges them by God, the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels. Look what you got there. You got the three witnesses. The Deuteronomy 19 pattern kicks in. And he is Telling Timothy that these three are going to be evaluating how you carry out church discipline. Are you following These concerns. And he adds to this the words that you observe these things without preferring one before another, doing nothing by partiality. It's obviously he's saying You treat everybody who comes before you in a disciplinary situation the same Just because they are part of your extended family, of which there are 30 people who are members of the church, just because that's true doesn't mean that you sweep it under the rug. You can't do that. But is it done? Unfortunately, I can say yes, and I know where it's done. I know where it has been done. It also doesn't mean that if two people come to the session with The same sin, one of whom is a member of the church, and the other is an elder, with all the same variables going on. But you treat them one more leniently than the other. You understand? Well, just because this guy is an elder in the church Maybe we can kind of back off as much discipline as we think he should. You know, you have to treat people the same. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. If they sinned, it needs to be addressed. Now, you know, I'm the first one to understand that this is all this is complicated. And it's and it is what I'm telling you tonight, it's theoretical, but it is real. And the church that doesn't discipline The people in the congregation is leaving itself open for all kinds of ungodliness proliferating within the church Discipline, the effective, correct discipline within the church is something Christ calls for, and It's what the reformers understood as one of the marks of the church. You can have The proper administration of the sacraments. You can have true preaching of the Word of God. And if you don't have discipline, which I know sounds like that's impossible, but men can do impos men can when it's regarding sin, men can do re really impossible kinds of things. And inconsistent kinds of things. When you don't have discipline, you're failing to demonstrate the mark of the church. And you look out at the current landscape in the church And you see what's going on in other churches, which you probably don't see, but you probably hear about. There's all kinds of ungodliness going on in the church. And it's being tolerated. It's not being addressed. But you have to treat everybody equally. You can't, just because someone who's committed a sin is responsible for half of the church's budget doesn't mean you can let them off You want to have your faith tested? Deal with that one. According to God's word. But I think you too should appreciate at least that Paul does say elders will do wrong. They will make mistakes. They're human, they're sinful Here's the way to deal with it. And it's the only way that practically speaking will work. And I'm certain it's the only way that will in the end give God the greatest glory Sorry. And let us let us pray. Most gracious God, our Heavenly Father. Be with your church, Lord, be with our church and be with every faithful church. Lord, we We certainly don't want to have to deal with unpleasantness caused by sin within the life of the within the body of Christ, and yet Give us the firm understanding of what is going on, what needs to be done, and give us, Lord, the will to be obedient to you. for your glory, for the reclamation of the offending sinner, and for the pr pre and for the um uh preserving of the the good name of Christ and for the hopeful uh restoration of the sinner and the prevention of sin spreading to the rest of the world Body, we ask these things in Jesus' name, amen