Turn to the first scripture reading from Psalm 110. Psalm 110. And as we read, uh let us uh let us rise as we read. Reading the city of the U. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of your strength out of Zion. Rule in the midst of your enemies. Your people shall be volunteers in the day of your power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning. You have the dew of your youth The Lord has sworn and will not relent. You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. The Lord is at your right hand. He shall execute kings in the day of his wrath. He shall judge among the nations. He shall fill the places with dead bodies. He shall execute the heads of many countries. He shall drink of the brook by the wayside. Therefore he shall lift up the head. And while you're up, please turn to Amos chapter 6. Amos chapter 6. We will read one verses one through eleven of Amos chapter six. And we are the focus today will be on verses eight through eleven. Woe to you who are at ease in Zion and trust in Mount Samaria. Notable persons in the chief nation to whom the house of Israel comes. Go over to Kalnah and see And from there go to Hamath the Great, and then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are you better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory greater than your territory? Woe to you who put far off the day of doom, who cause the sea of violence, the seat of violence to come near, who lie on beds of ivory Stretch out on your couches. Eat lambs from the flock and calves from the midst of the stall Who sing idly to the sound of stringed instruments, and invent for yourself musical instruments like David, who drink wine from bowls, and anoint yourself with the best ointments But are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph. Therefore, they shall now go captive as the first of captives Of those who recline at banquets shall be removed. The Lord has sworn by himself. The Lord God of hosts says, I abhor the pride of Jacob, and hate his palaces. Therefore, I will deliver up the city and all that is in it. Then it shall come to pass that if ten men remain in the house, they shall die And when a relative of the dead with one who will burn the bodies picks up the bodies to take them out of the house, He will say to the one inside the house, are there any more with you? And then someone will say, none. And he will say, hold your tongue, for we dare not mention the name of the Lord. For behold, the Lord gives a command. He will break the great house into bits and the little house into pieces. Thus far ends the reading of the Lord's Word. Please be seated And today we um we continue in this uh book of Amos uh along the line of uh looking at the the Lord giving uh the people of Israel uh uh great detail uh regarding the coming judgment and urging uh God's people uh to repent. And so we come to uh uh there's a this is an ongoing exercise of the Lord's patience uh the Lord's long suffering and the people's uh stuther stubborn uh rebellion. Um and re and refusal uh to admit that they are sinners and continuing in the same sinful practices that have gotten them into great trouble with the Lord to begin with. So we pick up in verse 8 in our ongoing study. The Lord God has sworn by himself, says the Lord, the God of hosts. I abhor the excellency of Jacob and hate his palaces. Therefore I will deliver up the city with all that is within. We see this phrase at the beginning of verse 8, the Lord has sworn by himself, thus saith the Lord of hosts. Whenever we come across the idea that God is swearing by himself, that means that You know, whatever he is talking about, whatever matter he is discussing, uh uh is an undeniable fact. It will occur. Uh uh and usually Usually when we hear this phrase, the Lord has sworn by himself, and it does occur with some frequency in the New Test in the Bible, excuse me, usually when we hear that phrase It's in the context of um of God um promising uh to send uh uh a redeemer to his people. For example, we just read Psalm 110, verses 1 through 4, and the phrase occurs there. The Lord has said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool The Lord shall send the rod of strength out of Zion thy rod of strength out of Zion. Rule thou in the midst of these enemies. Thy people will be willing in the day of thy power and the beauty of holiness. From the womb of the morning thou hast the dew of thy youth. The Lord has sworn and will not repent. There a phrase occurs And especially there it is linked to thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek And that passage there, thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek, you might remember that that occurs in in Hebrews, and it has reference to the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, who is not only a priest forever, but like Melchizedek, he is the king. And he is the king who Psalm 110 refers to as God is inviting Christ to sit at his right hand while he makes The enemies of the Lord Jesus Christ, his footstool. God has said, I have sworn this, this will indeed occur. You can bank on it. It is certain what I say will happen Again, in Psalm chapter 89, verses 34 and 36, we get the thought of God swearing of something that will occur. Beginning of verse 34, my covenant I will not break, nor alter the thing that has gone out of my lips. Once I have sworn by my holiness, and I will not lie unto David, his seed shall endure forever, and his throne as the sun before me. God is in Psalm 89 depicted as making covenant. Particularly, this covenant is one with David. And it's a covenant in which God says, I have sworn on my own holiness that David's seed will endure forever and his throne will uh endure forever. David will be a king forever. And of course Once again, this particular idea of God swearing regarding the promises to David is linked to the coming of the Messiah, because it's the Lord Jesus Christ who is the King of David And he is the one whom God is going to bring to rule. Hebrews chapter 6, verse 13. This has to do with God says that he makes a promise to Abraham. And because he could not swear by no greater, he swore by himself. When God made promises to Abraham in his covenant, such as, surely, blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying, I will multiply thee. And so after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. For men swear by the greater, and an oath For confirmation is to the end is for them an end of all strife, wherein God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of their promise The immutability of his counsel, that means it's unchangeableness. The immutability of his counsel confirmed it by oath. that by two immutable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we might have strong consolation What might we have strong consolation? What promise did God give that is immutable to Abraham? It's the promise that in your seed all the nations will be blessed. Once again, connected to Jesus. Jesus is the seed of Abraham, in whom all the nations shall be blessed. Hebrews chapter, again, I'm just looking right now at that phrase, God has made a promise. That God is sworn by Himself. Similar phrase. Hebrews chapter 7, verse 28. The law makes men high priests. which have infirmity, but the word of the oath which was sent the law maketh the son who is consecrated forever. And finally, Psalm 89, verse 34. No, we read that already. Once I have sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to David. His seed shall endure forever. Each of these matters. Psalm one hundred ten, Psalm eighty-nine, Hebrews six, Hebrews seven, and each of these matters When God is said to be swearing by himself, a promise or an oath, it's in the context of the Lord, of the covenant promising to send to Abraham and Isaac and their seed a great king, a great redeemer, Christ the Son. And because God swore it, God did it. That's the point. God swore it and he did it. However In this verse, in verse 8, we see God swearing by himself also. And he is swearing by himself on an oath. And he has said that he hates Israel's Excellence, or its exaltation of itself, its pride in itself And as we've talked about in the in the in other times, this is a nation that is very uh into its own uh uh building up of its of the nation, of its culture, of its own ideas. It's a nation that is not bowing before the Lord. It is constructing these wonderful, beautiful new buildings, a new city, and yet it will not bow before the Lord. God says, I swear on oath, I hate the exaltation of Israel. What does that say? It says to you, if God swears on an oath, he's going to do something about this self-exaltating sin of Israel. the nation of Israel, the northern kingdom. Whatever he says is going to happen, is going to happen. And, you know, if you've got any sense about you, you would start uh taking note of these things. you would start believing uh that I mean they had the same Psalms that we read about the Lord swearing on oath and the Lord accomplishing that But now he says to the same group of people who he once loved that because of their sin, there's going to be a great judgment. And you would think that they would listen. He abhors their self-exaltation. He abhors their pride. He abhors their conceit. He abhors their abilities, their thought that in their own abilities they can do things that they don't need God. That God is just a convenient attachment to who we are. But we're really the ones who run the show. Their pride shows itself in everything they do. And of course, it's behind the pride is behind the refusal to repent. And it's a very, very slippery slope. Because they refuse to repent due to their pride, at the same time, they have a self-assured confidence that all is going well. I mean, listen to the thinking. We wouldn't be so prosperous if God wasn't on our side. We wouldn't be so rich. We wouldn't have these great things. We wouldn't be able to build these big buildings. We wouldn't be able to be a great nation if God wasn't on our side. It's self-deceptive. They're deceiving themselves and they're not listening to the Word of God She won't admit Israel as a nation, will not, refuses to admit that she's an idol worshiper. And that's one of the ongoing issues throughout The Bible, but it's particularly particularly prevalent in this day and age, in the age where Amos is ministering They won't admit their sin. They won't admit that they're not only idol worshippers, but as we've also seen They have erected these great buildings and this great culture by abusing other people and oppressing the poor. Their pride refuses to allow them that they are sinners before God. Proverbs 16, verse 18 says, Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before the fall. And also, Proverbs 6, verses 16 through 19 says, there are six things the Lord doth hate. Seven are an abomination to him. And the first one is a proud book, followed by a lying tongue. Hands that shed innocent blood Well, they've shed enough innocent blood by their oppression. Um a heart that devises wicked imaginations, feet that are swift in running to mischief. A false witness that speaks lies, and he who sows discord among the brethren. The great palaces that the nation of Israel built in the city of Samaria are monuments to Israel's pride and her arrogance. And verse 8 says, God hates them. And so he will soon destroy them. He will deliver up the city. You've always heard the phrase, if God be for us, who can be against us? Well, the opposite of that is true also. And that's the situation Israel is soon going to find herself in. It shall come to pass, verse 9, if there remain ten men in a house. That they shall die. This is giving us a picture of the devastation. Ten in a house, probably hiding, trying to hide to avoid destruction. They will not escape. They will die. The destroyer, God the destroyer, is in their midst. Their hiding or their cleverness will not evade him. Verse ten If a man's uncle shall take him up, and he that burneth him, to bring out the bones out of the house, and shall say unto them that is by the sides of the house Is there any there yet with thee? He shall say, No. Then he shall say, Hold thy tongue, for we may not make mention of the name of the Lord. It seems that this is referring to the men's who are in the house who have died have come to bury the men. They speak to one by the house One who is fortunate enough to survive and ask if there's anyone with thee, and he says, no, there's no one left Not only has there been burning uh but uh the devastation, the destruction is widespread. And when you have that kind of devastation, you have disease and sickness, which uh often uh kills as many as the destruction kills. Burning the bodies is most likely here a sanitary uh device uh that's being employed. And but it at the same time it also shows that uh when God brings the judgment, there will be massive numbers of dead uh for not for not repenting. In Amos chapter 8, verse 3, a little bit later, it gives us a picture of how bad that day will be. It says, the songs in the temple shall be howlings in that day. Saith the Lord God, there shall be many dead bodies in every place. They shall test them forth with silence. When it says the man, and when he's asked, are there any more left, he shall say no. And then it says, he says, hold thy tongue. For we may not mention the name of the Lord. In the past, the people of God would invoke the name of the Lord to help. But here the situation has so degenerated that no one dares ask the same Lord for help Because they're thinking that by being silent they can avoid the judgment, that the Lord won't somehow know where they are. Verse 11, Behold the Lord commandeth he will smite the great house with breeches and the little house with clefts. Again, the Lord is about to bring Assyria to be the agent of destruction that he is promising. And all those great buildings which they built in Samaria He will smite them. They will be breached. The walls will be breached. They will crumble. Not only will the great houses crumble, but the little houses will crumble crumble. This is not a good picture. This is uh a picture of of a God, uh of the God that most people don't want to talk about. Most people want to talk about the God of love. They don't want to talk about judgment. They don't want to talk about sin. But it is a reality of the human condition. And whereas this is a picture of what happened millennia ago because of the sin of man Different people than we have here today, different circumstances in terms of their relationship with God. I mean, God was actively on Israel's side, helping to protect her, but she refused. She refused to listen. She went into idolatry. She went into intermarriage. She went into oppressing the poor. Her pride was elevated. She became rich. She didn't care about anybody else. She cared only about herself. The prophets came one after the other. Look at how many prophecies Amos speaks about Israel. Whatever God tries to do by by bringing the word to them to turn them away and to turn him onto them back unto themselves, they just will not listen They refuse to listen. They refuse to repent. And so the judgment comes. Today we don't have the nation of Israel like this. God deals with people, individual people. And in the past, God would bring judgment on nations. But now he tells us each individual, every individual, will be responsible for their sin. And he will bring judgment. He has sworn. He has sworn to the effect that he That the day that there will be a day of the Lord. The day of the Lord will come, and it will be a great judgment. But he has also sworn That he has sent a redeemer, that he has sent a deliverer, that he has sworn that he has set up his son. As the one, the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who will reign on his throne, but the one who also is the Savior of mankind. And that repentance and faith are the way to eternal life. And they are at the same time the way to avoid judgment. We avoid judgment. Jesus gets it on our behalf. He reaps the judgment for our sin. And thank God. Thank God that He's a God who keeps His promises, who keeps His Word. He's not going to re renege on his promises to his people that in Christ, believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, then you will be saved. Repent and believe. And rejoice if you have. Fear if you haven't. But there's still time. Till he comes again, there's still time. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your your faithfulness. Lord, that you do um exactly what you say you will do. You, Lord, keep warning The Israelites, even as you keep warning the people of this nation and the people of this world. Father, we We pray, O Lord, that you will yet bring many to know you, to bring people out of their foolishness, of their sin. To bring people out of their denial that you will ever bring such a judgment. And this, Lord, that you will cause them to see that They should fear the judgment, but also to see that there is hope. And you have provided the way, the Lord Jesus Grant, Lord, that many might yet repent of their sins and turn to Jesus and live. We pray this in his name. Amen.