And if you turn now to Esther, find a copy of that from the Pew Bible on page 489. Tonight we're going to be reading the first 19 verses of chapter 9, as we near the end of this book, not quite there Tonight we read of this battle, so to speak, between the Jews and their enemies in Persia. God's flee word. Now in the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar, on the thirteenth of the same the thirteenth day of the same, when the king's commandment and edict were about to be carried out on the very day when the enemies of the Jews hoped to gain the mastery over them. The reverse occurred. The Jews gained mastery over those who hated them. The Jews gathered in their cities throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuras to lay hands on those who sought their harm. And no one could stand against them. For fear of them had fallen on all peoples. All the officials of the provinces and the satraps and the governors and the royal agents also helped the Jews, for the fear of Mordecai had fallen on them. For Mordecai was great in the king's house And his fame spread throughout all the provinces, for the man Mordecai grew more and more powerful. The Jews struck all their enemies with the sword, killing and destroying them And did as they pleased to those who hated them. In Susa, the citadel itself, the Jews killed and destroyed 500 men. And also killed Par Shandatha and Dalphon and Aspatha and Puratha and Adalya and Aardatha and Parmasha Mashta and Arasai and Aradai and Vaizatha The ten sons of Haman, the son of Hamadatha, the enemy of the Jews. But they laid no hands on the plunder. That very day, the number of those killed in Susa, the citadel, was reported to the king. And the king said to Queen Esther, In Suzid, the citadel of the Jews have killed and destroyed five hundred men, and also the ten sons of Haman What then have they done in the rest of the king's provinces? Now what is your wish? It shall be granted you, and what further is your request? It shall be fulfilled And Esther said, If it please the king, let the Jews who are in Susa be allowed tomorrow also to do according to this day's edict. And let the ten sons of Amon be hanged on the gallows. So the king commanded this to be done. A decree was issued in Susa, and the ten sons of Haman were hanged. The Jews who were in Susa gathered also on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar, and they killed three hundred men in Susa. But they laid no hands on the plunder. Now, the rest of the Jews who were in the king's provinces also gathered to defend their lives and got relief from their enemies and killed 75,000 of those who hated them. But they laid no hands on the plunder. This was on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar, and on the fourteenth day they rested and made that day a day of feasting and gladness. But the Jews who were in Susa gathered on the thirteenth day and then on the fourteenth and rested on the fifteenth day, making that a day of feasting and gladness. Therefore, the Jews of the villages who live in the rural towns hold the fourteenth day of the month of Adar as a day for gladness and feasting and a holiday, and as a day on which they send gifts of food to one another. We'll stop there in our reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God We ask now that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word. That you would hide deep within our hearts tonight. To understand, Lord God, tonight how we can apply this to our lives. As we read of this history, Redemption, your people, we pray, Lord God, that you help us guide and direct us tonight. As we live before you, how we can take this work and live in accordance with it. Ask this in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. Shortly after the death and the resurrection of the Lord Christ, where do we find the disciples? The Apostle John records in his gospel that on that very first day of the week the doors were locked. They were gathered inside a room behind locked doors. Why? Because they feared the Jews. Jesus came and stood among them and declared peace to them. Eight days later, we're in a room again. And again the presumably because still this fear of the Jews within their hearts And then their afterhearts, Peter and John, were called to come before the council, rulers of the people and elders. And they spoke boldly. Let me known to all of you and to the people of Nazareth that by the name Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucify. This Jesus is a stone. That was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. They declared there was salvation and no other. Do you see the change between the fear that they had meeting behind closed doors? And boldness that they were declaring before those very Jews whom they had feared. It was even recognized by the rulers of the people. They perceived the boldness of Peter, John. Luke records that they, even they, these Jews that they feared, recognized that they had been with Jesus. Great report that occurred within their hearts. Taking from fear of men, fear of Jews, to fearing God. It's much like what we have tonight in this ninth chapter, the ninth chapter of Esther. As we've been studying this book, we've seen much. The Jews who were in exile have been raised up. Esther has been given the crown. Mordecai has now taken Haman's position. His wickedness, meaning Haman's wickedness has been uncovered, revealed, and he's been hung on the gals which he prepared for Mordecai. But that wasn't the climax. For the king's edict of death remained, and Esther is now coming and Mordecell and asked for a second edict to go out, an edict of life Tonight, as that edict of life has gone out, now we're reading of that day. First for the Jews to be annihilated, and today for the Jews to defend their lives. Tonight I want us to see as we look at Esther 9 or a portion thereof. That victory over sin results from the great supernatural reverse of a human heart and stone to flesh. Results supernatural reversal of a human heart from stone to flesh. Only two points tonight. First, the great reversal, and secondly, the complete. This is an important text for us tonight. We ask that you listen closely as we open it together and see About that great reversal and that complete victory. Reversal. Well first the day had come. The inspired author has presented a headline of sorts, again in verse one, twelfth month, which is the month of Adar on the thirteenth day of The same when the king's commanded out to be carried out the Jewstery The do links, the edict of death, which was previously issued and now the edict, and together in this great conflict. But they arrived. And the author makes a simple but profound open statement about the events of the day. Look at verse 1. On that very day when the enemies of the Jews hoped to gain mastery over them, the reverse current. The reverse occurred. The Jews gained map over those who hated them Now we know that which was expected, the annihilation of the Jews, did not come to pass But reverse occurred, as another translation puts it, it was the contrary that came to pass, not the thing everyone was expecting. This book of Esther is much reversal It's a great theme or spreads throughout the entire book of reversals. It began with Queen Vashti. She had roles of king and queen. woman named Esther or Hadassah. This exile, this one who was moved from or born in Persia as a result being removed from the country. She was not a native. She was not yet, in a great reversal, Esther was given the crown of the queen. This royal office, one to which she didn't belong. And so this poor Jewish girl To become the queen of the country. A great reversal. Consider Haman. Their positions completely switched. Was to be hanged upon the gallows, and yet, as the Lord intervenes, Haman is the one who's hanged. In other words, the unexpected kept on happening throughout this entire book. This book is seemingly all about the unexpected, the surprising seemingly about how God works in a mysterious Way. Ways that are not our ways. For not your thoughts, neither are you my ways, declares the Lord. So we've been seeing while the name of God is not within these ten chapters It's not mentioned. Yet his powerful, mysterious, willful hand is over all that's going on. And here we see this great event, this reverse, as the Jews gain mastery over their enemies. This word, gained mastery, in the Hebrew means power to exert force, dominate. Exactly in this pass hound. It's quite strong language to describe the event. Remember, these Jews were exiled people. They were not brought to this country as warriors. Just the weak. They were weak in their sins. They were weak before God They didn't carry off from Jerusalem the uh articles of war, no. We're uh uh captured people A defeated people, a conquered people, removed from their homeland, removed from the promised land. They've been reset in a foreign land, obviously against their will. They were not their own masters, they were not ruling the land. See, they were being ruled and mastered by the Persians. And amongst the Persians, there was this subgroup who disliked them, even hated the Jews, who wanted them out of their country, who wanted them dead. And they were ready to execute the king's original edict of death, to plunge them, to exert ultimate mastery on the Jews, and given those circumstances We would expect that that would have happened. That the Persia would easily have won the day. But what's providential hand surprisingly, unexpectedly Such was not the case. The Jews gained power and authority over their enemies. You might be asking ourselves this question, how? How did this happen? How did it gain this mastery, this dominion? What was the Lord used to turn the tables to bring about this great reversal? Well, look at verse 2. And no one canned again, for the fear of them had fallen on all the peoples. Consider what the Lord had done. The Persian, the enemies, was that they were confident. Confident in their own power, confident in their ability to destroy the Jews and the strength of their arm to annihilate, kill, destroy, deploy Read that. The very day when the enemies of the Jews hoped to gain the map over them. But now something has happened in their heart. The knees of the Persians had become weak. Like a heavy dark cloud, the fear of the Jews had descended. upon these enemies, a great reverted Persian Telves and the king's first edict had into fear and faltering Consider that which happened with Mordecai. It wasn't just this general fear of the Jews. that led to their gaining mastery. No, it's a great reversal that the Lord had done with Mordecai added to it. Look verse three. And all the officials of the provinces, the hatraps and the governors and royal agents also helped the Jews. For the fear of Mordecai had fallen on them. Think of that Not only were the enemies, that subset of Persians, fearful, unable to stand before the Jews, because the Jews had on them now, all those in throughout the land, the Persian officials, the satraps, the governors, legions. All who were in power throughout the 120 provinces were in fear of life. Mordec, such great power, more and more, day by day, his fame, his notoriety was spreading. There was no internet in the This time, no newspapers, magazines, but yet throughout Persia, from India to Ethiopia, 127 provinces, all out were aware of Mordecai. And they fear him. So that they began to help the Jews. Remember, this one who used to have been re outside the palace gate. Now it became the one feared by governors and the royal agents throughout all Usia. Thus it was this fe Fear that the Lord had worked in the hearts of the enemies of the Jews. Fear that the governors was the foundation. That was the basis. That's the reason. That's the explanation for this gaining of mastery this reverse resulted in an unexpected fear. Fear that implied by Mordecai position above all other royal agents and governors. Notice there's nothing in this passage fearful. There's no mention that the Jews were fearful. When the edict of death came, they were in mourning. They mourn and greed as though death were imminent, that they were about to be another. And they cry out. They put on sackcloth. But when the edict of life was given, and the day of great conflict arose, does any fear within the hearts of the Jews? No fear of their enemy, no fear of the governors, no fear of the satraps, no fear of the royal agents, no fear of anyone was noted within this text. What's this? Within his word, do not be afraid of Sudden or of the onslaught, the wicked, when it comes. Not if it come, but when it comes. That's Proverbs 5. For the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. It's not just the Old Testament, though. Peter writes this and showed who is there to harm you if you're zealous for what is good? But if you should suffer even for righteousness' sake, you will be have no fear of them nor be troubled. But in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. So, yes, it was fear in the hearts of the enemy, which led to their downfall. But it also points to trusting confidence. Christians are called to have Knowing that the wicked do their plans of wickedness. Brothers and sisters, you're not called to fear Hold the trust in the Lord Jesus Christ Cain was told that he needed to rule over sin. Remember, bring their sacrifices, their offerings to God. Genesis chapter 4, Abel's offering accepted along with himself. And Cain's offering and his sacrifice and himself were not accepted. And the Lord notes that Cain's face is downcast. And we read these words from the Lord de Cain, if you do well, you not be accepted. And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is conmosc for it. Remember, it's at that point that Cain perceived brother Abel. And it was clear that Cain had no desire. Cain's heart was not Desire was not aligned with God's. You see, the greatest reverse is the desire to rule over our sin to master and to gain mastery as the Jews did over their enemies, as opposed to being ruled by it In a sense, that is a description of you before the Lord changed your heart. Before the Lord changed your stone to flesh, before the Lord gave you new birth through his spirit, heart, you're not for sin. It was to remain in it. You were following the course of this world of the power of the air. The spirit that's now at work in the sons of distance. That would be a good description of your heart, your existence, before the Lord God did that great reversal within your heart. Your children of wrath, sons and daughters of Satan, prisoners, his prisoners, one who had blinded your mind, keep you from seeing the light of the gospel, the glory of Christ. See, the root of the problem was just this. The enemies of the Jews feared the Jews. Complete lack of fear of God within their heart, thus their demise. When there is no fear of God, there can be and will be no desire to put an end to sin, to master sin. No desire to gain master, to rule old sin, unless and actually fear God. See, it's only when there's that great reversal. A heart of stone changed to a heart of flesh. That great reversal. Only then can a person begin to properly to biblically fear the Lord And it's only when there's a new birth, that great reversal, from loving sin to gaining mastery, it comes about as a result of fearing the Lord. So the call to you tonight, as we read this passage and as Jews gaining great mastery over their enemies, the call to fear the Lord. To fear God and Him alone. That's the beginning of knowledge and the great reversal. There is nothing like it. You might be thinking tonight that Christ underwent a reversal. It's not that our savior didn't undergo a reversal. Reversal is in the way that you perceive him. The great reversal is you tonight. As you fear God. He's no longer the one you wag your head at. He's no longer the one who you spit upon the cross. He's no longer that you run for insults at now. Now as a result of your fear of God you know him as your king, as your high priest, that he's an amen, you're out of what you See that? Do you understand? But all that comes from this great reversal that's occurred within your heart, being turned stone to flesh, that you would fear the Lord and understand who he truly is. Brings us to our second point, the complete victory. As a result of this great reversal, This gaining of mastery, consider what happened. Obviously the result of it was victory But let's consider for a moment the magnitude or the measure of that Jewish victory on those two days many, many years ago. Description of that victory, several of these verses, it starts in verse 2. No one could stand against That's a description of the victory. In battle, you must stand, face your opponent. And none of them were standing. That's the idea, that's the concept. They were falling before the Jews. Such mastery was by the Jews as a result of the fear that was instilled in their hearts that none could stand before them. Verse 5: the Jews struck all their enemies with a sword. of Persia. Remember it goes from India to Ethiopia, this great expansive kingdom set in Uza, the capital, so to speak, and five hundred men laying there. You'd think that all the military power would be centered there, protecting the king and And yet, remember all the merse, all the royal agents were helping the Jews. So Ien were killed, and then all ten of Haman's sons. Put to the sword. And that pales in comparison to what happened throughout the rest of the hundred and twenty-seven sixteen. The Jews who were in these provinces also gathered to defend their lives and got relief from their enemies 75,000 of those who hated them. Now we don't know the population. We don't know how many people were actually in Susa. We don't know how many were throughout the kingdom. But I think the idea in in Estrada, these are big numbers. This is telling us that there was a significant victory, the mastery that was gated set forth in the numbers and the killing of the ten songmen, the great victory was a result of the great reversal. But there was more. Esther now asked for a second day. Why? Wasn't the battle over? 25,000 killed throughout the 127 provinces. Didn't the Jews gain victory? Wasn't it the end of the day? Apparently not. Apparently the victory wasn't complete, not yet. And so as as the king prompts Esther as he asks, What fur is your request? Even as the king knows, five hundred men, the ten sons of Haman, they've been killed, they've been wiped out. Esther asked the king, let the Susa be allowed tomorrow also to do according to this day's edict. Apparently complete victory had not yet been achieved. At least that seems to have been the thought of Esther. Do battle, a second day of giving the Jews permission. A warrant to defend themselves if the Jews remained. And so the king commands it to be done. The sons were hanged on the gallows. Making sure everyone knows that in his household we're defeated completely. And then another 300 men killed in Susa. On the second day. Those who might have sought out revenge or to avenge the blood of their father, they're put to death. Another three hundred men, enemies of the Jews, sought out Those who threatened to pour out future violence against the Jews were killed, were defeated So at the end of these two days, we might even think that there was no more need to defend their lives. All enemies had been defeated. It shows us so very clearly that the plans of the righteous, the actual victories of the righteous go well beyond the plans of the wicked. Remember, Haman asked for one day. Esther asks for two. And Esther and Mordecai's plan went well beyond the wicked plan of him. Their plan sought and achieved complete victory. Just as gods always do, and always go well beyond the wicked. He uses the wicked plan. End goal, his desire, his will. You might think that that was the end. That's it. But that was the victory sought after. The enemies were dead. Sons were dead. That wasn't it. There was an even greater victory described here in the passage. We skipped over it. For three times. Three times the author, the inspired author tells Ali Fay, meaning the Jews laid no hands on Why? Obviously important to the inspired author is obviously important to the Spirit that he communicate that to us. But why? When the Israelites exited Egypt, they plundered the Egyptians at the command of God. The king's edict, Jews permit plunder their good. Why didn't they do so? The real victim by the fact that plunder was not their focus. The hearts of the Jews were not fixed upon the world. This passage, their thoughts, their minds were for life. The distinct impression we have is the Jews gathered to defend their lives and get relief from their enemies, not material goods. Once again, an unexpected turn. Just as it was unexpected that the Persians would fear the Jews, this great reversal of their hearts towards the Jews, this action or inaction on the part of the Jews in leaving all the material goods. Which they could have taken tells us that the Lord was at work in their heart. An indication, or really an emphasis Conveying to us tonight that there was a victory which was taking place in the heart of This passage tonight clearly points us to the end of Scripture, to the complete victory of the Lord Jesus Christ. To open up Revelation chapter 20, we would read Arched up God over the broad plain of the earth and surrounded the camp of the saints. It's a great battle. In the beloved city. Gather together, all the people of God gathered in one place, and the enemies marching up a broad plane of the earth. They surround the camp, but fight heaven and soon them. And the devil who had deceived the lake of fire and sulfur with the beast and the false prophet were complete and final defeat. Of all and ever enemy of the Lord Jesus Christ and thus of the followers of Him. Not a single enemy remaining. Fire from heaven, composed of the Father, Son, and the Spirit But also like Esther. It's another aspect to the victory which we're looking forward to. Be complete in glory. That abundant life only to be had as the bride is wed to the Lord Jesus Christ is that complete victory over sin. The complete destruction sin. And we read of that in Revelation D one. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain, for it passed away. Nothing unclean will enter into the city of God. Nor anyone who does anything is detestable, or only those who are written in Lamb's book of life. Do you see? Ultimately is victory. Yes, our enemies. But it's only ultimately over that which still resides in us. That's why we read Revelation or Romans As we read Paul, the Apostle Paul, struggling mightily with sin, look at Christ as the one who would wipe it out completely. Brothers and sisters, if you're calling yourself a knight, you have experienced a great reversal, a heart change from stone to flesh, changed from a child of wrath to a child of God. If you've been brought up and out of the pit of death and destruction and your feet have been set upon the Ruku is the Lord Jesus Christ, if the Lord has given you that magnificent desire to rule over, supposed to remain in it and wall in it, Then let me ask you, what are you setting eyes upon tonight? That you're able to taste off Remember, these youths were in a foreign land. They'd been taken from their home. They were like refugees. Behind their worldly possessions. And yet, yet they were able to focus on the daily matter, life itself, granted to them by God. The riches of this world were significant to these Jews. So how are you doing? How is your victory going tonight? Might be a hard question. But it may get easier. Easier to get as you consider what your eyes are fixed upon tonight. The Apostle John calls us not to love the world or the things of the world. That's what we see in this passage. The Jews were not love the world. Their hearts have been changed. And then we have that positive from the Apostle Paul in Colossians, set your mind on the things that are above, not of the things of earth. The eyes of the Jews, it their victory. Their victory was life. True life in Jesus Christ is not that which is tied to this world, to earthly things, to earthly pursuits. Indeed, the world is passing away with all its desires. Well, tonight, brothers and sisters, set your hearts in mind. Upon Christ of not upon this world. Tore roof from stone to flesh. The disciples needed the outpouring of the Spirit in order to mastery over their fear of men. Which brought to them this perfect picture of who Christ was and is and always shall be. Let us fix our minds upon Him, this God, but He's set Him above us tonight. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you so much for your word, for your spirit, who's been working tonight within us And we ask now, Lord Odd, help us. We are weak when frail. Even as we exit this place