Amen. You would turn in your copy of God's word now to the Psalms. Tonight we'll be in Psalm 1. I think that's on page 528 of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the very Word of God, Psalm One. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in season. And its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like trap that the wind drives away Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. We pray now that we have read it you would add your blessing to it. That you guide each of our hearts tonight in the way you'd have us to go. Father, you know us. You know the very numbers of our hairs upon our head. You knit us together in the wombs of our mothers. Father, you know what we need. So we ask, Holy Spirit, guide and direct each of us. That we would hear tonight exactly that which you have called us to hear. Shape us, mold us, make us more like Jesus Christ. And we ask all this in his precious name. Amen. What is your foundation? Foundations are pretty important. Everything of a house sits upon the foundation. Even as we read tonight in Matthew's gospel, foundations built on the rock will stand, foundations built of sand will not. What was the Israelites' foundation as they entered into the Promised Land? Joshua, who was leading the Israelites, was told this: This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night. So that you may be careful to do all that is written in it. If you remember in Joshua's book A few chapters later, they entered into the promised land and surrounded Jericho and defeated the entire city. What God told them that they should not take anything out. That all the silver, the gold, every v br vessel of bronze and iron were holy to the Lord, and they shall go into the treasury of the Lord. No one was to survive their attack. And then we read in chapter seven the people of Israel broke faith in regard to the devoted things. Achan had taken a cloak two hundred shekels of silver and fifty shekels of gold. He coveted them. He took them. Indeed He buried them under his tent. What was Achan's foundation? It wasn't God's word. And what hap what happened to Aiken's happiness He was stoned and burned with fire. He and his entire family. There's a sense in which that leads us to this first Psalm Some would consider the first and the second Psalms as being the foundation of all 150 Psalms. One commentator writes That it would appear that they, meaning the first two Psalms, were prefixed to the book with a specific purpose of emphasizing the fundamentals, or you could say the foundations. that are of importance in approaching this book Spurgeon wrote that the preface psalm, which he referred to as his first psalm, has in it a notification of the contents of the entire book. And that's what we have before us tonight. So the question is, what is it to be happy? The world has its own definition The world would teach you if you're not happy, it's likely because you don't have enough things. But what is the biblical teaching? What is God's definition of blessedness, of happiness? Tonight I think that this psalm, and Lord willing, we'll deal with this in two sermons, this being the first part. This first part teaches us that Jehovah bestows manifold undeserved blessings upon his children. As they are moved to delight in his word and act upon it, but leaves the ungenerate to their rebellion and just ends. Jehovah bestows manifold undeserved blessings upon his children as they're moved to the light in his word and act upon it, but leaves the unregenerate. to the rebellion and just ends. We'll see that tonight in two very simple heads First the blessed way, and secondly the cursed way. Again, as we go through This first part of Psalm 1, I'd like you to be asking yourself, what is the foundation of my happiness? Oh, first the blessed way. We have a picture of the man today, presently Here in Psalm 1, blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. It's a present condition. Blessed is the man, or happy is the man. Webster's defines that as being or having spiritual Happiness. That's what they that's how they define blessed. Blissful. Enjoying a heavenly blissful existence. Seems to be the idea. Happy is the man. So the question is, well, what does that mean? What kind of happiness? What kind of blessedness is this? Well we begin with a negative, don't we? Blessed is the man who walks not, nor stands, nor sits. It's all negative. And the idea here is the one who walks or the one who lives his life. That's what the psalmist means when he speaks of walking. Blessed is the man who walks. Blessed is the man who lives. And as he lives his life here in the temporal world, here in this world today, amongst those who love God, amongst those who hate God, the question is, how is this one who is blessed, how is he walking? With whom does he associate? With whom does he surround himself? What is the company that he keeps? How is he guided? There seems to be a progression here, walking in the counsel of the wicked, standing in the path of sinners, sitting in the seat of scoffers. But it may be better to see this as a comprehensive view of the entire life of this one who is blessed. All these who are mentioned, the wicked sinners, the scoffers, are those who are and remain in rebellion. to God, who hate him, who hate his law, who constantly seek to oppose it and thus oppose him And so all aspects of this one who is blessed, all aspects of his life, walking, standing, sitting, comprehensively, this one remains In a sense, outside of the world's sphere of influence over him. Some would say that this is this is a definition of Jesus Christ. Now I can't disagree with that. It sounds like That's the case. But the psalmist here who wrote Psalm 1, we don't know who that was, is actually writing about Jesus And so the psalmist tells us that this one who is blessed, this one who is happy, does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers. There's this positive idea of being protected, of the Spirit coming and surrounding this one, not permitting him or her to be infiltrated, to be penetrated in his heart, to be led astray. This one's heart is anchored in the righteousness of God. This one is being guided Not in the way of the wicked and sinners and scoffers, but guided in the way of the Lord. He's anchored. And this parallels God's word. This you would say, well this is really not new stuff, and you say, right, this is the beginning. This is the this is the prefix as as one we just read. It's called it. How does Proverbs begin? My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. Proverbs 13, he who walks with wise men will be wise, but the comanion of fools will suffer harm. Proverbs 14, leave the presence of a fool, or you will not discern the words of knowledge. Ephesians, not just the Old Testament. Ephesians 5. Do not participate in unfruitful deeds of darkness, but instead even expose them. And then 1 Corinthians 15 Do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals. Paul then, as he wrote that verse, seems to sum up these verses, this teaching in Psalm 1 clearly, those whose hearts have been uh truly changed from stone to flesh, will not want to participate in the company of those who delight in the breaking of the law of God. But will desire to participate in the company of those who love the Lord and earnestly seek to do his will. You see, there's a separation that is set forth in this passage in our scripture tonight. It's a separation from evil, isn't it? That's what we see throughout the history of redemption. Walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. Isn't that God's plan for his people? Isn't that what he told the serpent, Satan? As Satan sins against him, as Adam and Eve sin? Isn't that what he said? I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. Isn't that God's plan, the separation? Was it not their failure to be separate which led them astray time after time? Think of King Solomon. The Israelites told not to intermarry. And what does he do? The wisest man on the face of the earth. You shall not associate with them, nor shall they associate with you, for they will surely turn your heart away after other gods. And Solomon was old, his wives turned his heart away. He didn't separate himself. Isn't that the call to the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ to be separate? Isn't that what Abraham was called to do, actually Abram, in Genesis chapter 12. Now go forth from your country, away from your relatives, away from your father's house, to the land I will show you. Leave. Separate. Think of the twelve tribes of Israel called to leave Egypt. Separate yourselves from these Ungodly. Go to the land which I promised you, where you can worship me. And then as we think of church discipline, again in First Corinthians chapter five, as Paul is admonishing the church for failing the discipline. I wrote to you not to associate with any so-called brother. If he's an immoral person, remove the wicked man from among yourselves. There's a fine distinction to be made. The separation is to ensure that an that a believer is not immersed in or participating with those who relish sin. That's the idea. It's certainly also to ensure the purity of the church. But think of what our Savior did. He ate with tax collectors and sinners. Why? To proclaim the truth to them. He was not counseled by them. Jesus did not sit with sinners in order to hear their words of wisdom. He didn't immerse himself in their works. No, he chose eleven men out of the world who would follow him. It's not that Christians are called to separate themselves from the world, to live in communes or Christian bubbles, where we're called to live in the world, to be lights in the world, to be a sweet aroma to those who are in darkness, to draw them to Christ Jesus. Not that we are able, but to be the salt of the earth, the light of the world. So we have to make a fine distinction. That's the negative. And do you see the happiness in it? Do you see the blessedness in it? In living that way. Not walking in the counsel of the wicked, not standing in the way of sinners, not sitting in the seat of scoffers. Yes, it's stated in the negative. And yet there's truth, there's true happiness. That life is found not in the way of the wicked, not in the way of the sinful, not in the way of scoffers, not in what they would counsel. That there's no happiness, no true contentment in following the way which opposes God. How could there be? For in doing so, to live is to live in conflict, constant conflict with God, with his plan, with his purposes, indeed with his creation. True happiness may be found only as one pursues the way of righteousness. The way of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, that's why Jesus called his disciples to follow him. And that's why many would say this is about Jesus Christ. He was the one who did not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers. He was the one who delighted in the law and meditated upon it day and night. And that's why we're called to follow him. That brings us then to the to the positive He begins with a negative and now he gives us the positive but that but is so important. Many times those small words are so important to us. Blessed is the man who doesn't walk, doesn't stand, doesn't sit, but here's the positive: his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. See you probably want to read this flipped. Because, because this one delights in the law of the Lord, because this one is meditating on a day and night, therefore he doesn't walk in the counsel of the wicked. He doesn't stay in the way of sinners. He doesn't sit in the seat of scoffers. The psalmist puts the negative first and then the positive. And so here's that positive activity. He's delighting, he's meditating upon the law of the Lord. Consider that. He defines it for us right away. The law of the Lord. Obviously a reference to Scripture. It may be a specific reference to the moral law, but I would say it's probably a broader reference to all of the scriptures as they existed at this point in time. And now that we have all the scriptures, I think we can take it as being a reference now to all of God's Word. It's a delighting, it's a meditating upon the very Word of God. Think of that. Just that idea, that truth. Being drawn to love the Word of God. That requires a change of heart. That's a blessing. That's happiness. If you love the Word of God today, think back to that time when you did not When you were not drawn to read it, to meditate upon it, when it was nothing to you, or maybe even worse, it was that which you disdained. You wouldn't open it. Spat upon it. Indeed, that's our natural inclination. Away from the perfect law of God. A natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. He cannot understand them because they're they are spiritually appraised. Who would spend time in in what was foolish, what he cannot understand? Think of the Japanese Bible trying to open that. I can't understand Japanese. It's foolishness to me. But here, this one delighted in the law of the Lord. It's a description of Jesus, isn't it? Delighting. Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of the Lord. Jesus used that verse from Deuteronomy to respond to Satan's temptations. Because that was in his heart. So delighted in the word of his father and the word of God. He found that to be that which he lived on. And so here we have this great blessing. But the Lord has worked upon your heart such that you desire to be in His Word. He not only causes you to have eyes to see and ears to hear, but he's growing within you this deep love, this deep appreciation for the word. It doesn't come immediately, it doesn't come all at once. Sometimes it's difficult Psalmist isn't saying that. He's not saying that it's easy. But by and through the work of the Spirit, there will be this growing desire, this growing love for the very Word of God. That you will look forward to that time of day when you can spend more time with your God and with your Savior, when you can spend more time listening to His words, listening to His wisdom. His perfect guiding hand upon your heart, his loving watch care in his inscripturated word. That's delighting in it, isn't it? That you would so delight in the voice of your master, your God, that you'd want to hear day and night, that which brings not only knowledge and wisdom, but much comfort and peace, as a lullaby wooing a chance. child to a peaceful, restful sleep The Word of God is perfect law, is a peaceful, a joyful, a voice, a common hand in a world full of curses because of our sin and turmoil and trouble. The law then, the scripture, the words of God Himself are a delight, a joy to those who have been given ears to hear. How blessed is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gains understanding, for her profit is better than the profit of silver, and her gain better than fine gold. Proverbs chapter three, and happy are all who hold her fast Well what's the result? What's the result of delighting in the law of the Lord? What's the result of of not sitting in the way of seat of scoffers, nor standing in the way of sinners, nor walking in the council of the wicked? Look at verse 3. He is like a tree planted by streams of water. It yields its fruit in season, and its leaf does not wither. You see the the foundation of this one is firm. It's been planted. Tree planted by streams of water. And so we know what that looks like. It's a bountiful tree producing fruit. Delicious fruit, a green tree, its leaves don't wither. He prospers. Don't get this wrong. This is not the basis for a health and wealth and welfare gospel. Think of Joseph. He was sold into slavery, falsely accused, wrongfully imprisoned, and yet Whatever he did, the Lord made to prosper. The same Hebrew word used here in Psalm 1. He prospers. Who would think of Jacob as, excuse me, as Joseph as prospering in prison? And yet, it's the same idea. Prospering for Joseph was not acquiring personal wealth, but an attitude of submission to the triune God who had ordained his days. And so we see as we read those provisions, those chapters of Joseph, that he developed this attitude of submission as his brothers cast him into the pit, as they sold him off into slavery, as Potiphar's wife. tried to seduce him and and he's wrongfully sent in prison living there and the cupbearer forgets him. He developed an attitude of submission and likely contentment through trials. So prosperity for Joseph was growth. in his heart toward his Savior. What then for you is this true prosperity? How do you define it? You see here it was defined as a tree planted by streams of water, yielding its fruit in season. As we consider the prosperity of Joseph separated from his family. From family worship, from his homeland, and yet prospering as he submits himself to the Lord What does your prosperity look like? Do you think of being a member of a true church of the Lord Jesus Christ as part and parcel of your true prosperity? Do you think of that hedge of protection and being surrounded by brothers and sisters in Christ, not allowing you to to walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers, as being your prosperity? Of being in a community which seeks to live out its faith striving together day by day as being your prosperity. Being fed the true word of God, weak in and weak out as being your prosperity. Of being overseen and tended and cared for by the under shepherds of the Lord Jesus Christ as being your prosperity Or maybe it's having the freedom to read and meditate upon the Word of God and understand it by the work of the Spirit. Is that prosperity for you? Being molded and shaped and conformed more and more into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ, is that your prosperity? Having your will aligned day after day with the will of God the Father, yes, brothers and sisters, this is prosperity. This is that tree planted by streams of water yielding its fruit in season and This leaves not withering. That's a picture of the Christian who's meditating day and night upon the Word of God, delighting in it, and being prosperous. That's God's definition of prosperity. That brings it to our second point, the cursed way. And as Alistair Begg preaches on this psalm, he points out, rightly so, that there are actually only two ways, two foundations, so to speak. There's no in-between, there's no middle, there's no third, just two. The blessed man And then the wicked, the righteous man, and then the unrighteous And so now we jump into the unrighteous or the wicked or the sinners or the scoffers. Verse 4. The wicked are not so But are like chaff that the wind drives away. And so the psalmist is now contrasting the wicked, the unrighteous, with the righteous. The one who meditates on the law of God day and night, the one who delights in the law of God, is now contrasted with the one who hates the law of God. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. Two words in the English say so much. Not so carry so much weight. It's like a therefore, the wicked indeed by nature, because of their unrepentant, unchanged inclinations Do not walk in the counsel of the righteous. They walk in the counsel of other wicked They stand in the path of other sinners. They sit in the seat of other scoffers. They surround themselves and join themselves with those who are of like mind. They are attracted to and remain with and in the company of and participate with those who hate God, those who love and remain in rebellion, and those who hate Hate is word. The wicked do not delight in the law of the Lord. I'm gonna stop for a moment. Oh, it's another car. The wicked do not delight in the law of the Lord. They do not meditate day and night upon his law. They have no delight. in the law, they hate the law, they reject the law, they rebel against God, they trample, they revile the law, the very word of God, they hate God's word. They obviously will not meditate upon it And so they're like calf that the wind drives away. Do you see it's this difference between the house being built on the foundation which is the rock or the word of God or Jesus Christ versus that house which has no foundation, no rock, but the sand Think of the tree. The righteous are the tree which has been planted by God. The New American Standard inserts the word firmly to provide that sense. Firmly planted by God. The action is by God, by the Lord, to plant the righteous, who will become the righteous, so that they will produce the fruit that He so desires. Whereas the wicked are not planted by God. Their place was not chosen carefully by the God of creation, by the Heavenly Father, who cares for them. They have not been placed in fertile soil by streams of water. They're not soaking up the Word of God, the living water. The wicked have determined where to plant themselves by their own actions. They've placed themselves in a place where the soil is dry, the land is parched, the nutrients are gone, the streams of water have dried up long ago, and there's no hope of true growth in this place where they placed themselves. They've strayed from the Word of God, from His truth. And they cannot and will not have any foundation. The rebellious have no foundation. They are not rooted. They have no expectation of true prosperity, like chaff. They're blown away in the wind. Nothing will keep them anchored. Nothing will keep them stayed. Not their own strength, not their belief in themselves, not their happiness in sinful ways, not the lust of the world, not their love for money. The wicked are not so. Like cat that the wind drives away. Think of that. That protective hulk, husk of the kernel of wheat is to be removed, it's to be separated to get it the real fruit That which is good and nourishing, chaff has no value. Indeed, it takes effort to remove it so that one can have the real value, the kernel. What is the value of the wicked to the kingdom of God? Certainly we may say they are actually of a negative value. They had their purpose and the plan of redemption, just as those who nailed Jesus to the cross. They were necessary, but merely created an opposition like chaff, which has to be peeled back and cast off to get to the real fruit. There then has to be this act of separation, the chaff being separated from the good wheat, the true seed. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. Pointing the reader to the fact that in glory there will be no sin, and thus no sinners, no wicked, no scoffers. What was Achan's life founded on? Achan was the one who who took the cloak, who took the silver, who took the gold out of Jericho. These items that were banned. What was his life founded on? Think of what he did with those things that were banned. He coveted them and buries them under his tent. Achan literally founded his life upon the silver, the gold, and the beautiful cloak which he coveted and took in opposition to the express command of God. Achan lived his life in opposition to God. That was his foundation. His foundation was sin. And as a result, Achan became chaff. No foundation in God's word, no delight, only scoffing, hating his word, as Achan took up his own word lusting after the world, not having the delight of the law of the Lord. Is that you tonight? If that defines you, if that if that describes you, then run to Christ. Christ is the one who can forgive. Christ is the one who can change your heart. So it's no longer founded upon the world, but founded upon him. He's ready to pardon. He's ready to forgive. All who come to him for relief from their sin truly come to him. Will be forgiven. But there's urgency tonight. Do not delay. Hurry. For the time is now. Today is the day of salvation. And the call tonight is to build upon the rock, upon Jesus Christ. And then you will delight in the law and meditate upon it day and night. So in God's wisdom here at the beginning of the Psalms, he calls his children to delight in his word and the law, to meditate upon it. We've been challenged. Each one of us. Will you meditate upon his law? Upon the law of the Lord day and night. We might be asking, what is it to meditate? In this case it seems to be that it is that which you ponder, yes. It's that which you sit upon. It's that which you stand upon, it's that which you're to be founded upon continually. Now the psalmist is not saying to give up your job, to give up sleep, and to read non-stop. That's not what he's saying. But as one is in the Word of God, as one continues to meditate upon it, to keep it within his mind and heart. Isn't that how you're sanctified? Isn't that what Paul was writing as he wrote to the saints in Rome? Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind so that you may prove what the will of God is. It requires meditation upon his word. That the Word of God would be abiding within you. That you would be immersed in it as opposed to being immersed in the world, in the sin and rebellion of the world. as we turn his word over in our minds, as it revolves again and again, as we see different facets of it, new insights, as the mercy of God is is shown forth in it, as he is described, as he is revealed, as his son. is set forth before us. There is a freshness, a newness each day as the Spirit works in our minds and hearts, we are continually being renewed in the whole man after the image of God. In knowledge and righteousness and holiness. So much so that when we awake during the night, our thoughts are God-centered, God-honoring. How can we do this? I can't prescribe for everyone step by step. We can't add to what God has given to us, but we can encourage Write down scripture on a three by five card. Put it in your pocket or your purse. Take it out from time to time during the day. Have family worship. Take five minutes at the breakfast table. Open up God's word. Before everyone disperses for the day. Read a psalm. Read a proverbs. Pray over it. And set aside a particular time of day for your individual study. Each day, every day that you dedicate to the Lord, communing with him in his word. You may be thinking, you just don't understand. I'm busy. It's hard. I don't like to eat. I don't understand certain aspects of Scripture. It was written a long time ago. I have trouble fitting this in. Or maybe God has just not moved me to read or meditate upon His Word. You know, the psalmist doesn't say that it's easy to delight in the law of the Lord. It's easy to meditate upon it day and night. He doesn't say that, he doesn't write that. He does set forth the blessing of it. And the Lord so desires you to be in his word. And so the call tonight is to do that, to be in his word. To set aside that time. And it may be hard at first. It may take away from other things that you're doing But you've got to remember the blessing. You've got to remember that as the days go by As you continue to meditate and read and meditate and read and meditate and read. That it will become that which you can't do without. That it will become your delight. And that day that you miss it, you'll be thinking, oh, I should have spent time with the Lord today. I still miss that. Brothers and sisters, the Lord has given you this as a blessing tonight, as a reminder tonight. Read the word. Meditate upon it. Devote that time to the Lord. And He will bless you. No one said it would be easy, but he gives you the strength to do so. Yes, Jehovah beholds manifold, undeserved blessings upon his children as they are moved to delight in his word and act upon it. It leaves the unregenerate. To the rebellion and just ends. What is your foundation? Achan made his foundation the world and the lusts of the world. The psalmist is calling you tonight. To make the word of God your foundation, your rock So that you will never fear, that your hope will be constant and certain. Your assurance will be firm and fixed in Christ Jesus. Your happiness will be The delight will be off the charts. Blessed is the man. Praise God. Amen. Heavenly Father, we confess tonight that we are weak, we're frail, we're led astray. So often we find excuses not to be in your word or other things come to pass. Lord, we pray for help. Holy Spirit, move in our hearts that we would be so desirous. of being in your word, longing for it as our food. Help us, Father. Help us, Holy Spirit. Jesus, continue to rule and reign over our hearts. Make us more like you.