Amen. If you turn your copies of God's word now to the prophet Daniel. I'll be in chapter six tonight. I believe that's on page eight hundred and eighty-three of your pew Bibles We'll be finishing up this chapter, which has been all about Daniel. And the den of lions. At this point, as in our study, Daniel has been cast into the lion's den And now we're waiting to find out whether or not he will have survived the night We began at verse 19, Daniel chapter 6, at verse 19. Let's give attention to God's word. Then at break of day the king arose and went in haste to the den of lions. As he came near to the den where Daniel was, he cried out in a tone of anguish. The king declared to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God, whom you serve continually, been able to deliver you from the lions. And Daniel said to the king, O king, live forever. My God sent his angel and shut the lion's mouths. And they have not harmed me, because I was found blameless before him. And also before you, O king, I have done no harm. And the king was exceedingly glad and commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, because he had trusted in his God. And the king commanded, and those men who had maliciously accused Daniel were brought and cast into the den of lions, they, their children, and their wives. And before they reached the bottom of the den, the lions overpowered them and broke all their bones in pieces. Then King Darius wrote to all the people, peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth. Peace be multiplied to you. I make a decree that in all my royal dominion people are to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel. For he is the living God, enduring forever. His kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall be to the end. He delivers and rescues. He works signs and wonders in heaven and on earth. He who has saved Daniel from the power of the lions. So this Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian. As far in the reading of God's word. Would you pray with me? We come now before you once again, having read your word and ask that you would add your blessing to it. That you would guide me tonight by your Spirit as I seek to open your word. And Father, in it, in the preaching of your word, that you and you alone would be glorified. That the Son, Jesus Christ, would be exalted. That the Spirit would be praised. Guide and direct, Father, our study tonight for all of your most holy and perfect purposes. And we pray this all in Jesus' strong name. Amen. In John's Gospel, he records that event of Lazarus Martha and Mary's brother dying, and then Jesus going to the tomb. But before he gets there, he enters into a conversation with Martha. And Martha explains or exclaims to Jesus, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Jesus then explains to her that he was, indeed he is, the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall live. And even though Martha said that she believed that We'll see, and in fact she really did not understand what that meant. Mary was called to come. And as she sees Jesus, she falls at his feet and she says exactly the same thing, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Those same words or similar words were used by many As Jesus weeps, and the Jews see it, they say, see how he loved him. And then some of them said, Could not he who has opened the eyes of the blind also have kept this man from dying? Three times. Three times. People proclaiming that Jesus could have healed whatever disease it was that took Lazarus. And now as he arrives at the tomb and asks for the stone to be rolled away, Martha proclaims to him, no, no. There will be an odor. For he has been dead four days. Martha clearly did not understand what it meant for Jesus to be the resurrection or Did she understand that Jesus had power, had victory over death? Indeed, none of them. None of them understood that true deliverance was possible through this one, this Jesus. It's a bit of what we have tonight in this passage in the prophet Daniel. As we come to the end of the sixth chapter, we would remember that there has been throughout this chapter a struggle for the kingdom of God. At least that's what's represented in this chapter. The actual struggle that we've been reading about was for the earthly kingdom. As Darius the king had determined that he would set Daniel over everyone. Indeed, the entire kingdom. Now the high officials, the satraps, the governors, those who had power in their own provinces didn't like the king's plan. And so they devised a scheme by which Daniel would be trapped And ultimately thrown into the lion's den. They convinced the king to issue a proclamation, a decree, that if anyone prayed to anyone but the king himself for the next thirty days That he or she would be cast into the lion's den. And we know that's exactly what happens to Daniel as he is a faithful servant of God, as he continues to pray to the living God Three times a day in the sight of all, he is ultimately cast into the den of lions. A stone is rolled over the mouth and it is sealed with the king's signet ring, and that's where we left the account last Sunday. Tonight, as we finish up this chapter 6 in the Prophet Daniel, I'd like us to see that the blameless in Christ are delivered out of the hands of the enemy because he bled and died for their sins. The blameless in Christ are delivered out of the hands of the enemy, because he, meaning Jesus, bled and died for their sins. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, saving the faithful. Secondly, destroying the wicked, and finally proclaiming the fear. This is an important passage for us, as there are many types. And this This chapter is full of types this evening. This last portion of chapter six is no different. Well, first, then saving the faithful. Was Daniel alive? Did he somehow survive the lions? Darius, King Darius has absolutely no idea. As he leaves the palace after a sleepless night and getting up early in the morning, we can envision a hurried pace by the king as he heads to the mouth of the Den of Lions, wanting Daniel to be alive, wanting him to have survived, but not knowing. Look at verse 19. Then at break of day the king arose and went in haste To the den of lions. The king didn't know He didn't know if God, the true God, was able to save Daniel. And so he calls out to Daniel, we can envision Within his mind the question, has this God that Daniel has been praying to preserved this one, his servant, through the night? There was a distinct possibility, if not the certainty, that Daniel would not answer. That during the night he'd become food for the hungry, carnivorous lions, that this god of whom Darius had no knowledge, had neither the power nor the desire to preserve his servant. Darius had no idea And so he calls out with a question. He comes near to the den where Daniel was, verse 20. He cried out in a tone of anguish. The king declared to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God whom you serve continually been able to deliver you? There was anguish in his voice. It was a troubled voice. That's the way another translation puts it. There was uncertainty. There was no knowledge of this living God. Darius was without knowledge. Has he been able? Did this God have the power? Could he shut the mouths of lions? Was he strong enough to tame these wild beasts? Isn't that the same sort of response that we see when we try to evangelize With many that we come in contact with, when we want to share the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ, don't we see that many have absolutely no knowledge, no true knowledge? Of the living God and what he is able to do. Certainly no knowledge of what he has done. And so as we go out, as we talk to people who come to the food pantry, we must be ready. To receive these same kind of questions and be able to answer them But surprisingly now to Darius, back to the account, Daniel responds. Indeed, the narrative explodes with Daniel's voice. Behind the stone, sealed, shut stone, was the voice Of the living, breathing, the preserved servant of the one true God. Daniel said to the king, O King, live forever. That's quite an amazing statement, considering the king was the one who shut him in to the lion's den. Within it we can see that Daniel was not, in a sense, blaming the king for his foolishness, his foolish decree. Daniel was not blaming the king for sealing him in a certain death from a human perspective. O king, live forever. My God sent his angel and shut the lion's mouths, and they have not harmed me. Because I was found blameless before him. Daniel confesses that he is alive. His voice confirms that he has survived the night. Somehow Daniel had been preserved as the mouths of these beasts of the field had been present. shut. You may be wondering how did this come about? Well the text tells us, doesn't it? There's no need to speculate. My God sent his angel and shut the lion's mouths. They have not harmed me because I was found blameless before him. Everyone, even the readers of this prophetical book, had expected that Daniel would be consumed. But he was not. Who was this angel? Who was the one in the fiery furnace with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? As Nebuchadnezzar looks in somehow to the fiery furnace and sees a forth like the son of the gods Even Nebuchadnezzar confesses, blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent his angel and delivered his servants. There is some parallelism, isn't there, between Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego and Daniel Even if we just consider that this angel, his angel being sent and preserving These four men, sustaining their lives, prolonging them in the midst of humanly speaking death chambers Yes. Without a doubt, it was the preserving and sustaining work of His angel. In both cases, not an angel or an angel. No, his angel, a messenger from God, who not only provided comfort to those in physical distress, but had the power of life. This angel, this messenger, this one sent by God Himself, was sent with life in his hands, the ability to gift it to anyone he chose to. So much that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were removed from the fiery furnace without even the odor of fire upon them. That Daniel was removed and brought up from the lion's den out of that pit without a single scratch on his body. No harm. Daniel was given life in abundance. He didn't merely survive without an arm or a leg or being mauled. No. There was no harm. He was unscathed. Daniel's faith was now likely increased. And if we look at verse 28, the last verse of the chapter, so this Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian. There's been an increase. Daniel has gone through the den of lions. He has been given life, so to speak, and now he has it in abundance. Isn't that what Jesus Christ came to do? Isn't that what John records as Jesus speaks the words, I'm the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. Isn't that what happened as Daniel survives the night? He's been given life in abundance. All because the angel of God was present. All because the angel of the Lord had been sent and had spread his wings over the one who had prayed. to his God. Daniel was preserved. Daniel survived the night in what was thought to have been certain death. And yet Daniel was comforted. And provided for and pitied and protected as a child would be by his father. And I think that's why he can say, Oh king, live forever There's only one who's able to give life. There's only one who's able to grant life, who's able to preserve life, who's able to sustain life, and to protect li the maker and sustainer of life, the giver and taker of life. And so here we see once again this pre-incarnate appearance by the very Son of God, who protects and preserves and even sustains his servants, even Daniel. Daniel was preserved because he had trusted in the one true God of creation. He was saved by faith. Did you listen to his words? Verse 22, my God sent his angel and shut the lion's mouth. And they have not harmed me, because I was found blameless before him Indeed, verse 23 tells us also Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him because he had trusted in his God. Do you see the picture? Daniel is pulled up out of this pit. This pit of death. This pit of destruction. And his seat are now feet are now set. Upon solid ground. The pit of death and destruction was behind Daniel, and now his feet were set upon the rock who's Christ Jesus. Do you see the imagery? Daniel was as good as dead. It was as if Daniel had been buried, his very breath sucked out of him as the stone is rolled against the mouth of the den and sealed shut. And yet by the power of the Lord Jesus Christ This one who had such faith, even a gift from God, was given new life There's a certain picture of a new birth here in Christ Jesus. This is not to say that Daniel was not a faithful man before he's cast into the lion's den. He of course was, and that's why he was praying. We know that he trusted. And he demonstrated that trust so very powerfully. But there is this picture of a new birth here. And Daniel, so to speak, was given that new birth as he is, in a sense, resurrected from the den of lions. He was saved by faith. For by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. Do you see? Many times Daniel is set on a pedestal, and we can't do that tonight. We can say, praise God, because God has gifted Daniel with this faith that saved him. We can't miss this picture of the life-giving ability of the Lord Jesus Christ tonight. You see, sin seeks to tear you apart. Sin seeks to devour you. It wants to consume you. Speak in sin in terms of it being a separate entity as third person, but it's not. Sin resides within you. It is a disease. It eats away at you. It is like cancer that left unchecked, left unmortified, will destroy you. The lion's den pictures that sin for us And then think of that picture of being shut in, closed in, with nothing but your sin. Think of the blackness that was present within the den. That's the blackness of sin. That's the darkness of your sin. And left alone with it, like Daniel was left alone in the den of lion's sin will block out all of the light, and its darkness will tear you to pieces. Sin will seek to leave nothing of you but dead, dry bones. Do you see? Do you see your need for Christ tonight? Just as Daniel needed the angel of life to shut the mouths of the lions. You need Christ. You need his Spirit to shut the mouth of sin. You need Jesus to break your chains to sin. You need Christ to set you free from the den of sin. You need the light of Christ to break into the darkness and lead you to true life, abundant life in Christ. Brothers and sisters, there is no life in sin, only death. So tonight the call goes out. If you're not trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight As Daniel trusted in the living God, you must trust in this one, the Lord Jesus Christ, the only one, for your salvation from your sin. If you haven't done so, call upon him tonight. Cry out to this one Jesus who has life within his grasp. Who is indeed life itself, who is the only one who can give you life eternal. Cry out, even tonight. That brings us to our second point destroying the wicked As I've already said tonight that this passage is all about the kingdom of God, there are continual references explicit and implicit throughout this entire book about the kingdom of God. Think of King Nebuchadnezzar's dream, which opened up the book foretelling the kingdom to come. This chapter 6 concerning Daniel is satraps, King Darius, the unchangeable law, the den of lions, is absolutely no exception. This chapter is all about the kingdom of God. The wicked are seeking to take the kingdom As we opened up this chapter, we saw these wicked men, these satrap, these governors, these high officials. Wanted the kingdom for themselves. They knew of the king's plan to set Darius over, excuse me, to set Daniel over them and the kingdom. They knew of Daniel's faithfulness His righteousness. They knew of Daniel's works which were done to the Lord. And they hated Daniel. And they desired to bring about his death. They wanted the kingdom. They didn't want to submit themselves to the king's plan They didn't want King Darius's plans to come to pass. His plans for continued prosperity and growth went through Daniel. And these wicked men wanted to destroy the plans of the king and thus Daniel, so that they might take the kingdom for themselves. This presents a fairly clear picture of Satan for us. Satan hates God and despises his plans. Indeed, we read in 1 Chronicles chapter 21 that Satan stood against Israel and incited David to number Israel. If you remember that passage, David calls for a census to be taken of the nation. He does so in sin. And we see that it was Satan who stood against Israel, against the nation. It was Satan who incites David to take the census. Satan hates the people of God and hates his plan for his kingdom. Not only kingdoms and nations does Satan hate. If they belong to God, he hates individuals as well. Remember, Jesus told Peter. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat. See, there's a constant spiritual battle raging as Satan seeks to take the kingdom, or at least remove as many souls as possible from it, as if he could. The devil has been sinning from the beginning. And he continues He wants the kingdom, or he wants to destroy as many as he can and prevent others from entering into it. But that brings us then to this turn, a turn of events. The momentum had been going in the way of the wicked. If you're a sports fan, you know that sports teams, there's usually a momentum as one team battles another on the field. Usually it goes in one direction. One team has got the momentum. They're winning. Here, as we open up this chapter, we see that the wicked had the momentum. They had convinced the king to issue this wicked order. Indeed, they got Daniel into the lion's den. But now Now as the king hears the voice of Daniel, that momentum changes. The instant the king hears Daniel's voice, the momentum changes. King appears to have this change of heart as he hears the voice and knows that the living God has not only preserved him, but kept him. And so he takes Daniel up out of the den. He sees on Daniel, there's no harm, no scratch, no blood, no change externally. from the Daniel who was unrighteously cast into the den. Something supernatural had happened, something beyond the king's understanding and experience. So now, as Daniel emerges from the deadly den of lions without even one scratch, the king is convicted that wickedness was not within Daniel for disobeying his unrighteous law. No. That unrighteousness resided within the satraps, the governors, the high officials. The table was now completely turned. The momentum was strongly in Daniel's favor. As Darius now sees clearly, verse 24. And the king commanded, and those men who had maliciously accused Daniel were brought and cast into the den of lions, all of them, along with their wives and children. didn't even reach the bottom of the den. Telling us that these were carnivorous beasts, that they were ready to devour. And also telling us that Darius's kingdom was now rid of this evil. These wicked men, these families, perish in that place where they had expected Daniel to breathe his last. This is a bit of the picture we see in Psalm, Psalm 110. Where the Lord Jesus is told to sit at the right hand until he sets all of his enemies under his feet In verse 5, we're told the Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. Do you see the victory? Even proclaimed in Psalms. And then if we get to Revelation, we see this picture of the army of Christ. I saw in heaven, and behold, a white horse, the one sitting on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and makes war. And the armies of heaven arrayed in fine linen, white and pure. And then we read that he sees the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the devil, and Satan and bound him for a thousand years, throwing him into a pit. Until the thousand years were ended, and finally the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast and the false prophet were, where they'll be tormented day and night forever and ever. The victory proclaimed, even here in Daniel As we marvel at the supernatural work of the Lord Jesus Christ, at this event in the history of redemption, which causes us now to think upon the way it came to pass. You might think, well, you've already said that. It was the angel of the Lord. It was his power of life. Yes, of course. But how? How could it be that a holy God would rescue such a sinner as Daniel from death, which he deserved? How could it be that Daniel, a sinful man just like you, just like me, would emerge without the shedding of blood? It's only because the Lord Jesus Christ did not emerge from the scheme of wicked men who desired to take the kingdom without shedding his own precious blood. Do you see? The battle for the kingdom goes through the body and blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. The victory for the kingdom was and is always and always shall be secured by the death and resurrection of Jesus. Daniel was able to emerge from the den without shedding blood. He was able to defeat his enemies. Not because he had a sword in his hand. But because Jesus had already finished the battle. He had shed his blood, he had suffered the loss of his own life on the cursed cross. so that Daniel could emerge a victor over his enemies and exit the den with abundant life. Let me ask you, does that come to mind when the spiritual battle is raging around you and in you? When the wicked seem to be winning. This is the vision of Christ, the victor, come to mind. When Satan is casting fiery darts and arrows at you, does Christ's painful victory on the cross come to mind? It should. Because there he defeated sin and death. He has bound Satan. And the victory is secure in Christ. Praise God. Praise God. Yes. That brings us to our third point, proclaiming the fear of God. Well throughout this chapter we're seeing this wonderful testimony that Daniel had, not only before King Darius, but also before the satraps, the governors, the high officials. David was a faithful servant of God, and this seems to be known by all. He continues to pray in the face of a threat of death from men. The satraps knew of Daniel's devotion. That's why they establish this scheme, Daniel's life had testified, testified to his love for God. And the wicked the wicked were certain that they could use this against Daniel to bring him to his demise. He continued to be a faithful servant, communing with him even as the king had ordered him to stop. We've already seen the effect of this witness of Daniel upon King Darius as he orders the kingdom rid of those wicked men, placing them in the den in place of Daniel. And now we read of the king's proclamation, which goes to the entire nation. Look at verse 25. Then King Darius wrote to all the peoples, nations, and languages that dwell in all the earth. King Darius was so affected by Daniel's testimony that now he sends out a proclamation In a sense, to the entire world. Remember, this is the same king who issued that injunction And whoever makes a petition to any God or man for thirty days except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions. In short, do not pray, do not acknowledge, do not worship anyone but me This was the ultimate turning of the tables. Now, Darius calls for fear, for trembling, which is worship. Look at verse 26. I make a decree that in all my royal dominion people are to tremble and fear before the God of Daniel. For he is the living God, enduring forever. His kingdom shall never be destroyed, and his dominion shall be to the end. Think of that. He rightly titles God, the living God. The kingdom of God is eternal. His dominion is never ending. There is theological truth within his proclamation. The one who said, worship me, is now saying, no, no, no. Fear and tremble before this one. He's the one who delivers and rescues. He works signs and wonders in heaven and on our earth. He's the way that saved Daniel from the power of the lions. This truth is proclaimed nationwide. And thus the call to worship. Because of God's works delivering and rescuing Daniel, the king calls everyone, everywhere, to tremble and fear this living God, in other words, to worship him. Think of that. Daniel's witness went out to very few in number. We don't know exactly how many. But according to the scripture, it went out to King Darius and these satraps, these governors, these high officials. But it went out with so much power that the king was swayed by it. So much so that he would make this proclamation to the kingdom Christians testify. You all witness You're called to. But we never know how it's going to be used, do we? You never know what effect your witness, your testimony will have on anyone that you come in contact with. We know we're called to be faithful. We know we're always to be ready to tell others of the certain hope that we have, always being prepared to make an offense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is within you. We know that we're called to live in this world in a particular way. Let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven, always reflecting the radiance and the light of the Lord Jesus Christ to any and all that we come in contact with. We're to be faithful and to express our faithfulness in our everyday lives. But we never know what will happen. We never know how people will react. We never know whether our testimony will affect the lives of others. But that's really not your concern, is it? Brothers and sisters, I want you to be encouraged tonight. Because we do know this. God will use your testimony God will use your witness. Indeed, we see the truth of it here. We see the magnification of Daniel's witness beyond our imagination. His witness indeed went out to an entire nation. I don't know if the Lord will use your witness that way or not. He may. But one way or another, God will use your testimony, your witness. Isn't that what Paul tells us in his letter to the Corinthians? Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast. Immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. Praise be to God. The way that God chooses is up to him. Praise be to God. But be encouraged. And know that he will. Use your witness. and your testimony. For it will never be in vain. The blameless in Christ are delivered out of the hands of the enemy because he, meaning Jesus, bled and died for their sins sins. Lazarus was indeed resurrected, even though those around Jesus didn't believe that it was possible. And it was all due to the presence And the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise God for his deliverance into his kingdom.