If you turn your copy of God's word now to 1 Corinthians, we are taking a break this morning from the Gospel of Matthew. And we'll be reading chapter 5 of 1 Corinthians. I believe that's on page 1134 of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you. And of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans. For a man has his father's wife, and you are arrogant. Ought you not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you. For though absent in body, I am present in spirit And as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus And my spirit is present with the power of our Lord Jesus. You are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Your boasting is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? Cleanse out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump. As you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover Lamb has been sacrificed Let us therefore celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. I wrote you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people, not at all meaning the sexual immoral of this world or the greedy or the s or enswindlers or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother, if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed Or is an idolater, revealer, drunkard, or swindler, not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Is it not those inside the church whom you are to judge? God judges those outside. Purge the evil person from among you. As far in the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, as we come now to what may be a difficult passage. Difficult to understand, difficult to put into practice. We pray for your mercy and grace. We pray for the Spirit to lead us this morning. Guide us, Father. For this is not mere theology. But this is practical theology. This is your word to be put into practice in your church. Guide us now. Help us to see the blessing of church discipline. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember in the book of Numbers Miriam and Aaron, who were the brother and sister of Moses, come to him and say to him, Has the Lord indeed spoken only through Moses? What about us? Hasn't he also spoken through us? And while they were speaking to Moses, the Lord heard their words. He became angry. Indeed, he asks them As he spoke face to face with Moses, why it was that they were not afraid to speak in the way that they did against Moses As punishment, as the Lord's anger was kindled against them, Miriam became leprous. Moses then pleads with the Lord to restore Miriam, but the Lord allows her to remain in her leprosy for seven days outside of the camp. And then restores her. This may be the first recorded instance of church discipline. And then from it restoration. It brings us to our passage today in First Corinthians, this is a day in which we are just taking a look at church discipline, certainly in the preaching of God's word, but then in the life of this body. It's important for us then to see and understand what the Lord calls us to. And in this letter at Corinth, Paul is, excuse me, in the letter to the church at Corinth, Paul is writing to the church there those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus. There are divisions in the church. And he calls for them to be united. There's quarreling amongst them. He reminds them that they are each one in Christ Jesus. He reminds them that they are spiritual persons and they are to be able to judge, and yet they are not mature. There's jealousy, there's strife amongst the people, to the extent that Paul only fed them with milk, not yet for uh salad food, meaning the depth of the Word of God, they were not yet ready for it because they were still in the flesh. And Paul reminds them that they were God's temple. He they were God's building and They were needing to act like it, that the Spirit was actually dwelling within them. He admonished them, his beloved children, to be imitators of him. Reminding them that the kingdom of God did not consist in talk, but in power. And then he comes to this portion of the letter. This portion of the letter where a man in sin is discussed, revealed. This morning I want us to see that Christ calls his bride, the church, to exercise discipline, purging her of evil men as a blessing. Christ calls his bride, the church, to exercise discipline, purging evil men as a blessing. We'll see that this morning in three points. Failed to mourn, secondly delivered to Satan, and finally cleaned out the leaven. Well, discipline is not necessarily looked upon favorably, is it, children? Sometimes, maybe most times, we look upon discipline unfavorably, even adults But discipline is one of the marks of the true church. And as we walk through this passage this morning, it's my hope that we will see that discipline is indeed a true blessing to the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well first, failed to mourn. Look at verse one here in chapter five. It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife, that's the problem, the first problem. Other passages in Scripture show the significance of sexual immorality. as Jesus preaches, as Mark records it in Mark chapter 7, he is telling his disciples that it's not what goes into you but what comes out of your heart that defiles you and now he kind of lists those things which come out of our hearts. Evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slender, pride, foolishness. Sexual immorality is grouped in with all of those. And then as the elders of the church, as the apostles, write to the entire church because they're concerned about Those who were proclaiming circumcision was needed, they write to the church and say, well, these three things are needed Abstain from the things polluted by idols, and from sexual immorality, and from what has been strangled and from blood. That's it. Those are their warnings. Do you see what's included? See how important it was for the apostles of that day, the only apostles. To warn the church against sexual immorality. And then we have the Old Testament prohibitions. Because this sin was expressly prohibited by God in Leviticus and then in Deuteronomy. A man shall not take his father's wife. So that he does not uncover his father's nakedness. Cursed be anyone who lies with his father's wife, because he has uncovered his father's nakedness. And all the people shall say, Amen That's the first problem. This man was in unrepentant sin And it sounds like he was still engaged in that sin. A man has his father's wife right now. And it seems that that was known by everyone. Paul wasn't physically present. We understand that from his writing. And yet he writes that it's been reported. actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you. If the unpresent Paul knew of this sin and there was no internet, there were no news reports No television. Yet Paul knows of it. It's likely that the whole church knew of this sin. That this sin was open for all to see. And yet the second problem was the church had done nothing. Look at verse 2. Let him who has done this Be removed from among you. Nothing apparently had happened within the church. And so what does Paul do? Look at verse 2. He calls them arrogant. And you are arrogant. The New King James puts this this way, you are puffed up. It's an interesting comment by Paul to the church. Because they've failed and refused to remove this one, to exercise discipline, this man who is engaging in sexual immorality, he calls them arrogant or puffed up. Why would Paul refer to an entire church this way because they had not exercised discipline and removed this one from their midst? Why would that be arrogant? We have to consider what it means to be arrogant. Webster's 1828 puts it this way: having the disposition to make exorbitant claims of rank. An undue degree of importance, of self-importance. Today's dictionary would say that it's an offensive attitude of superiority. To be arrogant then is to be filled with pride. And to be prideful or arrogant is then to be disobedient. In chapter 13 of the same letter, Paul writes, Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant. Arrogant is the opposite of love. Because we know that to love God is to obey him. First, in John's first epistle, he writes, Whoever keeps his word in him, truly the love of God is perfected. So thus one who is arrogant is not loving God, is not keeping his commandments. This one has puffed himself up so much to the point where he's refusing to obey the one who is above him. Because the arrogants think that they are above or superior to the one who is actually superior to them. That seems to be how Paul is using that title for the church or that descriptor, that adjective, you are arrogant. And their arrogance or pridefulness, they've not thought it suitable to obey even the word of God. Even in the face of publicly known grievous sin, the church desire to leave this one who is breaking the law of God within the church. Why would they do that? Why would an entire church refuse to remove one of their members? who is openly and flagrantly violating the word of God and would not repent. Paul doesn't expressly reveal it in the letter, but we do know certainly That they were still of the flesh. That's what he writes in chapter 3. You are still of the flesh. There's jealousy and strife among you. And if they're still of the flesh, Then how would they think of the importance of the commandments of God? How significant would it be to those of the flesh that one of their members was breaking one commandment of God? Or maybe as they were still of the flesh, they were doing the same types of things. You see, if you're not living before God, seeking as the body of Christ to keep his law, to keep his word, if you're not upholding the law of God. Or living in a way that is submissive to the living God, then you're not going to want to punish or discipline those who are doing the same thing. Because if you do, you'd be condemning yourself. That's what Paul speaks of in His letter to the church at Rome, though they knew God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to them, those who practice them. And so church discipline just stops. It was not being done because of their arrogance, because of their pride. They had considered their own rules, their own standards to be sufficient. And thus this one remained in the body of Christ. But then did you see the positive call that Paul laid upon their hearts? Ought you not rather to mourn? They were to be mournful, they were to be sorrowful. They were to be sad in their hearts, to grieve over what this man had done with his father's wife. Paul called them not only to heed the law of God and remove this one, but even before they did so to mourn over his sin and then to mourn over their refusal to discipline him, to remove him. They were to be sorrowful before God Himself, because they had profaned His name. Isn't that the idea? Remember the Beatitudes As Jesus preaches that long sermon recorded by Matthew, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Blessed are those who mourn. For they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Jesus was describing the hearts of those who were wedded to Christ. He was describing those who were already in Christ, in glory. And so Paul was calling them to mourn To be broken over their brother's sin and unrepentance. Paul was calling them to change their hearts by the work of the Spirit, to cast off their pride, and become one Mournful. See, that's the first step in church discipline, isn't it? Many times we think of discipline even as a child of that spanking. The actual punishment that we receive, that's discipline. But Paul's saying no. No, no. Actually the first step is to be mournful, to be sorrowful. That the Triune God, the holy, holy, holy God has been offended. By one of our own. And so we mourn. That brings us to the second point, delivered to Satan. Look at verse 3. For though absent in the body, I am present in spirit. And as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present with the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to deliver this man to Satan. If you come to this statement of Paul, other versions have it slightly differently. I have decided to deliver such a one to Satan. It's in a sense shocking. He writes to the church either that Paul has already delivered him over to Satan, or he's calling the church to do it now. Either one, how could a loving apostle, a kind-hearted, godly man, inspired writer of the very word of God, one who was indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God, how could he say or even ask Such a thing. It appears beyond harsh. It appears unfeeling, unkind, mean, and hateful. But it was not that at all. In fact, it was just the opposite. It was the most loving, the most kind act that Paul could have taken regarding this brother. So we need to ask a question: what is it to be delivered to Satan? Must understand what it means to deliver a man, a sinful man, over to Satan. Well, first, we'd understand that Satan is not part of the house of God. You may say, well, that's obvious. Good. We must remember that he's not part of the assembly of God. He's not a member of the house of God. He has no position in the kingdom of God. And as one is delivered over to Satan, it must mean, if nothing else, that this one has been delivered out of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. For all intents and purposes, a person is either in the house of God or is in the house of Satan. That's it. There are no other houses. There's no middle ground. There's no third house. One is for Jesus or one is against Jesus. And if one is against Jesus, then that one is for Satan And so now in delivering one to Satan, this one who had fallen into grievous sin, unrepentant, continuing sin, has now like Adam and Eve, who were put out of the garden, been put out of the church of God. a spiritual realm of God's kingdom and placed into Satan's home. And now Satan will rule over this one. Consider that for a moment. The cruel, unloving, unkind, unrighteous, blasphemous, hateful, unjust, uncommunicative impersonal, guilt-ridden, miserable, painful house of Satan. Filled with lies. Filled with untruths, filled with falsehoods, filled with deception. That's where this sinful man was to be placed. And this was a blessing. You may be thinking, how could that be? How could such a wretched description of the house of Satan come before us even this morning and think that this was a blessing. Because Paul actually tells us It was so. Look at verse 5. You are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh. You see, it's with the flesh that one sins, isn't it? That which is born of the flesh is flesh, that which is born of the spirit is spirit. So Paul said, excuse me, that's what Jesus said to Nicodemus. And then Paul writes in his letter to the church at Rome, For I know that nothing good dwells in me. That is in my flesh. Paul was describing the way in which he continued to sin, but he understood that it was in his sin, his sin was in his flesh. And so this man, this one, was given over to Satan that he might be tormented in this life. Experiencing the pain, the suffering, the wretched existence in his sin as he was to be ruled by Satan that he might run from it. He sees that his flesh might be destroyed. Paul was speaking of the destruction of sin within him. But there was an opposite side to that same coin for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. Paul wasn't speaking of an eternal casting out of this one into the house of Satan. He was calling for a earthly casting out into the house of Satan so that on the day of judgment that this one would be ultimately saved by the blood of Christ Think of the prodigal son for a moment. The one who took his father's wealth and Goes off to a far land and squanders it on rough, unsinful living. What does the Lord do in that parable? In the wretchedness after he had expended his funds in the famine, and the fact that he was feeding pigs. He was immersed in his sin. And he finally comes to his senses. But the Lord had to place him there. Place him in that circumstance where he was surrounded by pigs, surrounded by sin, and finally came to realize it. Running to his father, saying that I've sinned against heaven and before you I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Do you see? That's what Paul was intending for this one, to be delivered over, to be immersed in Satan's house of sin, so that he would run back. To Christ. You can also think upon Miriam as a Lord Had afflicted her with leprosy for seven days. And so during those seven days, what was Miriam doing? She sat outside the camp. She was afflicted in her body. We don't know. Scripture doesn't tell us. But we can imagine that God was giving her time to consider the pride that had invaded or crept into her heart, along with the envy that was running throughout her entire being. Time to be reminded to think God's thoughts after him. And then restoring her. You see Do you see the purpose, one of the purposes of discipline? Ultimately to restore, ultimately for the honor of Christ, ultimately for the church's well-being. Here Paul was talking specifically about restoration of this one who is in grievous, deadly sin. That brings us to our third point, cleaned out the leaven. And now Paul addresses the church very generally and calls them to clean out the leaven, cleanse out the old leaven that you made me, that you may be a new lump, as you are really are unleavened. The next portion of that verse really is critical. For Christ, our Passover Lamb has been sacrificed. Now, this may be Paul's reference back to the Old Testament Passover. where the Israelites were to eat unleavened bread with that festival which they all knew of, they were to eat unleavened bread for that time. But here's the central point. Our Passover lamb, Jesus Christ, has been sacrificed, and that was ultimately the problem. That now by failing and refusing to cast this unrepentant sinner out of the church, they were profaning the sacrifice. See, Jesus had given it all. He had shed his blood for the members of this church. He had clothed them with his righteousness, his perfect atoning sacrifice. had been done for them. And they had taken his name and put it upon themselves, so to speak, and now they were throwing dirt on Jesus by keeping this one who had his father's wife in Christ's name. church as part of his bride. Do you see how they were profaning the sacrifice, how they were profaning Christ And so Paul calls them to cleanse out the old leaven, to do that what Christ had already done. He had already made them that new lump, and he's saying, get rid of the old. Celebrate the festival, not with the old leaven, but not with the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. Now Paul makes a qualification, doesn't he? But that they might misunderstand that they were not to associate with those in the world who were engaging in sexual m immorality, you saying, no, no, no. I'm not speaking of those in the world Because if you were to do that, if you were not to associate with them, then you wouldn't be associating with anyone There would be no evangelism. There would be no call to come to Christ. There would be no radiant light of Christ shining forth to a dark world saying, no, I'm not speaking of those. He's speaking of those who are inside the church. I'm writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother. If he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reveler, drunkard, or swindler, not even to eat with such a one Paul calls for the evil person to be purged. Not from outside, but from within the church. And as we read in Deuteronomy chapter 13, that is not a new concept. Paul was not stating a new doctrine. Paul was not telling them something that they didn't already know. They knew that the prophet or dreamer of dreams who led them to other gods shall be purged from their midst. They knew that family members, anyone, good friends who sought to lead them to another God shall be put to death. Do not associate with them. And so those words were likely ringing in the ears of those who received this letter. I'm now writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he's guilty of sexual immorality. There's that unique category. Do not associate with this one who was in the church who who you called brother, who now is in sin and is unrepentant and he's he's defaming the name of Christ Jesus. You got to remove him from the church. And then and then once he's been removed Do not associate with him. Not even to eat with him. Those who were once in the church but now have been removed from the church, membership for sin, unrepentant sin. Are not to be treated the same way. That's the idea. This one who had been removed from the house of God and now placed in the house of Satan as a Dweller with Satan had to feel the full effects of being under Satan's rule. And so the church was to treat him so differently. Do not associate with him. Do not treat this one as you treated him previously when he was in the church. Do not treat this one as a brother in Christ, because at this point he's not. Do not engage this one, even as you would engage with one in the world who's never been in the church. Don't engage with this one who's been removed from the church as you would even with one who is an unbeliever. It's a unique category and it's a unique engagement Well you might and you should welcome unbelievers into your home and show them hospitality and tell them what Christ has done into your heart. You would not invite this one into your home. Who's been removed from your church to have a meal with him? That would be to treat him as though nothing at all had happened That would not recognize that this one has and continues with knowledge to offend a holy God and now dwells not in the house of God but dwells in the house of Satan. This one needed to feel the full effect of being removed from the body of Christ. And that's what Paul was saying to the church. He needed to feel the full effect of not being part of the body, indeed of being excluded from the body. He needed to feel the full effect of what living in hell might be like, as far as we could duplicate it on this earth. Brothers and sisters, this passage should be of much encouragement to you today and joy. Because the Lord Jesus Christ loves you so much. He loves his church. He loves his bride so much that he gives her this blessing of discipline. To keep her, to keep you pure, to show you the ravages of sin To keep her, the church, his bride, you mindful and watchful until he returns. To bless you with compassion. For those who are caught in unrepentant sin. And discipline shows that the Father loves the Son, doesn't it? He has concern for the name of Jesus Christ, the one he is exalted above every other name. And through discipline he keeps it that way. And then he points you to glory. Doesn't he? For this is just a glimpse of glory. For in heaven there will be no sin or sinners Just those who are loving the Lord Jesus Christ, worshiping and praising Him purely, perfectly Yes, this passage should give us much encouragement and joy this morning. Christ does call his bride, the church, to exercise discipline, purging her of evil men as a blessing. Miriam did become leprous. Ultimately, that was for her good and for the good of the church, as she had profaned even God's name. And yet, through discipline, she and Aaron were restored. Praise be to God that he uses church discipline to exalt the name of his son. To keep his church pure and to reclaim unrepentant sinners. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you and praise you for the way you work, for the way you have organized your church, for the Lord Jesus who's overseeing it even now. We thank you for these words that we've read today, your words. We thank you for the reminder, Lord God, that you are a holy God. And then, Father, your church will be pure and blameless in Christ. We praise you. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.