Of God's word now to Exodus. We'll be reading there chapter 5 in its entirety. You'll find that on page 56 of the Pew Bible. Now Moses has returned to Egypt, and this is the account of his first encounter once he has returned with King Pharaoh. Let's give attention to God's word. Afterwards, Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel. Let my people go, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness. But Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord? That I should obey his voice and let Israel go. I do not know the Lord, and moreover, I will not let Israel go. And they said, The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword. But the king of Egypt said to them, Moses and Aaron, Why do you take the people away from their work? Get back to your burdens. And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens. The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people and their foremen. You shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks, as in the past. Let them go and gather straw for themselves. But the number of bricks that they made in the past you shall impose on them. You shall by no means reduce it, for they are idle. Therefore they cry, Let us go and offer sacrifice to our God. Let heavier work be laid on the men, that they may labor at it and pay no attention. To lying words. So the taskmasters and the foremen of the people went out and said to the people, Thus says Pharaoh I will not give you straw. Go, get your straw yourselves wherever you can find it, but your work will not be reduced in the least. So the people were scattered throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. The taskmasters were urgent, saying, Complete your work, your daily task each day, as when there was straw. And the foremen of the people of Israel, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and were asked, Why have you not done all your tasks of making bricks today and yesterday as in the past? Then the foreman of the people of Israel came and cried out to Pharaoh, Why do you treat your servants like this? No straw is given to your servants, yet they say to us, Make bricks. And behold, your servants are beaten, but the fault is in your own people. But he said, You are idle. You are idle. That is why you say, Let us go and sacrifice to the Lord. Go now and work. No straw will be given to you. But you must still deliver the same number of bricks. The foremen of the people of Israel saw that they were in trouble when they said, You shall by no means reduce the number of bricks your daily task each day. They met Moses and Aaron, who were waiting for them as they came out from Pharaoh, and they said to them, The Lord look on you and judge. Because you have made us stink in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants, and have put a sword in their hand to kill us. And Moses turned to the Lord and said, O Lord, why have you done evil to this people? Why did you ever send me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people, and you have not delivered your people at all. As far in the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, now help us. Help us to see, Lord God, that this is not merely an account of an event that occurred thousands of years ago. But Lord God, this passage speaks to our hearts. This passage tells us much about who we are. And how we need to be sanctified by your Spirit. Help us, Lord. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. When Jesus was walking on this earth and ministering to his disciples From the gospel accounts that we have, it's fairly clear that the disciples did not understand who Jesus was. Even as Peter confessed, you're the Christ, you're the Son of the living God, there was still not a grasp of who he was. What he was sent to do, and how they, the disciples, were to respond, meaning what their work would be in the future. The disciples just didn't get it. And then following Peter's confession, Jesus took the opportunity to tell them this that he must go to Jerusalem, that he must suffer. From the elders and chief priests and scribes, that he must be killed and raised the third day. Peter took him aside and told him, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall never happen. Now we remember the Lord's response to Peter, that strong response in which he said, Get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance. Peter didn't grasp the work of Jesus Christ, and he certainly didn't grasp the work that he was to do once Jesus Ascended to heaven. And so Jesus told them: if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. These are the things of God. This was to be the work of Peter and the disciples, and indeed of us today. Three things. Deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. The cost of serving Jesus Christ would be significant. This passage is much about serving the Lord and its cost. You know that Moses has now returned to Egypt. Where the Israelites remain captive, they remain enslaved. Moses was a shepherd for forty years learning the trade. And now he was sent to be a shepherd to the people of Israel. He was called to be the mouthpiece of God to the Israelites and to Pharaoh, and that's what we have in this passage before us. It was called to respond to the Hebrews' cries, their pleadings to God for relief from their oppression. The God who is the I am God, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Who called Moses out of the wilderness to go and deliver his people and told him that they would listen to your voice. While Moses was hesitant, yet God overcame the hesitancy in his heart. And now Moses has returned with Aaron. Indeed, they have told the people. Aaron has spoken the words of the Lord to the people. He's performed the signs that God had given them in their sight. So the people believed and they bowed low and worshipped. It could be the highlight of the entire book of Exodus. They bowed low and worshiped. The problem was that this attitude, this belief, would not last long. Today I want us to see that Christians stray. From the word when persecution comes and the cost of following Jesus increases Christians stray from the Word when persecution comes and the cost of following Jesus increases. I'll see that in three points this morning. First, denying the word of God. Secondly, following the evil of men, and then finally forgetting the goodness of God. Well, first denying the word of God. Here we finally see the word going out after four chapters of Exodus. God's word now finally goes out. Beyond his people. That what it was intended to do. Certainly go to his people, but then it was also to go beyond the borders of God's people. And Moses and Aaron say to Pharaoh Thus says the Lord. Moses and Aaron do exactly what they were commanded to do. They're command from God. To speak my words to Pharaoh. But Pharaoh denies those words. Look at verse 2. Who is the Lord? That I should obey his voice and let Israel go? Think of what Aaron and Moses brought to Pharaoh in this first meeting. There were no pictures. In this initial visit, Moses and Aaron did not perform any supernatural acts before Pharaoh. It was just a pure, unadulterated, unaccompanied Word of God that was provided and related to Pharaoh. That was it. And so as he's given God's very word, what's his response? Who is the Lord? Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? I do not know the Lord. You see, Pharaoh denied the Lord, but he denied it on the basis of hearing his word. In essence, this denial of the word of God was the very denial of God Himself by Pharaoh. He was apparently a little bit less shrewd than the serpent in the garden, for the serpent in the garden did not deny God's existence. Did not deny God's word. He just contradicted it. The serpent had told Eve that God had not been truthful and that she, meaning Eve, needed to substitute her own truth for God's. In other words, Satan tempted man to lift his authority above God's. But Pharaoh's words went much further. As he denied the knowledge of the Lord of Jehovah. He denied the power of God's word. Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? I will not let Israel go. These last words of Pharaoh give the impression that even if Pharaoh had admitted to knowing the Lord or acknowledging his existence, that he nonetheless would have retained to the slaves the Hebrews. From Pharaoh's perspective, his words were more powerful than the words of the living God, even if he existed. In other words, the words of the Lord had no power over him, no power over his nation. In its most basic form, God's words were powerless. And of no authority to Pharaoh nor to the kingdom of Egypt. Just as Eve came to believe that She had more authority than God. And so Pharaoh moves from the negative, I will not do what the Lord has commanded to the positive. Get back to your burdens. I will not let them go. The negative. And now the positive, get to work. Get back to your burdens, Pharaoh, substituting his own words for the words of God. Demanding Demanding more work, imposing greater worldly demands on the Hebrews, demands with a purpose Let heavier work be on the men that they may labor at it and pay no attention to lying words That was the goal. Work harder so you won't pay any attention to God's words. And he called them lying words. And so now the taskmasters become his messengers, messengers not of God's word, but of Pharaoh's word. In verse 10, the taskmasters and the foreman of the people went out and said to the people, Thus says Pharaoh. I have to see a parallel there between the way Moses and Aaron proclaimed the word of God. Thus says the Lord, and now the taskmaster is Taking that same form, seeing that this is a clear substitute for God's word. Thus says Pharaoh The perception that Pharaoh's word was authoritative. It clearly had been substituted for God's very word. Yes, Pharaoh denied the Lord by denying his word. If you're trusting this morning in the Lord Jesus Christ for your salvation, you may be tempted at this portion of the message to say Well, I don't do that. This portion of the scripture really isn't for me. I don't trample on the word of God. I don't deny the Lord. I don't deny his existence. I don't question his authority. I don't set my words above his. It's all good. The problem is that that was not the root of this problem. No. Extra biblical words, anti-biblical words came to the ears of the children of God. Both in the Garden of Eden and here in Egypt, these extra-biblical or anti-biblical words from the mouth of those who hated God affected the hearts, the thoughts. The actions of those who truly possessed the Word of God. Those extra-biblical or anti-biblical words of men or of Satan moved the hearts of Eve? And hear of even Moses to discount the word of God. Who are you listening to today? There are many, many speakers in the world today. Our access to them is only increased. With the advent of the internet, YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, we are inundated with people talking With deceptive, extra-biblical, anti-biblical words of men and women who contradict the word of God, who proclaim shrewdly Don't listen to the lies of God that focus your attention upon my word, my product, my promises. These deceivers may not use the same words as Pharaoh did, but their desire is the same. Pay no attention to the lying words of God. This passage then asks a question and contains a warning for all of us. Who are we listening to? And the warning is clear. Pay no attention to the lying words of those who are denying the Lord. Brings us to our second point, following the words of men. The same day, Pharaoh calls the taskmasters, those who were running the show, as far as the Egyptians were concerned. making sure that the Hebrews were pumping out those bricks. You shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks. Let them gather straw for themselves. By no means reduce the number of bricks that they are to make. And so the taskmasters seeking, in a sense, to imitate what was going on with Moses and Aaron being the messengers of God, now the taskmasters become the messengers of Pharaoh. Telling the Hebrews, you've got to get your own straw and the number of bricks cannot be reduced. Additional work Additional work, and they were not only the messengers of the words of Pharaoh, they became the bearers of the wrath of Pharaoh as well. They were beaten. And asked, Why have you not done all your task of making bricks today and yesterday as in the past? So the foremen, those who were Hebrews in charge of making sure the Hebrews were doing their work. We're receiving these words now from the taskmaster's lying words of Pharaoh, receiving his wrath, and now they actually receive words directly from Pharaoh's own mouth as they go in to complain. Of the extra labor, the extra burdens that are placed upon them unfairly, in a sense And Pharaoh speaks to them directly, you are idle, verse seventeen. You are idle. That is why you say, Let us go and sacrifice to the Lord. Go now and work. Do you see that this is a form of persecution? This is Pharaoh's form of persecution begins with a form of demoralization, with lies? You're idle or slack. You're not working. We know they were working. Exodus begins with the heavy burdens that were placed upon the Hebrews. They were ruthlessly made to work in all their labor. They made them work as slaves. We know that. Pharaoh lies and demoralizes them. They're crying out to the Lord for relief. But he wants them to forget this call to worship, doesn't he? He wants to place such a burden upon their backs that they can't look up to the Lord. He only wants them to look down, down upon their work, down upon their burdens, not up, not to the Lord. Moses and Aaron were calling them to worship. And Pharaoh was saying, don't listen to that call. Listen to my words only. Remember how chapter 4 ended. As Aaron speaks, all the words that the Lord had spoken to Moses and did the signs, the people believed. They had heard that the Lord had visited them, that he had seen their afflictions, and they bowed their heads and worship, and now that memory is gone. Replaced with a certain focus upon Pharaoh's words, upon their work, upon the swords in the taskmaster's hands. The lies, the threats, the vain words of men now occupy their minds and hearts. So much so, read verse 19. The foremen of the people of Israel saw that they were in trouble. The only way that they could be in trouble was if God's words were lies. If God's words were false, if God's words were insincere, or he was unable to do that which he said he would do. You see, the foremen were no longer seeing themselves as the people of God, but the slaves of Pharaoh. Look at verse 21. They said to them, meaning the foreman who come out now and speak to Moses and Aaron, You have made us stink in the sight of Pharaoh. The children of God are beautiful in the sight of God. Moses was We read in Acts verse 20 of chapter 7. At this time Moses was born and he was beautiful in God's sight. The Israelites were He refers to them as my people. He refers to Israel as my firstborn son. Israelites were beautiful in the sight of God. But now, because of the lies and the threats of man, because of the way that these have been treated, they consider themselves to be a stench. Their thoughts were turned away from how God viewed them to how men viewed them. No longer considering themselves to be the people of God, but now being the worthless slaves of Pharaoh, worthless in that he would kill them, being a stench in their sight. The attitude of worship and thanksgiving and joy had evaporated. Brothers and sisters, if we're honest with ourselves, we're confess and admit this happens all too frequently in our hearts. Our minds, in the depths of our souls, at times we place more emphasis on the way that people, our friends, our families, our co-workers, our neighbors Even in this case, our enemies look at us or speak to us than the way in which God looks at us and speaks to us. At times you tend to adopt the perceptions of others that have of you, rather than remembering and meditating upon the love God has for each of you as his beloved children. And I want you to think of it this way. As you do that, you actually deny the love of God that He has for His Son. The Father loves the Son. And Jesus knows that. I have made to them your name known. I will continue to make it known that the love with which you have loved me may be in them. God loves you because He loves Jesus. God's love for you comes through the Lord Jesus Christ. The only reason God has placed his love on you is because he loves his son, the Lord Jesus. So if you discount Or you conclude that the Father has waned in his love for you because others don't speak well of you? You have just denied in part or diminished the love of God the Father for the Son. Brothers and sisters, I think we all do this. And I think we all need to repent of this and remember God's love for us. Through the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. That brings us to our third point, forgetting the goodness of God. Well, this is a third encounter now. First encounter is between Moses and Pharaoh. The second encounter is between the taskmasters and the foreman and the foreman and Pharaoh. And now the third encounter is between Moses and Aaron and the foreman as they exit their meeting with Pharaoh. And it's not pleasant. Look at verse 21. The Lord look on you and judge. Because you've made us stink in the sight of Pharaoh Moses and Aaron hear the words of the foreman as they exit their meeting with Pharaoh, and the foremen have been beaten by the taskmasters. They've listened to the words of the taskmasters and now of Pharaoh's. And now Moses and Aaron hear the words of the foreman. They're angry. They're dismissive of the words of God spoken previously to them. They focus now upon the words of Pharaoh. And now they're pouring everything out upon Moses and Aaron. The events that have engulfed the Hebrews, the foreman, have now become their all in all. Remember, they believed, they worshipped in the end of chapter four, and now those words of God are an extremely distant memory, if a memory at all. And they devolve into these accusatory words. May the Lord judge you. You have made us stink. In the sight of Pharaoh and his servants. These words are not reminiscent or rehearsing the prior words of God, no, they are words of disbelief, they are accusatory, they are divisive. They're words that do not promote unity within the body, but promote strife. And all this causes another change in Moses. Moses hears these words of the foreman, and this attitude seems to take an 180-degree turn. No longer was Moses apparently willing to pursue the work and the task he'd been given by God. He's now fully and completely aligned with the foreman who've been beaten. He's aligned with those suffering, the additional burdens heaped upon them by Pharaoh, so much so that now he accuses God. Look at verse 22. And Moses turned to the Lord and said, O Lord, why have you done evil to this people? Why did you ever send me? As Moses considers the circumstances and the work of the foreman, he seemingly is inclined to agree with them. Not that he had brought the evil upon the people, but that because God had sent him, it was God who brought evil upon these people. Lord, you should not have sent me. Lord, you should have left these people alone. Lord, it would have been better for them to live in their slavery, to stay out of worship. Than to have me come and speak to Pharaoh. See what has happened? The goodness of God has faded The fact that the Lord had visited the people of Israel, that he had seen their affliction, that he had told Moses that he was going to deliver his people from this bondage and bring them into a promised land, a land flowing with milk and honey, was Gone, the goodness of God was gone. It was replaced by God who perpetrated evil upon his people. Was replaced by God who did not act within the time constraints that Moses had placed upon these difficult circumstances. The goodness of God had vanished before Moses. He had forgotten completely, apparently, the goodness of God Of God. How could that have happened? Forgetting the goodness of God. I think Moses was experiencing the cost of following Christ. It was costly to follow Christ. Moses had experienced that as he fled Egypt for the first time. Now he was re-experiencing the disdain of the people he was sent to serve. The Lord look on you and judge. Hurtful words coming from those Moses was sent to serve. The Hebrews were supposed to be thankful. But here are words of disdain, not words of honor, but of dishonor and shame. Moses himself was suffering and he was finding it costly to follow the words of God. And so now he allows his his hurting heart to attack the one who sent him. Brothers and sisters, one moment we can become as ecstatic about the promises of God as we meditate upon the fact that He has visited us. By and through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And He sent His Spirit to indwell us as we remember the cross at Calvary and the eternal love of God the Father. in which he sent his son, his only eternally begotten son, to his death for you Wretched death on the cross at Calvary, as we remember the empty tomb on the third day with the linen cloths lying on the floor, being cast off by the one who is now raised again to life. Who did so that you could have life today? As we think upon the Savior seated upon the throne, ruling and reigning over it. Of all things, and yet has promised to return for his bride, the church, once she has made her blameless and spotless, we can rejoice over these things, and we do rejoice. Just as the Israelites bowed and worshiped as they believed upon the promises of God. And yet were all too easily swayed away from the promises of God, the goodness of God, the righteousness. Of God, the justice of God, the return of Christ, the joy that these promises and truths bring us when we experience the cost of following Jesus. When persecutions come, because we claim Christ as our Savior. Our natural inclination is to protect ourselves. Say, God, why did you do that? Where has your goodness gone for me? Times you want to quit. Times you want to blame God Brothers and sisters, this passage is warning us. It's telling us that God is good always. Even in even in this time, even when the even when the foremen were beaten, even when the Hebrews remained in slavery, it was part of his providential perfect plan. Changing the hearts of the Hebrews, causing them to want to leave their slavery. And to head directly into worship. God was using these things. Moses yet didn't have eyes to see all of that, just like the disciples didn't yet have eyes to see Christ for who he was and what he was calling them to do. Brothers and sisters, there's a cost to follow Christ. But he's paid the price for that. In his blood. So that you would have the strength to continue following him. So that you would be reminded of how good God is. How much he loves you. May the Spirit give us the strength we need to continue following Christ even in times of persecution. Amen. Oh, Father, it is so hard at times. At times we feel like you have left us, but Lord with God, we know that you never have left us. We thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for the strength that He gives us. We thank you for the price that He paid so that we might have life and have it in abundance even now. Help us, Lord, when we receive persecutions. Help us to continue to follow after Christ. We praise you, we thank you, we love you. Help us to love you more. We ask all these things in Jesus' name.