If you would turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue our study there in chapter 9. I'll begin reading there at verse nine. Let's give attention to God's Word, Matthew chapter nine, beginning at verse nine. As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, Follow me And he rose and followed him. And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold Many tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? But when he heard it, he said, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. Go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we come now to the preaching of your word, help us. At times our thoughts, our minds, our hearts can stray And so we ask Father now, fix our hearts, our minds upon Christ. By your Spirit, Lord God, open our hearts to receive your word preached. And change us. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. There was a time in the nation of Israel when they had Anointed their first king. His name was Saul. And he was called by God to go and Wipe out the Amalekites, a people that lived close by. He was called to take his army and slay everyone, every living thing. Samuel, the prophet comes to visit King Saul after they had gone out against the Amalekites. And if you know the account in 1 Samuel chapter 15, as As Samuel comes, he hears sheep in the background Saul tells Samuel that he had done as the Lord had requested, but Samuel hears the sheep and he knows. He knows that Saul has not completely wiped out the Amalekites. Samuel said this to Saul: Has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Saul said that he had spared these animals for sacrifice Samuel continued, Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. King Saul had disobeyed. And he was admonished by the prophet Samuel. But even though Saul had reserved these animals for sacrifice, and from our perspective, we might be thinking, well, that was a good thing. Oh, Samuel said no. The Lord desires obedience, heartfelt obedience That's much of what we have this morning as we come here to the calling of Matthew by the Lord Jesus Christ. The call to obedience. We've seen much already in this gospel Indeed, the one who this portion is about is the one who wrote this gospel. Jesus has finished the Sermon on the Mount. He has cleansed a leper. He has healed the centurion's serpent He has removed demons from two men. He has healed the paralytic. And now he calls Matthew. This morning I want us to see that Jesus heals his sin sick followers, that they may display mercy. Jesus heals his sin-sick followers that they may display mercy. We'll see that in three points this morning. Calling sinners, reaching sinners, and then finally healing sinners. As we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking your yourselves, what is the significance of mercy? Have you thought about it? This passage should help us grasp, grasp the reason that Jesus desired mercy. Well, first, calling sinners. Look at verse 9. As Jesus passed on from there He saw a man called Matthew, said to him, Follow me. We might think if Jesus Christ were incarnated today, that he would go to our Reformed seminaries. That he would go to the mega churches, and this is where he would find men to follow him To choose his twelve disciples. That he would select men from among those who were hungry for his word, who were learned in the scriptures, knowledgeable. Possibly those leading thousands in worship. But that's only because we do not have the mind of God. You see, we tend to think very differently than the creator of the universe. Now we see here in this passage that Jesus did not seek out the religious leaders of the day. No, he calls Matthew. Matthew is not the first disciple called according to Matthew's gospel. Back in chapter 4, we saw that he called Simon or Peter and Andrew and James and John. But now he similarly, seemingly unplanned, walks by and sees Matthew. Seemingly no planning, no foreknowledge, no vetting, no questions. Who are your parents? What's your job? Are you a sinner? No, we know this was purposeful. We know that he purposefully goes to this one who was a tax Collector. Now, we really don't have much of an appreciation today for what a tax collector would have represented back then. Those who would have known Matthew, a Jew. Would have been seen as a traitor by his own people, collecting taxes for the Romans. And really not well liked by the Romans either, because he was a Jew. You see, tax collectors and sinners were put into the same category. You could exchange one for the other, a tax collector, a sinner, one and the same. That's who Matthew was. And that's why Jesus called him. He was a sinner Just dwell upon that for a moment. Matthew was called because he was a sinner And then we see that surprising response in verse 9. And he rose and followed him. Same thing happened with Peter and Andrew and James and John. Now, if you remember, this issue of following Jesus had already been raised by Matthew in the previous. chapter, a scribe came to him and said, Teacher, I'll follow you wherever you go. And Jesus responded, Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. A second comes to him and As Jesus apparently called him to follow him, he said, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. In both instances, we don't read of the man immediately rising. And following Jesus, but merely making statements and going about their worldly lives Here we see something very different in these disciples who are called, especially even now Matthew, otherwise known as Levi. He records absolutely no verbal response. The only response that is recorded is this physical one. He immediately he gets up. He rises from his tax booth, his tax table, and joins Jesus. It seems to be all physical. He leaves aside that which he was engaged in, most likely a profitable occupation, able to support himself and his family, and now he he leaves it. He sets it aside. An immediate change. We have to understand that this was no mere physical act. But it was completely spiritual. As the Spirit moved within Matthew, As Jesus utters the words, follow me, he gets up, he leaves his engagement, and now engages himself to Jesus Clearly it was a change of heart in Matthew. That's the only conclusion we can come to. These others in chapter 8 weren't willing to immediately rise and follow. They just speak words. Matthew is silent. The Spirit was powerfully working in him to draw him to Jesus. Follow me. It's interesting. Jesus was not merely calling him out of sin. He was that But listen to his words this morning. They're very simple. Follow me. It's a command. In the Greek, it's an imperative that that means it's an order. But make no mistake, the call to follow or to believe upon Jesus. While it's a duty for all, it's also an invitation. He was calling this one who was lost in his sin. Who was prior to the call in rebellion. Isn't that the case Every single person who has not yet responded to the call of Jesus to follow him remains in rebellion. That's just The way it is. That's the truth of Scripture. That's the condition of our corrupt hearts. But Jesus was not merely calling Matthew out of sin to another place that did not include Jesus' presence. Jesus wasn't calling and then leaving. The invitation was to be with him. He wasn't calling Matthew to go to seminary. He wasn't calling Matthew to join a particular church. He wasn't calling Matthew to listen to one of his students. No, the call was to leave his life of sin and join the very Son of God. Jesus, the Godman, in his walk of righteousness before the Father. Matthew's sin was killing him. And Jesus was calling him out and calling to follow him closely. He was calling sinners. Those who are well have no need of a physician But those who are sick. He knew Matthew was sick. Indeed, on his deathbed And so he calls them to follow him. I want you just to think about those words for a moment this morning. Because it's only by following Jesus that you can be saved from your sins. Follow me That brings us to our second point, reaching sinners. The amazing part of this passage is here in verse ten And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came. And we're reclining with Jesus and his disciples. This needs a little bit of explanation because Matthew doesn't provide a lot As the other gospel writers tell us, what happened is Matthew invites Jesus to come to his house. He's now been called by Jesus to follow him. He's left the tax collection table. He's risen, and now he's gone with Jesus, and now he invites him into his own house. We might think that Matthew, because of the hospitality that was which was the way of life in the Middle East That he might have invited the religious leaders of the day, the important people, the Romans that he was working with to come and eat with Jesus, but that's not the case. As Jesus reclined at table in the house. This is a picture of a dining room table, so to speak, but there was no table. And so in the Middle East they would sit on the floor. And so they're reclining there, they're having a meal That's the picture. Matthew has invited Jesus to come to his house now. They're having a meal, and guess who else is there besides Jesus and his disciples in Matthew? Many tax collectors and sinners. Matthew's house was full. Full of sinners. That's the place where Jesus went. That's the place where Jesus was willing to go. He ate with sinners. You know, this is the time of year when we are thinking about the birth of Jesus. And we think as we think of the birth of Jesus, we're thinking about the condescension of the Son of God. God Himself coming down from His dwelling in heaven and taking to Himself a human nature. And we think that, and it is, this lowering Of God Himself, this condescending, this coming down to be with His people, to humble Himself, we think that is the culmination of the condescension, of the lowering. The Son of God. There are many other places in Scripture where we see the condescension of the Son of God, probably mostly on the cross. But make no mistake, we must grasp this picture this morning of Jesus, the King of the world, the Son of God, the Divine One. God himself now enters into a house filled with sinners. Indeed, they've been following him. And now he's reclining with them, he's eating with a large group, each and every one of them that have broken his father's law. Each and every one of them were in rebellion against his father by breaking the law. Jesus had immersed himself into a world, albeit a home, filled with those who had offended his father. And you have to ask yourself that question, how was that possible? Why was he not with the good people? Why didn't he surround himself with the good people? With those who kept his father's law, who were righteous? We'll answer that in a moment. But right now I want you to see that he did. He condescended. He Entered into this place where he was immersed with those who were breaking his father's law. Such a low condition. We have a hard time grasping that. As it seems that this condescension of the Son of God takes another step lower. Because think of this, Jesus was actually entering into fellowship with sinners. This one who is pure, fully righteous, a lawkeeper, pleaser of God, pleaser of his father now immerses himself into a pool of sin. Now you might think it's strange that I would use that word fellowship. But let me ask you that question. When you think of having a relationship with neighbors, friends, when you think of engaging them, What's the most intimate setting you can think of, really? It's a meal, isn't it? You invite them over to your home to come and break bread with you, to share a meal. What would you do to become closer friends? It's hard to think of another activity which brings people closer together in an intimate relation. We see that in the early church at the end of Acts chapter 2. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread. And the prayers. They were eating together. That was part of their fellowship. That was part of the intimacy of the body of Christ. There's an intimacy that happens amongst us when we eat together. It's difficult to explain why that is, but I don't think we can deny it. And that's what Jesus was doing. Reclining at the table, an idiom for eating or breaking bread with those who had joined together with him. He was engaging in fellowship with them. He was communing with them in an intimate way. Puritan once wrote Union unto Christ we cannot have until it pleases him by his Spirit, as it were, to stoop from that kingdom where he now is, to exhibit himself unto those. whom it pleaseth him to assume into the unity of his body. You see, that's what Jesus was doing. He was stooping low from the kingdom that he came from to assume the sinners. into his body. See, we live in a time when each of us experienced broken relationships. We live in a time when there seems to be more and more separation between us people, less physical and intimate contact with one another. The inter internet has certainly fostered that as well as our digital devices. And as a culture, we're moving further and further away from one another. But that's not how we were made. Every single human being that ever was and ever will be is made in the image of God for a relationship with Him. We're people made for communion. Another Puritan puts it this way, if you have a fire and coals lie together in the hearth, you see how they glow. But if you have one that's off by itself, you see how it burns out quickly. Friends, if you're not in Christ this morning, you're not in if you're not following Jesus. If you're not believing upon him to the salvation of your soul, the fact is that you are in a broken relationship Because you're not in communion with the living God, the Father, the one who made you. It's likely that you see that all around you, with other broken relationships, with friends and families and co-workers. It's difficult to sustain, to maintain. But that's only because you're not in a relation with Christ. Christ is the one who restores That relation which you need, which you must have in order to truly live. And we see here as he reclines with sinners He is establishing that intimate relation. He's making that connection. He's bringing them into re-communion with his father. If that doesn't describe you this morning, Christ is calling out. He's offering himself to you. Hear his call. Follow me. And he'll bring you. He'll bring you into communion and union with his father. He'll he'll Make that relationship restored. Jonathan Edwards wrote, he is so full of love and kindness. That he is disposed to do nothing but to receive and defend us if we come to him. Brings us to our third point, healing sinners. Attention in a sense Don't be misled. In a sense, it turns out to the Pharisees or the scribes, depending upon which gospel we read. Verse 11, and when the Pharisees saw this, meaning Jesus eating with sinners, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? When Jesus heard it, he said, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. Now, I want us to be clear. Jesus was not saying that there are righteous people. We'll touch upon that in a moment. But Jesus was not saying there are two categories of people. Those who are righteous and those who are not. No, if you wanted to turn to Romans 3 just for a moment. We would see there as Paul writes to the church at Rome: none is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside together. They have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Jesus was not saying, oh, there are some righteous people who don't need to follow me. But it causes us to consider why the Pharisees asked this question about Jesus eating with sinners. In fact, it was they consider themselves to be those righteous. They consider themselves to be not in need of a physician because they weren't spiritually sick. That was their mindset, that was their idea, that was their belief about themselves, because of their lawkeeping and I'll put quotation marks around that because of their traditions, because of their outward and external practices and sacrifices. They thought they were well But what did Isaiah say? Bring no more vain offerings. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbaths are in the calling of convocations. I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly. What Isaiah was saying was: God does not want He does not want these sacrifices without a heartfelt obedience to him. It's interesting that Isaiah puts together, I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly. That's what the Pharisees were doing They were thinking, because we do these sacrifices, because we keep our traditions, because we seek externally to keep the law, we come together in solemn assemblies. We're good, we're right And Isaiah was saying, no, God can't endure your iniquity along with your solemn assemblies. None of you are righteous. Jesus came to call sinners. He knew no one fell under the category of the righteous. What he was really doing was he was making the point that not all would receive his call. While the call goes out to all, he said, follow me. It went out to all, not all will receive it. And that's the point that he was making. All those who wrongly consider themselves to be righteous will reject his call. Those who are actually sick with sin, but fail to acknowledge their need for spiritual healing and thus a spiritual physician, the Pharisees were part of that group of sin-sick sinners who would not acknowledge their need for a physician and would not admit that they were sick with sin. Is that you this morning? Have you rejected Jesus' call to be healed of your sin? Because you think you're righteous. Oh, please don't leave here this morning believing you're righteous in yourself. That was Jesus' concern. Oh friend, if that describes you this morning, repent. Repent from this deathly thought and belief that you're righteous in yourself Well then Jesus says something interesting. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. What does that mean? How does it fit? Jesus seems to be quoting or alluding to Hosea chapter 6, I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. And it seems as if Jesus just throws this in. But it couldn't be further from the truth. As we consider other passages in Scripture, as we see the Israelites, the people of God, adh Hearing, seeking to adhere to the letter of the law, but not the spirit that must take us back to King Solomon and think about what he did to preserve animals for sacrifice in opposition to God's word. Has the Lord great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord Saul cast off the will of God in order to pursue his own prideful desires. That's exactly what the Pharisees were doing. They were keeping the law externally, but in their hearts they had no desire to do the will of God. That's exactly what Isaiah was prophesying about. I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves. Make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Bring justice. to the fatherless plead the widow's cause. You see the connection Do you see the connection between being prideful in your self-righteousness and not being merciful? That's what the Pharisees were doing. We see that in the Pharisees. They completely lacked mercy because of their pride. They had elevated themselves thinking that we are so righteous, and Jesus is eating with those who are so filthy. The pride had taken them so far away from these common people who were in their sins that they could not identify with them other than to think of them as filthy and wretched and unworthy dogs. In contrast, Jesus was demonstrating mercy as he reclined at the table with them. Jesus was sent by the Father in doing exactly that which the Father had called him to do, to show mercy and grace to those who didn't deserve it. There's a sense that this passage is all about mercy Jesus, the Son of God, condescending to enter into an intimate relation with sinners, it's a picture full of mercy. And it was a mercy which the Pharisees didn't and couldn't grasp because they refused to receive it themselves. You see, that was Jesus' point. They had rejected what was being offered to them by the Messiah, by the Christ, by Jesus, the Son of God, who is sent by the Creator and living God. You see, you cannot show mercy to anyone unless you've received it. Unless you've experienced it. By sitting at the cross at Calvary and letting the blood of Christ just wash over you. The mercy being poured out upon you through the blood of Christ. That brings us to a question this morning. What keeps us from being merciful? His mercy and compassion on our hearts are like the Pharisees. Do we look down on those who are lost in their sins? Do we see ourselves as being better than those who are outside the church who are driving by this place this morning? We can be pharisaical. I go to church. In fact, I go twice. I go twice on Sunday. I tithe, I read my Bible. But how do you view those who are outside? Do you think you're so much better than them that you wouldn't even think of eating with them? When was the last time you invited a lost center to your house? And sisters, let me say this. We as a church have much work to do in this area of loving sinners The church has much work to do in its zeal for the lost. And unless we can cast off our pride by the work of the Spirit, we will never pour out mercy like Jesus He came to show us our sin. Even the sin of self-righteousness. He lowered himself In order to do so, he went to the cross and shed his blood to purge you of your pride and self-righteousness so that you could live, so that you could follow Jesus So that you could have mercy. Christ desires the children of God to be conformed to him in demonstrating mercy. We have to pray. Brothers and sisters Sisters, but the Spirit would help us. Yes, Jesus heals his sin-sick followers, that they may display Mercy. King Solomon failed. And so did the Pharisees. We know it's only by the work of the Spirit, and it's only by receiving the mercy of Christ. That we can pour out His mercy on those who are lost in their sins. Amen Oh Father, help us. We can become so absorbed in ourselves, in our In our own law keeping, in our church attendance, in our tithing, in our Bible reading. Father, help us. These are good things. Father, you can lead us to be pharisaical. Help us, Lord, by your Spirit. Give us hearts filled with mercy as Jesus has poured out his mercy upon us. Help us, Lord God. Give us a zeal for the lost. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.