If you turn your copy of God's Word now to the Old Testament, we'll be in Proverbs once again. Proverbs chapter 3, I think that's on page 627 of your pew Bibles. And we'll again read verses 1 through 12. But our focus this evening will be on those last two verses, verses eleven and twelve. Let's give our attention to the Holy Word of God once again. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments. For length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you. Bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart. So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth, and with the first fruits of all your produce. Then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine. My son Do not despise the Lord's discipline, or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him who he loves, as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Lord and our God, as we come now to this passage Help us. We pray that by your Spirit you would give us clear understanding tonight. Father, you would help us to see how we have resisted your discipline. And then, Father, that you would give us clear eyes to see the blessing of your discipline. Guide us tonight, Lord God. Be gentle with us. But Father, move us. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. If you remember our study in the prophet Daniel, We got to chapter 4, and Nebuchadnezzar, who was the king of Babylon, had a vision. He had a dream. And it was alarming to him. The dream was of a tree, a great tree, which produced abundant fruit, provided for the entire kingdom. But he didn't understand it. Because in the dream he was he saw a vision and was told to chop the tree down. Daniel came and explained to Nebuchadnezzar the meaning of the dream, and that this was something that was going to come upon Nebuchadnezzar himself. Because of Nebuchadnezzar's pride. And as we pursued chapter 4 in Daniel, we saw that indeed the king was prideful. Twelve months later, after this vision, he speaks to himself as he's looking out upon his kingdom, and he says, Is not this great Babylon which I have built by my mighty power? The pride of Nebuchadnezzar. And as a result of his pride, the dream, the vision, comes to pass. And he is disciplined. By the Lord. He becomes like a beast of the field. He eats grass like an ox. He's driven from among men. His body becomes wet with the dew of heaven. His hair grows as long as eagles' feathers. His nails were like birds' claws. Nebuchadnezzar was brought low. He was disciplined. He was chastised by the hand of the Lord. And then we see a change at the end of chapter four. As a result of the discipline, now Nebuchadnezzar returns, his reason returns to him, and what does he do? He blesses God. He praises and honors him. What a picture. What a picture of the power of the Lord's discipline and the goodness of it. Tonight as we continue in our study of Proverbs 3, we come to the end of this first section. in which we are going to be learning about the discipline of the Lord. We know that Proverbs was written by King Solomon, who uh was king of the greatest nation on the face of the earth at that point in time. And we see the care, the care of the king As he's speaking to one as as a son, he's speaking to the entire nation as his son Last Sunday night we dug into a little bit verses 9 and 10 with regard to honoring the Lord with your wealth tonight. Tonight we're going to look at the Lord's discipline and its blessings. Tonight I want us to see that the living God of creation loves his children so much that he disciplines them for their eternal good. The living God of creation loves his children so much that he disciplines them for their eternal We'll see that in three points tonight. First, the need for discipline. Secondly, the resistance toward discipline, and finally the blessing of discipline. We might just consider one verse tonight as we think of why this might be important for us. In Proverbs 5, we read, He dies for lack of discipline. Brothers and sisters, I'm hoping that you already know the importance of discipline, but if not, listen for it tonight. This is critical for our lives as those who are following Christ Jesus, and even more so for those who are not. Well, first the need for discipline. Look at verse eleven. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline or be weary of reproof. It's placed in the negative. That's how King Solomon put it. Do not despise, or do not be weary of his reproof. But it moves us sharply toward the positive, doesn't it? Desire discipline, desire correction. You might be asking, what is it? But you might also be thinking, well, I already know. Webster defines discipline as correction, as chastisement, as punishment intended to correct crimes or errors. We usually think of it in terms of children, don't we, children? The Proverbs are full of it. Whoever spares the rod hates his son. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him. Do not withhold discipline from a child. The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. Many times we think of discipline as being solely for children. But it's not. We know that. In Job chapter 5, we read, Behold, blessed is the one whom God reproves. Therefore, despise not the discipline of the Almighty. Or even in Psalms chapter 6, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. Discipline is for all. Yes, it's for children. But it's also for those who are mature in Christ. We might be asking ourselves, why do we need discipline? And the short answer is because we have fallen from grace. That's the underlying precept, isn't it, in these two verses written by King Solomon? The Christians, that believers, that the faithful in Christ Jesus, to whom Solomon was writing, my son Need correction and discipline because each one has fallen from grace. Each one was plunged by Adam into corruption. A corruption which remains, even when one's heart is changed from stone to flesh, the corruption remains Even though the true Christian has died to sin, yet the corruption still remains. That all believers, all faithful followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, stray from time to time, indeed most times. And thus are in desperate need of correction. Discipline is correction. Discipline is that which brings a follower back to the path. Consider Psalm 23 just for a moment. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He restores my soul, he leads me in paths of righteousness. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me, your rod and your staff. They comfort me. Now I'm not a shepherd, and I'm not quite sure what these rods and staffs were used for, but if you look on the internet, you'll see that a rod was possibly used to guide the sheep To keep them on a particular route, certainly going to the green grass, certainly going to the water, staying together. But then that staff, which apparently has this crook in it, this circle, is used to bring that straying sheep, that one who really wanted to go this way, to bring them back. It's a picture of discipline. Even in Psalm 23, a psalm which we love to read, which we love to memorize. In part it's about discipline, chastisement, being led on the path of righteousness. So the foundational principle here is that one who does trust in the Lord Jesus Christ for his or her salvation will necessarily desire to be on the right path. Knowing that the Word of God calls him or her to be on that path. Consider the words of the inspired writer to the Hebrews in chapter 12 Make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather healed. Strive for peace with everyone and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. It's strong language, but it's the truth We have to be holy. A sincere believer must be holy in Christ. The sincere believer must pursue holiness through the work of the Spirit. And thus holiness is accomplished in great part through and by the discipline, the chastisement of the Lord. We need his disciplining hand such that we will be brought back to Christ Jesus, to righteousness. Do not despise or become weary. Causes us to consider two things, doesn't it? To to have a change of attitude in two different ways. The first stated in the negative, do not despise. It implies that the desire of the Christian should be for discipline. Even ask for it. That the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ should be looking for, desiring the corrections of our Lord and Savior, recognizing that none of us travel on an absolutely straight path as Jesus did. And thus as we stray from the path set before us by Jesus Christ, we should desire correction, reproof, admonition, chastening. For only through this discipline will we be back on the straight and narrow path. Now, don't make the mistake tonight that we're speaking tonight of a works righteousness salvation. We're not. Not at all. This passage does not tell us that we must work for our salvation. This passage tells us that if you're truly in Christ Jesus, you're going to want discipline to bring you back on the path with Christ is set. that you'll be headed toward that narrow gate. For the for the and gate is narrow that leads to life. But the gate is wide and easy that leads to destruction. You see, Jesus describes two very different paths. Which lead to two very different entrances. There's a wide gate that leads to hell. There's a narrow path that leads to the narrow gate, which is Christ Jesus. And so the sincere follower of the Lord Jesus Christ is seeking always to be on the path that leads to the narrow gate. Christ himself. Do you understand the danger tonight? Proverbs 15 has this, there is severe discipline for him who forsakes the way. Whoever hates reproof will die. Proverbs 6 gives us this, for the commandment is a lamp and the teaching a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life. The danger tonight is real. It's urgent. We have an urgent need for discipline. And it's throughout Scripture. It's not just these two verses. The writer to the Hebrews in chapter 10 gives us this, for if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there is no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment and a fury of fire that will consume the adversary. Brothers and sisters, we can't leave this place tonight without a clear understanding of our need for discipline. That brings us to our second point, which should drive this home. The resistance toward discipline. Again, my son, do not despise the Lord's discipline or be weary of his reproof. Why was Solomon inspired by the Spirit to write this? Why was it necessary? Why did the Spirit know it was necessary for us tonight to be sitting here and focusing upon these two verses? Because the Spirit knows your heart. Because the Spirit knows that each of us do in fact despise discipline. We do in fact become weary of his reproof. The Spirit knows that we, that all people, even Christians, especially Christians, have inherited a resistance toward discipline. It's part of our corruption. It's part of what we've inherited from Adam. You may be asking that question, well, how do we know that? Well, certainly we can look at this verse tonight and say, well, it's here because there's a reason for it, because we have a problem with it. We can also go to Jeremiah. Remember, Jeremiah was written at the time when the Israelites, the southern kingdom, were straying from God and would not come back. God had sent discipline after discipline, prophet after prophet. And the Israelites continued to stray. And now the final prophet is sent to them to warn them once again of what was coming. And what do we read? In vain have I struck your children. They took no correction Your own sword devoured your prophets like a ravening lion. Chapter 5 O Lord, do not your eyes look for truth. You have struck them down, but they felt no anguish. You've consumed them, but they refused to take correction. Chapter 7. And you say to them, this is the nation that did not obey the voice of their Lord their God and did not accept discipline. Truth has perished. Chapter 17. Yet they did not listen or incline their ear, but stiffened their neck that they might not hear and receive instruction. Verse 30, or chapter 32, they've turned to me their back and not their face. Though I've taught them persistently, they have not listened to receive instruction. Brothers and sisters, if we're not getting this yet, you should just read Jeremiah tonight. It's full. Full of the turning away, the hardness of heart, the discipline that have been sent by God time and time and time and time again. And yet they refused. And their lot was to be destroyed. And then consider the experience of your own heart. No one born of Adam desires discipline. We have to admit, if we're being honest with ourselves, that no one born of Adam with the corruption in our hearts desires to be disciplined. We don't only need to consider children. They always reflect our nature. What child do you know who desires a spanking? No one desires to be corrected. For that is what discipline is as its foundation, as its root, its correction. Think of a ship for a moment. Maybe a battleship. Those who steer the ship have charts and they have orders They have orders to head in a particular direction, according to the charts. Now if the helmsman who's steering the ship begins to take the ship just one degree off course, he's never going to get to the port. Never get there. They're offline. They're off the path to get to the port. The chart has said be here. The orders have said be here. And the helmsmen have just taken a little bit off course. Now just think of what it takes to bring that ship back on course. This huge vessel in the water. It might take hours, it probably would take days To get the ship back on its course because it wants to stay on the course it's on. That's the image, that's the picture of our heart. The ship doesn't want to be corrected, and neither do we. It takes much effort to turn the ship and get it back on course, and that's a picture of our heart. The heart is deceived above all things and desperately sick Why? Well, first of all, because we reject authority and desire autonomy. Without a doubt. Just consider the events of the garden. Satan had already rejected the authority of God. As he said to the woman, You will not surely die. Satan had rejected God's authority. He had discounted it. He pushed it aside. He contradicted it. And he tempted Eve to do the same. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened. You'll be like God, knowing good and evil. Think of Moses in the wilderness. As God told him to speak to the rock, what did he do? He strikes it twice He was the authority. Remember what he said to the Israelites? Shall I bring water out of this rock for you? I'm the authority. The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, Because you did not believe in me to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I've given them. We reject authority. We want to be autonomous. That means to be self-ruling. And then we think we're right. We believe it, don't we? We think we're wise, we think we know all things. We think our judgment is righteous, in other words, we're proud, just like Nebuchadnezzar. Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. And in our pride we believe that no one has the right to tell us that we're wrong. No, brothers and sisters, we do not naturally in our corrupt hearts desire discipline, but we resist it And then we tire of it, don't we? There's a second part here. Do not despise the Lord's discipline or be weary of his reproof. And the second part is that we do become weary. If we receive the Lord's discipline at all, we usually become weary of it quickly. But the teaching here, the implication here is that the discipline of the Lord will continue throughout the life of the believer. The entire life. Discipline is not a once-and-done event. Think of Paul and the thorn in the flesh. He prayed three times for the thorn to be taken away. God was disciplining him Paul was tempted to become prideful because of the revelations that were given to him, and God was disciplining him, restraining him, chastising him with pain. A messenger from Satan. And even as Paul prayed for it to be removed, the Lord allowed it to remain as an affliction. As a chastisement, as discipline, as a means of constant correction for Paul. So for the Christian, the call is that you not become weary. That you not only desire the Lord's disciplining hand, but as you receive it over time, over years, that you do not become weary of it, but our natural response is to quickly tire of it. Each and every time that we experience the chastising or disciplining hand of God, we must think again and remember and rehearse the purposes for which the Lord sends it. We must remind ourselves of the value of the Lord's disciplining hand. And remember that it's because of his everlasting and eternal love that he sends discipline and chastisement. Brothers and sisters, are you seeking the discipline of the Lord? Are you growing weary of it? The one who despises discipline is necessarily not seeking new obedience. This one is not seeking to be on the path set forth by the Lord Jesus Christ. This one is not seeking and striving after holiness. This one despises discipline, is not seeking to be like Christ. Does that describe you tonight? Are you listening? Are you hearing the Word of God here in Proverbs chapter 3 and thinking, I do not want the discipline of the Lord, or you're considering your sins and thinking to yourself, I just want to remain in my sins. Leave me alone. I reject the discipline of the Lord. Oh, if this describes your heart tonight, dear friend, listen Listen to the Lord Jesus, he is telling you that you if you remain in this condition, if you despise the chastisement and the discipline of the Lord Jesus Christ, you will be doomed To an eternal existence outside of Christ, outside of God, without life, which is described in the scripture as the lake of fire, the fire which does not go out the worm that does not die. It's described as eternal torment. It's described as feeling pain without life, which sounds impossible, but it's the very word of God. If you're sinking in your sin tonight, call out to Christ. That he would break your chain to it. That he would release you as a prisoner is released from prison. That he would bring you into his bosom And save you. Call out to him tonight. Plead with him That finally brings us to our third point, the blessing of discipline. Solomon gives a reason behind His counsel. Do not despise the Lord's discipline or be weary of his reproof. Look for it there in verse 12, 4. The Lord reproves him whom he loves. As a father, the Son in whom he delights. The word for gives that sense that This is the reason for wanting discipline. This is the we reason for not becoming weary as the Lord sends discipline to you. There's also a sense of a promise here, isn't there? In other words, this verse says for us the reality of being a son or a daughter of the living God, that if you are indeed a son or a daughter of the living God, that you will You will be loved, and by and through that love you'll receive this disciplining hand. Chapter 12 of Westminster Confession of Faith on Adoption tells us this all those that are justified God in and for his only son Jesus Christ To make partakers of the grace of adoption by which they are taken into the number and enjoy the liberties and privileges of the children of God And chastised by him, as by a father, yet never cast off. It's the idea, isn't it? It's the promise of God. As he takes you as a son or a daughter, as he bestows his love upon you. as he brings you into his families, he's granting you the liberties and privileges of being one of his children, of receiving the spirit of adoption, and then along with all the other benefits of being in that family with God as your father, he is chastening you. Yet never casting you off. Indeed, we read it tonight from chapter 13 of the confession, didn't we? The idea of the continual supply of strength from the sanctifying Spirit of Christ, that's discipline. Part of that is discipline. So let's talk about these blessings that are caught up in being part of the family of God, being a son. or a daughter of God most high and receiving that discipline. First it's the blessing of the Father's love, isn't it? And that's just present right on the face of the verse. For the Lord reproves him whom he loves. Indeed, discipline is a constant and consistent reminder of God's love for you. Every time you're disciplined, every time you're chastised, you should be thinking, oh, the Lord loves me. He loves me so much that he disciplines me. He cares so much for me that he would chastise me even as thank you, Father. This is a result of the Father's love for Christ. And then through Christ for you. But the Father loves the Son. Doesn't he? And that was part of Christ's prayer, wasn't it, in his high priestly prayer in John 17? I and them and you and me that they be may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Wow. God the Father loving you just as he loves his son, because he loves his son. Because the Son loves him, and because the Son kept his will so perfectly. There are other passages which tell us this as well Proverbs 13 Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him. Our Father is diligent to discipline you. Revelation 3: Those whom I love I reprove and discipline What a blessing. Constant reminder of the Father's love for you. But did you notice the second part? For the Lord reproves him whom he loves as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. The blessing of the reality of the Father's delight. This may be one of the most amazing verses in all of Scripture. That the Lord God Almighty delights in those whom He disciplines. He delights in those whom He calls sons and daughters, not because of their waywardness. Which requires his disciplining hand, but because of Christ, his only eternally begotten Son, he delights in you tonight because of Christ Jesus. Because of his person, because of his atoning sacrifice, because of his righteousness, because of his purity, because of his obedience. God the Father delights in his sons and daughters, whom he is shaping through discipline to be more like his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. He delights in you tonight. Every time you're disciplined, oh, this is coming from the one who delights in me. Third, the blessing of being brought back unto the narrow path. That's what discipline does. Every time you're disciplined, you're being brought back to the path which Jesus Christ has set. Now, God the Father does not bring everyone back. We've read that. We know that from Romans chapter 1. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened, claiming to be wise, they became fools Therefore God gave them up. He didn't discipline them. There is a class of people that God will not, does not discipline. He will not chastise. He gives them over to their sins. He allows them to remain in their sins. But a true son or daughter of the Lord Jesus Christ of the Lord receives discipline. He or she is brought back In Hebrews we read for they, meaning our earthly fathers, disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he, meaning God, disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. He brings us back. He continues to work on us so that we would be holy. Fourth, the blessing of being taught. Discipline evidence is the careful and fatherly oversight of your heavenly Father, the one who desires you to know and learn to be more like Christ. Psalm 94, Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law. Those two go together. Discipline teaching. Then the blessing of peace. You see, there's tribulation and sin and transgression. There is no peace for the wicked, Isaiah 48. There's no rest in disobedience. But through discipline, we read in chapter twelve of Hebrews It yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who've been trained by it See, by discipline, the Lord is driving out from us sin and transgression and disobedience by discipline as he drives that out. He just doesn't leave it void or vacant. He replaces it with righteousness. He's training us by and through it. And by and through discipline, you're becoming more and more righteous. Not that you're going to become perfect, none of us will, until we enter glory. But discipline is like the tree. It's producing fruit in you. And part of that fruit is The peaceful fruit of righteousness. There's no peace in sin, brothers and sisters, but there is peace in righteousness And that only comes through Christ. As you're disciplined by the Father, there's There's one more blessing that is really at the foundation of all the blessings that I've already discussed, and that foundation is Christ. He He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. You see, everything goes back to Christ. He was the one who was chastised. He was the one who received that discipline, that eternal discipline. The eternal wrath of God was laid upon him, not because he needed it, but because we needed it. And so the Father, in his glory and his love for you, has laid that eternal chastisement, that eternal discipline on his own son. And that has brought us peace. You see, that's the foundation. That's why you can rejoice in the discipline that you receive. Because Christ, first and foremost, received the eternal discipline that you've been spared. And so now God in his gentleness, because his son has suffered for you, that eternal discipline now disciplines you lightly. Gently. In his love, not in his wrath. Brothers and sisters, we've got to ask this question tonight of ourselves. Am I being disciplined? Am I being disciplined? For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you're here tonight or listening, have you asked that question? And if you've answered it and you said, no, no, I'm not. Have you thought about that lack of correction in your life? Does that cause you concern? It should. In Paul's letter to the saints at Rome, he notes that God has left some of the Gentiles in their sins. They received no correction. We've talked about that tonight. They were left to revel in their rebellion. Is that you tonight? Are you being left to revel in the rebel rebel? If you're suffering in your sins tonight, if you have not been disciplined, if you're in toil turmoil, if you're in unrest, If the burden of your sin is weighing down upon you, crushing down upon your soul and your spirit, cry out to the Lord Jesus. If you thirst, if you thirst for that correction, for that discipline The Lord Jesus said, Come to me and drink. But if you are If in response to that question you said, yes, yes, I'm being disciplined, yes, I'm being chastised, let me ask this, are you praising God? Are you thanking the Lord Jesus Christ? Are you recognizing all of the blessings that are being poured out upon you because the God of creation loves you so much that he's disciplining you? Bringing you back time and again. That's our call tonight. Thank the Lord, praise God for His loving, disciplining hand. The living God of creation does love his children so much that he disciplines them for their eternal good How we serve a great God, even Nebuchadnezzar, disciplined, like an ox, like a beast of the field, and brought back. To praise God. Brothers and sisters, that's what our discipline is for. To bring us back, to praise God, to exalt Christ, to give thanks to the Spirit Amen. Father and our God, we do praise you tonight for your disciplining hand. Father, it is difficult. It is painful when we're receiving it, but Father, it is such a blessing. Father, change our hearts, change our attitudes towards discipline. Help us to even seek it out, to recognize it, to praise you for it, and never, never to become weary of it. We thank you that you love us so much, that you'd even think upon us to bring us back on the path headed toward that narrow gate, which is Christ Jesus. We ask this all in his precious name. Amen.