Hebrews chapter 10 verses 26 through 39. Hebrews chapter 10 verses 26 through 39. Let us hear the word of the Lord. For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth There no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fiery indignation which will devour the adversaries. Anyone who has rejected Moses' law dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses. Of how much worse punishment do you suppose will he be thought worthy who has trampled the Son of God underfoot? Counted the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, a common thing, and insulted the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And again, the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. But recall the former days in which after you were illuminated You endured a great struggle with sufferings, partly while you were made a spectacle both by reproaches and tribulations, and partly while you became companions of those who were so treated. For you had compassion on me in my chains, chains, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your goods. Knowing that you have a better and an enduring possession for yourselves in heaven. Therefore, do not cast away your confidence Which has great reward. For you have need of endurance. After you have done the will of God, you may receive the promise. For yet a little while, and he who is coming will come and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by faith. But if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him, we are not of those who draw back to perition. But of those who believe to the saving of the soul. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Everyone, please be seated. Last week, as we continued in our study of the book of Hebrews, our focus was on verse 26. I had originally thought I would get 26 through 29 done, but I only got the 26. And we discussed what it meant to be living an unworthy life of Christ. Living in a way that we sin willfully. Now, the author who is giving this warning Is directing the warning to those who are in the church, but who are false followers of Christ. When he gives the warning, it's to the entire church. But he is not saying to everyone in the church, when he makes this warning, he's not saying to everyone in that church That you can lose your salvation. Those who are truly born again can never lose their salvation. That's one of the great blessings that we have, because you see, our salvation does not depend on what we do. It is totally dependent upon what God in Christ has done. May you take comfort in that that. And may you never be dissuaded from that. That's the heart of our faith, of our Christian faith. So the author is not saying to everyone in the church that they can lose their salvation if they sin unwillfully and follow the pattern of this group that he's identifying here. But he is talking to some in that church. He is talking, as I identified last week, he's talking to the tares. That Jesus speaks of in Matthew chapter 13, right after the parable of the sower that we read about Remember that the parable of the tares, tares that are weeds sown by the evil one among the sowing of the seed of God, and how they grow up together The disciples say, do you want us to tear out the tares? And Christ says, no, let them exist until harvest time. Let them coexist until I return, and then the differentiation will be plain, and I will take care of executing my vengeance upon the tares. So there are tears. They're tears. 1 John, John the disciple said in chapter 2, verse 19, that they are of the spirit of Antichrist. They went out from us, but they were not of us, he says. The Apostle Paul, in his language, in his discussions with the elders at Ephesus and his farewell address in Acts chapter 20, He says to the elders of the church, to the elders, the leaders of the church, he says, from your own selves shall men arise. speaking perverse things to draw disciples after them. It's that group of people that the up that the writer of Hebrews is targeting with the things that he has to do. It's important for us to receive a heads up about the existence of these kinds of false leaders and false people in the church. Church, because you see, it is so simple to deceive people It is so easy for those who have wicked hearts to put on the robes of the ministry. And proclaim falsehood. And to have people think that these people are the greatest people since slice bread. That's a bad metaphor, but you get the point. People in the church need discernment. It's not always easy to discern. It's difficult because you got people who are deliberately concealing their heart In a multitude of different ways. Sometimes with great charismatic personalities, someone, sometimes with Instead of preaching the word of God, are very gifted at telling funny stories. And people want to come and hear, be entertained. There's all kinds of different ways we fall susceptible to deception. And and frankly, some people think that because the person has uh is a minister and has some degree behind his name, that that's that's equivalent to him being God Almighty And that he can't make a mistake. It's not true. We're all Subject to error, all imperfect, this side of glory, and even the best ministers with the best intentions are imperfect. And will make mistakes. And and I have made many. And you must not take everything I say Just as gospel truth, you must evaluate everything by what the Word of God says Your salvation can well be influenced negatively by following the wrong shepherd. Who speaks with the fourth tongue? So the Apostle Paul is exposing these people. He's giving a profile of what to look for, what you might perhaps be able to discern And he's warning the rest of the church. Don't just assume that the brother or sister is sitting next to you Loves Christ the same way you love Christ. And is even serving Christ So, again, last week I talked about living a life unworthy of Christ. A life that is unworthy of Christ would certainly include the following things: living a life, personally rejecting the sacrifice of God's provision in Christ. But living the life of deception, living a lie, offending a holy God. What he does on the Lord's day is all good and copacetic and looks great, looks like a follower of Christ, but what does he do the other six days? What does he do in his home with his family? What does he do at work? Or it could be she, you know. It's not just men. Everybody. can live a life unworthily. And in this case, you see, they might be able to speak the truth of the gospel, but yet they don't believe it. I one time was serving in in in a summer intern in the OPC Church in Wilmington, Delaware. And we got an influx of people that came to the church suddenly one Sunday And we all kind of scratched our heads and wondered. You know, you know, you get twenty or thirty people show up and that's a big deal And they're all sitting together, you know, they all know each other. So we all kinda wondered what they were there for. And somebody well, they they were there to w to worship God, but And somebody as somebody asked them the question, you know, what's happened? Where do you come from? And they said, well, we come from the Presbyterian, it was the Presbyterian church. It was not A Reformed Presbyterian Church, it was the other variety that's out there, they said, what are you here for? Why did you come? You know, they said he they said, and somebody spoke up and said, our pastor just this morning stood up in the pulpit and said, was reading the scriptures And he was talking about the gospel, and then he said, I don't believe any of this. And he had been the pastor there for like 15 years. It's out there The whole idea of being able to speak the truth of the gospel yet not believe it. There are friends, friends, there are people out there who may be able to do a thousand good works, and yet do not do them for the glory of God. Why do they do them? Well, I hate to be judgmental, but if you're not doing them for the glory of God, you're doing them for yourself To elevate yourself in people's eyes, thinking you're a good person. There are others who may be the most learned men of the Bible Scholars who are able to quote chapter and verse of the Bible, and yet be among those who secretly plotted to kill Jesus. Remember that? It wasn't the common people that rebelled against Christ, it was the s the theologians that engineered his death So we've got one way we can understand What's happening in these people's lives is by verse twenty-six they sin willfully in some way in word in thought in deed in action But you may not always be able to understand. They may be deceptive enough never to reveal their true motives. And in that sense, they're just like their father. Who's not God but Satan? He didn't come to uh To Eve and say, I'm going to get you to sin and fall out of God's grace and create trouble for the rest of the world. No, he was far more subtle than that And so are his followers. But now notice how the text goes on to further describe these people. It uses three phrases in verse twenty-nine. How much more sore punishment do you suppose shall he be thought worthy who, number one, hath trodden underfoot the Son of God? Number two, hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified as an unholy thing. And number three, hath despised the spirit of grace. Once again, it may not be evident easily to detect those things operating in a person's life. But from time to time you may get glimpses that something is off. Something is not right Such a person who the author says is bound up to receive God's vengeance, his justice His retribution has first of all trampled underfoot the Son of God. Secondly, considered the blood of the covenant Whereby he was sanctified as an unholy thing, and thirdly, hath despised the spirit of grace. A couple of general comments before we get more specific. All three of the action verbs in those phrases, trampled, considered, despised, all three of them are in the Greek aorist tense, which, as I've explained in the past, means that the activity or the action is a f is reported to us as a fact. Doesn't mean Something that happened in the future, something that happened in the past, something that happened in the present, it really isn't time-centric It's what's going on now, what is true of these individuals. Their actions are described differently in verse 29, but they are actions that are nevertheless happening nevertheless have happened in their lives. To do one is to do the other two. All three are linked time-wise by the eras tense. They have already occurred. This happens simultaneously. Well, let's look a little bit deeper at these three things. Originally, uh I was really fascinated by this concept of what it meant to be trampled under the the underfoot of the sum of trampling underfoot the son of God. Wanted to know what that meant. And that's what uh underlied last week's sermon, but I never got here. So I've arrived. And I'm ready to share this with you, what I think this means. To trample underfoot is to treat someone or something with contempt or disdain. This word is not used often in the New Testament, but it is used in a couple of important places, which help give some insight into the meaning of this word. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 13, Jesus looks at his disciples in the Beatitudes, and he says, You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted It is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and be trampled under the foot of men. What is it that makes salt special or in many cultures valuable? What it is that makes it special or valuable is its very nature. It can be a preservative, it can be a flavoring, but that's part of its nature. That's what salt is. Men cast it aside along the road, if it loses its favor, it is then if it loses its salt, it's then considered to be worthless, useless. This is how these sinners view the blood of Christ shed upon the cross. The very nature of Christ's sacrifice is worthless to them. Helps that. Doesn't that bring some of it through? Some some of the idea of how they view this. Luke chapter 8 verse 5 in the Luke parallel to the Matthew 13 passage that we read about the parable. of the sower. In verse 5, it says, The sower went out to sow his seed, and as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and it was trodden down. And the fowls of the air devoured it. And that caused me to wonder. Why would someone trodden down the farmer's sowed seed? And the answer I came up with is that only those who have no regard for it. Would trodden it down. Would tramp on it. And why is it that people have no regard for things, for other people, or for Christ? Very simply, such a person is too self-absorbed to see where they're going or who's in the way. In the meantime, in Luke chapter 12, verse 1, we read another use of this word trample. In the meantime, when they were gathered together, an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trampled one upon another Christ began to say unto disciples, first of all, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Okay, so you've got a situation. Christ is preaching, Christ is teaching. It's a huge amount of people And they're so packed together that they, you know, that they would, if something uh uh dangerous happened, uh they would trample one another They were that close together. You see, get into a crowd sometime, I've never had this experience, but get into a crowd sometime and have somebody yell fire. Not a good thing. Because that entire crowd is going to panic and they will flee in terror. At that moment, all they care about is their survival. They will trample and they will kill anyone in their way. A person who tramples the blood of God underfoot is one who is so self-absorbed that he considers the life of others worthless. Everything revolves around me. Me before you. And ultimately, that me extends to the Son of God. Me before Christ. Me before Christ's death and resurrection. Me before God Himself. And of course, me before anybody else. Maybe that gives you a little bit of picture about what's involved in trampling the blood, trampling the Son of God underfoot. Second thing that it's referred to here as to what these people do, these false leaders in the church. Not just leaders, but people in the church do. They have considered the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing. Don't ignore the word considered. Because the word considers bring for brings forward two important things. The person considering has heard about the blood of the covenant. And the person considering not only has heard about the blood of the covenant, but has reflected upon its meaning. And has judged it to be inferior or unimportant. Where did these people hear about the blood of the covenant? Where else? They're in the church. They're in the synagogue. The scriptures are read over and over again. So somehow they're one of these days, you know, if they're there regularly and they have to be there regularly to put up their false front One of the days they're going to hear about the covenant. And one of these days they're going to hear about the Christ who fulfills the covenant promises of God. And one of these days, well, maybe I can't even say that anymore in the world in which we live and the situation in the churches today, but one of these days. They will hear about Christ's blood shed for sinners And as they will hear that this person not only called Christ is the Son of God who died to save for their sins and to make them holy. He will consider it, but he will care neither for the grace of God displayed in Christ, nor does he want to be holy and live for Jesus Where's the ball? He cares not or considers not the blood of the covenant of Christ shed to save sinners. He cares not because he considers himself above all that He has no need for a savior. How can it be that such people who care so much about their own blood Who care so much for baby seals killed in the Arctic or whales who are harpooned Or stray dogs and cats euthanized, or polar bears stranded, melting on the floating ice flow, who apparently can't swim. How can it be that the same person who cares so much cares not at all about the blood of Christ? I had an expletive there, but I can't utter it. How could he care not about the blood of the covenant? God's blood shed for men's sinners through God's Son This person who in some ways has said, this is person, and this is interesting, this threw me for a while, but I worked on it. This very person who cares not for the blood of Christ is said to be sanctified by that blood. And that's really tricky. This is tricky. And I'm telling you, it cannot refer to being sanctified here as an ongoing process in this man's life Again, the verb is airist. Again, it's talking about a fact, but it's not talking about a present, continuing reality. It means that this man had some initial calling unto God's people, but he didn't remain there. Something became more important to him than holiness before God. And that took the place of ever developing and progressing his sanctification. Or as holiness. You don't have to always translate sanctification as holiness. It literally means to be set apart. The man in that sense is set apart to be among God's people. He heard the word regularly. But the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of sin and riches choke out the word. Choke the word out of him. He is the one described in Hebrews 6, verse 4. It is impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift And were made partakers of the Holy Ghost and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come, they shall fall away to renew them again to repentance. Seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh and put him to an open shame. These people who are identified here Have no appreciation for God's fulfillment of his covenant promises to redeem sinners and for them to be his people. God has been faithful to his promises to save sinners, to his covenant promises, although men have never been faithful. God saves us. He saves us while we were yet enemies. He saves us by the blood of the new covenant in his Son Jesus. But this person sees that blood as an unholy thing Christ's blood on the cross, you see, in this man's eyes is linked with all that is against God. All the lust of the world, the pride of the eyes, this man sees Christ's blood that saves sinners no better it as being no better than the devil's excesses of unhood. Holiness. The last thing this person is said to have done is despised the spirit of grace. The word despised is very good there. You could also translate insult the spirit of grace or outraged the spirit of grace. The Holy Spirit himself is said to be insulted by this person's attitude and duplicitous heart, even outraged. Sorry, I can't take it to any other place in the Bible because this is the only place this word occurs. But what else would you call it when such a person deceptively lies to everyone? Pretending to be a Christian when they are not. What would you call it when such a person deliberately and continuously is entrenched in loving himself more than God? What would you call it when a person despises every aspect of God's crowning gift of mercy to mankind in the redeeming work of Christ? What else can you call that person's actions and his heart but an outrage to the Spirit of God's grace? Let no one here be defined by this profile. If anyone within my voice hears these words, and it describes you to a T You must beware. God is not mocked by your deception. God is not unaware of your thoughts. If you think he is, you're a fool. Do don't you know He mercifully is even keeping you exposed to other Christians and to the reading of the Word of God. even to the detriment of his son's name and the possible negative influence that you might be among his people. So that perhaps You might repent and truly believe upon hearing the gospel. Take no comfort in your deception among the church as a liar of Christ. For God says, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. God will reap upon you what you have sown And the day of his judgment on you will be the last day you ever lie again. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. Deny yourself. Despise not Christ's blood. Embrace God's covenantal plan of redemption for you. Cease assaulting the Holy Spirit. Repent and believe in the saving name of Christ. And live for Jesus. Amen. Father, we come to you this day Saved by the grace of God, and except for the saving work of Christ and the work of the Holy Spirit, Lord, we would be defined. We might be defined as those who would fit this characterization. Thank you, O Lord God, that you have made our hearts desire you more. That may you have made our hearts to love you more. You've caused us, Lord, to seek you where you may be found. And you put within us the desire to come to you and to call you Abba Father. No longer to flee and run away and hide from the shamefulness of our sin, but to come to you, confess it, and repent by your grace. To declare openly to you our rebellion and believe, Lord, that we shall live by faith in Jesus Christ. To God be the glory for granting to the souls assembled here and around the world what a wonderful salvation we have in Jesus. In his name we pray, amen