If you turn in your Word of God now to Joshua We'll be in chapter 7 tonight. I think that's on page 215 of your Pew Bibles. I know I said that we would finish up the sermon from this morning, this evening. And I just decided to do something a little different. So I apologize. But I think we'll be edified tonight by Joshua. And we'll read the whole chapter right now. Joshua chapter 7, beginning at verse 1. Let's give attention to the very word of God. But the people of Israel broke faith in regard to the devoted things. For Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zara, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted things, and the anger of the Lord burned against the people of Israel. Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is near Beth-Avan, east of Bethel, and said to them, Go up and spy out the land. And the men went up and spied out Ai. And they returned to Joshua and said to him, Do not have all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and attack Ai. Do not make the whole people toil up there, for they are few. So about 3,000 men went up there from the people, and they fled before the men of Ai. And the men of Ai killed about thirty-six of their men and chased them before the gate as far as Shebiram and struck them at the descent. And the hearts of the people melted and became as water. Then Joshua tore his clothes and fell to the earth on his face before the ark of the Lord until the evening. he and the elders of Israel, and they put dust on their heads. And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, why have you brought this people over the Jordan at all to give us into the hands of the Amorites to destroy us? Would that we had been content to dwell beyond the Jordan. O Lord, what can I say when Israel has turned their backs before their enemies? But the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it and will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And what will you do for your great name? The Lord said to Joshua, Get up. Why have you fallen on your face? Israel has sinned. They have transgressed my covenant that I commanded them. They have taken some of the devoted things. They have stolen and lied and put them among their own belongings. Therefore the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. They turn their backs before their enemies because they have become devoted for destruction I will be with you no more, unless you destroy the devoted things from among you. Get up, consecrate the people, and say, Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow, for thus says the Lord, God of Israel There are devoted things in your midst, O Israel. You cannot stand before your enemies until you take away the devoted things from among you In the morning, therefore, you shall be brought near by your tribes, and the tribe of the Lord takes by lot shall come nearby clans, and the clan that the Lord takes shall come nearby households, and the household that the Lord takes shall come nearby man by man. And he who is taken with the devoted things shall be burned with fire. He and all that he has, because he has transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and because he has done an outrageous thing in Israel. So Joshua rose early in the morning and brought Israel near tribe by tribe, and the tribe of Judah was taken. And he brought near the clans of Judah, and the clan of the Zarites was taken. And he brought near the claim of the Zarites man by man and Zabdi was taken, and he brought near his household man by man and Achan, the son of Carmen, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, the son of the tribe of Judah, was taken. And Joshua said to Achan, My son, give glory to the Lord, God of Israel, and give praise to him, and tell me now what you've done. Do not hide it from me. And Achan answered, Joshua, Truly I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and this is what I did. When I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak from Shinar, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a bar of gold weighing fifty shekels, Then I coveted them and took them. And see, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent with the silver underneath. So Joshua sent messengers and they ran to the tent, and behold, it was hidden in his tent with the silver underneath. And he took them out of the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the people of Israel. And they laid them down before the Lord, and Joshua and all Israel took with him took Achan, the son of Zerah, And the silver and the cloak and the bar of gold and his sons and daughters and his oxen and donkeys and sheep, his tent and all that he had. And they brought them up to the valley of Acor. And Joshua said, Why did you bring trouble on us? The Lord brings trouble on you today. And all Israel stoned him with stones. They burned them with fire and stoned them with stones. And they raised over him a great heap of stones that remains to this day. Then the Lord turned from his burning anger. Therefore, to this day, the name of that place is called the Valley of Acor. As far as the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Father and our God, you have brought us tonight to this particular text, this particular portion of your word. So now we ask, Holy Spirit, that you would work in us, in each of us, individually, as you know we have need. And then collectively as a congregation. Father, we pray, use this passage as the Spirit opens it up to us tonight. First for your glory, and then for the good of your people. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. What are you hiding? That was the question asked to Aiken. And it seems to be the question that we need to ask of ourselves tonight, what are you hiding? As we've been going through Matthew's gospel, one of the texts that we got to recently was the text as Jesus enters Jerusalem And goes to the temple. And if you remember the account, what Jesus does is he begins to cleanse it. He overturns the tables of the money changers and those selling doves, and he removes them. And he begins teaching and healing. In a sense, there were hidden things within the temple. hidden devoted things which should not have been there, which defiled the temple, which needed to be cleaned out. Which needed to be removed so that the temple could be restored to the use that God had purposed for it. In a sense, that seems to be what's going on here in this passage that we have tonight The Israelites, spending 40 years in the wilderness, have now crossed over the Jordan. They're in the promised land. They have had this great victory in the first city, Jericho. If you remember that account that we went through last week, Jericho was a fortified city Walls. Walls sufficient that a house was built on it. That's where Rahab's house was. Her house was on the wall of the city. As the spies were let down from her house, they were on the wall of the city So a substantial fortification is it had to be breached in order to get into the city. And as we read that passage in Joshua 6, this is the first city that the Lord was Bringing the Israelites to we see that supernatural act of God as the people shout and the walls fall down and they enter in And called to destroy everyone, everything. Take nothing of the things devoted to destruction. That was the command. That's what they were to do. And as we left that chapter, we saw last week that Joshua lays a curse on Jericho that it's never to be rebuilt. It's been destroyed. It was devoted to destruction. Cursed before the Lord be the man who raises up, rises up, and rebuilds the city Jericho. So the Lord was with Joshua. His fame was in all the land. Seemingly a wonderful and happy ending, a victory, a great victory. And then we turn to Joshua chapter seven. And we see this great contrast. Jericho, a hardened city, fortified walls, warriors inside. But AI An easy target. As the spies go up and look into it, they spy it out. They return to Joshua and said, Look, there aren't that many people up here. Don't send very many. Two, three thousand. They're just a few. An easy target for us. An easy capture. But despite the possible ease of victory, Israel is routed. The Israelite army fleeing in fear Thirty-six of their men killed, chased away from them And instead of the people's hearts in AI melting, it's the Israelite hearts that melt and become as water. And Joshua doesn't understand. He's perplexed. He falls on his face. He tears his clothes. He and the elders put ashes. On their heads. And he asks that question: why have you brought this people over the Jordan at all? Would that we have been content to live on the other side? The Lord responds, get up. And now he informs that which Joshua had no idea of, apparently. Israel has sinned. They've transgressed my covenant. They've taken some of the devoted things. Remember, the things were devoted for destruction within the city of Jericho. They were not to be taken out. Some of them were to be put in the treasury, but they weren't taken for individual or personal use They turn their backs before their enemies because Joshua's now being formed by God because they become devoted for destruction. By taking the devoted things the entire nation has now become devoted for destruction. Well, as we've read the rest of the chapter, we know that Achan is identified as the one who has been the Who has transgressed the law of God. We know that by the supernatural work of God he's identified. And we know that at the command of God, he and all that he possesses Are destroyed. The devoted things are destroyed. We might sum up the teaching here very simply. Covering sin always results in trouble. Covering sin always results in trouble. For a long passage, that's a fairly straightforward. Teaching. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, God is always righteous. Secondly, God is always all-knowing. And thirdly, God is all merciful. God is all righteous, God is all-knowing, and God is all merciful. As we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you to be asking yourselves once again What am I hiding? What am I hiding from God? Well, first, God is all righteous. Do you ever ask that question, how serious is God about sin? In other words, is it really important to keep his law Or his commandments. Does it make a difference in our lives? In our day-to-day lives? Does it make a difference whether we keep his law or not? That's a common question among thieves. Is the owner of the house really serious about the things he has inside? If I were to take his television or the jewelry, would he really mind? Would it be bad for me? That question is quickly answered when the thief is brought before the judge. To receive punishment for his thievery. How serious is God about sin? This passage helps us answer that question, I think, doesn't it? How much does God care whether his people keep his commandments? Listen again to the Lord as he explains the situation to Joshua. Israel has sinned. They have transgressed my covenant. They've taken some of the devoted things. They've stolen. They've lied. Therefore, the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. They turn their backs before their enemies because they have become devoted for destruction. This may be the most significant part. I will be with you no more Do you see the contrast to the end of chapter 6? At the end of chapter 6, when everything seemed really well, so the Lord was with Joshua. Now Now that some of the devoted things have been taken, I will be with you no more. How serious is the Lord about sin? Consider the garden. Consider Adam and Eve. It was just two pieces of fruit. How could God be upset over two pieces of fruit The rock, his work is perfect. For all his ways are justice. That's our God. All his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity. Just and upright is he. Deuteronomy 32. That's a description of God's nature. Yes. He's serious about sin. For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness. No evil dwells with you. You hate all who do iniquity. You destroy those who speak falsehood. He hates sin. Even Nebuchadnezzar. Recognized, praised, and extolled the King of heaven, God Himself, for all his works are right and his ways are just. He knew God was a just God. God is serious about sin. He hates sin. He will not stand for sin. He will not let it go unpunished. What happened at the end of the day to Achan? He just took some silver and gold and a coat. That was it How serious was that? He was stoned and burned to death along with all of his family and all of his possessions Joshua and all Israel took him with him, took Achan the son of Zarah, the silver, the cloak, the bar of gold, his sons and daughters, his oxen and donkeys and sheep, and his tent, all that he had. Brought them to the valley of Acor. All Israel stoned him. They burned him with fire. They stoned them with stones. He raised over him a great heap of stones that remains to this day. Now remember, the Lord used stones as a memorial after they crossed the Jordan, raising up twelve stones so that they would remember that the Lord was present with them. But he was the one who brought them over the Jordan. He was the one who brought them through the wilderness to the promised land. He was the one This is a reminder, a memorial, when the children ask, what's this here for? Because the Lord is with us. And now The stones they raise up over Achan, over his family, remain to that day a reminder. God hates sin and will not Let his justice go unsatisfied. Nothing of Achan remained. That was the punishment. That was the result. That was the consequence of Achen's sin. And it demonstrates how serious God is about sin. He will not. He cannot accept it or tolerate it or let it go without exacting his punishment. There must be satisfaction for God's justice for every single sin. That's the nature of God. That's his righteousness. And his righteousness and his justice are so closely connected it's difficult to separate them. In fact, I don't think you can. Because God is a righteous God, he cannot allow transgression to go without justice. Justice means a corrective action for the transgression. Here we see the corrective action was death to Achan and his family, and the destruction of all his belongings. But God is so serious about sin that is so offensive to God that it went beyond Achan, didn't it? The consequences of this sin went beyond Achan and his family. Remember how Joshua comes to know that there has been a transgression of the law of God. It's because the Israelite warriors were struck down. Thirty-six men lost their lives as they fled from AI. That should not have happened if the Israelites had been faithful, if Achan had not taken some of the devoted things. Sin is so significant to God, this particular sin was so significant that the entire nation suffered as a result of this man's transgressions. It reminds us a little bit of Adam, who caused the whole race to fall in his one sin. Now, Achan's sin is not equal to Adam's sin. He's not a federal head. And it reminds us of that. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man. God is serious about sin. Brothers and sisters, many times We either forget that or we ignore that. We look beyond that. We don't appreciate that. We certainly don't grasp it. God is serious about sin. That brings us to our second point that God is all knowing. God is all righteous. But he's also all knowing. Well, you might be asking yourself that question tonight: how is it that Achan could take these things that were devoted to the Lord and devoted to destruction? Remember his answer to Joshua. As Joshua asks that question, truly I've sinned against the Lord. This is what I did. When I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak from Shinar, two hundred shekels of silver, a bar of gold weighing fifty shekels, I coveted them and took them How could he do that? The prohibition was so clear. In chapter six, we read the city, and all that is in it, within it, shall be devoted to the Lord. For destruction. Rahab was the only carve-out. She and her household were the only things that weren't devoted to destruction because of Rahab's protection of the spies. There was that little island, so to speak. She was plucked out of the city of destruction. But the rest of the city, and all that was within it, was devoted to the Lord for destruction. And then Scripture gets a bit more particular. Keep yourselves from the things devoted to destruction. All silver, gold, every vessel, bronze and iron, are holy to the Lord. They shall go into the treasury of the Lord. So Achan takes things that are devoted to the Lord, to the treasury, and he takes things that are devoted to destruction. Achan was well aware of the command. Even as he comes to Joshua, even as he admits what he's done, I've sinned against the Lord. Well how would he know that? because he knew of the prohibition. There was no misunderstanding in his mind or his heart as to what God said. There was no confusion in Achan or mistaking this plunder. Well, I took this but I really didn't know. No. Achan knew. He understood the command. He was able to identify those things which were not to be taken for himself. This was not a case of misunderstanding or ignorance or excusable error. No. Aiken took with knowledge and intent. He was tempted and he coveted. He admits it. Those things which were devoted to destruction are devoted to the Lord. He does it against the express will of the living God who had led them into Jericho. Think of that. The one who had delivered the Israelites through 40 years of wilderness wandering. The ones who had delivered the Israelites across the Jordan by splitting the river. The ones who had brought the Israelites into the promised lands who had paved the way to enter the city, the fortified city of Jericho, through the walls that fell down upon their shouts. This is the one whom Achan sinned against. by taking and hiding those things which were to be devoted to the Lord or devoted to destruction. How can he do that? And the short answer is that Achan was made in the image of Adam, that Achan had a sin-inclined heart. And so he coveted. Achan wanted what he wanted and determined to have what he wanted, even if God had said no. That's the simple answer to the question. There's a second answer to that question of how could Aiken do that? And it is by hiding Achan could take the devoted things by hiding them, or at least trying to hide. We know that it was not out of ignorance or lack of knowledge, but Achan purposefully, intentionally broke the command of the law of God and had a plan. And the first part of that plan was to take those things once he was tempted. That's where the plan formulates. I'm tempted, I'm coveting, I want that, and now I'm going to get it. The second part of that plan was after the taking, the wrongful taking, was to hide the things that he had wrongfully taken for himself. Everyone else in the Israelite camp knew of the things which were devoted to destruction or devoted to the Lord. Everyone else also knew that they were not to take these things for themselves. Everyone knew that these things, the gold, the silver, were to be devoted to the Lord. Everyone knew that everything else was to be destroyed, devoted to destruction. And so the second part of Aiken's plan was: I can't let anyone else see what I've got because they're gonna know. I've got to hide it. And that part of the plan worked. Because as the Israelites are defeated, what does Joshua do? He doesn't go to Achan's tent. No, he falls down before God. And he says, W what are you doing? Why didn't you just leave us on the other side of the Jordan? Why are you allowing us to be destroyed? But that part of the plan didn't work. As he was trying to hide his transgression from the living God. As you see the process that Joshua and the Israelites go through to ultimately identify the one who had taken the prohibited things That plan, that process comes by and through the living God, the all-knowing God of creation, the sovereign God. Yes, they're taken. Tribe by tribe. Taken. Judah. Taken. Clan by clan. Xerites, Zarahites taken. Man by man, Achen, taken. All by The supernatural knowledge of God. God is sovereign. He's sovereign over all events and all people, but that really doesn't get to what happened here. God is sovereign and can be sovereign because he's also all-knowing. There's nothing that God does not know. He knows the very numbers of the hairs on your head. And yet Achan thought that by burying the things that he had wrongfully taken under his tent Would not only be hidden from his fellow Israelites, from the ones on the right and ones on the left, but it would also be hidden from the God that he couldn't see See, that's our problem, isn't it? We think that God doesn't see because we can't see him. We think that because God doesn't have a physical presence among us, that our actions or thoughts go unnoticed by him, go unseen by him. We think that we're free to speak and think and act in any way that we want because God doesn't really know. Isn't that the way we think sometimes? Brothers and sisters, this passage should call us to repent tonight. To constantly remember that we serve an all-knowing God. He even knows the thoughts that are in our minds before they hit the tip of our tongue. That's how amazing our God is. That's how pervasive His knowledge is It's a wonderful thing to think about, to meditate upon. But if we don't remember it? If we don't bring it forward in our minds, then we tend to run away from him. We tend to hide things from him. We tend to think that we're okay. Because he really doesn't know. Holy Spirit, help us to repent of this attitude, of this thought. For not only is it not biblical, but like Achan, it leads us to sin. Brings us to our third point. That God is all merciful. We've seen the problem. As the devoted things are taken by Achan, God tells Joshua, I will be with you no more. The people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. Because of the devoted things, they had become devoted themselves to destruction. They can't stand before their enemies. because of that which has come among them. This was the army of God How could the commander have an army that was unable to stand before their enemies? I can stop here just for a moment and ask that question. Does this sound familiar? It should. The church is the army of God. Today we are the church militant. That is, we are fighting a battle, a spiritual battle. We fight against spiritual forces Not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers, over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We're an army. And we're called to put on spiritual armor. Stand therefore, having fastened the belt of truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and his shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. Take up the shield of faith, take the helmet of salvation, the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God, praying at all times in the Spirit. You see, if we don't, if we don't take up and put on these things, this armor, what do we do instead? We've got to put something on. Instead of truth, instead of righteousness, instead of the gospel of peace and faith and the word of God and prayer, if we don't take those things up and put them on, what are we putting on? It's sin, just like Achan How can we be an effective army? How could our commander, our king, our Lord Jesus, lead us? How could we stand against our enemies? How could the Lord be with us? It should sound familiar. The Lord Jesus knows what you need. So your work is to take up these means of spiritual battle and use them. For if you don't, all you're doing is putting on sin. Well that's the problem. The devoted things have been taken. God has said, I will be with you no more. But then he provides a solution, unless you destroy the devoted things from among you. There it is. In the midst of describing the problem, I will be with you no more. He immediately provides the solution. Take away the devoted things from among you. Destroy the devoted things. God provided the solution to their problem immediately And the Israelites do it. They found Achan by the power of God. They destroyed him, his family, all his possessions, and the devoted things. In a sense, the Israelites repented. They turned away from this sin in a very observable, recordable way. They did not allow it to fester and remain within their camp. Everything was destroyed. And this was the clear, loving mercy of God on display to the Israelites. Sin had been committed, God's law had been transgressed in his presence. The Holy One had been eternally offended. His justice, as we have noted, had to be satisfied. And yet in the midst of this sin And the satisfaction of his judgment, there was mercy. God had said that he would not be with the Israelites as long as the devoted things remained with them. With that conditional, the Lord. Provided a solution to their sin problem. Take away the devoted things from among you. Then I will return. And be with you. That's the implication, isn't it? Take them away, then I'll return. God had no obligation. He had no need to restore this people. They as a nation had transgressed. He would have been just to have just left them, but the loving covenantal Lord did not. Again, that should sound familiar. Consider the Garden of Eden. As soon as Adam and Eve sin, he comes and speaks with Each of the sinners, what does he tell them? I will put enmity between you and the woman. Between your offspring and her offspring, he shall bruise your head, you shall bruise his heel. It's the gospel in one verse. He was telling Adam and Eve as he's speaking to the servant, as he's speaking to Satan, I'm going to save them, and it'll be at your expense. I'm going to separate this combination that you've made, and I'm going to devote you to destruction. But these two. These two I will love and keep for myself by and through the work of my Son. Consider the grace of the living God toward you in his Son. As Paul writes to those in Rome, while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. God chose his love for us and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Do you see? Like the Israelites. Who were in the midst of sin while you were in the midst of your sin, while you had the devoted things to destruction in your closet. While you harbored hatred and disdain for the Son of God, the Lord Jesus, while you wanted nothing to do with righteousness or with Christ, while you were still weak, still a sinner, while you were ungodly at that time. Then, just like the Israelites, God shows his love for you in the deaths of his only eternally begotten Son. Your Lord Jesus. But there's a condition, isn't there? You must repent. The mercy of God to the Israelites was conditioned upon their repentance. I will be with you no more unless you destroy the devoted things from among you. They had to remove or take away the devoted things, which they did. That was an act of repentance. It looked like repentance to me. And you must repent. That seems to be the call tonight, doesn't it? What are you hiding That you haven't revealed to God, that you haven't exposed yourself to God about What haven't you repented yet of? That seems to be the call tonight Achan hid his sin. He was called to confess it. And the Israelites repented of it for him. And putting him to death. Jesus has died in your place if you're trusting in him tonight. And the call is to repent. Jesus won't lead you to glory unless you do repent. Now we know the repentance unto life is a saving grace. That means That God gives you the ability to do it, not on your own, but by the powerful work of the Spirit, whereby a sinner out of a true sense of his sin, apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ, does with grief and hatred of his sin. Turn from it with full purpose of an endeavor after new obedience. You can't do that by yourself. You must have the work of the Spirit But you must do it. Isn't that what Paul wrote to those at Philippi, my beloved? As you have always obeyed, so now not only in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Paul is saying that, yes, it's by grace. Yes, repentance is a gift. Yes, sanctification is a work of the Spirit, but you need to participate. Just like the Israelites. They were called to identify Achan, to find the devoted things, and to destroy them. See the picture? That's repentance. That's destruction Of the sin, the desire to sin within. So the call tonight is to do just that. Yes, you have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's calling you now to repent, to destroy that sin, that desire to sin. Knowing that you can't do it without the powerful work of the Spirit. So the call is to stop covering Stop covering the sin and open it up. Confess it. Run from it. Apprehend the mercy of God in Jesus Christ. And strive toward a new obedience. Yes, covering sin is always going to bring trouble Jesus did cleanse the temple. He restored it. There were devoted things hidden within it that needed to be purged from it. And as he did, it opened the temple back up for true worship, for true healing. That's what he's doing now. You're the temple. And as you open yourself up to be cleansed Of the devoted things that you've hidden within, Jesus will indeed continue his work of healing within you. Praise be to God for the work of Jesus Christ and the work of the Spirit. Amen. Father and our God. This is a difficult chapter for us to read because it really points to our hearts It's difficult, Lord God, to even consider that we hide things within our hearts. And so Lord God we pray, help us, each one of us, to open up our hearts to you, even tonight. That you might see all of the filth that's within. And that we would plead, cleanse us, Lord God. Cleanse us of this filth. We don't want it to be hidden anymore. We want it to be exposed. And for you to cleanse us in the blood of Christ. Help us, Jesus. Help us, Holy Spirit. Help us to repent. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.