Remain standing and hear the word of God as it is written in Hebrews chapter 10, excuse me, chapter 11, verses 1 through 6. Hear now the word of the Lord. The faith, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good testimony. By faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that the things which are seen were not made of things which are visible. By faith, Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. through which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and through it he being dead still speaks. By faith Enoch was taken away so that he did not see death and was not found because God had taken him. For before he was taken, he had this testimony, that he pleased God. But without faith it is impossible to please God. For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. By faith, Noah, being divinely warned of all things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his household by which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. Thus far ends the reading of God's word. Please be seated. For the believer in Christ Jesus, there is probably this is probably one of those signature passages of scripture. That clearly bring to us the meaning of and the definition of faith. Last week we talked about those who are just in God's eyes. That those who are just are characterized by the fact that they live by faith. They live by faith. And we talked a little bit last week also of what some of the things are that characterize a faithful person. A believer in Christ. And you can see, we we looked at verses 32 through 37, and you can see a number of those matters which constitute true saving faith. Those who believe endure great afflictions. Those who believe Have compassion on those who are in need. Those who believe will joyfully give up of their earthly goods to help others, realizing it all the time that in heaven they have a better possession. In heaven they have a better and enduring life. Those who believe do not cast away their confidence in the Lord. Those who believe have patience. Waiting upon the Lord because they have been promised in God that they are His and that he will be all things will be well with their soul. The life of the just one Who lives by faith. We saw that they live to serve the Lord. They live to serve Christ. And they know that they will be rewarded. Because God has said so. Now, today, we want to look at verses 1 and 2. And we want to look at this most familiar statement in verse 1 about faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Faith is described here, or defined here, as something substantial that we hope for. It's the essence of things hoped for. It's the practical inner conviction of things not seen. One of my greatest irritants In ministry occurs when I hear Christian leaders define the Christian faith as a leap in the dark. I deplore that lie for many reasons. First of all, it is the antithesis of the great definition that's spoken of here in Hebrews 11. 1. Anytime you hear someone espousing that definition of faith, run from that person. If he is a teacher, he has not been born again. No Christian can ever teach that with a statement like Hebrews chapter 1 11 verse 1, staring us right in the face. You have to deny the teaching of Hebrews 1 to say that faith is a leap in the dark The person who would teach that to his flock is one who has no good news to share. Run away, I say. Run away from such a person, such a teacher. Faith, you see, according to God's definition, is focused on a number of things, one of which is hope. The hope that is part of the faith that we believe is a hope that is based in God's promises, which is to say, it is based in His Word. It is based in what Scripture teaches. If someone does not have hope in God's promises, it's because that person doesn't believe God. It's because he doesn't believe God's word. He doesn't believe or understand Christ. He doesn't have the Holy Spirit in him. To not have hope is to not believe in the God of the Bible. A believer's faith is also described further as the substance of things hoped for, the substance of things. Now I want to explain that a little bit more. The word substance refers to Hear something called essence or actuality as opposed to falsehood or reality The believer's faith, you see, is of a substantial nature. It has weight, it has content, it has credibility, it has significance. It's at the center of our existence. It's not, you see, the uncertain leap into the dark. What the Scripture is presenting to you when it says faith is the substance of things hoped for, what the Scripture is presenting to us Is that that which is substantial, that which we can see as being weighty in this world in which we live, is nothing less than the triune God Himself. We live because He has given us all things necessary for us to live, including faith and our redemption. He has given them to us, and then he has made known those things to us. In creation and in special revelation. When we say faith is the substance of things hoped for, We are dealing with what is really life. We are dealing with life, reality, and existence. It's nothing less than that. To say faith is a leap in the dark is to deny the reality of a God-created and providentially ordained and sustained world To believe faith is a leap in the dark is itself to deny your very existence as a created being made in God's image. Because the alternative is to live under the tyranny of capricious chance. And it is to live under the alternative of the tyranny of capricious chance that has been the view of man since the fall. Man has progressively embraced this false idea about God and Himself. Not realizing that he then becomes nothing more than a one-celled organism originating from primal ooze, Whose existence is due to the blind luck of an incalculable mathematic mathematical probability Wish I could say that again. But his existence is due to the blind block of an incalculable mathematical probability. This is lunacy. It is lunacy It is where the denial of God's existence by our sinful heart leads. naturally leads. It leads not only to the denial of our existence as a human being, but also to the denigration of others' existence. For you see, if we all come out of the primal ooze Of a mathematical improbability, incalculable improbability, a probability. If we all come from there, no one is special All human beings are products of random chance, whether they're defective or perfect. But either way, they are all just a fetus. Faith is the evidence Of things not seen. It's not just the substance of things hoped for, but the evidence of things not seen. Although it sounds like a contradiction in turn, evidence is something that's seeable Clear. What in the world could it be? What is the evidence of things not seen? Believers live their lives by faith before a God who is invisible. He is spirit. Except for the brief time of the incarnation of Christ, no one has seen God. The evidence of God's existence However invisible it may be, nevertheless, the evidence of his existence is everywhere. Stamped upon his creation. The evidence that God exists includes belief in an historical Jesus Who did die and did resurrect from the dead Belief in the Christ who ascended into heaven. Belief in the Christ who was in the beginning and is promised to come again. All of this, when you factor in the testimony of creation, where God reveals Himself, is ample evidence of faith in things that are invisible. And you notice that those who hold this view, those of believers who hold this view, are not alone. Hebrews 12, verse 1 makes it clear that we live in the midst of a great cloud of witnesses. And the great cloud of witnesses that Hebrews 12, verse 1 is referring to are the individuals that are noted in Hebrews chapter 11. Their lives, you see, were testimonies of believing in evidence not seen Believers live by faith before the God who is invisible. But their witness is not necessarily proof Of God's existence, however, it is evidence that convinces believers and convicts the unbelieving world every day It is why you and myself as Christians are hated, especially when you're live when you live your lives for Christ by faith. Your Christian witness is another conviction on the record book of the unbeliever. When you stand, when you reach out And speak the gospel. When your witness is before your unbelieving neighbor, you are displaying the image of Jesus to the world. And we can see images. All men can see images. But you are displaying to the unbeliever the image of Christ. to a world of unbelief in darkness. You shine as lights in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation You are more evidence of the truth of God's Christ. They may look at you and you may be the person who comes to visit them in the hospital. Or you may the per be the person who comes to them when you're laid up and the wife comes over and brings the casserole. Or you may be the person who helps them out with some sort of chore around their house that they can't handle themselves And they ask themselves, why? What's in it for him or her? That's the unbeliever's conclusion. The believer understands full well what's going on. The person is trying to just live for Christ and is trying to love his neighbor as himself and so love God as well. All evidence is out there and it demands an unbeliev, excuse me, it demands a verdict from the unbeliever. You can't see believers' hearts. You can't see the love of the Holy Spirit working. But when you see it at work, you know something different, something special than the ordinary is going on For Christians, faith is the evidence or the proof of things not seen. To believer. To believe simply because God is, his creation bears witness to him, and because Christ says so. The faithful see this world and do not deny that God is. They hear the gospel. And because, and only because God grants you faith. Do you believe in Christ's death and resurrection? Do you believe in his return? Do you believe that his Holy Spirit is in you. Do you believe that God through Christ answers prayer? Do you believe that God is I am? Hebrews chapter eleven, verse six reminds us Those who come to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him Now the author concludes this little section by saying, for by it the elders obtained a good report. The it refers back to verse 1 of chapter 11. The faith. Substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Now he is not here using elders in the technical sense of church leaders. He is using it more in the generic sense. He's using it to refer to old people, and in particular, the ancients Who are going to be enumerated in the rest of Hebrews 11. Those who believed in God's promises. Those who believed in the coming of the Messiah, those who believed in evidence unseen. And they not only believed, but they gave witness to it. The Old Testament believers who are spoken of in Hebrews chapter 11. Do you notice it's not just names? There's a description of what they did. They gave evidence to their faith by their lives By their actions, by their witness to their God-given faith, in God's promises, in His world, and in His Word, and His promises fulfilled And this is true even though none of them in person saw Jesus. The final greatest fulfillment of all of God's revelation By it the elders obtained a good report. And who said it was good? God, because they believed. In spite of the circumstances that God had promised to bring salvation to the world. His people in Christ. They believed in the same Jesus you believed. They didn't know his name, but they believed that God was their Redeemer. And His promise Promises were yes and amen. This is something, isn't it? This is just incredible. Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace, whereby we receive and rest upon Him alone. In the gospel, as he's offered, it alone for salvation, as he's offered to us in the gospels. That is Westminster Confession of Faith. shorter catechism, question and answer 86. By God's grace, rejoice and continue to rest upon Christ alone Then you will have hope. Then you will have substance. Then you will have evidence. Then you will have true saving faith. Oh, most merciful God. Apply your word to the hearts of your people. May it be, Lord, a comfort to them, but also, Lord, may it be a reminder to them. Of the preciousness of the faith which you have given to us, a faith which acknowledges your existence and your providence. In this world in which we live, a faith that acknowledges that you are God, there is no one else. You are Lord, you are Savior, to the glory of your most excellent name. Help us, Lord, to live by faith, even as the man before Jesus who had the demon's son, as Christ came down the mountain and fed and healed them The man said, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Amen.