You turn your copy of God's Word now to Joshua. It will be in chapter six this evening. Should be on page two hundred and fourteen of your Pew Bibles. Joshua has just met the commander of the Lord's army and now is about to be given the battle plan to Go in and take Jericho. Let's give our attention to the very Word of God, Joshua chapter 6 at verse 1. Now Jericho is shut up inside and outside because of the people of Israel. None went out, and none came in. And the Lord said to Joshua, See, I have given Jericho into your hand with its king and mighty men of valor. You shall march around the city, all the men of war going around the city once. Thus you shall do for six days. Seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of ram's horns before the ark. On the seventh day you shall march around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets. And when they make a long blast with a ram's horn, when you hear the sound of the trumpet, then all of the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city will fall down flat. And the people shall go up, everyone straight before him. So Joshua, the son of Nun, called the priests and said to them, Take up the Ark of the Covenant. And let seven priests bear seven trumpets of ramshorns before the Ark of the Lord. And he said to the people, Go forward, march around the city. Let the armed men pass on before the Ark of the Lord. And just as Joshua had commanded the people, the seven priests, bearing the seven trumpets of ram's horns before the Lord, went forward, blowing the trumpets, with the ark of the covenant of the Lord following them. The armed men were walking before the priests who were blowing the trumpets, and the rearguard was walking after the ark while the trumpets blew continually. But Joshua commanded the people, you shall not shout or make your voice heard, neither shall any word go out of your mouth until the day I tell you to shout, then you shall shout. So he caused the ark of the Lord to circle a city, going about at once. And they came into the camp and spent the night in the camp When Joshua rose early in the morning, the priest took up the ark of the Lord, and the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of ram's horns before the ark of the Lord walked on, and they blew the trumpets continually. And the armed men were walking before them, and the rear guard was walking after the ark of the Lord while the trumpets blew continually. On the second day they marched around the city once and returned into the camp. So they did for six days. On the seventh day they rose early at the dawn of the day and marched around the city in the same manner seven times. It was only on that day that they marched around the city seven times. And at the seventh time, when the priests had blown the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, Shout, but the Lord has given you the city. And the city and all that was within it shall be devoted to the Lord for destruction. Only Rahab the prostitute, and all who are with her in her house shall live because she hid the messengers whom we sent. But you keep yourselves from the things devoted to destruction. Lest when you have devoted them, you take any of the devoted things and make the camp of Israel a thing for destruction and bring trouble upon it. But all silver and gold and every vessel of bronze and iron are holy to the Lord. They shall go into the treasury of the Lord. So the people shouted. And the trumpets were blown. As soon as the people heard the sound of the trumpet, the people shouted a great shout, and the wall fell down flat. So that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they captured the city. Then they devoted all in the city to destruction, both men and women, young and old. oxen, sheep, and donkeys with the edge of the sword. But to the two men who had spied out the land, Joshua said, Go into the prostitute's house and bring out From there the woman and all who belonged to her, as you swore to her. So the young men who had been spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father and mother and her brothers and all who belonged to her. And they brought out all her relatives and put them outside the camp of Israel. And they burned the city with fire and everything in it. Only the silver and gold, the and the vessels of bronze and irons they put into the treasury of the house of the Lord. But Rahab, the prostitute, and her father's household, and all who belonged to her, Joshua saved alive. And she has lived in Israel to this day because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho. Joshua laid an oath on them at that time. saying, Cursed before the Lord be the man who rises up and rebuilds this city, Jericho. At the cost of his firstborn shall he lay its foundation, and at the cost of his youngest son shall he set up its gates. So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame was in all the land. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you that this has been recorded for us. We thank you that you've given it to us. We thank you that you've convicted us. that this is your word, not the words of men, but the word of the living God And so Father, now we ask you, use it powerfully. Use it powerfully in our hearts to draw us ever closer to Jesus Christ, to convert hearts. From stone to flesh and Father to continue sanctifying hearts. Use us tonight. Use your word tonight. Have your way with each of us tonight. That you may accomplish your very word. Do not let your word depart from this place without doing all that you have planned to do in us. And we'll give you the praise. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you trusting in the Lord's battle plans tonight? Seems to be the question that was being asked of the Israelites. Are you trusting in the Lord's battle plans? We're here In this book of Joshua, and many things have happened so far, Joshua's been commanded to arise, go over the Jordan into the land I'm giving you, Moses has died. And so he's taken up the headship. He is bringing the people into the promised land by the power of God. He sent out the spies. They've returned with information about Rahab, and certainly even more importantly, in a way, about the melting of the hearts of those in Jericho. Forty years after they had completed their wilderness wandering, now they've crossed the Jordan. They've seen the presence of God by the Jordan being split in two. The Ark of the Covenant has gone before them. across the Jordan and as we've read even tonight will go before them into the battle zone. Crossing is complete. The warriors have been circumcised, the twelve stones have been set up as a memorial, causing them to remember of the presence of God which needed to be before them if they were to fight. and fight well. The Passover's been celebrated, been strengthened for the battle. And now the commander of the Lord's army has appeared. Jesus, a pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus himself, reassuring Joshua that God was with him and he would pursue the battle. Chapter 6 now stands before us. And uh the uninspired title in my particular Bible has merely The Fall of Jericho. There's so much in this passage, uh certainly the fall of Jer Jericho is part and parcel of this, but there's so much more. The text itself is a fairly straightforward. This is the first uh battle uh in the promised land, the first time that the Israelites are going into now drive out the occupants of the land, the the promise of God becoming fulfilled. This is just the first city, but we're seeing the promises of God being fulfilled in this place supernaturally fulfilled, the walls falling down by the shouts of the people, and Rahab being saved. The city devoted to destruction, and Rahab pulled out before the city set on fire. We might sum up the teaching here very simply this way, the Lord rescues his children from destruction through his supernatural battle plan. The Lord rescues his children from destruction through his supernatural battle plan. We'll see three heads tonight. First, the Lord has a divine battle plan. Secondly, the Lord calls for continued trust. And finally, the Lord devotes some to destruction. Again, as we go through this passage tonight, a famous passage, one that you may be very familiar with, I want you to be asking that question, and I trusting in the Lord's battle plan. Well, first the Lord does have a divine battle plan. And we've seen it up to this point in Joshua that the battle plan has been unfolding. As Joshua's been called to go over the Jordan, we saw we saw God's battle plan unfold in the in the separation of the Jordan river so that the Israelites could pass through on dry ground. God had a plan and he unfolded it as the river separated But now in chapter six here, it's a bit different because the Lord's plan is given to Joshua in detail before it unfolds. This is the first battle to occupy the promised land, the city of Jericho, and the Lord unfolds his plan before Jericho, before Joshua. In detail. Look at verse 3. You shall march around the city. All the men of war going around the city once, thus you shall do for six days, and so on and so on. We know that the Lord has plans. And here it's it's just set forth expressly. We see it in all of Scripture. Sometimes it's obvious and apparent, and other times it's quite hidden. Like, how are we going to get over the Jordan? Well, he really didn't know until the priest stepped into the water and God separated waters one from another. But in this passage the plan is explicit and expressed And the Lord is working his plan. Sometimes his work doesn't seem to be visible to our eyes, but in this case, his unfolding plan becomes very visible. Look at verse one. Now Jericho was shut up inside and outside because of the people of Israel. None went out, none came in. Prior to this we read about the melting of the hearts of the people in Jericho. That's what Rahab tells the spies is She's hidden them and and now as she sends the the king's men away in another direction, she confesses, this is what we've heard You've heard of how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt and what you did to the two kings, the Amorites, beyond the Jordan, Shion, and Og, whom you devoted to destruction. And as soon as we heard it our hearts melted. And so as we've read the Lord's battle plan, Has the Israelites walking around the city for seven days? Camping outside the city each night And then for seven days walking around the city, how could they do this without being attacked? How could the Israelites do this without the Jerichoites? I don't think that's their actual name. But if we could just assign that name to them for tonight. Without them coming out to attack or shooting arrows at them from the top of the wall, how could this be a good plan? It's only because the Lord was already working. The Lord was executing his plan. He was active behind the scenes, moving the hearts of the people, the warriors of Jericho, to stay put. Their hearts were melted. There was no spirit left in any man, according to Rahab's confession. The Lord not only had a plan And had given it this time expressly to the Israelites, he was already working at ensuring the success success of that plan. Jericho was shut up. Nobody was coming in, nobody was going out. So they could walk around. Seven days. Do you recognize that the Lord is working? Even when you don't readily see his hand upon people and events, do you recognize that the Lord is working behind the scenes? Sometimes we doubt that. We see events taking place and wonder, where is God's plan in this particular event in my life? How could it be at work here? But God has planned everything. Psalm 33, the counsel of the Lord stands forever. The plans of his heart to all generations. Isaiah 14, for the Lord of hosts has planned who can frustrate it. Romans 8 And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good Ephesians chapter 1, in him we have obtained an inheritance having predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. And as we read tonight, God from all eternity did by his most wise and holy counsel of his own will freely and unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. God plans all things. Scripture confirms that. We just need eyes to see the work of his hands. And this passage is one of those that the Spirit uses to open our eyes, to see his hands at work We see tonight that he's given the Israelites that plan, isn't he? But he first gives them an assurance. And the Lord said to Joshua, this is verse 2, see, I've given Jericho into your hand. This seems to be a reference back to the shutting up of Jericho. Look, Joshua, they're not coming in, they're not going out. It's quiet. Cities shut up. Their hearts are melted. I've already given them into your hand. You have nothing to be concerned about. I have already done it. Listen to the Lord giving them the plan. Notwithstanding the Lord's accomplishment of a victory already, the plan is proclaimed, given to Joshua, the leader, the commander of the Israelite army. Here's what the army should do. And now we're expecting a plan of attack. Like place some men over here, place some others over here, let these guys go in first, let the advanced team with the ramrod break down the city gate, and then send in the archers, but nothing of the sort. You shall march around the city, the men of war going around the city once. Thus you shall do for six days. Seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of ramshorn before the ark. On the seventh day you shall march around the city seven times, as the priests shall blow the trumpets. When they blow the ram's horn, when you hear the sound of the trumpet, then all the people shall shout. That's the plan. No spears thrown, no arrows shot, no hand-to-hand combat prescribed This is what Joshua was told. What was he thinking? We don't know. We're not told. What would you be thinking? This is strange. This sounds doubtful. This doesn't seem likely to work But the Israelites were called to receive the plan, weren't they? Even as the Lord has planned and was working, shutting up Jericho, the people of God were called to engage this way in the battle. Some of the Lord's plans seem strange. Unlikely to work. Building an arc in the middle of dry land, nowhere to launch it. Seems strange. Bringing the most powerful nation to its knees using frogs and insects and hail and darkness Enabling a donkey to speak to a prophet in order to set that prophet Balaam back on the right path. Sending an exiled Jewish girl into the harem of the king of Persia and Media to become queen so that she might save the Jews. joining together the second person of the Trinity with a human nature to become two natures in one person. Fully man, fully divine, or sending Jesus to a wretched death on the cross at Calvary to defeat Satan and sin and death. Or returning, Lord Jesus, on clouds with angels and trumpets to judge the whole world. And bring his people home. Some of the Lord's plans seem strange. But then we have to remember, my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways. Isn't that wonderful? Isn't it wonderful that our plans are not the plans for our salvation That God's seemingly strange plans, from our human corrupt perspective, are the ones that He uses To bring home. Brings us to our second head. The Lord calls for continued Trust. Now Joshua takes that plan that's given to him by the Lord and he repeats it, in a sense, to the priests and the people So Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, said to them, Take up the Ark of the Covenant, let seven priests bear the seven trumpets of Rand's horn before the Ark of the Lord. And he said to the people, Go forward, march around the city, let the armed men pass before the ark of the Lord. The plan wasn't just for Joshua, it was for everyone. Six days. They were to march around the city one time. One time I think go back to camp, wait for the n dawn, do it again. But through each of these six days, as they're marching once around the city with the with the blowing trumpets, with the Ark of the Covenant. With the men who are armed and ready for battle, just marching, you shall not shout. Or make your voice heard. Neither shall any word go out of your mouth. Think of that. The people were to remain silent as they marched. Their vocal cords were to be at rest. Their feet were to be moving, their ears were to be listening to the seven trumpets blowing, but their lips were to remain silent. There was a commanded limitation to their activity. Yes, they were to be active, but there was an initial physical limitation to their act of war. What happens to you when you're silent? When you're not speaking or listening to somebody else speak. Your mind isn't asleep. This is not a this is not folks at rest. They were marching. They were Going around the city. They were active, but they weren't allowed to speak. No one was speaking. They weren't listening to anything except the trumpet blaring But their minds were awake. What happens to you? Don't you begin to think of the circumstances? What's going on here? What's going around me? In this time of silence, the Israelites were most likely pondering what's happening? Why were the Emirates not attacking? They knew of the Israelites' presence. They couldn't help it. The trumpets were going out, blowing. Why were the Israelites not under attack? Why are we not being attacked? What's the Lord doing? How's the Lord restraining our adversaries? Did the silence give the Israelites time to praise God and pray? Maybe Gave them time to ponder what the Lord was doing, even working on their hearts. Think of this, they did it for six days. Day after day. The people had been faithful. They'd done exactly what the Lord called them to do. But would they continue? Was that what the silence was for? But they continue doing it the next day and the next day, once around the city, stop, go to sleep, get up, trumpets blaring, silent, no words, wait for tomorrow, do it again. Why this wait? Why this repetition? Nothing's happening. Isn't that our tendency? The Lord calls his children to be faithful in serving him, and sometimes, many times, we can't see what the Lord's doing. It seems sometimes we go and do and seek to be obedient to the Lord and pursuing his commands is imperative to his desires and we don't see anything happening And begin to wonder why. Why is nothing happening? We're being faithful. We're being obedient. We can't see any change. We Can't see any result. We're expecting such and such to happen as a result of our faithful labors, but it hasn't. So why continue? That's our tendency, isn't it? That's our thought pattern. Brothers and sisters, we need to repent of it. See, the Lord is always using that which He's called us to do for His purposes. We don't know all of his purposes. Maybe the Lord was using these six days in the hearts of the Israelites. To solidify their trust in him. Maybe he was increasing their trust. Maybe he was testing their faith. Would they continue? Even as nothing seemed to be happening. But it was. Indeed, their hearts were being strengthened, and they were being increased in faith. Their doubts were being crushed underfoot as they continued to march again and again and again around the city, not a single soul approaching them or challenging them, not a single spear thrown. Not a single arrow was shot at them. Not a one man of the Israelites fell during those six days in which they were close, in close proximity to their adversaries within Jericho. Each warrior was protected by the living God What do you do when you're called to keep going, but you see no result? Think of Paul in prison as he writes to those in Philippi It gets to the third chapter, what we have is a third chapter, and he's speaking about obtaining perfection or blamelessness. Not that I have already obtained this, or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it my own Because Christ Jesus has made me his own. One thing I do. forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead Paul was in prison. He had been beaten. He had been persecuted. He was suffering because he trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ and was preaching Christ. And what he says, i I need to press on. What what was he seeing was happening? What was being accomplished by him being in prison? Well the word was going out But what was his imprisonment accomplishing? One thing I do forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead. He's talking about the crown that he'd receive in glory. Press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. That was Paul's focus. That's how he could continue to press on how he could continue going forward when he might not have seen what was actually happening around him and in the hearts of those next to him. Paul pressed on because he forgot what lay behind and he strained forward to what lay ahead. That seems to be the answer to our question. How do we keep going when it doesn't seem as though anything is happening? Well the people continued in their call. They continued their march until they get to the seventh day, and and as we read, they go around the city seven times, and then Joshua, when the trumpet Blows that long blast. He says to the people, shout, for the Lord is giving you the city. So the people shouted and the trumpets were blown, the walls fall down. A supernatural event. But the shouts of men, the walls, substantial walls, become nothing. Remember, Rahab's house was built on the wall, pretty substantial, and the obstacles removed by shouting. It confirms the word of God. It confirms the perfect battle plan of God. The walls are breached. They fall down, enabling the Israelites to enter and destroy everything and every one. The battle is over seemingly in moments as we read this particular chapter, the first city captured according to the word of the Lord. And it involved the people. Did you catch that? God uses means and he used the people as means to overcome this city. He used the voices, the shouts of the people, not the trumpet blasts. Not ramrods, not fire, not brute force. No, their voices, their shouts, their words confirming the involvement of the people in the work of God, in the battle plan of God. But what did the people have to do actually? They had to trust. Just like those who crossed the Red Sea. Just like those who had crossed the Jordan. They had to trust. They had to continue in their trust of the Lord. that he would return them to the promised land as he had said I think we all have difficulty when things seem to take too long. Or when the walls, the obstacles in the way of accomplishing whatever you believe that the Lord would have you to do are too great. Difficulty in continuing according to the Lord's purpose and plan when those walls are so large I think we all need to admit that we do have difficulty. We're inclined to doubt. Our faith is weak. But shouldn't that cause us to look to Jesus? Shouldn't that cause us to think upon the one who is weak in the flesh? And yet was righteous, and yet kept the law of God. And yet loved his father so much that he'd go to the cross for you, not for himself. Think of Jesus Christ at the cross. How tall was that wall? How big was that obstacle for him to conquer, so to speak? How significant was it that your sins would be laid upon him, the sinless one, separating him from his father? And yet he did it. Not my will, but your will be done. Anytime we have difficulty when the obstacle in front of us appears to be too big, too large, too hard. Too difficult. I think it's a call to think about Christ, to meditate upon his person and certainly how he conquers the cross. Our faith is weak, but Jesus is strong. So he's calling you And you start to dust doubt the battle plans of God to trust in Him That brings us to our third point. The Lord devotes some to destruction. Well, you might be thinking that's exactly what this whole passage is about. The conclusion, the the destruction of Jericho, that's exactly what this passage is about. Again, that's the title. That's given to the uninspired title that's given by the authors of this particular Bible, The Fall of Jericho. Verse 21, then they devoted all the city to destruction, both men, women, young and old, oxen, sheep, donkeys with the edge of the sword. Seems to be the conclusion that the whole centerpiece of this particular chapter, that which was devoted to destruction because of their sin. That's exactly what God had told the Israelites before they attempted to enter the promised land for the first time through Moses, who writes the book of Deuteronomy He tells them, it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord is driving them out before you. He says that twice. It's not because of your righteousness. But it's because of the wickedness of these nations that the Lord your God is driving them out from before you. And so we get to the seemingly not the end of the chapter, but that portion of the chapter here where the actual destruction of the city is recorded by the author And you've got to think he only devotes two verses to that destruction, verses twenty And 21. So the people shouted, the trumpets were blown. As soon as the people heard the shout of the trumpet, the people shouted a great shout. The wall fell down, every man straight before him, and they captured the city. They devoted all the city to destruction No one survives the attack. Actually only one verse speaks to the devotion to destruction of the city. It's rather anticlimactic. The emphasis seems to be placed not actually on the destruction. But on what follows the salvation of Rahab In the midst of the destruction. As the walls fall down, you can just envision the Israelite army now going in with swords drawn. Men, women, old, young, animals, everything slain. The city being set afire, ablaze completely devoted to destruction yet. Rahab and her family are plucked out. In the midst of destruction, there was salvation. Joshua tells the two men that went to spy out the land, go into the prostitute's house. Remember. Joshua doesn't even use her name. Go into the prostitute's house, the sinner's house, and bring out from there the woman, and all who belong to her That phrase bring out is is actually used three times. The spies went in and brought out Rahab and they brought all her relatives and put them outside. There's this idea, this concept, this picture of plucking Rahab out of the city of destruction and placing her in safety. Joshua saved her alive. She's lived in Israel to this day because she hid the messengers. Just think of that. Go into the prostitute's house. Go into the sinner's house and pull her out. Everything else is going to be destroyed. Rahab was not a princess, he was not pure. And yet, out of the midst of destruction, the Lord saves her and her family. This was the supernatural. We're thinking, oh, the the walls falling down by the shouts of the people. That was the supernatural. It was. The complete destruction of an entire city, of the people, after marching around it for seven days. That's supernatural But the real, the ultimate supernatural act was saving this one, wasn't it? This prostitute, this sinner And you have to ask the question, why? Why this supernatural work, the supernatural act? Why was he brought out? What was it about Rahab? The same question could be asked about the Israelites. What was it about the Israelites? Why did God favor them? The same question could be asked about you tonight. Why were you brought out? Because it's a picture of each of us, isn't it? Each of us were in the house of a sinner, Satan. And Jesus Christ has gone in and bound the master of that house. He's bound Satan. Satan devoted to destruction. Satan's house devoted to destruction. And Jesus goes in and plucks you out. Why? Why you, why the Israelites, why Rahab? Well, first it's only because of Jesus. It's only because of who he is and what he's done. It's only because he has earned favor with his Father by doing all that the Father had called him to do, by going to the cross for you. In obedience to his father. But then you still have to ask the same question, why me? We have a a clue in the passage here. We have the prostitute. Was brought out because she hid the messengers. We can translate to say she was brought out because she had faith. Because she trusted. And we know that that trust, that faith was from God. And so that means that's only by grace. It's only by grace that Rahab was saved. It's only by grace that the Israelites were the nation of God. It's only by grace that you were chosen by God. For Jesus to pull you out of Satan's house. Rahab didn't deserve mercy. Israel didn't deserve mercy. None of us deserved mercy. But God has poured out his mercy upon you through Christ. This chapter ends with a curse. Joshua laid an oath on them at that time saying, Curse before the Lord be the man who rises up and rebuilds Jericho. The city was devoted to destruction. That was it as far as the Lord was concerned. It was not to survive, it was not to be rebuilt. It wasn't as a picture of what will become of those who oppose God. It was to remain a picture, to be in that grave contrast to those who will be saved by God. There's no future for those who continue in their sin against God, against the Son of God. There's no good future. There is a future of an eternal curse. But against this curse was set Rahab, the survivor By the mercy of God, by the death and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, out of this ash heap of destruction, Rahab is pulled on the brink of eternal death. Rahab is snatched out of Satan's house, and it's the same for everyone single one of you tonight who's trusting in Jesus Christ. Yes, the Lord rescues his children. from eternal destruction through his supernatural battle plan. Question tonight is, do you trust in that supernatural battle plan? Do you trust that Jesus, as part of that supernatural battle plan, is returning for you on clouds with angels, with trumpets? To bring you to himself as his bride. Are you trusting in that? Supernatural battle plan of God to bring you home. Amen Father and our God, thank you for this passage In one sense it's difficult to hear of destruction, but we know, Lord God, that you you place this before us. Knowing that all who oppose you eternally oppose you will will be headed to an eternal death, and yet only by grace That you've changed our hearts. That you've changed any heart to love you. And so we ask, Lord God, that you'd help us to spread this word. The word of Christ, the word of salvation in Jesus alone, the word of grace. For Father, we can't help but see grace in this passage. As Rahad the prostitute was saved by grace. As the Israelites, some of them likely recognizing that they were saved by grace. And we, as we read this passage tonight, we know, we confess that we've been saved by grace. And so, Father, our hearts are filled with thanksgiving. We praise you. Help us. Help us to pass this message of salvation in Jesus Christ along to those who are in darkness. Help us to be that bright light of Christ throughout this week. Thank you. We praise you. We ask for this, all of this, in the precious name of Jesus. Amen.