Those of you who are able, remain standing as we read the scripture passage this morning from 1 John chapter 4. And uh begin reading at verse uh one. And I will read uh uh a more abbreviated section than as in the bulletin, our read through verse 11. Let's hear God's word. Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. This is the spirit of Antichrist, which you have heard was coming and is now already in the world. You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. They are of the world. Therefore they speak as of the world, and the world hears them. We are of God. He who knows God hears us. He who is not of God does not hear us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. In this the love of God was manifested toward us, that God has sent his only begotten Son in the world that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiator. For our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. For ends the reading of God's holy word. And please be seated. My sermon title is Displaying Love to Each Other, Your Obligation. Your obligation. Now, as uh John is writing to uh the uh the Christians to whom this letter is directed, uh he is dealing uh fundamentally with one serious heresy, and in some remnants of this heresy are still with us today. It was called Gnosticism And Gnosticism had its roots in Greek thinking, Greek philosophy. And it was a view of the world. uh in which there were essentially two different realms in which we exist. One is called the spiritual realm, the other is called the material realm. And the spiritual realm was thought to be good. The material world was thought to be bad. So The Gnostics believed that they would get some sort of revelation from God. kind of magical or mystical way. And that the way to get to the spiritual world from the material world was to get that revelation and have this secret knowledge that nobody else has. Now, this plays in exactly to this passage this morning. Because John starts off by talking about testing the spirits, testing the prophets, the speakers that have come to you. And how do you know, congregation, when a speaker, or in this case, a prophet, is speaking the truth? What would be the indications that the message that person is proclaiming or the teaching that proclaiming He was given was true. And John in this passage gives very a very clear uh litmus test And he says it in verse 1 and 2, beloved, test the spirits. Don't just listen uncritically to what is being said. Test the spirits. Do not believe every spirit. Many false teachers have come into the world. And here's the test. Here's the litmus test. Verse 2. By this you know the Spirit of God, and conversely by this you know The spirit of falsehood. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. There are two spirits at work. The Spirit of Christ and the Spirit of the World. The Spirit of the World he goes on to talk about as Antichrist. And what is the crucial issue? How do you know that what somebody is proclaiming to you is biblical? Is is the truth. It's that person's view of Jesus Christ. That he came in the flesh. He dwelt among us. If Jesus would come right here, right now, of course he would be coming in glory and in vengeance, which would be little bit different story, but if he was coming right here, right now, you could actually touch him. He would have human characteristics and human features. He was like us in all things, but he didn't have any sin. Now the Gnostics, when they heard that, They did not like that. Because, remember, the earth, the spiritual realm is good. The material realm, which we all live in Is bad. So for them it was lunacy. It was sheer lunacy for someone to come from the spiritual realm and contaminate himself with the badness of this world. But friends, that's what Jesus did. He came from glory To take on human flesh and dwell among us. That's what his name means. Again, you shall call his name Emmanuel. Which means God with us. Now, um John didn't leave it there though This wasn't the end of his teaching on how do you discern truth from falsehood, a true teacher from a false teacher. And it's here where I've taken my message this morning from verses 7 and 8. Beloved. Let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Well, look at verse seven first. I know that you all know That in Greek there are two words for love. Two Greek words. One is Agapato or agape the noun, and the other is Phileto, or Philae, the noun. Now, Greek has different definitions for those two words. Philae is defined as having affection. You have affection for somebody. You care about somebody. You treat them as a brother or a sister. Agape or agapa-o is much more intense love. It is the love that we we read about in John 3 For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. You you know, you cannot give your life for somebody if you just have affection for them. He won't do that. Christ sacrificed himself for you, for your sins. Now, in the book of John in the book of First John, excuse me The word agapeo or agape, the verb and the noun, occur 34 times in these chapters Thirty-four times. You could well say that John is interested in the concept of sacrificial giving kind of love that Jesus exemplifies. Does anybody want to take a guess on how often the word phalao occurs in John? Richard's holding up the big zero. It doesn't occur at all in John, which is an interesting statistic. Because whenever you see agape in John, excuse me, wherever you see the word love in John, it is always agape Always. It always has in view The concrete act of Jesus Christ's will to die for sinners. It always is associated with sacrifice. There aren't any exceptions to that rule in John. Now, there is abundant other biblical evidence That shows us that this idea of Jesus' love for us places obligations upon all believers. For example, when asked what are the greatest commandments Jesus responded, Matthew 22, verse 36. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, mind, soul, and strength. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it. You shall love your neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Jesus was summarizing there God's law for God's people. And the common thread in Jesus' summary, the common thread as he summarizes the Ten Commandments, love for God. Love for others. That's God's command according to Jesus. Those are the two greatest commandments. And love Agapaho again. Love is at the heart of both of those Summaries. We are to love God with everything we have. We are to love our neighbors with everything we have. This is not the first time that John brings up the subject of love in his epistle. In fact, if you were to skip back two chapters, you would read in 1 John 2 verse 10. Where Jesus says, or John says, writing under the inspiration, of course, of the Holy Spirit, where he says, he that loves his brother abides in the light. And there is no occasion of stumbling in him. Now that word abide, he who loves his brother abides in the light. Light is a synonym for righteousness, for holiness, for godly living. Abides. That word is in the present tense, which means, well It means that I am in an ongoing relationship with another with other people in which I am showing this kind of agathe love. He who loves his brother abides in the light. It's a present tense. It's an ongoing feature of that word. It doesn't mean I'll love them when I feel like it. It doesn't mean I'll love them when it's convenient for me. It's an ongoing obligation. The Apostle Paul, in his writings, in Romans chapter 13, verse 8, says Um oh, oh, oh, indebted, indebted, indebted, owe no one anything except to love one another. For he who loves one another has fulfilled the law. What law? The law that Jesus gave. The moral commands of the Ten Commandments, loving God with all your heart, might, soul, and strength, and loving your neighbor as yourself. Now if you were to turn over one chapter to 1 John chapter 3, you would be bombarded. with John's perspective and teaching on agape, agapa-o, biblical sacrificial love Listen, 1 John 3. 10. In this the children of God are revealed, and the children of the devil. In other words, John is saying, I'm going to tell you how you know the children of God and how you know the children of the devil And then he goes on to say, whoever doeth not righteousness is not of God. Well, that's expected. Whoever is not living holy is not of God. But then he says, neither he that loves not his brother. Agapah'o, neither he that loves not his brother. Note the parallel in that verse. There's a parallel between not doing righteousness and not loving your brother. And if you don't do either, you're not of God. You're not in God. You're not with God. You're not obeying God. But he doesn't end there. Verse John 3. 11. For this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Again, hearkening all the way back to the Ten Commandments. 1 John 3. 14. We know that we have passed from death into life. Because we love the brethren. He that loves not his brethren abides in death. That's an interesting statement there. He who loves not his brother abides. Again, same word as you found up in verse uh chapter two verse ten abiding in the light now it's if you don't love your brother you're abiding in what Death, spiritual death, separation from God And we know, John says we know, that we have passed from death to life, dependent upon whether we love our brothers. Of course, loving our brothers also assumes that we love God. And it's not, again, neither one of those words that Jesus gave in Matthew chapter 22, neither one of the two loves Loving God, loving your brother, neither one is phila. They're both Agapaho. They're both the more intense word for love. First John three, verse sixteen Hereby we perceive the love of God, because he laid down this life for us, and we ought. We ought To lay down our lives for the brother. There it gets much more specific, and it starts talking about how we are to interact with our brothers and sisters in Christ Christ laid down his life for us. We ought to lay down our lives for others Goes on. 1 John 3. 17. Whoso hath his this world's goods and sees his brother has needs, but shuts up his vows of compassion from him, are reading from the King James. How dwells the love of God in him? So if you see one of your brothers and sisters in Christ who are needy, who have any kind of need, but probably hear physical needs. And you don't do anything about it, you walk away and say, it's your problem. It's not my problem. You take care of your own problem. John says, how dwells the love of God in that person 1 John 3. 18. Little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue. But in deed and in truth. In other words, don't talk the talk. Don't don't how does that go? Walk the walk. Don't talk the talk. Walk the walk. Don't just talk about agape. Do it. As God's people. Now, all of these passages make it very clear that number one, our greatest example of agape is Jesus unto sinners. Agape's dominant feature is the giving of oneself to another. And I I don't, you know, I don't mean normally that uh you need to sacrif you need to sacrifice your life for people. That's already been done in Christ. And if you die for for me, that isn't gonna mean anything, except you were a good person But this this concept, it's a radical love for someone else that is united to you in Christ. It goes beyond care, it goes beyond affection, and it goes right to the heart of how you live your life as a servant of Christ. Now, you could say, and you should be saying at this point, Pastor, if this is true Or this is true. If what you're saying is indeed biblical, and I hope by now you see that it is. This is true. I'm not very good at this I am, as a matter of fact, I fail in this many, many times. And we all do, if we're honest with ourselves We still have a remnant of the old man in our hearts that loves me and not thee. And me always comes first. That's still part of the old man. And that's It's still there. It's a habit. It's an indication of the struggle that's going on in your sanctification. You you you you have this thought and you wish it wasn't true, but it is. And therefore, how are you ever going to love someone like Christ loved you? How are you ever going to come close to that? Well, please note verse seven again of chapter four. Beloved, do not believe, excuse me, that's the wrong verse. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. Did you catch that one four-letter word in that passage? Everyone who agapes is what? Born of God. Born of God. That is a really important verse. And it parallels John's words in his gospel in John chapter 3, where Nicodemus is wondering, how does one get into the kingdom of God? Does he need to be born a second time in his mother's womb? Jesus says, everyone who is born of the word and of the spirit, or water in the spirit, is you must be born again. Now, the interesting thing about John 3 and this passage right here is the word for born. It is a it is a tense in Greek that is in the passive mode, and it's in the perfect Tense, which, and I don't want to bore you with all this, but it's important. It was written this way for a reason. It's indicating That agape, this kind of love does not come from us. Naturally. Does not come from us. Again As John goes on to say, when you understand agape and you're practicing it, there are two things that happen. One, everyone that loves is born of God. So when you're loving someone else in a sacrificial way, with the help of God and his Holy Spirit, who dwells where? In you, it signals to you that you are a born-again person Number one. Number two, everyone that loves God is born of God and knoweth God. Knoweth God. Remember, Gnostics interested in knowing, interested in knowledge. They want to get it from a mystical force. But the idea of real love, this kind of agape love, comes from God with the Holy Spirit dwelling in God's people. And that is an indication that you know God, that you have this Love, this kind of agape, John goes on to talk about in a with a different twist in verse 8 He says, he that loves not, he that adoptes not, doesn't know God. For God is love. If you don't love others, if you don't agape others, you don't know God, simply put. Now, love, this kind of love, connects you to others who also know God and are seeking to love you as well as He. And as verse 7 puts it, if you don't love agape, you may not be born again. Because it takes being born again by the Holy Spirit to show this kind of love. Now I hope I spent some time earlier talking about the false prophets and about how do you know. Remember? How do you know a false prophet? Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. Every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. The Gnostics with their emphasis on knowledge were really not very big people on the love aspect. They didn't care whether they loved their brothers or not. All they were interested in is accumulating knowledge for knowledge's sake. Now, why is loving others so important? Why is agape so important in the life of God's people? Again, whoever doesn't love Whoever doesn't love God and whoever doesn't love one another cannot possibly know God. I don't care if you are the greatest preacher who ever lived If you don't show Agape, what's the conclusion? You don't know God. You don't know God. For God is love. I don't care what kind of supposedly spiritual realm that you're in contact with, what kind of spiritual knowledge you have. I don't care how much Biblical knowledge you have. I don't care if you can r recite uh the Bible back and forth, if you can recite all the catechisms. I don't care. What I care about and what God cares about, and I'm being I'm stretching this, so I hope you understand. What God is really focusing our attention on is the need to love one another. And if what is being taught isn't furthering that goal, it's not of God. And that's a direct hit to the Gnostics And anybody else who just likes to dabble in theology and get a whole bunch of knowledge. Agape, you see, is indispensable To your life as a believer. It's indispensable for your relationship with others in the body of Christ and your relationship with God. It's indispensable for peace in the body of Christ. It's indispensable for blessing in the body of Christ. It's indispensable. indispensable for edifying in the body of Christ, and it's indispensable for unity in the body of Christ. In Colossians chapter 3 Paul starts off by reminding the believers, if you are raised with Christ, seek the things which are above. And then he goes through a list. First list is don't, these are the things that are of the old man, don't do this. Then he goes on to the second list. These are the things you should put on. Put on this, put on that, put on this, put on these virtues. And the last thing he adds Colossians 3, verse 14. Put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity. Of unity, of unity in the body of Christ There's so much more I wanted to share with you, but for the sake of time, I'm going to abbreviate my remarks. And uh wrap this up. Why would John focus so much time on agape? In his lectures, in his spirit-uh-inspired word. Well, first of all, Agape models Christ, first and foremost. Secondly, believers are called to be Christ-like. And showing agape is a sure sign that the Holy Spirit is working in your life. life. Because what does the Holy Spirit do? Produces the fruits of righteousness. What is the first fruit? Galatians chapter 5? Love. Again, agape. He's giving also God's people a clear way to recognize true versus false teaching. And he's also telling us, in no uncertain terms, in time, verse after verse after verse after verse That this is a critical, crucial matter to your spiritual life. And it is a battle It is a battle to love other people because they're not always lovely. Those of you who are who are married know that in the marriage relationships there are times When, you know, you just you're not getting along. And you're at loggerheads, you're fighting with each other. It's hard. It's hard to give of yourself to the other person when you're involved in some sort of fight But this is how the body of Christ is supposed to be. Agapeing one another as Christ has agape us. Let me in conclusion, I I wish, and you you can look at me and you could say, well, Pastor Taylor, you're dreaming And I know, I know this is not easy. I know this is hard. I know it's hard to love one another as Christ loved the church. But it is a defining mark of the body of Christ Christ. And in my years in the ministry, I have been From time to time saddened by situations that happen in the church where there isn't obviously agape being shown I wish I wouldn't have to talk about this, but I feel strongly that this love is so important. to the body of Christ. My first pastorate on the plains of South Dakota, for the period of about two years, I was covering two churches. And uh I was really kind of uh a ministerial advisor to the one. I would run out there and preach, and that was about all I would do. But I suddenly became aware that in the church There was a deacon and an elder who were attending the church who hadn't spoken to one another for ten years. Some business deal went bad. Is that love? Not to speak to one another? Uh, that's not the only situation In another situation I'm aware of, a man was elected an elder in the church and participated in the life of the church for about two years. And then suddenly, one day, without warning, he told the pastor, I'm never coming back. Walked out. I ask you, was that loving? I ask you, what spirit was working there? Was it the Holy Spirit? Was it the Spirit of Antichrist? Was truth there? Was the truth of Jesus there? It's not. It's obviously not. Let me conclude with one more example. What do you do? with a church, a whole church that has been a part of one faithful body for 40 years. And then one day comes to you and says, I don't want to be a part of you anymore. I want to go to another faithful body. Another body that preaches similar stuff that you preach. But I just don't want to be with you anymore. Is that love? Is that agape? Where's the sacrifice there? What spirit is going on there? Now I admit there are times. There are times when you I admit there are times when you have to leave a church When the truth isn't being proclaimed. And you've done everything you can to make it known that the truth is not being proclaimed to the leaders of the church. And they continue to laugh at you and say, no, we're going in this direction. We're not going to preach about the Bible anymore. We're going to do we're going to do our thing. There are times when you must leave. But that isn't the same as when you have two churches that are similar and everything they believe and yet one church says, I don't want to be with you anymore. If what John is saying is true, and we believe it is true I need to ask you all this morning, even as I ask myself, how much biblical knowledge do you have And the follow-up question. How much adape are you showing to each other here at Trinity? How does your love for each other promote the unity of the body of Christ? I must ask you, do you know God who is love Agatha. Amen