Now if you turn in your copy of God's Word to 2 Peter. 2 Peter, you'll find that will be in chapter 3 on page 1208. I believe of your pew Bibles. Now begin reading. At verse 1 of chapter 3, we'll go through verse 10. Let's give attention now to the Word of God This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved, and both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder But you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles, knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing. Following their own sinful desires. They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and earth was formed out of water and through water by the Word of God. And that by means of these, the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished. But by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it. will be exposed. Thus far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, our Lord and God, as we come to this passage, a difficult passage in parts. We pray that you use it this morning. Use it in our hearts, Lord God. Change us Direct us by your spirit. Mold us, shape us. Have your way with us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the garden, Adam was instructed by God. Telling him that he could eat from every tree of the garden, with one exception, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat. For in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. Notice that God did not say to Adam, you'll never be able to eat from that tree. It was a test. Adam was living before God in a probationary period. During which this exclusion was the rule for his life. And during that period of probation, Adam was not to have that particular fruit. He was called to abstain for the time being. But if you know that passage, you know that Eve would not wait As she was tempted by Satan, she saw that the tree was good for food, that it was a delight to her eyes, it was to be desired to make one wise, and so she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave some to Adam, and he ate. Eve would not submit herself to the prohibition. Eve would not submit herself to the truth and power of God's word. Eve would not submit herself to the divine timing. Set in place by God. In a sense, that brings us to the passage before us. This morning, 2 Peter chapter 3, as Peter writes this second letter to the church, he's emphasizing the promises of God. As he opens the letter, he speaks about the divine power of God. He speaks about his granting, his great promises. And then he urges those who are reading this letter That they would make every effort to supplement their faith with virtue, and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and it goes on with godliness and brotherly affection. That they would be diligent to confirm their calling and election. But Peter had a concern, and it seems to be one of the primary reasons that he was writing this letter. He wanted to warn the church that there would be false prophets, that there were false prophets, and there were false teachers who were coming. Who would secretly secretly bring in destructive heresies And so that's where we find ourselves in this chapter three of Peter's second letter. This morning I want us to see very simply that followers of Christ are called to submit themselves to His divine timing. Followers of Christ are called to submit themselves to his divine timing. We'll see that in three heads, first the power of his word, secondly the promise of Christ, and then finally the patience of the Lord. Well, first the power of his word. Here then is the problem. Here's the warning of Peter. The people will deny the return of Christ. These false teachers that Peter is warning the church about, he now speaks specifically about what they will seek to teach or what they will deny, these accursed Children. As we studied in Jude, who warned his readers that there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. Now Peter writes that he was stirring them up by way of reminder to know that these scoffers would be coming in the last days. And that these scoffers would be denying the return of Jesus. Look at verse 4. They, meaning the scoffers, meaning these false teachers, meaning these accursed children, will say, where is the promise of his coming? This argument, this statement, this question, which is really a statement in and of itself Appears to be based upon the fact that Jesus had not yet returned. Where is the promise Of his coming. They weren't asking, where is it in Scripture that he said he's coming back? They weren't asking someone to open up their Bibles and say, well, this is where it's written. That's not the question. It was really a statement. They knew that Jesus had promised a return. They knew that that's what Christians believed. But now these who were false teachers, these who were accursed children, would come, Peter was warning, they would come and they would be saying basically, the promise is empty. He's not coming. The promise is and was a lie. More broadly These false teachers who were coming would be denying the truth and power of the Word of God. Their allegation, their claim, their teaching would be that God's word is false, it is unreliable, it's just not true. It denies that they would be denying the truth of God's word and the power of God's very word. In essence, they would be saying his word is not powerful. They would be saying that God is unable to accomplish all that he has promised. And again, it appears that at least a portion of this statement is based upon human timing. It has been a long time. Now, Jesus died approximately 30 A. D. And Peter was writing this letter sometime, probably between 60 and 68 A. D. So we're talking about a period of 40 years since Jesus had died, rose, and ascended. And had promised to return forty years, and he had not yet returned. And we add to that that the men of those days, the people of those days, thought they were in the last days. And they understood that to mean most likely the last days means before I die. Peter refers to the last days in verse 3. Paul writes of the last days as he writes to Timothy. The writer to the Hebrews refers to the last days when he writes about Jesus speaking to us. Where was he? If Jesus has not yet returned, then he is not returning. No, Peter. Peter responds to this statement By first taking a step back. Look at verse five. For they rem remember who he's speaking about. He's speaking about those false teachers. They, the false teachers, the accursed children. They deliberately overlook this fact. And now what does Peter do? It goes back to creation. He goes back to Genesis chapter 1. The heavens existed long ago, the earth that was formed out of water and through water by the Word of God. He's referring back to Genesis chapter 1. Where Moses writes, the earth was without form and void darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. A sense that there was only water, that God had created the waters first. That's the sense. That's I think what Peter is drawing out for us. But the heavens existed long ago. The earth was formed out of water and through water. God needs to separate the waters. And then we read in Genesis at verse 9 of chapter 1, God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together in one place, and let the dry lands appear through the water. Peter takes his readers back to Genesis, and he speaks of God by his word forming all things. And then, and then he speaks of the flood. The world which then existed was deluged with water and perished That God blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the ground. Man, animals and creeping things, as we read in Genesis chapter 7. How did He do it? By water. Peter recognizes that God forms the earth out of water and through water, and he destroys the earth. By the same means. Peter is setting forth these truths then That God used the same medium, meaning water, to create and he uses the same medium to destroy. He's showing the power of his word. And he's telling his readers that those who will come have overlooked this fact that the heavens existed long ago. Long before those who were denying the Word of God existed. And they deliberately overlook this fact. Why is he pointing that out? Because they were ignoring biblical truth that God made all things out of the power of his word, that they were ignoring the history of the universe as recorded by Moses. That they were trying to begin their argument against the return of Jesus in the middle of history of redemption, not at the beginning. You see how important that is. No one can understand this account, this work of God, unless Unless you start at the beginning. Nothing. Nothing makes sense if we just jump into history right in the middle. No, we've got to go back to the beginning to understand who God is. And who we are before Him. One cannot merely look at what exists and then try to explain why or how it exists. No, we must go back to the Word of God. We must have this special revelation to understand that God's Word is true and it is powerful. That he gives life by his word. And he takes life by his word He was reminding the church that God has already destroyed all of life with a few exceptions and thus can do it again. And he was reminding the people of God that God's timing is not only divine But it is categorically different than our timing But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years and a thousand years As one day Peter was going back to Psalm ninety, to the words of Moses, the inspired prophet of God. How often do we overlook God's timing? Divine timing for our time. In this passage, we see what happens when one denies the truth of God's promises based upon, at least in part, our corrupt human timing. But how often do we do the same thing? In the United States especially, because we are a people of the clock. Often it dictates our lives. Frequently the clock dictates the status of our hearts. But given the patience of God, which we'll touch upon later, you have more opportunities to wait upon God. Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him. Psalm 37. For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence. For my hope is from him. Psalm 16. And then in Lamentations, it is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. That waiting is recognizing that God's timing is perfect. And this passage calls us to acknowledge and submit to his divine time. This passage calls you to take off your wrist watches if you even have those anymore. To raise your eyes and hearts to heaven To submit your anxious heart to the Lord Jesus Christ who has risen from the dead to grant you life. This passage calls you to sincerely trust the goodness and the loving kindness of this one who suffered eternally for you. To trust that as king, the son has planned with his father the absolutely perfect time for his return That his return will not be too late? That his return will not be too early? That as you wait, he continues to reign over all things in truth and in righteousness? Knowing that all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. And that even as you suffer afflictions or trials, even chastisements, That Lord Jesus Christ as King is overseeing your spiritual well-being. So while you or to recognize and acknowledge that a thousand years is only as one day in the mind and heart and practice of God. The call here is not merely to acknowledge this truth But to trust in the power of the Word of God, to believe that the Lord can and will do all that He has promised, and to rest in His fatherly care. Knowing that he's working all things together for your good. Even those things that you may consider to be behind schedule. For with God, nothing is behind schedule, but always right on divine time That brings us to the second head, the promise of Christ. The heart of this text is truly the promise of the return of Jesus Christ, isn't it? Certainly God's covenant promises stand behind his promise to return because his promise to return is caught up in the covenant And so we might just consider for a moment God's covenant promises and then Jesus' specific promise to return. First then the covenant promises. which we see beginning in the garden. As God is speaking to the serpent with regard to his sin, He tells him I will put enity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. He, referring to Jesus shall bruise your head, meaning a death knell to Satan, and you shall bruise his heel, referring to the cross. Which did put Jesus to death, but not for For long. The covenant promised that there would be a Savior. And then the Abrahamic promise. As Abraham was told, that I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you. Our king is sitting on the throne. It's part of the covenant promise. That God promised to be God to Abraham, but also to Abraham's offspring. To you this morning. If you're in Christ. And then the Davidic promise, I will raise up your offspring after you. David was to die. He shall build a house for my name. It's exactly what Jesus is doing right now. Building a house for the name of God That's just a brief overview of a few portions of God's covenant, out of which come the promises of Christ. In the upper room discourse in John 14, Jesus tells his disciples that he must go so that he can prepare a place. for you. I will come again and take you to myself. Jesus is building that house and and he's preparing a place For all those who are trusting in him this morning. And I will come again and take you to myself It's unimaginable that Jesus would be doing something, anything in glory without purpose and without producing the result that he and his father desired. Rest assured he will not leave his father's house empty. No. He's preparing a room For each of his followers. For every single one who believes upon him. It's to be fully occupied by the children of God. I will come again and take you to myself, and he will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. The height of being alone may be pictured by an orphan, a child without a parent. And Jesus knows this. He knows and uses this image to tell his disciples because they were concerned, they had questioning heart. He was saying he was going to leave them, and he wanted to reassure them that he would not leave them as orphans, that he would return to them. I will come to you. Christ is aware of your need to be with him. He knows. He knows you must be in him and thus with him if you will enter glory. And so he promises, I will come to you. He promises I will not leave you. And then in John chapter 17, we see Jesus Jesus praying to the Father. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, so they may see my glory. See, he asks his father that his people would be with him. Well, that's not a promise of Jesus. It's certainly in keeping with our text this morning. Because Jesus was praying in accordance with his father's will, and he knew that his father's will was for his children, Jesus' people, to be with Jesus. Because he knew that the Father's will was for the people, his people, to see the glory of Jesus. And so Jesus prays in line with that will. And we know that if that prayer would be granted, that Jesus must return for all of these who have been given to him. The bridegroom must return for the bride There's no other way for the bride to enter into the presence of God. She must be with her groom He must go first. He must lead. There must be a wedding. There must be a joining together of the head with the body. The body cannot enter on its own. It must have the head. The bride cannot go down the aisle to glory without her groom. She must have him. There must be a union. Jesus must come back. And will. Meditate on that for a moment. That the God man, the very Son of God who has now returned to his rightful place, sitting at his father's right hand, has promised to return to his creation. He came in humility He came subjecting himself to the law, to the misery of this life. He came to mocking, encouraging, he came to the cursed death on the tree. And he's ascended now. He went to the tomb and he emptied it, and now he's ascended. He's taken up his rightful place in glory, exalted far above the heavens, in full communion. with his father and the spirit, and yet he has promised to return for you. That's nearly unbelievable if he hadn't said it. The power of this promise should elevate you this morning The Lord Jesus Christ, who has now been exalted far above the heavens, desires to come back for you. If that doesn't bring joy to your heart this morning, I don't believe anything can. Because Because this return includes the joy of the cross. This return includes the joy of the empty tomb. This joy includes the ascension of Christ. And his return, his promised return, once again leaving his abode in glory, certainly coming on clouds with a multitude of angels, the heavenly host, to gather his church, the bride, to bring her home at last. To live eternally with him. To be with him, gazing upon his glory forever should bring exceeding joy this morning to your heart. Are you showing it? Are you displaying this joyful truth to all around you? Do your neighbors know that this joy is within your heart? Does your family know that this joy is within Within you, because you know your bridegroom is coming. Do they see it in your eyes? Does anyone hear it in your voice? Is this joy a living joy that's evident to others in your life? That brings us to our third point, the patience of the Lord. We're only going through verse nine this morning. And it ends this way the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. Peter's been addressing divine timing in the context of God's plan of redemption. And here midway in this passage, he tells his brothers and sisters, he tells the church that the Lord is patient. We've spoken about that, but here we want to open it up just a bit more. Peter has been addressing the naysayers as they viewed the world, even spirit the spiritual realm, from their corrupt human perspective and thus their corrupt timing. And he was telling them. He was reminding the believers that they can't view things that way. He's been emphasizing the need to view all things, especially the ultimate promises of God, from God's vantage point. In other words, to view all things in terms of God's all-wise and powerful timing. But here he reminds them of the patience of God He's not slow, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. Now we might think that Peter was saying, well, God wants every single person who has ever been or ever will be to repent and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ that that's his desire. And I don't think we can read it that way because Peter writes, the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you. And we need to remember who he's writing to. He's writing to those who have faith. He's writing to the church. He's writing to those who believe. He's writing to those who he's already called to be diligent to confirm your calling and election. That's who he's writing to. And so as he writes, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance, he is speaking, I believe, of those who are electric who've been chosen by God, who are in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Peter is saying, God's been patient with you. Desiring that you come to repent And so it's good for us to just think a bit as we come into a new year As we're being reminded of God's patience, as we serve a long-suffering God Knowing that he did not destroy Adam and Eve in the garden, knowing that he did not destroy all of Israel, as they neglected him, as they rebelled against him as he sent them into exile, knowing that we serve this one who is patient, wanting all his children to come to repentance He's waiting. And so as we come to an end of this year and we look toward the beginning of another year, it's good for us to dwell upon this for a moment. The patience of God and his desire. His desire that we reach repentance. Well let's just think a moment on what that is. It's a big word. But it's a fairly straightforward concept. Repentance Repentance. God is patient so that you might reach repentance. Repentance is first turning from your sin, isn't it? Once we've grasped the truth that our Creator is offended by our sin, the idea of repentance is now to turn away from it. That our sin is an abomination before a holy God. And that because Christ has worked in your heart to bring you to love your Father, that you know as you transgress, as you break the law, every single time you are offending A holy God. You're grieving the Spirit. And you're knowing that Christ died to wash you clean of your sins. And so repentance means that now you recognize and you confess your sin and now you turn away from it in hatred. That's the idea. That's the first step in repentance. Recognizing it, confessing it before the Lord, being convicted that now you've offended God once again, and now you turn from it with a holy turning and with a hatred of it. That's step one of repentance. And then as you turn away from your sin, you turn toward God. You see, if you don't, if you don't turn toward God, then you just leave the door open to continue in that sin. You might repent of it once, you might turn away from it once, but if you don't turn toward God, if you don't turn towards Christ, now you leave the door open. It's wide open to return back to that sin. And so repentance involves Not only a turning away from sin, but now turning back into the warm embrace of Christ. And as His Spirit reminds you that you are forgiven. In the blood of Christ, as you plead with the Spirit that you might not enter into that sin again, this your repentance means that now you're in the loving arms of Christ and you don't want to leave that embrace you have Now come to that point where you're recognizing that you've been washed in his blood and you don't want to stain that again. You've turned to God. And then repentance includes a seeking after new obedience Because you love Christ, because you love your Heavenly Father. You want to do what pleases the God man, you're longing after now not the world, but after that which makes the Lord smile if if we can think of it that way, at least in human terms. The Lord smiles at your striving after new obedience. Christ rejoices in your desire to obey. So repentance includes a heartfelt longing and desire and a real effort, striving in toward new obedience. You've turned from that sin. You've you've hated it with a hatred that's superhuman. And you've turned to Christ And in Christ, you know, pleading with the Spirit, along with the psalmist, that you would not only love his law and meditate upon it day and night, but that you would strive to do his law. By the power of the Spirit. That's repentance. That's what God is waiting on, in a sense That's what he's being patient for. That's the call this morning. As we think upon a new year, as we think upon another 12 months of walking with Christ, unless Jesus returns. What is it that your creator desires from you? Is it not repentance? Yes, faith, of course, but here in this passage we read of the significance of repentance, so significant that the living God is patiently waiting on the work of the Spirit within your heart and upon you. Will you today in 2024 will you be marked by repentance? Will you learn how to strive after new obedience? Will you plead with the Spirit to work repentance in your heart? Yes, the followers of Christ are called to submit themselves to his divine timing. Eve would not, and neither would Adam, but in the spirit, in the spirit, you would You can, and in the Spirit you will pursue that which He so desires repentance Praise be to God. Amen. We praise you that this has been a year of patience, your patience. That you are long-suffering, Father, and we praise you. That you are waiting, that all would reach repentance. Thank you, Lord God. You love us so much. That you send your Son for us. And that He would send His Spirit. And that He would be working repentance in us. Help us, Lord. We're weak, we're frail. We need the Spirit. And so we ask for that even now. Make us a people of repentance. Today and in this coming year. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.