Please continue to stand and turn to 1 Corinthians 1, back to the study in Corinthians, starting at verse 10 and reading on through verse 17. First Corinthians one verses ten through seventeen. The Word of God Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you. But that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it has been declared to me concerning you, my brethren. By those of Chloe's household, that there are contentions among you. Now I say this: that each of you says I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas, or I am of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? I thank God that I baptized none of you, except Christmas and Gaius, lest anyone should say that I had baptized in my own name. Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephanus. Besides, I don't know whether I any other baptized any other For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Let us pray. Oh God, we ask that your word would come forward. That it would be, Lord, your word, and it would be evident that it is your word, for it would bear with it, Father, the uh the working of the Holy Spirit upon our hearts. Help us, Lord, to hear. Help us, Lord, to believe. And help us, Lord. With your strength and your power to do what the Word of God says, so that ever-increasing glory might be manifested to your name In Christ's name we pray. Amen. As we come to these verses today, I would like to speak on the matter of division and unity in the body of Christ. And to help us begin to look at this matter, I want to pose two questions to you. The first of those questions is, what does the Church of Jesus Christ look like? And the second question is, what is its purpose? What is the church's purpose? And there are many answers that you can give, and many others have written many books on this subject. But I think as we look at this particular section of First Corinthians one from verses ten through seventeen. God will provide us with some basic answers on the subject of what the church is and what its purpose is. As we have begun looking at 1 Corinthians chapter 1, we've already seen a few things revealed about what the church is. If you go back to verse 2, Paul addresses the Corinthian Christians in this manner. He says, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. With all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. When we hear those words, we note, first of all, that the That the church is the church of God. The church of God in Christ Jesus. And when we say it's the church of God, we're not Referring to the denomination by that name, we're meaning, and Paul is meaning, that the church is God's idea. And the church is God's creation. It belongs to Him This church, not the building, but the people of the church, well, the building too, for that matter, belongs to God. It's his. You are his. You are his creation. You are his recreation. And you are recreated through the work of Jesus Christ. Notice again Unto the church of God which is at Corinth, who are sanctified in Christ Jesus. You are linked to each other You are linked to God because you are linked in Christ. You are in the church. You are in Christ. You are God's people. Also notice that as Paul addresses the Corinthian Christians, and some of this we've reviewed, but I just want to highlight it again, you are sanctified in Christ. Sanctified in Christ. Sometimes we don't feel sanctified. It's a good thing it doesn't, it isn't based on our feelings. The action that the verb is that's used here for sanctified uh the action is that um The action at the time when we speak is complete. In other words, you already are. Now sanctified in Christ, holy, set apart unto God through Christ. That does not mean, however, that you have reached or will reach perfection in this life. But it does mean that because you're united in Christ, God Himself will guarantee that you will persevere in holiness As Romans 8 verse 29 puts it, for whom he did foreknow, he also predestinated to be conformed. To the image of his son, that be conformed to the image of his son. That's what God is doing in your life. That's what it means to be sanctified. To be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called. Them he called, he also justified, and whom he justified, he also glorified. You are, the church is a group of those God has chosen in Christ to be saints. Notice also in verse two, he says that these words Called to be saints with all that in every place call upon the name of Christ Jesus our Lord It's not just that God is working here, but he works elsewhere. He works in other groups of people He works with other saints, with other churches. They have believers in them too. And if you go through the letters of Paul, He always mentions this idea of the fact that they are saints. In the opening words that he has to say in his epistles Romans 1, verse 7, Ephesians 1 1, Colossians 1 1 Galatians, he doesn't say it, and Thessalonians, he doesn't say it either, but five out of seven epistles that Paul writes. He speaks to them as saints. He identifies them as saints. And then he proceeds, after having said that. He proceeds to encourage them to live as saints, to put away sinful practices. And to be conformed to the image of the firstborn Son. You are called in Christ Jesus to be saints. When you remember that great passage in Ephesians chapter one in verse three. Let's turn there for just a minute. Ephesians 1 and verse 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him. There we Presbyterians plant our flag. Chose us. Elect. Chose the people of God. But then look to it. Look more. He chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be what? holy, and without blame before him in love. Even the decree of God's election is done so that we might be holy in Christ. We might be holy before God. We might be without blame before God. We might be perfected and be in the image of his Son, for He truly is the one who is holy and without blame before God. The electing decree of God carries with it a goal. And the goal is holiness without blame in Christ before God. Now, here's where it gets really interesting. Paul has already called the Corinthian church saints in Christ. But in verses 10 through 17 What do we see? Saintly behavior or unsaintly behavior Do we see Christ or do we not see Christ? The answer is so obvious. That what we see here is saints behaving unsaintly, Christians behaving unchristian-like We who are in union with Christ is not necessarily how we in union with Christ choose to live. In fact, First Corinthians chapter 10, verse 17 is the first in a series of problems. of unchristian-like behavior that Paul i addresses in Corinth. He says, I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, verse 10, that you all speak the same thing, but there be no divisions among you. There's something going on here that Paul is bringing attention to, that there's divisions at Corinth, that they're not speaking the same things. Otherwise, why would he say that? He said that there be no divisions among you, but you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Of course, it goes without saying that he doesn't want them to be in the same mind and in the same judgment when it comes to error. But on the matter of divisions He wants what? Sameness, or he wants unity And he goes on to say in verse 11, even he gets more specific about what's the problem that he's trying to address that he is addressing. He's not trying. It's right out there. There's no mistake He says, It has been declared to me concerning you, my brethren, by those of Chloe's household. We assume that Chloe is a member of the congregation, and she has gotten Paul's ear. About a problem. That there are contentions among you. The word contentions, not divisions, but there's actual verbal quarreling going on. There's quarreling going on in the church. There are contentions among you. Now I say this. That each of you says, and notice they're all in quotes, so there's a possibility, a likelihood, a high likelihood, this is what Paul has heard But I've heard there are quarrels. People are saying, I am of Paul, or I am of Apollos, or I am of Cephas, or Peter, or I am of Christ. To which Paul responds, Is Christ divided? Is Christ divided? Is the Lord Jesus divided into four different entities? Was Paul crucified for you Were you baptized in the name of Paul? Very penetrating questions to get people to see That the quarrels that they're having really is not focused on that which is the most important thing. It's not focused on he who is What they should be talking about. Their conversations are not geared to promoting one another's spiritual welfare, but they're sitting there talking about these men. and raising difficulties with other men. There is a lack of godliness and sanctification that are going on. There are divisions in the church at Corinth. Again, and you cannot forget this. There are divisions in the Church of Carnage, whom Paul has already said are saints in Christ. And The divisions are directly caused by the fact that they have unwarranted devotion to men. They have given unwarranted devotion to men. Now, we all in the presence of Paul, I would hope, or in the presence of Peter, or in the presence of Apollos. would all have a lot of respect for these men. But apparently this went far beyond that. They went far beyond respect. And it almost approaches the point of Those who are holding on to these men and elevating these men so highly, it almost approaches the point That these believers at Corinth now are attributing their salvation and their sainthood to these men. And I think that's probably why Paul says in verse 13, is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Were you baptized into the name of Paul? Absolutely not. From this first mentioned sin of the vision in the body, this this kind of and I I called it what it is. This kind of division is sin. When you elevate men to a position a Greater than God. When you attribute to them what Christ has done, you're going to end up with division. In the body of Christ. And that's sin. From this first mentioned sin, Paul moves on in the book of Corinthians. Now we're going to get back to this verse in just a minute. But notice, one sin after the other, Paul addresses. He confronts the Corinthian church because, you see, they're not being conformed to the image of Christ. And they're not being holy and blameless before God. For example These saints that Paul has just called the church at Corinth, he says, there's uncertainty in you. Regarding the wisdom of God versus the wisdom of the world, which she addresses in chapters 2 and 3. In chapter 5. He says it's common knowledge that one of your members is living in an incestuous relationship. In chapter 6, there's sexual immorality and idolatry he draws their attention to. There is improper and unloving observations of the Lord's Supper, which he speaks to in chapter 11. There's lack of appreciation of the gifts of the body. And the unity of the body in 1 Corinthians 12 and 13. There's excessive speaking in tongues in chapter 14. This is just the name of you. Of the problems. The test of their being truly saints in Christ Jesus Will now depend on how the church at Corinth responds to Paul's challenges. How they respond to the rebukes that he is giving them So we get ourselves back to the question I posed earlier. What is the church? What's its purpose? It seems to me that the church, what is the church, can be answered in our contemporary society in the following ways. It is a group of sinners, all of whom can say that they once repented and believed and were baptized. But then they can go on living in sin because they're guaranteed of salvation Thanks for shaking your head. Is that the church? Is that the faithful church? Well it may be a church But it is it a faithful church? No, you see, the faithful church is a group of sinners, many who have believed, repented, and been baptized. And because of Christ's calling an election, they are persevering in the faith. They are repenting of their sins, and key, they desire to live lives that glorify God. Are the Corinthians redeemed sinners who love Christ so much that they will repent of their sins and seek God's help to love godly lives? That is the question before Corinth. Will they see that, for example, the divisiveness that their sin has caused by holding on to these men Will they come to see that that is in essence a denial or an affront to what Jesus has done? And will they repent of it? Are these people those who are just pretending to be believers in Christ Church and really don't want to end their sinful practices. The jury is out Now, as Jesus said, even within the church there will always be wheat and tares. Or as Paul put it when he spoke to the elders at Ephesus in Acts chapter 20, verse 29. After my departing, grievous wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock. And then he said, Okay, they come from the outside. But then he said, Also some of your own. Men shall arise speaking perverse things to draw away disciples after them. Or John said in 1 John 2, verse 18 and following. Little children, it's the last time. And you've heard that Antichrist shall come. Even now there are many Antichrists, but we know that it is the last time. They went out from us, but they were not of us. The church is composed of true believers and deceivers Who look like believers, some who may have been baptized. And they have expressed faith. And they're doing all the other things that Christians do. Yet they can be tears. Doesn't seem to compute, does it? Doesn't seem to make sense. Only God knows the difference. And we can't because we don't know the heart. Can't even know our own hearts sometimes Until Jesus returns, his visible church will exhibit this kind of tension within its members. The tension of faith and unbelief, living together in close association in church, will inevitably help create divisions. In the body of Christ. And those divisions will militate against the unity of the body of Christ. And they will militate against the love that brothers and sisters ought to have. for each other. They will help cause the vision, and they will not encourage unity. Surprisingly, at Corinth, I say surprisingly because it surprises me every time I see this. Surprisingly at Corinth, the flashpoint The s the flashpoint of their division is what? Which man baptized you? It's not you see, it's not something that is so radically ungodly that you could readily define it and get rid of it. But it's something that is very, a very uh it's something Jesus even commanded that his people do baptize baptism. And for some reason, which obviously is sinful, For some reason, these different men who baptized the the people at Corinth, Paul, Apollos. Cephas, for some reason there were people who made the baptizers supermen in their lives. And they built up a cult worship And so Paul says, I thank God I hardly baptized any of you, so that you couldn't do that to me, and yet apparently some did. Apparently some did. I thank God I baptized only Christus and Gaius, lest any should say I baptized in mine own name. I also baptized the house of Stephanus. But beside that, I know not whether I baptized any other. Paul is hoping that the fact that he baptized so few people Would not contribute even further to the division. No baptism he performed No baptism Peter performed, no baptism Apollos performed is important as the fact That he says in verse 17 that Paul was called to preach the gospel of Jesus. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, let the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. In that statement in verse 17, he focuses the church's attention. On what is important and what should be the unifying focus of the church's existence. Preaching the cross of Jesus. Preaching the cross of Jesus Divisions must melt before preaching the cross of Jesus. We all must see that giving primary allegiance to whomever performs one's Christian baptism is never a legitimate reason for. Permeating divisions. It's never more important than preaching Christ crucified, the gospel of Christ. Paul is working to counter the divisive spirit and to promote unity in the church at Corinth. His point about the various different baptisms, or the very few baptism he performed, is to prevent the Corinthians from using their baptism by one Christian leader as a reason to separate themselves from other Christians in the body at Corinth. What is essential in the Church of Jesus Christ is not who baptized you, nor is it who is your favorite spiritual leader. Or the most important religious practice that you engage in. It's not whether the church building is gorgeous inside and out, nor whether the people sing hymns or contemporary music at worship, or whether the carpet is blue or red. What is most important is does the church preach Christ's gospel? faithfully. In accordance with God's word, with the power of the Holy Spirit attending that preaching. This is to be your defining focus. This is what you should unify around Now we look at the Corinthian church and we say to ourselves Oh gee, that's for them. We would never be so foolish as to as to do something like that And I would pray that that would indeed come true and be true of you always, that your focus would be on preaching. The truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is who you are. That is your purpose. That is what promotes unity in the body of Christ. But I must also give this final word of caution. We are in the process of looking at who might be the next pastor of the church. Suppose suppose our pulpit committee was which I cannot help but give thanks for its con const And its leadership. But suppose the pulpit committee suddenly decided that they were going to give you three names of equally qualified candidates. And you said, as you listened to them and they came and they candidated, and you had to choose one Can you imagine what potential for division that could cause They might actually all be very qualified, and they might all actually be preaching the gospel. And they might all look very pretty or not. And they all might have beautiful families and they all might say all the right things and pray things well. We you know, they all might have the same ability. I mean Certainly Peter and Paul and were were no slouches. And certainly it's hard, you're hard pressed to choose which one you admire the most. In the end, you see, what you don't want to do, and what the procedure that we're trying to follow here by presenting one name at a time. What you don't want to do is to create division over the question of who's the next pastor. You want to try to limit that. As much as we can humanly. We don't want people going around talking and saying, well, I'm for this guy and I'm for that guy and I'm for this guy. No. We have been praying from the beginning that God would send us his man. Not his men, his man, to be the leader of the church. Excuse me, even saying it that way is not really accurate. Be Christ's servant. And represent Christ. So perhaps it's in that area that this passage has relevance to us as a congregation. And so I commend this matter to you and to your thought, and pray the Spirit will lead you as you think about these things And that you would be very see some of you are here and you can remember a day in this church where we had division I can remember it. And they weren't fun times. You have unity in Christ Preaching the gospel. Preaching the gospel. May it be that that is what we are known for. By God's grace. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, thank you for being with us and for your Your word, which, as the psalmist reminds us, is a light to our path, a lamp to our feet. O Heavenly Father, instruct our hearts and help us, O Father, to be diligent. As the book of Ephesians reminds us That we should be diligent to preserve the unity of the body of Christ in love. May that be our thought. May you prevent, protect us, Lord from div division, protect us from divisive quarrels. Help us, Lord, in all things as a body of Christ, to display the unity that we have in Christ Jesus. And that, Lord, the love of God and the love that Christ commands us to have for one another might be manifested in us and through us unto the world. For God's glory we pray. Amen