This morning the reading of God's Word comes to us from Ecclesiastes ten, verses eleven through twenty. And Ecclesiastes ten verses eleven through twenty. Um Now here again, as as I mentioned earlier, Solomon is meditating on some of the problems of foolish speech and multiplied words. Also, some of the problems of rulership and leadership in this world. And yet, after multi or uh uh meditating on these problems Here in this text, he comes to a surprising conclusion. In verse 20, he says, Seemingly, even though there are all these problems in the world, He comes to say, do not curse the king, even in your thoughts. And so here are some of the meditations of Solomon, here is God's Word. Ecclesiastes 10, verses 11 through 20. Listen to the reading of God's Word. A serpent may bite when it is not charmed. The babbler is no different. The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious, but the lips of a fool shall swallow him up. The words of his mouth begin with foolishness, and the end of his talk is raving madness. A fool also multiplies words. No man knows what is to be. Who can tell him what will be after him? The labor of fools warries them, for they do not even know how to go to the city. Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes feast in the morning. Blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobles. And your prince's feast at the proper time, for strength and not for drunkenness. Because of laziness the building decays, and through idlen of hands the house leaks A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes merry, but money answers everything. Do not curse the king, even in your thought Do not curse the rich, even in your bedroom. For a bird of the air may carry your voice, and a bird in flight may tell the matter. That's part of the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it and to its preaching in our midst today. So here once again we see Solomon meditating upon some of the ugly realities of life in a sin-cursed world, yet again pointing to some of the ugly realities that are true of this world owing to the curse of sin. And you'll notice this passage is mainly broken into two sections. You'll notice verse 11 to 15 seems to form a unit that is dwelling on one theme. You'll notice that verses 16 to 19 is focused on a set is a second unit dwelling on a second theme. Each of these sections highlights something in particular, one thing per section. So verse 11 through 15 is really meditating upon um the the harmful effects of foolish words. Verse 16 through 19 is meditating upon the reality of uh rulership in this world and the fact that it's not all not always a good thing. And yet at the end in verse twenty we see a God honoring response to these things. So consider it in light of that There are um the damaging effects of foolish words, some of the problems of rulership and leadership in this world, verse 16 to 19. But then in verse twenty, the God-honoring response at the end. So first notice what we see in verse eleven through fifteen. Basically what's observed here is again a reality of life in a sin-cursed world. Troublesome speech that comes out of the mouth of fools ends up multiplying problems. Troublesome speech, foolish speech, that comes out of the mouth of babblers. Makes all of life more difficult and more problematic for themselves and also for others. We see this characterized in verse 11. In verse 11, the babbler is compared to a serpent who is ready to bite when it is not charmed. A serpent may bite when it is not charmed. A babbler is no different. Now again a babbler speaking of a babbling person. A person who is speaking all the time. A person who is in a habit of speaking, babbling, I'm saying things. Now, this person is compared to a serpent in need of being charmed. And the idea here is that if you don't continually keep charming it, the serpent's going to bite you. So here's kind of the a frustrating situation that Solomon expresses. Just as a serpent needs to be charmed in order to keep it from biting you. So also a babbler is no different. A person who babbles needs to be uh at some level uh pacified constantly. And if they don't, they will come to bite you. Once again, this is one of the nuisances of life in a sin-cursed world. There is such a reality of babbling. Ongoing talk. Talk that can cause more problems than it is aimed at solving. Talk can sometimes multiply problems. When sometimes not talking would prevent problems and might even go towards solving problems. And sometimes the best you can do is what Solomon suggests here. You can act like this the snake charmer to try to keep the babbler at bay. Keep the babbler from biting you. And yet, even still, look what is prone to happen. So now look at verse 12. Look at verse 12. A wise man can seek to deal with a babbler. But in verse 12, we see that even when he's doing the best he can to be wise and gracious, his words can only do so much. In verse 12, the words of a wise man's mouth are gracious. But at the same time at the end of verse twelve, but the lips of a fool shall swallow him up. So you see, it's you know it's it's one of the principles of Scripture that a soft answer can turn away wrath, that dealing wisely, dealing graciously can help to turn away um problems that come from the lips of other people. And yet here in Ecclesiastes we see the downside to that where The words of a wise man may be gracious, but at the end of the day the lips of a fool can still swallow the wise person up. A wise man might use gracious words, and he might still in the end, you he might seek to not get swallowed up, seek to tame the babbler, and yet at the same time he may still in the end get swallowed up. This is one of the realities of life in a sin-cursed world. The world does not work the way it should be. Truth and uprightness in speech is not always what it should be Now, of course, you know, none of us is um is guiltless in these matters. Um we all use our tongues in ways that we should not. Um, you know, this is why we need the continual instruction of God's word. All of us. This is why we need the instruction of James that we heard earlier this morning. That's why we need the instruction here in Ecclesiastes. Here's warning to us. Let us be careful not to be the babbler. Let us be careful not to be the one who uses speech foolishly, endlessly, and ends up multiplying problems by our speech rather than helping towards solving them. Foolish speech can be problematic in its nature. It can be something that spreads problems by its very essence. And it can be, it can have such a problematic nature, such a problem-propagating nature, that even the words of the wise can only do so much to stop it and to stop its damaging effects. Here again. the nature of foolish speech in the sin-cursed world. Verses 13 and 14 show us the foolish, you know, the one who is foolish, who is prone to dabble. is uh constantly spewing foolishness. The words of his mouth begin with foolishness, and the end of his talk is raving madness A fool also multiplies words. No man knows what is to be. What can tell him what will be after him? Yet again, um the the foolish one who babbles, babbles from beginning to end. The beginning and end of his speech is foolishness and babbling, and yet he is continually talking about things that are beyond him Now he's speaking about the future. We saw that in the book of James. You saw that particular connection to the book of James where who knows what is after us? Who knows who of us can say what we will do even tomorrow Not one of us really can. Only God knows. And again, the foolish one speaks things that are too high for him, that are more than he actually knows. This is also reflected here in Ecclesiastes chapter 10. Yet again, we see the overall characterization. People who babble, people who multiply their words, as if they have lots to say, as if they know a whole lot about the things they're talking about But at the same time can't possibly know the things they speak of. Again, as Solomon says in verse 14, no man knows what is to be. Who can tell him what will be after him? So again, we see the overarching problematic nature of foolish babbling, foolish speech, how prominent it can be. It can be everywhere. It can arise in us more than it should. We need to be wary, we need to think about these things, we need to be careful that we are not foolish babblers, but that our words bring healing and peace. Rather than multiplying problems. But notice also who else this foolish babbling affects in verse 15. The labor of fools wearies them. For they do not even know how to go to the city. Again, those who are engaged in foolish babbling, they spread problems for others. They also weary themselves out. They also wear themselves out, and that's what we're seeing in verse 15. Because of their weariness, because of the energy they spend on babbling and talking. They don't even know how to go to the city, so basically they're not even able to get their business done that they should be able to get done because their energy is so eaten up with babbling, with foolish talk So again here we see um again i uh we if for us it's a it's a warning for us um foolish speech, babbling speech Multiplies problems, spreads problems, it eats up the wise who try to deal with it. It can also even eat up those who are trying not to have to deal with it. It eats up and wearies the person who engages in it. It does no one any good. And so again, we are warned about the use of our speech. Speaking of things that we know nothing of, speaking of things that are unable to help situations, and yet, you know, using our words, you know, you know, making sure we use our words in ways that are bringing life. and bringing peace to situations rather than um multiplying problems is an important thing. Here's a warning we have from Solomon. And yet isn't this just life in a sin cursed world? We all know that words are multiplied too readily, too easily. We know that the damaging effect of words that are multiplied too readily, too easily. Something we should again take to heart for ourselves, but also have the observation that this is what life is like in a sin-cursed world. It's a sad thing, yet it's also the true to the nature of how things are Here we are at the end of these verses, 11 through 15. So again, um uh babbling speech, foolish speech. The dangers of it, the damaging nature of it. Something to mourn, also something to make sure we avoid, to make sure we are not participating in. Another thing true about life in a sin-cursed world comes to us in the next verses, verses 16 to 19. And the other thing that's true about this world broken in sin that it is, is that rulership and leadership in this world are very often occupied by people who are not adequate to the task And again, this is a vanity, a brokenness to the state of the world. Here we see it in verse 16 to 19. Verses 16 and 17, what kinds of kings are possible? What kinds of kings are there? You know, woe to you and blessing. Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, but blessed are you when your king is a son of nobles. There is such a reality as a king who is a child, who is ruled by childish instincts who fills his position in a way that is not appropriate, that is less than it should be. There is also um a sort of king who fills it adequately, who is uh trained for the position, who is ready for the position. And so again, woe to you, O land, when your king is the wrong kind, when he is a child. But blessed are you, O land, when your king is the right kind, the son of nobles. You know that when the king is a child, when do the princes feast? They're in verse sixteen. When your king is a child. The princes feast in the morning. They feast first thing in the in the day. They uh the the king and those who are with them, they are live in that position for the sake of themselves, for the sake of their own enjoyment and pleasure. But in verse 17, when your king is the son of nobles, your princes instead feast at the proper time, for the purpose of strength and not for drunkenness. Again, you can think of different kinds of kings, different kinds of rulers. You could apply it more broadly to leadership in general, positions of leadership in this world. And you could realize that it is a reality, a sad reality of this world. That people fill positions, people fill positions of leadership, sometimes better than others. And sometimes more fit than others. Sometimes the one who fills the position is more fit than the one who came before, or vice versa. And we see these two um approaches here. Yet again, um here is what life is like. Um uh there's such a thing as laziness that causes the building to decay. There's idleness of hands and the house sleeps. You know, one king serves for the sake of the land, and therefore uh feasts at the right time, and when this king feasts His feasting helps him to fill his office well, and the whole land benefits. But the other king in verse 16, he's ruled by childish instincts. His princes feast in the morning, first thing. They are serving themselves. Guess what? The whole land around him suffers. A warning. A warning to us. Something for us to think about, how we fill the roles that God has given to us. How we fill those positions, whether we are placed in positions of official leadership or simply the roles we have in our own families. the roles we have anywhere in the world. Um, you know, the filling of a role, the filling of an office is described here. And it's described here in such a way that causes us to be warned and to think carefully about how we fill different roles. That we be careful that we are prepared for the roles that we fill. that the the roles in which God has placed us, that we uh carefully think about um whether we are able to fill that or not in whatever place God has put us in this world. He has given us many positions. Each of us has a place Each of us has a position. Let's be careful to be the people who fill in the right way. Once again, you know, in in verse 17, um the king who is of the son of nobles, he feasts at the right time. His prince's feast at the right time. So he's able to enjoy the privileges of his position. Yet he uses those privileges so as not to abuse those privileges Whereas the other king abuses the privileges rather than simply using it. And yet here we see another reality of life in a sin-cursed world. Leadership can be a toss-up. One leader to the next. It can be a toss-up. You might get a good one, then you might get a bad one. Then you might get a good one, etc. So on down the line. Leadership is sometimes better, sometimes worse. Frustrating, difficult. It shouldn't have been like this. It shouldn't have had to be like this It wouldn't have been like this, apart from sin entering into the world. Now we we do need to take heed to these realities as to how we fill the positions God has placed us in And to seek to be faithful with all that He has given to us, we do need need to extend effort in this area. Yet we also know that at some level nobody is perfect. That we should be seeking to be better and better by the grace of God. So how do you respond to all this? Once again, here's what life is like in a sin-cursed world. Sin has made the world very complicated, hasn't it? Sin has made the world into a place that's hard to live in. A place where it's hard to make it, sometimes even day-to-day. Sin makes the world a complicated place. Sin makes the world an ugly place. Rulership and leadership is flawed. Too often, more often than it should be. Mired down in problems and errors in so many ways, problematic in so many ways. Because sin has entered the world, words get endlessly, foolishly multiplied. Words that spread problems more than contributing to spreading solutions. This life is a complicated life The world is complicated by sin entering into the world. How do we respond to that? Again, um one very important theme that Solomon comes back to again and again in Ecclesiastes. He's frustrated by it. It's okay to be frustrated by it. Solomon was, and it's a good thing. Yes, all creation has been subjected to futility. It's okay for us to be frustrated with the complications of life in a sin-cursed world. And it's even a good thing at some level But how else do we respond to it? The other way we respond to it comes in verse twenty of our text. So rulership is complicated? Sometimes better, sometimes worse? What do we do? Verse 20. Do not curse the king, even in your thought Do not curse the rich, even in your bedroom. For a bird of the air may carry your voice. And a bird in flight may tell the matter. So, yes, you might have a king who is a child. You might have a king who causes the land to suffer, who brings woe upon the land by the way he fills his office. What do you do about that? Verse 20. Don't curse him. Don't curse him. Don't curse him even in your thoughts. Don't curse the rich, even in your bedroom. Rulers and leaders have flaws. This world is filled with complications of the curse. Foolish words multiply problems. Don't be the one who spreads it. Don't be the one who thinks on it. Don't be the one who complains about it. You have a problem with the ruler. Keep it to yourself quietly if you can. Don't be the person who is the dabbler, who's multiplying problems. Don't be the person who complains about the king or the rich. Again, that's what verse 20 says. Again, uh, you know, the complexities of life in a fallen world. Again, we we mourn it. It's tragic, it's ugly. But also at some level there's a God honoring response in which we can trust it, entrust it to God. It can be okay that we're not able to solve all the problems. It can be okay that the Lord is the one who is guiding things, and we can trust that there is even good. even in the things he was doing through a sin-cursed world. Even again as we as we mourn so many of the effects of the sin-cursed world. We who are in Christ ought to be able to look at these things and say, well, somehow God is using this for my good. Somehow the Father who has given his only begotten Son for me Is not letting me go in the midst of whatever is difficult, in the midst of whatever is problematic. Somehow the Father who has given his only son is leading me to glory in the end. Whatever the road may be, whatever the trials that come along the way, they come from his fatherly hand. And because he's given his son, I can trust him. To lead me where he would have me. I can trust him that he will lead me to a merciful, compassionate end, even as James told us was true of the man Job, there in Job chapter 5. How can we respond this way? How can we look upon the problems of a sin-cursed world and again be sad about it, be frustrated by it? But still be able to accept what comes from God's fatherly hand. Only through the Lord Jesus Christ, only through faith in Jesus Christ. Only those who live for eternity future are able to take this life with its bumps and bruises And see them as minor bumps on the road towards glory. The person who is not truly trusting in Jesus Christ cannot live in this way. The person who is not truly trusting in Jesus Christ cannot have such hope, does not have this hope. Because that person only lives for today. And when that person lives only for today, each and every little bump along the way is utterly earth-shattering and brings their world to a crumble standstill. But for those who are living for something more, to those who are living for Jesus Christ, to those who are living for the day that is to come. We can receive the complexities and the brokenness of life in a sin-cursed world. And we can receive these from God's fatherly hand. And we can thank him that he is somehow using them, even if we don't understand how. We can thank him that he is somehow using it. For h for our good and for his glory. Well let's make sure we are the people who believe this. Let's make sure we believe this because we truly know Jesus Christ. And as we truly know Jesus Christ Let's be careful to receive the instruction of this passage. Let's be careful again, not to be the babbling person who spreads problems by multiplying words. Also to be the person who fills the offices and the roles that God gives us in a way that is appropriate and good. May all these things be true of us, as God the Spirit continues to work these things in us along our way towards our appointed end. May all these things be true of us, because God has promised, and he who has promised is faithful. Amen. O Father, who are we and what are we before you? We are dust. We are nothing. We are fools. We are the fools who constantly babble about things we know nothing about. Lord, you know that this is who we are We confess this is who we are, Lord. We constantly babble about ourselves, we constantly babble about other people, about things we know nothing about. And Lord, we are the fools who would sit in the office of king As a child, we are those who would sit unprepared, foolishly abusing the things that you give to us, abusing the roles that you give to us, abusing the position in this world that you give to us, using it for ourselves. Instead of using it for the blessing of those around us. Oh Father, you know this is true of us deep within our hearts. Even if we don't confess it, you know this is true of us. And yet help us to confess it. Help us to come to you to seek your restoration and your forgiveness. Bless us, O Lord. Make us into the right kind of people. Make us into that new creation that you have promised in Jesus Christ. If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Make us continually into that new creation. Grow us in the image of our Savior. Make us into people who don't dabble. Make us into people who serve you well, wherever you have placed us. We come to you, Lord, as foolish sinners in need of your grace, in need of your provision. Bless as we pray. We come to you and to you alone. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.