Man, please be seated. Please be seated. Now for the reading of God's Word from Acts chapter seven. The sermon passage comes to us this morning from Acts chapter seven. Verses 42 through the end of chapter 7, verse 60. Now here we are, we've been in the speech of Stephen. And he is offering, you know, something of a rebuttal to some who have uh charged him with destroying the holy things and the law. Um he has given something of a defense of you know the way uh God's people have often you know mistreated those whom God has sent to bless them. Um You know, so in in a way that is something of a defense for himself, as he's being mistreated in the midst of chapter seven. It's also a defense, though, of the Lord Jesus Christ, who ultimately was mistreated by the Jerusalem Council. Now You know, Stephen speaks to this Jerusalem council. They are that council who who oversees and meets at the temple. And so, you know, you hear some of those Old Testament words about how, you know, the people of God should not presume on having the temple. You know, if they have the temple, that's no guarantee that they are on on God's side in terms of doing God's will and actually having his favor in what they are doing. And you know, Stephen will point this out here As he will allude to those, or he will actually quote some of those words out of Isaiah 66. He will quote from those words, and again, his point is to unseat the confidence of You know, these who are um of the the Jerusalem council, you know, they have confidence in the fact that they are on the side of God because they have the temple and because they sit, you know, in the council that oversees the temple, and yet again Stephen is going to undermine that and point out how those who uh had the temple oftentimes were those who killed the prophets, and even in this case, those who killed Jesus Christ, the righteous one. Listen to what happens. Here is the end of Stephen's speech. Here is the end of his answer to the Jewish Council. Acts chapter 7, verses 42 through 60. This is God's word. Please listen to it as such. Give your attention to it as such. But God turned away and gave them over to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the prophets. Did you bring to me slain beasts and sacrifices during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? You took up the tent of Moloch and the star of your god Riphon. The images that you made to worship, and I will send you into exile beyond Babylon. Our fathers had the tent of witness in the wilderness. just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to make it, according to the pattern that he had seen. Our fathers in turn brought it in with Joshua when they dispossessed the nations that God drove out before our fathers. So it was until the days of David who found favor in the sight of God and asked to find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob. But it was Solomon who built a house for him. Yet, the Most High does not dwell in houses made by hands, as the prophet says Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord? Or what is the place of my rest? Did not my hand make all these things? You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. Which of the prophets did not your fathers persecute? And they killed those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one, whom you have now betrayed and murdered. You who received the law is delivered by angels, and did not keep it. Now, when they heard these things, they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him. But he, full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus, standing at the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. And as they were stoning Stephen, he called out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And falling to his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it, may he add his blessing to it, preaching in our midst this day. Well, here we are by the end of this passage, the end of chapter seven. You know, those who are hearing Stephen's testimony are filled with this sense of seemingly righteous anger towards Stephen, at least the way they see it. It's a form of righteous anger that they have against the man Stephen, a sense of zeal to see justice done in the punishment of the man Stephen. Verse 58 points us to the method of their execution of him, a method of stoning, a method that in the Old Testament is often reserved for what are considered to be the very worst kinds of sins. And worse kinds of crimes. They think they are acting on the side of God's justice in this case. They have convinced themselves of this anyway. Verse 54, we see their posture towards him. We see them grinding their teeth at him, an expression of anger and rage. Although again, in this case, surely they think it is a righteous anger. a righteous form of rage. You remember that phrase that often comes up in the Old Testament, that phrase, the gnashing of teeth. the naff gnashing of teeth, really bearing your teeth in rage and in anger towards one whom you are trying to destroy. You know, it's uh it's mentioned a few places like in the Psalms of David where certain enemies are gnashing their teeth towards him. Well here they are. They are in rage in verse 54. They are grinding their teeth at him or gnashing them or bearing their teeth as if bearing their fangs towards him. They're angry. They believe it is a rage born of righteousness. After all, aren't these men on the side of the temple? Aren't these men on the side of the law? Aren't they on the side of all that is holy? After all, this is the way they are coming after him, because he is someone who is not on the side of that which is holy. You know, they're charged back in chapter six, verses 13 and 14 had to do with the holy things, the law, and the temple of God. Now, obviously, as we come through this passage, we come to understand the true source of their anger and their rage. We come to understand that it's that his words actually undermine the confidence that they have and the confidence they put in things they should not put their confidence in. Again, notice how in these verses, especially verse 49 to 50, you know, the emphasis is on the dwelling place of God in the midst of God's people. You know, um, you know, it's sort of picked up in verse 44. All the way up through verse 50. But then Stephen especially zeroes in on it in verse 49 and 50 when he cites those words from Isaiah and he's basically saying, you know, don't think that you're on you think or don't think that you're necessarily on the right side, on God's side, just because you sit here at the temple. You know, remember who this is. This is the Jewish council. The Jewish Council who meets at the temple. The Jewish Council who oversees the temple. Those who are charging Stephen are those who gather at the synagogues. They are those who likewise put their confidence and their religious identity in what the temple represents. Yet again, Stephen undermines that confidence. Isn't that the real source of their rage? Even though they feel it is a righteous rage. There's a real rage that comes from the fact that he's offended their sense of what they are confident in, what they place their confidence in. Now Stephen undermines this. He says, you know, God does not ultimately live in a physical temple. Yes, God appointed the temple for a time, for a place. The temple in God's plan was an earthly symbolic location for God to dwell. But God doesn't ultimately need that temple, and that temple was ultimately meant to give way. to the truth of God's presence on another level. God doesn't actually, in reality, dwell in houses made by hands. Heaven is his throne, earth is his footstool. That temple was a symbol for a time. So again, just as Isaiah said, having that temple Staking your confidence towards God on having that temple doesn't guarantee that you are on the side of God's will. And in fact, sometimes it is just the contrary in the case of those who are staking their identity on the temple. Because Stephen does point out here how often Those who actually trusted in the temple actually ended up engaging in very heinous sins, the sins of actually persecuting and putting to death the very prophets of God. So they staked themselves on the temple over and against the word. And by placing their confidence in the temple, they ended up persecuting and putting to death those who brought the word, the prophets. In verse fifty-two, verse fifty-one, you know, pointing out you know that that section, um uh the the stiff necked people, you know, the fathers have always done this. They have resisted the Holy Spirit by not listening to The prophets. They have trusted in the temple and assumed that simply having the physical temple was enough, and yet in the process of doing so they have overlooked the word that came From God as the prophets came one after another, who were pointing to the one who brings about the true temple, the Lord Jesus Christ, the righteous one. And here Stephen says, these men who are are charging him and about to stone him to death, they are guilty of this very thing. They have staked all their confidence on the fact that they have the temple, yet at the same time what did they do? They were complicit in the death of the righteous one. Jesus Christ is the one whom they betrayed and murdered. The one man, more righteous than any who ever walked the earth, they condemn him as the very worst sinner and the worst criminal who ever walked the earth. This is how they treat the righteous one. So we're instructed here. We're warned a little bit. We're warned to be careful about our external religion. We're warned to put too much trust in the externals of our religion because sometimes that's the easiest way to walk in hypocrisy. Sometimes when you are so bound to the externals of religion, it causes you to be blind even to your own hypocrisy. You may sometimes even pursue a cause that you think is a cause of justice and righteousness, and yet be so blind that you're actually doing the very opposite. After all, isn't this what they're doing here Again, in the name of all that is righteous and just, and in the name of their zeal for what is holy, they put to death those who are actually God's servants. Jesus Christ and in our text also Stephen. And so we're to understand that this is what is taking place here. This Jewish council, they're offended. They're filled with anger. They're enraged. The real source of their anger is that Their pride has been undone. Their pride is confronted by the words that Stephen speaks. And so again, they they act like they're in the right In this instance, they couldn't be any more in the wrong. And yet, this is what they do, out of their rage. They seek Stephen's death and they actually do go through with it and put him to death. They stone him. Once again, a man filled with the Spirit, a man doing great things in the midst of God's people, great wonders and signs, a man being used in the service and in the ministry of the church, back in Acts chapter 6. This is one who is on God's side. And yet at the same time they put him to death. They claim that he is the very opposite of being on God's side. And so they treat him again the same way they treated the Lord Jesus Christ. So here's what happens. Stephen is treated just like Jesus is treated. Stephen, though on the side of righteousness. He's treated the way that Jesus was treated, who was even more righteous than Stephen. He is put to death. His death is pursued. He is persecuted and all in the name of righteousness. A very ironic thing. Now this is what they do They prepare to stone Stephen to death, and they do stone him to death. They cast him out of the city in verse 58. They stone him in verse 58. It is an act of execution. It is an act of judgment. It is to enforce the charge that they have brought against him. How does Stephen respond to their response to him? Now it's really interesting to consider his response, isn't it? Remember his first response to them back in verse 15 or chapter 6. Remember how back in verse 15 of chapter 6, he was uh before the council and his face was like the face of an angel. We saw the posture back then, it was a posture of radiance. It was a posture of radiance, um, implying his innocence. Uh literal physical radiance, perhaps, or possibly simply a metaphor for a form of radiance, but a posture in which he is unmoved by their charge. He's unmoved by their anger. He's unmoved by their rage. Now, isn't that amazing? Rage coming against him with murderous intent. He doesn't answer back with the same rage that is expressed towards him. They come against him with rage and anger in their hearts. He chooses not to respond in kind. Their rage comes to the point, rises to the point of stones striking him to his death. What does he do? What does he say? In verse 60, he cries out with a loud voice. Lord, do not hold this sin against them. Isn't that remarkable? His last dying utterance under a false charge It's to say those words, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. Isn't this strongly reminiscent of those words of our Lord Jesus Christ? Christ Stephen's master. Christ Stephen's example. Similarly. And Luke 23, verse 34, said, concerning his executioners, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Righteous, misd seemingly righteous, misdirected anger and rage, putting to death the truly righteous holy ones The answer of Jesus. The answer of Stephen. Lord, Father, don't hold it against them. Forgive them. Stephen is a good example of Jesus Christ. Of course, you can imagine how hard it would be to answer in that way, can't you? Especially if you, like Jesus and like Stephen, know that you're in the right. Suffering under a form of attack where somebody is claiming you are utterly in the wrong, and if you're someone who knows that you are actually fully in the right? How difficult that is. How can we answer in that way? How can anyone answer in that way? Lord, do not hold this sin against them. How can Stephen even answer in this way? And then even come to his end, the way it's described at the end of verse 60, as if he is simply falling asleep. How can such a death be described in such peaceful, serene terms? He fell asleep. How is it possible? Is it possible for us? Or is this just Stephen who is able to die in this way? How is it possible for us? How is it possible for Stephen? Look how it's possible for Stephen. First of all, in verse 55. It's because he's full of the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit who enables him to answer the charges in the way that he answers. He's not able to answer in this way naturally, and none of the rest of us are either. It's only if the Holy Spirit is working in you. That you can answer in this way. That's true of him. That's true of us. We see it true of him in verse 55. He's full of the Holy Spirit. How can he answer his attackers? By saying, Lord, do not hold this against them. It's because he's full of the Holy Spirit. But there's another thing that enables him to answer in this way. The other thing in our text is that he also knows who his savior is. He knows who his savior is. He knows that it's Christ. We see him in verse 59 crying out to his Lord, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. The only way he's able to respond in that way is because he knows the Lord Jesus. And in knowing the Lord Jesus, He knows that even if they should take from him everything in this present life, there is one who is ready to receive him, because this one has received him already. Even if the entire world and even if all men should execute judgment against him, there's a judgment. That has already been enacted on his behalf, in which he will be received to the Lord. He knows the Savior In verse 59, he says, just before his death, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Even if men um utilize false judgments against him. God has a judgment, and God's judgment has been to receive Stephen into eternal life through the work of Christ, through the forgiveness, through the forgiving blood. Stephen knows his Savior. Stephen is full of the Spirit. Stephen knows his Savior. Here's how he's able to answer the way he's able to answer and say, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. There's also one more thing about how Stephen knows his savior, though, and it's important for us to consider. After all, In verse 55 of the passage, it's not just that Stephen knows the Savior in the ways that maybe we know the Savior, but he also receives this amazing vision of the Savior, and that's part of the way that he knows the Savior, isn't it? Notice in verse 55, as they are grinding their teeth at him, as they are enraged, where is his vision set? He gazes into heaven and sees the glory of God. Jesus standing at the right hand of God. He is given this amazing vision And in being given this amazing vision. Isn't that part of the way that he knows his Savior? Doesn't that actually raise a question for us? After all, we don't receive that vision of heaven, do we? To be under attack and to see such a vision in the midst of being attacked, surely that would inspire courage. Surely that would inspire the kind of boldness that Stephen expresses Surely that's part of how he's able to respond the way he responds. Say, Lord, do not hold this sin against them, and then die as if falling asleep. But we don't receive that vision, do we? Isn't that just a one-time thing that happened back in the days of the apostles, back in the early days of the church, back when there were miracles and wonders being done in the midst of God's people? Isn't that what's going on here? And if that's the case, then how is it possible for any one of us to answer in the same way that Stephen answers, can we? Or should we just expect that we're not going to be able to aspire to that same level of response that Stephen gives, because we do not receive those visions, or unless God actually does give us such a vision. Again, see again in many ways. We share in many of the same things that Stephen shares. We have the Holy Spirit, and we pray that we are filled with him. We also know the Savior. But also, again, we don't know him the way Stephen knew him. Do we? Stephen saw a direct vision of the glory of God. And of Jesus standing at the right hand of God. Again, surely this would inspire courage. Surely this would inspire boldness. But again, what about us? If we don't receive that same vision, is it possible for us truly to know the Savior the way that Stephen knew the Savior? And if we don't receive that same vision, Is it possible for us to answer the same way that Stephen answered his attackers and his accusers? Well, beloved, the real question is, do we have that same vision? Do we have that same vision that Stephen had of the glory of God? And of Jesus Christ, the Son of Man, standing at his right hand in heaven. Do we? It's true. We don't expect supernatural visions suddenly to appear out of the blue the way that Stephen received this. And we shouldn't. We shouldn't expect that to happen. But beloved, we do have that vision. We do have that same vision. That's what the Word of God is, don't you know? The Word of God is that vision. The Word of God conveys to us that same vision. The glory of God. And Jesus standing at the right hand of God. The Word, the Word read The word preached on the Lord's Day. That's very much what worship and preaching are about. It's to convey to the people of God that same vision. The glory of God and Jesus Christ at the right hand of God in heaven. And for us to see who God is in his glory, And to see who Christ is at the right hand of God is for us to receive that same vision in so many ways For us to see that in the Word of God, to see that and hear that in the reading and the preaching of God's Word is For us to respond, or it is for us to see the same thing essentially that Stephen wasn't able to see in the moment. And don't you know that as you receive that vision, as you read that word, as you hear it proclaimed, you are being worked on if the Spirit is working on you. He is working on you. And you are being filled with the Spirit. And you are being brought to know your Savior. So that you too can answer the same way that Stephen answered. So that you too can answer the same way that Jesus Christ answered. So that you too, when you are attacked. May cry out to the Father, and may cry out, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. So that even when you are on the verge of losing everything in this earthly life, you're able to see something greater that holds you. Someone greater who will receive you. Someone greater who already has received you. And when you know that that's who he is, and when you know that that's who you are, You can respond the very same way that Stephen responds and say, Lord, do not hold this sin against him. Well, may we be quick to answer in this way. Maybe we'd be quick to follow the example, the example of Stephen. But it's really the example of Jesus Christ. There are many injustices that we have to suffer in this life. This world is filled with all kinds of pitfalls and injustices. But in the midst of these things, we are able to answer because we know who our Savior is. And because we have his spirit, may we answer in the way that we should. May we respond in the power of the Holy Spirit. Because we know the Savior, just like Stephen knew the Savior. May we share in that which is the calling of God's church in this text. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we come before you this day, and we uh recognize with trembling uh the teaching of your word and the What we're shown in your word, we recognize um how your servants, those who serve you, are you know so often not uh not received and in fact um often are are mistreated at times, and we we recognize That is the calling of us in Christ, very much after the example of Christ. We pray that you would fill our hearts with your Spirit, that we would know the Savior. That we would have our sights set upon your glory in heaven and Christ. who is seated at your right hand, that we may know him. We pray that we may uh know the truth of who you are and what is just in your sight, and that we may rest upon you. In the grace of Christ on account of these things. And Lord, help us to have the same peaceful faith and rest upon Jesus that We saw Stephen having help us to have that in the midst of the ups and downs of life, in the midst of the trials and tribulations we all face. Um uh grant that this these things will be true of us so that um so that uh your glory may be seen on this earth and so that we may continue to reflect your glory as witnesses of Christ. We ask that you be with us and grant all these things for your own name's sake and in the power of your spirit. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.