If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, we'll continue our study there by the providence of God in chapter 28. I think that's on page one thousand and nineteen of your pew Bibles. I'll begin reading at verse one. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. Now, after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene And the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen. As he said, come, see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to tell his disciples, and behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. And Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. That's part of the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we come to this passage recording for us the resurrection. Of our Savior Jesus work in our hearts. Father, you know what each one here needs. And so I pray, Father, that you would minister to each one as you know our needs. Give us Christ this morning. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. What are you fearful of this morning? As Jesus came to the disciples walking on the water, and they were in the boat. At night, as they saw him, they were terrified, fearful. It said out loud, it is a ghost. They cried out in fear. But only after the calming light of Jesus' words, take heart, it is I, do not be afraid. Did Peter venture to speak? And then walk to Christ It's a glorious passage of the fear of God Fear of judgment and the ability to actually come to Christ in fear. That actually leads us to our text this morning. Jesus Christ, as we know, he's been tried. He's been convicted, sentenced to death, he's been crucified, he's been mocked. Three hours of darkness in the middle of the day marked his hanging on the cross, his suffering. He's taken his last breath, he yielded up his spirit, he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And upon his death, the the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. Tombs were opened. Saints were resurrected from their graves. Jesus had been buried in the tomb. It had been sealed, guarded according to the requests of the chief priests. And now we come to our passage. On the first day of the week, these two Marys come to the tomb, going to anoint the body, the dead body of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to their surprise an earthquake occurs as an angel descends from heaven and rolls back the stone and speaks to them. The guards fall away in fear, becoming like dead men. But the angel speaks to the Marys, telling them, Do not be afraid, for Jesus has risen. Indeed, they depart to go and tell this to the disciples, but on the way they are interrupted by none other than the risen Christ. Who calls to them greetings? They fall before him in worship. And again we hear those words, do not be afraid. You might sum up the teaching here in these first ten verses of chapter 28 of Matthew's Gospel this way. The resurrection of Jesus erases fear of judgment. And lead saved sinners to go in fear of God's forgiveness. The resurrection of Jesus erases Fear of judgment and lead saved sinners to go in fear of God's forgiveness. We'll see that in three points this morning, or three heads, or three truths. Darkness trembles in fear. Secondly, light removes fear, and then finally, faith leads by fear. We go through this passage this morning. Again, I'd like you to be asking yourselves that question, what am I fearful of? Well, first, darkness trembles in fear of judgment. Those guards that were set before the tomb that they had sealed tightly such that Jesus' disciples could not come and remove his body, his dead body from the tomb. They didn't expect to see anyone, actually. It was an easy assignment, no heavy lifting. Jesus was dead. Their task was merely to stand their post and wait. After three days they would be relieved, for that was a time period given by Jesus Christ for his Resurrection. So there's no expectation that they would see anyone other than possibly Jesus' disciples coming to retrieve the dead body from the tomb. They did not expect to see Jesus. Certainly no one from heaven were to hear words from God. These guards were men in darkness. They were guarding darkness They were sent by those who were in darkness. They were sent by those who hated the light, who despised the light. These guards were charged With keeping things in the darkness. Their task was a task of keeping Jesus in the tomb. That was their work. That was the reason for their presence outside the tomb. It was as if the chief priests, the religious leaders of the day, sent the guards to the tomb and told them to maintain the darkness. Whatever else you do, don't let the light emerge from the tomb. That was their work. That's the picture. That's the assignment. But then the angel descends. Matthew's description of this angel and his descent is very brief, but it's powerful. His appearance was like lightning. His clothing was white as snow. Rolled away the stone and sat on it. It was a great earthquake. This angel descends from heaven to earth, and he comes to one very specific particular place, the place where the Son of God, Jesus Himself, was buried. There's no mention of any other visitor from heaven, from God, no other messenger descending on that day, only this one, only this place. And so we have this sense that God's mind, his heart, was laser-focused on one moment in time, upon one place, upon his son. Just think of that for a moment. The creator of all things, taking all of his energy, so to speak, all of his mind, all of his heart, and focuses on nothing else but this one Jesus. Now we know that the living God is all-knowing, he's all-powerful, he's present everywhere at all times and never takes his mind off of anything. That's the truth. But we have this impression, as the angel descends, this perspective, this image given to us, this singular focus on his precious son. And that's in a sense what these guards see. They see the power of the light. This angel descends in power. He shakes the earth so much so that the stone that encapsulated Jesus Christ now moves away. He rolls it away, opening the mouth with the grave in brilliant light. Which penetrates the darkness being guarded by these men. They behold the light of God. And they were watchmen of the darkness. What else could they do but fall away in fear? There was nothing for them, no protection, no shield, no cave that they could crawl in to avoid the to cover themselves from the light. The only place of escape would have been the tomb itself. And as Jesus Christ was rising that very moment from the dead There was no escape for these guards. They were surrounded by the light, and so they became as dead men. As the light shone forth and penetrated their darkness. The only possible response from them was to become dead What a picture we're given in this passage. As these men see and behold the light of the messenger of God, as they were clinging to darkness, the light overcame them. The angel was a messenger of God. He was bringing the very word of God. And that's how and why he appears in such brightness. The angel comes in dark, defying brightness. It's the word of God descending from heaven itself, from the living God Himself, and it penetrated the hearts of these men such that they become as dead men. You see, for each and every person outside of Jesus Christ, his word is a sword of death. For each and every person who will reject Jesus Christ, who refuses to believe upon him to their salvation, it's the word of God which pronounces and proclaims their eternal death. This passage points to it so powerfully. The angel is carrying the word of God. Did you notice as the Marys come to the tomb and enter into the light of the angel? They don't become as dead men or dead women. It's only those who reject Jesus Christ that will be slain by the two-edged sword, the word of God. And so these guards feared, but it was not a fear of reverence It was not a familial fear of hearing the words of salvation. No, it was a fear of punishment for the eternal wrath of God that they would suffer as they rejected Jesus, the Son of God, and cast him into their pit of darkness. As you see and hear the Word of God, even this morning, what fear does it instill in your heart? That's a critical question for each of us, isn't it? Are you fearing as these guards feared? Fearing punishment? Fearing the wrath of God? Or are you fearing like the Mary's? That brings us to our second point. Light removes fear of judgment. Now consider the Marys as they approach the tomb. They approach the tomb to anoint the body. We're not told that by Matthew's gospel. We are told that by Luke's gospel. But before they can, and instead of finding the deceased body, they encounter and ultimately worship the resurrected Jesus. And even before they see Jesus, they receive this message which has been sent to them. In particular, these two Marys we see this message from one in the form of a man, an angel, a spirit from God. Brings this message, do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. We've already learned about this power, the might of God on display through this angel, it's awesome. Just as the Israelites stepped back at the foot of Mount Sinai as God descends upon the mountain in lightning, in smoke, in thunder. And they stepped back in fear, and they trembled at the sight and at the hearing. We can only imagine something similar here in this passage. Now he descends, his word descends by and through this messenger, an angel in brightness. The fullness of the word is being revealed even first to these women. He's risen. But first the angel tells him, do not be afraid. How? How is that possible? Do not be afraid. The guards, the men, the warriors were terrified so much so that it was as if they died before the angel. And now this brilliant light is shining upon them. God's messenger is speaking to them. How are they to refrain from the same kind of fear that had befallen the guards? Imagine the power of the Almighty God coming physically into your presence. And the call from God Himself is do not be afraid. How? Well the angel actually gives the answer, doesn't he? Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus. Who is crucified? I know that you're seeking Jesus, the crucified one. The messenger knows the hearts of the Marys. The guards had become as dead men because their hearts were not aligned, they were not in connection, they were not in fellowship with Jesus, they weren't seeking Jesus. These women were, they were in communion with the Son of God, the Son of David, with Jesus. They were seeking out his body in kindness and in love and reverence to anoint him in his death. And this one from God, this angel, this messenger, knew it as God knows the heart. He knew the heart of these two women, and that's why he could say and did say to them, do not be afraid, because you're a lover of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because you know Jesus and because you know his Father, thus do not be afraid. This one came to bring good news. The angel was a reflection of the purity of God. And thus he could say to these Marys who sought Jesus, these who sought righteousness, those who were looking for his kingdom, he could say, do not be afraid. The angel was aligned with these women because they were aligned with Jesus and Jesus is aligned with God and And so this force to call them, do not be afraid, is magnified now by this statement, He is risen. Do not be afraid, He's risen Yes, they were not to be afraid because they were followers of Jesus, true, sincere followers of Jesus. But that that truth really comes, the full force of that truth comes to These this statement from the angel, he is risen, this one that you're following, this one that you love. He's risen. You need to look no further for the kingdom of God, for the king himself has risen. The king is here, the conqueror. The victor has won the battle in the tomb. Sin and death has been defeated, and you two in Christ have now become more than conquerors. Do not be afraid. See, the Word of God is a fearful thing, isn't it? The magnitude of the fear in those four English words, do not be afraid. Do you hear those words this morning? Do you hear that call this morning? If you're trusting in Christ, Those words are for you. It's as if the angel of God, the messenger of God, is speaking directly to you this morning. As you meditate upon and believe upon and trust in the resurrection of Jesus Christ, you're called, you're commanded. Do not be afraid. Whatever your circumstances are this morning. Whether you're having physical struggles, whether you're battling the same sin again and again and again and repenting again and again and again, whether you're being attacked. and persecuted by those who hate Jesus Christ, whether Satan continues to cast his fiery darts and arrows your way, the call this morning is, do not be afraid. Your Savior is risen from the dead. He has triumphed for you over your sins. He's triumphed for you over Satan. He's triumphed for you over death. There's nothing that can separate you from the love of God through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. He is risen. Do you hear that command this morning? That call? Do not be afraid. Are you heeding it? Are you receiving the peace of Christ? The peace of his victory? The peace of knowing that he has risen. Let that meditate. Let that Let that fill you. Do not be afraid. He is risen. That brings us to our third point. Faith leads by fear of forgiveness. Well the Marys were called to go The messenger had given him the word of God, and so they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to tell his disciples. Called to go and running. Just picture that for a moment. But they were interrupted, weren't they? Jesus met them. Said greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. It seems that there was only one thing that could keep them from continuing their running, continuing their telling, and that was worship. As Jesus greets them, they stop. They stop their running, they stop their telling. And they did that which was more important than going, worship. What a picture. And then Jesus Repeats in a sense, uses the very same words as the messenger, the angel, do not be afraid. It's a surprising verse for Jesus to use. It's a surprising thing for Jesus to say to these Marys, why would the Marys be afraid? They just heard his loving greeting greetings And worship, what was there to fear? This was no mere angel. This was God in Christ. In a sense, his divinity was now showing As the Son of God took on a human nature, he veiled his glory. That's what we read of in Paul's letter to those at Philippi. But now there's a sense in which his glory is showing, it's no longer veiled. There's something different about Jesus after the resurrection. As he ate bread and blessed it and broke it and gave it to disciples, he vanished from their sight, as Luke records it in chapter 24. And as the disciples met in John's gospel behind locked doors, Jesus came and stood among them. Something different about Jesus after the resurrection. Certainly the ascension, his departure. He blessed them as he parted from them and was carried up into heaven. The glory of God was beginning to shine forth through Jesus Christ. And so he tells the Marys, as his glory, his resurrection glory is now shining forth before them, do not be afraid. Do not be afraid. Go and tell my disciples I have risen That's the story you tell, isn't it? That's the story that he gives us to tell. The question is, are you ready to tell it? But you first have to heed Jesus' call, don't you? Do not be afraid. That's what he told the two Marys. As they worshipped him, as they fell at his feet, he called them to go and going not in fear. But in confidence. Go in faith as the Son of God, the Son of David, the Messiah, has risen in victory. Many of us don't go because we're fearful. Fearful not of God, but of men. We fear that we'll be laughed at, mocked, scorned, hated, rejected by family and friends, isolated at home. But the call is to go. Do not be afraid. The calls to you this morning, he's telling you the same thing that he told the Marys that very morning. He's calling every single one of his followers this morning as you meditate upon his resurrection and the power of his resurrection, the joy. of his resurrection, the victory of his resurrection, the certainty of his resurrection, the hope of his resurrection, he tells you to go until you have been forgiven. Calls for each one who confesses Jesus as Lord and Savior. Go and tell. Tell your neighbors, tell your friends, tell your family members that Jesus has risen. Tell them about your confidence in Jesus. Tell them by your fear of God, by your familial fear of God, your reverent fear of God, not your fear of punishment, not your fear of God's wrath, for you know that Jesus has already taken that. Now your fear of the power of Jesus Christ to forgive you See, that's what was shining forth so brilliantly as Jesus spoke to the two Marys. I have risen. You have been forgiven. The one who would save a wretch like you The one who would forgive your abominable sins, go in the fear of that one. But go tell others by the way you live, not in fear of tomorrow, but in fear of God. Tell others that because you know Jesus Christ as risen from the dead and will return from his seat on the throne of his kingdom to gather his bride, to see his glory. Tell them that you have that certain hope. Tell them by the way you live. Tell them what's happened to your heart. That you're not like those guards who fell Dead that shrank back in fear of punishment, but you're like the Marys who beheld the risen Lord and ran to tell the disciples what they had seen and heard. What a privilege To go the certain hope of eternal life in Jesus Christ. What a privilege to go, knowing that you serve the one who has defeated sin and death for you. What a privilege to go and serve the one who loved you to the end and is returning for you as his beautiful bride. Won't you go? Won't you go and tell others by your joyful spirit? By your confident, confident in Christ daily, walk. Won't you serve this one who served you on the cross? And walked out of the tomb by the power of the resurrection. Yes, the resurrection of Jesus erases fear of judgment and leads saved sinners to go in fear of God's forgiveness. The disciples in the boat, as Jesus walked toward them, really did not grasp that he was coming with forgiveness. So they feared. What about you this morning? What are you fearing? Call this morning is to fear Christ. And the forgiveness that He is able to give to you in the power of His resurrection. Amen. Heavenly Father, what a joy. What a supernatural joy it is to read of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Father, we pray that you'd help us strengthen our faith, that we might be those who, like the Marys, not to worship. But would go. Help us to tell of the forgiveness that is available in Jesus Christ as we rejoice And the forgiveness that He's given to us. We ask this in His precious name. Amen.