Well, if you'll be merciful to me and remain standing, so we can read the first eight verses of Luke eighteen, the first eight verses of Luke Luke eighteen. This is what we're going to look at this morning, and uh it's uh one of Jesus' parables and uh one that people love. So uh you probably thought about this and uh hopefully this will be an encouragement to you. I hope that's the case. Let's hear the Word of God from Luke chapter 18 verses 1 to 8. And he, Jesus speaking, he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. He said, In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected God respected man. There was a widow in that city who kept coming to him, saying, Give me justice against my adversary. For a while he refused But afterward he said to himself, Though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice. So that she will not beat me down by her continual coming. And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says. Will not God give justice to his elect Who cry to him day and night, will he delay long over them? I tell you he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth? God's work. Please have a seat. Hold on to for for a bit. When I was growing up, um my first bike my dad got for me uh was a uh a tight uh a bike that had big balloon tires. I don't know whether you know what balloon tires are. But uh they're not like you get on most bikes nowadays. You have to pump these things up and um it was a it was a bike that uh had coaster brakes didn't have gears or anything like that and it was green and it had white stripes on it. I thought this was a great thing in the world to get a bike like that. I thought it was the greatest thing in the world. But the problem is I didn't know how to write. I didn't ridden a bike before. So my dad took me to the parking lot uh in school next to our house. And uh he was there and like dads do, uh he held on to the back of the seat and and I was wobbling to and fro. But I wanted to ride that bike so much that I was willing to risk falling. I was willing risk getting my knees uh as willing risk uh uh just getting all messed up because I wanted that bike and I wanted to ride that bike so much Now, sometimes we have things that we want so much that we're willing to do anything until we get it. We want to keep at it. And prayer is one of those things. God tells us to keep on praying And not give up. I kept trying that bike and riding that bike because it's so important to be able to ride that bike. But do we do that with prayer Do we give up on prayer too easy? Do we give up because it just doesn't seem like anything's happening? And that's what Jesus is telling us So let's pray that God will help us hear His Word, think about His Word, and believe what He says. Our Father in heaven, we pray that your Holy Spirit Here who inspired that word would illumine our hearts. We thank you that we are not left here on our own to try and puzzle things out. We have a Savior who's very clear, very Very direct and a word which is given to us today, given two thousand years ago, but given to us today, because we have the same issues, the same problems. Please help us and bless this time Um there if you uh if you see out in the foyer uh there's a If you haven't seen this, it's got some good things to say about prayer And and that's what we're going to talk about today. Um because I I don't know about you, but I get tired. I get tired of a lot of things in life. Uh the older I get, the tighter I get. But get tired of a lot of things in life and and one of the things is to continually pray. We had something happen about three weeks ago where uh my young And so we started praying. And that's the kind of thing that you don't pray once. You pray every day, and you pray multiple times every day That God would answer our prayers and heal her. Um and yet there are things that we have in our lives that we just kind of give up on. We we don't pray very long. We say, well something something is here and it just didn't work out, so we stopped praying. I I had a lady in the congregation in Lincoln, Nebraska And she lived in an old run-down house. And um she had one child and her child didn't talk to her, so she was all alone. was really in bad, bad, bad shape. But she was a believer. And she had gotten a spiral notebook. And she started writing down prayer requests in that spiral notebook. That thing went back years and she would sit in a chair and the the pages were kind of torn and and dog eared and smudged but she'd go through that every day just sit in that chair because she couldn't much else. Her legs were weak and she was not in good shape. And she would just pray through that lift. Time after time. How many of us do that? Can we get tired and give up? I mean there are a lot of things in our lives that we want to change. You notice in this passage Jesus talks about justice. How many of you want justice in your life and you're wondering why doesn't God do something? I'm not facing the things that I should face. It's it's not right And you're looking for justice and it doesn't seem to happen. Well, we're going to think about this matter of prayer today and continue on in prayer because not giving up Not surrendering, not stopping is is one of the challenges we have as a Christian. You're you're praying for a family member. How many times you can pray for them? I've got family members I pray for All the time. And and those are heartfelt prayers. We're serious about those prayers. We really want to see those prayers answered and we get discouraged Because it doesn't seem like there's any movement. There's no interest. Those those heartfelt prayers for healing for a loved one, the heartfelt prayers for salvation A friend, we wonder, is God hearing us? Well, look at what Jesus says in verse 1. He told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart, not give up Be persistent. Now, many, many centuries ago, the commentator, Matthew Henry, said that this prayer has the key left in the door. And what he meant by that is the verse one tells us what the prayer the parable is about. We don't have to wonder about the interpretation of the parable because Jesus gives it to us in that first verse Now, to understand something about this parable, you've got to look back at chapter 17. Look back at chapter 17. Beginning in verse 20, Jesus is talking about Talking about the coming of his kingdom. He's talking about his return. Now look what he says in verse 22 in chapter 17. The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man. That's Jesus is describing himself and you will not see it. Now you think about those disciples. They had Jesus there in the flesh. They saw him Jesus was taken from them, was crucified, buried, sent into heaven, and they wanted just one day. Would you imagine that those disciples wanted just one more hour with Jesus And yet they longing for it and it didn't happen. And so Jesus is talking about how suddenly he's going to return. But you know what? It's been 2,000 years. It's been 2,000 years since Jesus ascended into heaven, and the promise of his coming has been waiting for us. And what do you think about that? Do you give up prayer on that? Give up praying about Jesus coming back? Isn't it hard to keep on praying when it doesn't seem like things are happening? Well, of course we want to apply that more than just uh Jesus uh praying for uh telling us to pray for his coming, but we want to think about this. So we're gonna look at the parable first of all at the unrighteous judge. Then obviously we've got to look at the loving Father, because he's talking about God But then we've got to think about what this means for us, what the lesson is. So we've got an unrighteous judge, we've got a loving father, and we've got an enduring lesson. Unrighteous judge, loving father, Enduring lesson, and we're going to take it that way. Look at the man's character that Jesus describes here in verse 2. He said, In a certain city, there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man. He neither feared God nor respected man. Now think about this man. He is supposed to be a judge, but he doesn't even fear God. How is he going to judge? How is he going to have any standard about judging? He's going to judge out of his own heart. He's a man who doesn't even care about people. He doesn't respect God. He doesn't have any regard for God in what God's Word says, but he doesn't even care about people. Not even humanity focused. He's not even thinking about the needs of people. Now this would have come to him, and in Israel, God had commanded his people God wanted his people to show mercy to them. Uh Deuteronomy ten, verse eighteen, Deuteronomy twenty-four, verse uh seventeen and Deuteronomy twenty seven, verse nineteen. But listen just to Isaiah one, verse seventeen. Learn to do good, seek justice, correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. Those people are supposed to be marked by that kind of a concern. And yet here's a woman who comes and she has a case where she needs protection and he is unwilling to do that. He won't Do it. He is being even discourteous. He should be gracious to this woman. She's a widow, she doesn't have any protection aside from Him. As a judge, he's supposed to be concerned for her protection, for her justice, and he could care less. He's supposed to have God's standard as his guide to tell him how to act, how to regard her. And he's not paying attention to that. He neither fears God nor respects people, regards people, and he has this woman coming to him. Now, this woman is not about to give up Jesus says that she's a widow. Now think about widows today. Widows today may have Social Security, they may have pension, they may have Have a family member around them, but apparently she's got nobody. She's got no person standing next to her. She comes to the judge and she's by herself. She doesn't have a husband, she doesn't have a child, she's by herself, she's got no money. She doesn't have any powerful friends. She can't appeal to some person in government, intercede for me. She has only one resource, and the judge is that resource, and he doesn't want to listen to her. She is wanting justice because she's Got something that is perhaps going to crush her. She's got an enemy. The word that Jesus uses here for adversary is a word that's not used very many times in the New Testament at all. It's used of an accuser, somebody who comes and they bring something against you. They say that you're guilty of something. And so Here's a woman without any defense, and she has somebody coming to her and telling her that he is going to attack her verbally or in some other way. We don't know other ways. But actually, in first Peter chapter 5, verse 8. This same word is used of Satan. Satan is an accuser. He is accusing the people of God of sin. And rightly so No, we're guilty of sin. But God has removed that sentence on us heaven. Jesus has come and he's dealt with our sin so that in God's sight were were accepted, were holy. So here's a woman facing somebody who wants to do her harm. He wants to take perhaps. Perhaps her property? We don't know. He wants to take things from her, her very life, and this enemy is after her, and all she needs is protection She just needs somebody in her corner, somebody able to stand for her. And this man is not doing it. So what she does is she begins to nag it. She comes at him Again and again and again. Think about it. He comes to work. 8 o'clock in the morning. She's in the hallway waiting to greet him. He goes for his coffee. She's there in the coffee room, ready to talk to him. She sends him a note. She asks his secretary, Can you make an appointment so I can talk to the judge? He's going to once in the cafeteria. She's sitting at a table waiting for him. Throughout the afternoon, she's calling him. She's leaving text messages. She's doing everything she can to get his attention to have him pay attention to her At night she's at his house, standing outside his house, waiting till he comes out in the morning. She will not let him alone because she knows that he is her only Protection. The only place she can turn is that man. This woman will not stop because she has no other place. It may seem like an irritating nagging tactic, but that's because she is desperate. She must do it. I was desperate to ride that bike. That was a small thing. But you have somebody who's sick let me tell you how many times I pray for my daughter every time my mind just stops I'm praying for her I pray for my kids the ones that are Saved every single day. I do that because it's so important. This is what God's talking about here. This widow and this unrighteous judge who neither cares for God, fears God, nor respects me is supposed to be her refuge, her court of last resort. And he's not listening to her. But He doesn't do it until not because he gets a bout of conscience, not because he somehow finally read the word of God and found out in the law of God that he's supposed to do this. He had tried to ignore her, he tried to pass her off and not pay any attention He had stonewalled her request for reviews, interviews. He had instructed his secretary not to not to let her in, say that he wasn't there. He began to be irritated. He began to be annoyed. He wasn't concerned about God, wasn't concerned about Nathan. But he felt the pressure. Look what it says. Verse 4. For a while he refused, but afterward he said to him Himself, though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice so that she will not beat me down By our continual coming. Now understand what's going on here. That word beat down is used only one other place in the New Testament. That's 1 Corinthians 9, verse 27. That's where Paul says, I discipline my body. Translation says, I pummel my body or I beat my body. What is this saying? The judge says, This woman is beating on me by her words, by her cunning, by her desires, by her claims. By her desire to get justice. So it's not because he's so concerned about what's right. He answers a request for legal protection, not because of his sense of God's righteousness, but Because he's tired, because he's worn out. It's himself, it's his personal peace that he's concerned about. Now, Jesus is telling us about prayer. Remember verse 1: They ought always to pray and not lose heart. heart, because the next thing he does is he begins to talk about God. See that? Verse 6. The Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says. Listen Listen to what he said. Will not God give justice to his elect who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them? So you see, Jesus is now saying, let me show you what God is not like. Here's this unrighteous judge. Let me show you what God is not like Because God is the one who cares for those who are helpless, those who come to Him. He gave in, the judge did, because of his personal inconvenience, because it was a trouble to him But God is doing it out of his mercy. He's the loving Father. He's the one who's the opposite of this unrighteous judge. He's just, he's holy, he's righteous. He's concerned for his children. He has a great love for widows and orphans and strangers. He is willing to be entreated. See, the God of the universe is willing to have us come and come again and again and again. Jesus describes that, that kind of attitude on God's part in Luke chapter eleven verses five to thirteen where he says if a friend comes to you are you going to give him a snake? He asks for a fish you're going to give him a snake? He asked for a You're gonna give them a stone? No. You don't do that. And if you don't do that, how much more will God not do bad things? How much more will God be faithful To you. God hears his people because they're his people. That's our hope. In the opening book of the book of Exodus, I was reading recently Here's Israel. Israel is in slavery. They can't free themselves. They can't get justice. There's no way they can get justice from the Egyptians. The Egyptians aren't concerned about justice. They don't Fear God, they don't respect man. They treat the Israelites as their tools. And so God intervenes. And the remarkable thing that it says there is God Heard his people. It mentions that more than once. God heard the cries of his people. Jesus here describes his people As elect, as those chosen by God. God declares that they are mine, and I chose them before the foundation of the world in Jesus Christ to be mine, and I'm not going to let them go. He chose his people while we're gathering. Isn't that an amazing thing? Think about that. That God would regard us and love us and work for our good before we ever existed. And we're born in sin, and we sin in our lives, and yet God loves us and he brings blessing into our lives. The unrighteous judge had to be I ignore I had to be nagged and bothered and troubled by this woman again and again. But God, the righteous judge, hears the cries of his people. He Now, we wonder about that. Well, just a second. I've prayed about this thing. I've never seen anything happen to me. You know, we've been praying, the church has been praying for Jesus. Returned for two thousand years. What's going on? Jesus is telling us that God is ready, He is willing, He is not um standing off and He's not waiting for us to reach some kind of level that we've made that petition 25 times and 26 is giving answer. That's not what he's talking about. He's saying that God's people are crying out to him and that word cry out is used to Jesus on the cross Jesus on the cross cries out. It's a kind of loud, powerful praying. It's a kind of calling out to God and yelling at him and saying, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me It's calling out to God with your whole heart. God's people cry out to him day and night. And Jesus says he's ready to answer prayer. He's ready to hear us. He brings justice speedily. Now, we wonder about that. Where's the speed? You know, Christians have been through all kinds of circumstances. And it doesn't seem like it happens very speed, does it It doesn't seem like we pray and we're going to see something happen. You pray for the salvation of somebody you love and you pray for years, and it doesn't happen. But what Peter says is the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise of some count slowness, but he is patient toward us, not wishing that any should perish, but that all Should come to repentance. Because he's our only resource. We come again and again, even though it doesn't seem like it's on our timetable. Now, Jesus, as he sets this in the context of his return, if For 2,000 years, you know, we're wondering, well, what's going on here? It's tempting for us to lose heart. But Jesus says: God does this that we might believe in him. Look how he ends this section, verse eight. I tell you, he will give justice to his to them. His elect who cry out. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? In other words, Jesus said That God is ready to hear us and we have to keep coming. We have to keep coming and not delay our own. Petitions, not hold back with our cries. Not let those my God, my God, why have you forsaken me kind of cries come out to God when we're looking for what He allows And when Jesus says he will delay over, I tell you he will give justice as speedily when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? Jesus is telling Is something about the second coming of Christ as well. Back in chapter 17, verse 24, Jesus had said that his coming will be sudden, it will be speedy. Now get hold of this. Jesus uses the picture there in chapter 17 of the days of Noah. You know what was happening in the days of Noah? Noah believed God building the ark, getting the animals in it. He was ready for the flood. But you know what's happening to everybody else? They didn't believe. They didn't believe anything. They they looked at uh you know if you remember Bill Cosby's uh routine about Noah, uh you know they're looking at Noah building the ark and they say, yeah. Right. You know, where's the Flood. Where's the water? And they didn't believe. And then the flood came and they were all washed away. That's the picture the scripture gives us. Their lives are ended. It comes suddenly. When Jesus comes back, there's going to be no Not gonna be a secret. He's gonna come back, he's gonna come back in power and glory, and it's gonna be seen by everybody in the entire world, and it's gonna stop time. Jesus could come That it's going to be sudden. The world will continue as though nothing happens until that day, but when it comes, it's going to come suddenly, speedily. Jesus is talking about that. The cries of God's elect will go up through the centuries, and we We pray for Christ's return. And will we be holding on to who God is? That's the lesson we want to come to. The enduring lesson we've got to hold on to about prayer is God's character. That's what's made out. Here we've got the unrighteous judge who can't be bothered with this woman, who won't do anything because of God, won't do anything because of people. He'll do things only for his own convenience, and you We've got God who loves his people enough to send his son to die in the place of his people. Prayer is part of the Christian's survival pack, how we get through this world, how we get through the trials of this world. You know, those survival packs, if you get you put them in your car and they got an emergency flashlight or something to break the window or a blanket or whatever it may be, or you buy one of those Those emergency packs for home and it's got food for 30 days or whatever it is. Well, for the Christian, prayer is our utter survival pack. That's the that's the core to last resort. That's the the place we go when we have no place else to turn. We've got to see that the character of God is that He loves His people. He tells us, Jesus does in Matthew seven, or Matthew five, verse 7 that the Father in heaven knows what we need even before we ask it. But that doesn't take away the need for prayer. Jesus tells us we're supposed to pray. Paul says, pray without ceasing. Don't Stop praying. God's commanded us to pray, to let our supplications, our requests be made known to God. Because He's sovereign, we acknowledge Him. He knows what we're going to ask before we ask at all. But he's ordained through our prayers to accomplish this. Will. That's an amazing thing. He has planned that our prayers have part in his working out in this world. He knows the counsel of his own will from the foundation of the world. world, but God wants his people to pray because he's going to work through our prayer. So prayer isn't nagging God. It's not reminding God. It's not wearing him down to the answers. We're not like some whining child who God's Says, okay, I'll do that because you're bothering me. God doesn't get tired of hearing our requests. This is the amazing thing. God doesn't get tired of hearing our requests because we're his children. We're coming to our Heavenly Father, and our Heavenly Father says, I want to hear what you have to say, child. We say my world's falling apart. Nothing is working right in my life. You know, when when we got the news about uh our daughter. daughter's uh uh cancer. It's like what do we do? When when my wife was diagnosed with breast cancer, you know, twenty years ago, I remember just saying, God, what a vitamin D The world's falling apart. I got four young children at home. What am I supposed to do? I have no idea what to do. Prayer is not this final thing that, oh well, I've tried everything else. It's what we do because we We live in a world where we're we're overwhelmed. Life is hard, complex, it's it's tragic many times. We can't survive except the Our Heavenly Father hears us. We ought to pray because of our weakness. Because we're not wise, because we don't know what to do in circumstances. Because we don't have strength, because we need grace. Because we don't have any power in ourselves We we pray and we become more and more aware that God is our refuge. We become more and more aware of our own sinful hearts, yeah. But we also become aware of our Father's love and our mercy We admit so many many times we don't know what to pray for. That's what Paul talks about in a place like Romans chapter 8. The Holy Spirit intercedes for us with cries that are too deep for words because we don't know what to pray for. But God is the one we have to come to because we can't make these things happen. We got a spouse who's diagnosed with a terminal disease. Can we cure that disease? We can't cure that disease. We can't make that cancer go away. We're looking for a job and we apply for job after job, and we've got uh our whole day is filled with filling out job applications, and nothing seems to open up. Who's gonna open up for home? We got that unsaved child. And we've done everything we can. We've witnessed it and given them Bibles tracts, we we call them and tell them we're praying for them. But who's going to open up the heart of that child? God. God has ordained prayer to be the means by which His will is accomplished. We're creatures. God rules over all. And so we come to Him. And we come to Him because He ordains whatsoever comes to pass but uses them. means of our prayer. We pray because God commands us. We pray because we need to be taught of our dependence on Him. And we pray because God pleased to work through our prayers. So we don't lose heart We don't give up. I wanted to ride that bike more than anything in the world. It was so important to me. I kept it up. I didn't stop. We often grow tired. We often want to give up in prayer because we prayed the same thing so many times. My grandmother prayed for my youngest, uh her youngest son, my uncle. She prayed till the day she died. Forty years after she died, he became Christian. Were her prayers answered? Yeah. She didn't live on this earth to see them answer, but they were answered. We have to be sure, of course, that our prayers are in line with God's word. We don't pray to answer uh to have uh hit the lottery, you know. We don't pray that our boss won't find out that we cheating at work or that uh uh we're stepping out on our our spouse. We pray according to his word We shouldn't be surprised sometimes that our prayers aren't answered because they come from bad attitudes, James 4, chapters, chapter 4, verses 1 to 3. But legitimate prayers we can come again and again and again Look at this parable. The primary focus, of course, is on Jesus' return. We pray for that, but Jesus applies it broadly because it tells us the We don't lose heart because of who God is, because of what He's like. He's willing, He's eager to hear us, to have us trust him more and more. So you're praying for the salvation of somebody else And you're afraid to go to God because you say the same thing again and again. You don't know how to say it in a different way. But God isn't like the unrighteous judge He doesn't hear us as whining, as interruptions, as bothering him, but as pleased from the very ones he purchased. This is an amazing thing. He purchased from sin and death and hell through his son. Because of that, God will hear us. Christ Himself is interceding for us. This is what Scripture tells us. He's bringing our needs to the very throne room of God. And so we Pray with all confidence and don't get tired. The triune God is easily entreated by us because we're His children. We don't lose heart or give up And Jesus, of course, ends this section by saying that there will be people who will give up, who won't trust God, and they won't trust God because they weren't God's at all. That's what he's referring to there in verse 8. We shouldn't be afraid to come again and Because his love is there demonstrated in the giving of Jesus. You know, when we run, which I don't do a lot anymore. You don't look at the ground in front of you. You look to where you're going. You keep on, you don't dwell on how many laps you still have to When we're praying for something close to our hearts, the focus is in Alhamdulillah. Many times we've come, how many times we've used the same language, made the same request, we focus on our God who can hear our prayer. We can be certain that He's not deaf to our Cross that he hears us. He's not like the unrighteous judge. He had to be badgered into doing what was right. But if you're a Christian through birth in Jesus Christ, through faith in Christ and repentance for your sin, God God's willing to hear your prayer. He's eager to hear your prayers. Don't be faint-hearted, don't be lazy. See him as your only resource. Let the greatness of your need drive you to him and drive you to him again and again. Place your needs in his hands. See that you're not wrestling with some unrighteous judge who's reluctant to hear, but the God and Father of Jesus. And He's going to hear you. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we pray that you will hear us when we pray. Every person here probably has deep things that they're praying for, things that are precious to them, things that may break their hearts, things that they've been praying for maybe for decades. Uh and Father, it doesn't seem like anything's happening. But you say that we shouldn't lose heart. You say that we shouldn't give up, that we should Keep coming, because you are not unrighteous. You are the God and Father of our Savior. You love us and loved us with everlasting love before we were ever born Before we did anything good or bad, you loved us and you won't stop loving us. You won't become irritated or tired. You won't get uh uh upset with us when we bring the same words to you again and again. And sometimes we don't even know what to say. Sometimes we don't know what is right. But we come to you again and again because you are our father And we trust in you. We can trust in you because Jesus has already come, because you've already proven how gracious and merciful you are. In the giving of your Son. So help us, Father in heaven, to come to you in faith, to come to you in trust. Not to be those who turn away and give up because it doesn't seem like it's doing anything. So we pray that Jesus will return We pray that he would come back today. We pray that we long for his coming. We pray that he would come and deliver us and deliver this world from sin and death and hell. We pray that your We pray, Father, that you'll meet the needs of your people here for justice, for provision, for help, for family members. We pray, Father, in heaven, that You hear us for Jesus' sake, because you tell us to come and not lose heart. We don't lose heart because you're God and you're our God. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.