Turn in your Bibles to the book of Amos, to the first chapter, and we'll read verses one through fifteen. And let's now hear the word of the Lord. The words of Amos, who was among the sheepherders of Teka, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, And in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, the king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. And he said, The Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem. The pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of caramel withers. Thus says the Lord. For three transgressions of Damascus and for four, I will not turn away its punishment, because they have threshed Gilead with implements of iron. But I will send a fire into the house of Haziel, which shall devour devour the palaces of Ben-Hadad I will also break the gate bar of Damascus and cut off the inhabitants from the valley of Avon. And the one who holds the scepter from Beth-Eden. The people of Syria shall go captive into Kir, says the Lord. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Gaza and for four. I will not turn away its punishment. Because they took captive the whole captivity to deliver them up to Edom. But I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, which shall devour its palaces. I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod. And the one who holds the scepter from Ashkelon. I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish, says the Lord God. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not turn away its punishment because they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom. Did not remember the covenant of brotherhood, which I sent which but I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre which shall devour its palaces. Thus says the Lord God, for three transgressions of Edom, and for four. I will not turn away its punishment. Because he pursued his brother with the sword, and cast off all pity. His anger tore perpetually, and he kept his wrath forever But I will send a fire upon Timon, which shall devour the palaces of Basra. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of the people of Ammon and for four, I will not turn away its punishment, because they ripped open the women with child in Gilead That they might enlarge their territory. But I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour its palaces. Amid shouting in the day of battle, and a tempest in the day of the whirlwind, their kings shall go into captivity, he and his princes together, says the Lord Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Now tonight, this afternoon, I want to focus on verses 11 and 12. Which is the prophecy that Amos gives to a people called Edom. And as many of you here today have not had the benefit of the other sermons that I've been preaching in the evening about Amos. On the one hand, it may seem to be a very strange book to preach from. You don't hear many sermons from Amos And uh and yet uh there are significant uh matters which are here in God's Word. It is God's Word. And therefore, we all ought to pay some attention to it and expect that God will bring blessing to us through the understanding of the preaching of His Word. That having been said, there's much in the this first chapter which we're generally not familiar with. We're not familiar with names of certain uh kings. Uh we're not familiar with names of certain nations And the best way I can do to help you understand what's happening here in this first chapter is to give you a brief historical and geograph geography lesson, all combined into one. Unfortunately you happen to be uh for your sake you have to be happen to be in the in a church where the pastor loves history and where he a little bit less loves g geography as well But it's really important that you understand the history and the geography behind this passage, this prophecy. Of God's Word. We find several things that are interesting about this Old Testament prophet named Amos. One of the things that's interesting, it tells us Where he came from. He came from Tokoah, which was a city a little bit north of Bethlehem. He was a sheep herder. Or actually, sheep breeder. He bred sheep. And one day the Lord God brought a vision to him. He tells us roughly the time of when this vision came. It's in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake It's one of the few places where we can date with some proximity this when this was written. Because the the dates of both of these kings One of the northern kingdom, Israel, and the other of the southern kingdom, Judah, they're relatively known Uzziah was a great king. He ruled Israel, excuse me, he ruled Judah ruled Judah for 50 years. He was a powerful king and generally did what was right in the Lord's sight. However, on occasion his pride got the best of him, and on one occasion He tried to enter into the Holy of Holies, and the priests were there trying to stop him, and he didn't succeed, and he was stricken with leprosy from that day until the day he died. But he but on on par, he was a good king of Israel. Excuse me, of Judah. The northern king Who is put out put forward there was Jeroboam, the son of Joash. Now, this is Jeroboam II, King of Israel And they reign concurrently with each other. Roughly the time is 750 to 730 BC, somewhere in that framework. Maybe, you know, give it give or take a couple of decades either way. So that gives you the time. Now there were two kings of Israel at this point, and that's because when Isaiah Isaiah. When Amos was uh uh prophesying, the nation of Israel had gone into a division Up until this point, there was only one king of Israel. It was David, then Solomon, and then the rest of the David rule. And David had his rule from Jerusalem. So it was all one nation. It was called Israel. But when Solomon died, his son Rehabam became king. And he was ignorant. He didn't listen to his counselors, and he decided he was going to show all the people of Israel that he was king And he was going to inflict a heavy tax on them against his counselor's advice. He tried to do that Ten tribes of Israel, including Ephraim and Manasseh, the largest of the tribes, joined together and formed What was called then Israel. And Jeroboam I was the first king. And so it's ten tribes in the north, and they became Israel. Two tribes in the south, Judah and Benjamin, they became Judah, the nation of Judah. So And it's to, it's primarily to that northern kingdom that Amos' message is focused. The Northern Kingdom Was had there is no record in the Bible of there ever being any good king that ruled in the north. They were all miserable, rotten idolaters, the worst of which was Ahab. And then there was just degrees of worst after Ahab. But you all know Ahab and you all know Jezebel. He was the king of the northern kingdom. And he introduced so many idolatrous practices into that nation. Even though they were tremendous idolaters, He didn't introduce it. He just furthered it. He just made it worse. Even though they were idolaters, a strange thing was that they were also very prosperous This is a very, very rich nation, and a somewhat a powerful nation on at the time. But they were under the sentence of God's coming judgment. And Amos is one of the one One of the prophets that God raised up to speak to that northern kingdom. Now we read through chapter one, and as you read through chapter one, starting at verse three, There are a series of other nations that God says he is bringing a judgment to. And they are the the reasons that he's bringing the judgments are stated. Now, if you were to look at Israel on the map, you would see that there are between verse 3 of chapter 1 and the end of the chapter that there are five different nations. That are not Hebrew, they're all pagans, which God is bringing judgment to, or promises to bring judgment to. And if you looked at it, you would see that they virtually completely encircle Israel. The first nation he mentions is Damascus of what or the city of Damascus, of which Syria is the nation. And He says he's bringing judgment upon them and uh and essentially that judgment is that uh that uh They have threshed Gilead with implements of iron, verse 4. And I I can't really spend the time to go into all this, but Gilead is in the region of Ephraim in the northern area. And apparently their kings went beyond what even the dictates of cruelty uh w or or the or the the the uh it went beyond in cruelty what they did to the Jewish people in the northern kingdom which was already apostate by this time. But God is not forgetting what they did. God is not forgetting even the Gentiles who don't love their neighbors. And he promises to bring judgment. That's in the north. Then we turn to Gaza. Gaza is the southwest. You've heard of the Gaza Strip between Egypt and Israel. Well, Gaza was part of a nation known as the Philistines. And you all remember that the Philistines were always antagonistic with Israel. It's from the Philistines that Goliath emerges. It was the Philistines who at one point, in a famous battle, took the Ark of the Covenant to their own hometown, set it up in the idol of their god Dagon, and Dagon promptly fell down. And then the people were afflicted with boils. So the Philistines very quickly got the Ark of the Covenant out of Philistine territory. So there are five nation five cities that comprise this nation. And they're all mentioned. Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Ekron, and Gath. The five cities of the Philistines. There in the southwest, God speaks a judgment against them. Then there is Tyre. Tyre is in the northwest, along the Mediterranean coast. Tyre still exists today. It's in the area of modern-day Lebanon. Or not the city because it was destroyed, it was razed, but another city built in its place exists today. And throughout Israel's history, Tyre was generally said to be a friendly nation to Israel. Her king, one of her great kings, was Hiram, and we find Hiram being a man who worked with David and later Solomon, first to build David's house. And in fact, there's one place in the scripture, which I read the last time we were there, but can't remember, said that Hiram loved David. And they had a covenant together. Of mutual help. Hiram would send down the cedars wood for the building of David's house, later for the building of the temple. He would send wood, the cedars of Lebanon, you've heard of that. He would send that wood, plus stonemasons and various different cutters, and David would provide, or Solomon would provide, grain. But even at some point it says they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom. And I there there's a there is an a time when the Philistines came against uh the southern kingdom and took the king and his children and his wife and many others into captivity to Edom where they were sold. Okay? And apparently, Tyre joined in that activity, and God is holding them accountable. Why? Because they didn't remember the covenant of brotherhood. There was an agreement, a covenant between David and between Hiram that God is now enforcing. You forgot the covenant of brotherhood with Israel, with David, and therefore the judgment comes. Today, the one we're talking about today is Edom. And Edom were the descendants of Esau, Jacob's brother And we'll look and see about the judgment that's coming to them. They lived southeast of Israel, southeast of Israel. So you and then the next text that we'll look at the next time will be Anon. Anon was originally one of Lot's child children. Abraham's uh Relative uh son. And Ammon uh was uh Amon and Moab were the two sons that Lot's daughters conceived after they came out of Sodom through their father. And Eda and Anon lies directly east. So when you look at this judgment that's coming to the nations, to the unbelieving nations, the whole area of Israel, north and south, Israel or Judah. is surrounded by all these divine judgments that God says He's going to bring. And so You would think, you would think that as these judgments play their way out in history, that someone in either Israel or in Judah would begin to take note. That there's something going on here that God is doing, and He's doing it because our neighbors whom for the most part we don't like anyway, but they're connected to us because some of them are our cousins, or others have covenants with us, they're being punished for breaking God's standards. Okay? So this is a really interesting thing that happens. And with that bit of history and geography. There's much more I could say. But with that bit of history and geography, we come now to the judgment that God is bringing on Edom. And we read in verse 11, Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Edom and for four. I will not turn away from the punishment thereof, because he did not pursue his excuse me, because he did pursue his brother with the sword, and did cast off all pity. His anger did tear perpetually. He kept his wrath forever. His anger raged continually in his fury And his fury flamed unchecked. You know, you got four different things that are said about Edom. and his transgression against his brother. And the transgression is all about Anger on the part of Edom because of his brother. Unresolved anger, or unforgiven anger. Allowing the anger to continue to burn. Unchecked. For three transgressions and four, if you go back and you look at all these different five judgments, they all start off with for three transgressions and four. And it's kind it's saying that the transgressions are always multiplying, they're always increasing from three to four. It doesn't say five or six, but the idea is that there's more than one transgression. There are multiple transgressions and they're continuing. Okay. So Edom is said to be continually sinning And progressing in its sin against its brother. And for that reason, God is bringing judgment. They're incapable of stopping their hatred Which is important to understand because we're not capable of stopping our sinfulness on our own. And because of all of this, they're bringing sure judgment upon themselves. Now, as I said, Edom is located directly south. And a little bit east of um of Judah. It is a mountainous area. And there are many peaks there, some over 5,000 feet. These people lived in the mountains. Oftentimes their homes were cut into the face of the mountains. Because they lived up high and they lived in mountainous territory, they felt that they were invulnerable. From attack, from destruction. In Obadiah, which we read earlier. Now if you go back and you look at Obadiah 1, verse In verse 1, you'll find that it also is a prophecy against Edom. Different time. Amos's prophecy is somewhere between 750 and 730 against Israel. The prophecy against Edom can be, assuming that I understand it right, and I believe I do, is sometime before Israel goes into, excuse me, Judah goes into captivity with Nebuchadnezzar, which is 586 BC. Okay. The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, thou that dwells in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high That hath said in his heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground? Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and thou shalt set thy rest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, says the Lord. So do you get the sense of the collective thought of the Edomites? We live invulnerable. We live on the mountaintop. We live in secure places. We're safe. We're secure. But God says, though you think this way, I will bring you down. Edom was another one of those areas that generally speaking was very prosperous It controlled the major north and south trade route through the region and was the place where there were numerous iron and copper mines. both commodities of value. But now who was Edom? Who are these people? Where did they come from? Would it surprise you to know that they were the descendants of Esau Esaul, Jacob's brother. Jacob's brother. Jacob who had deceived Esau and stole his birthright As Genesis chapter 25, verse 34 says, then Jacob gave Esau bread and soup. And he did eat and drink, and rose up and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. And Genesis 26 depicts Not only Jacob stealing his birthright, but he stole Esau's blessing. Remember the trickery that he engaged in there. And as a result, Genesis 27 verse 41 says, Esau hated Jacob. Brother against brother, because of the blessing which his father had blessed him, and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father is at hand I will slay my brother Jacob. And these words of Esau Her elder son were told to Rebekah, and she called Jacob, her younger son, and said, Behold, thy brother Esau Comforts himself purposing to kill you Now, therefore, my son, obey my voice, arise and flee to Laban, my brother in Haran. Tarry with him a few days until your brother's fury turns away. And so Jacob fled in fear for his life and lived with Laban for at least fourteen years, because in the time period he married two wives. for which he served seven years for each one. First Leah, then Rachel. And then he returned back to Israel, or the land from which he left, and he reunited with Esau in peace. Remember, Esau did not kill him. He greeted him with a hug and a kiss and with tears. But the following years After that incident, and indeed a case can be made for the entire Old Testament is marked by hostility between the ancestors of the two sons of Isaac. Jacob and Esau, Israel and Edom For example, when Moses came out of the promised land, he was unable to negotiate passage for Israel through the king of Edom's land. Numbers chapter twenty, verse fourteen, speaks of this. Moses sent messengers from Kadesh unto the king of Edom, and said, Thy brother Israel They were brothers. Thy brother Israel, thou knowest all the travail that has befallen us. You know what's been happening to us. You know what the king of Egypt has done and how he pursued us to try to kill us. And he asked for passage through the land of the king of Edom. Verse 18 of Numbers 20, the king of Edom responds and says, You shall not pass by me lest I come out against thee with the sword. So during the greatest act in the Old Testament of God's redemptive work, the people of Edom have chosen sides. Against God and against his people. Saul fought against the Edomites David conquered them in 2 Samuel chapter 8. Edom revolted against Judah. During another southern king's reign, Jorim, in 851 BC. Obadiah's prophecy against Edom shows that Edom was complicit with Nebuchadnezzar in the day of the destruction of Jerusalem. by adding to his own brothers misery. Obadiah eleven and following. In the day that thou stoodst on the other side, in the day that the strangers carried away captive his forces, and foreigners entered into his gates, the his being Israel, Judah. Foreigners entered into his gates, the Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians. And cast lots upon Jerusalem, even thou wast as some of them. In other words, you joined forces with Nebuchadnezzar. You should have, verse 12, you should not have looked on that day of thy brother in the day that he became a stranger Neither should thou have rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction. Neither should thou have spoken proudly in the day of their distress. You should not enter into the gate of my people in the day of the calamity. It goes on and on. You know, they not only spoke ill of Israel, the Jews, in Judah. Even though they deserved what Nebuchadnezzar had done. But they not only spoke against them, they not only rejoiced over what had happened, but they joined in the plunder. They entered into the gates and they took away what they could Such was the animosity between the two groups. Such was that hatred, that anger that continued to burn continually. particularly on the side of Edom and Esau. Obadiah gives God's reasons for his judgment upon Edom As does Amos in chapter 1, verse 11. Because he did pursue his brother with a sword, cast off all pity, and his anger did tear perpetually, he kept his wrath forever, his rage his anger raged continually, and his fury flamed unchecked. This suggests that even though things were made peaceful between Jacob and Esau, the descendants of Esau never forgot. Jacob's sin against their forefather. And they were always, throughout the Old Testament, pictured as hostile toward the people of God. Rather than forgive and seek the God of Israel's blessing, Edom chose to hate God's people. And they saw every opportunity to distress them. His anger did tear perpetually, he kept his wrath forever, his anger raged continually, and his fury flamed unchecked. Four times in one verse Talks about his anger and fury against Israel. Verse twelve of our text. I will send the fire upon Temon, which shall devour the palaces of Basrah. Temon and Basrah were Edom's major cities. So God is describing his judgment against Temon in terms of fire, destroying it. Obadiah 8 and 9 mentions Temon. Shall I not in that day, says the Lord, even destroy the wise men out of Edom? And understanding out of the mount of Esau, O mighty men, O Temen, shall be dismayed, to the end that every one of the Mount of Esau may be cut off by the slaughter. And Jeremiah 49. Remember, Jeremiah speaking before the southern kingdom is taken into captivity by Nebuchadnezzar 580. six Jeremiah six twenty to six to six hundred somewhere in that region He speaks about Basra. Jeremiah 49, 13. For I have sworn by myself, says the Lord, that Basra shall become a desolation, a reproach, a waste, a curse. And all the cities thereof shall be perpetual wastes. So that's as far as we can go with this story about the hostility between Jacob and Esau. It's as far as we can go according to the scriptures. But an interesting sideline to this whole discussion and why this is so fascinating. is found in the records of Josephus. If you remember Josephus, the Roman historian, who was a contemporary of Christ, and wrote a history of the Jewish people called the Antiquities. He writes, during the post-exilic period, and the post-exilic period means the period of time when Israel came out of Babylon and started resettling the nation. It would be under the reigns, uh under the control of Ezra and Nehemiah During the post-exilic period, Edom was overrun by people of Arab descent who renamed the area Idumia In 120 BC, Herod Antipater became the governor of Judea. And his son, Herod, ruled the region as king later. And later still, his descendant, Herod the Great became king of Judea. The Herod the Great is the last Esau Who after consulting the wise men tried to kill Jesus? The preeminent Jacob. The seed of Abraham. After the Roman destruction of Jerusalem in seventy AD, Idemea faded from history, never to be a nation. And so But one thing to take from this, and one of the points that we've been stressing, is that sin cannot be removed by our means. It has to be removed by God. And the unbeliever Can't be given a pass regarding sin simply because he doesn't have God's written law. Because Romans 2, 14 and 15 tell us that the law of God. is written on the heart of all mankind. Amen. Let's uh have a word of prayer Our Heavenly Father, we thank Thee, Lord, that you are the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow, and that you are the God of history. Your standards do not change. Therefore all. And your salvation does not change. Therefore all you have called to repent and believe Father, help us to appreciate also that history moves in accordance with your divine counsel. In Christ's name we pray, Amen.