Beloved of Trinity, if you will remain standing, we're going to turn to 2 Peter 1 verses 3 through 11. This is found on page 1207 of your Pew Bible. We're going to look at 2 Peter this morning, verses 3 through 11 together in a sermon entitled Effective and Fruitful in Jesus. This is God's inspired word. This is his inerrant word. And this is his most holy word to us this very morning. that he wants us to hear and to believe. Hear then God's word from 2 Peter 1 verse 3 His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. By which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. For this very reason Make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue and virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness and steadfastness with godliness and godliness with brotherly affection and brotherly affection with love. For if these qualities are yours And increasing, they keep you from being ineffective and unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he's blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from former sins. Therefore, brethren, be the more diligent to confirm your calling and election. For if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. For in this way, there will be richly provided for you an entrance. Into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Thus ends the reading of God's word. Let us pray. Our Father and our God, we have your word open before us today, and we come to you through the Lord Jesus. Asking you, Lord Jesus, that we would hear your very voice through the scriptures, through the ministry of the Word, in the power of your Holy Spirit. We ask the Lord Jesus as prophet, as risen, ascended in throne, prophet, that you would speak to our hearts. Help us to better understand your truth in our minds. And as our King Subdue our wills to yourself, so that as we behold your beauty and your glory were transformed from one degree of glory to another, and you capture our imaginations So that we will wholeheartedly delight and serve you, that we will be effective and fruitful in you, Lord Jesus Christ, as your people. We pray that you would help your servant to decrease, that you may increase, so that we'd be transformed and confident In your truth, your beauty, your goodness, and your love. We pray in Jesus' mighty name. Amen. You may be seated. Beloved, we want to approach this passage today in the second letter of Peter by thinking about being effective and fruitful in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus. If you're like me, you like making to-do lists. You like putting together a list That you can follow through and get things done. For some of us, that may be called a honeydew list, but we have lists. And today, one of the glorious things about the Lord's Day is you don't have to worry about your normal lists. You can put them aside and not think about them. But the list that Peter gives us here in this passage, particularly in verses 5 through 8, we want to take note of his list. Now this is not an exhaustive list, but this is a list of how, in reliance upon God's grace and power in Christ, we become more effective and more fruitful in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus. In fact, the way Peter points our attention right away in verse 5 is saying to make every effort to supplement our faith with excellence. or virtue. And this excellence with knowledge and the knowledge with self-control and the self-control with steadfastness. And steadfastness with godliness and godliness with brotherly affection and brotherly affection with love. And he says to us with promise that if these things are increasing in our lives, if we're growing in these things, if we're like united to the vine And blossoming as the branches, we will bear much fruit, fruit that will be last. And it will keep us from being ineffective and unproductive in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Now Peter's writing to the church here in a way to tell them what he's already told them. In other words, most of the people who are receiving this have likely heard Peter's list. And so he's repeating it because it's most importantless. Look at verses 12 and following, where Peter tells the congregation I intend always to remind you of these qualities, though you know them and are established in the truth that you have. He says, I think it right as long as I'm in the body to stir you up by way of reminder, since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon, as our Lord Jesus has made clear to me. And so he says, I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able to remember these things at any time to recall these things. Now beloved, this is an important list. This is part of God's uh spirit-inspired scripture. Peter reminds us of why this list is so important as he tells us these things because it's how we give glory to God. and how we ultimately, it's the means that God's provided of sanctification and realizing our glorification. It's the way to avoid stumbling and falling. In fact, he tells us in verse 10 that we're to be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election, for if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. Now, beloved, while Peter was inspired by a perfect spirit to produce a perfect word, he was not a perfect man. This is a list given by Peter, who himself stumbled and who fell in his denial of his Lord. made three denials of his Lord and stumbled yet was restored. This is coming from a man who not only knows the will of God as an inspired apostle, but he's one who's experienced the devastation of sin. And the importance of remembering God's promises to his people in Christ, so that we will never fail, so we will never fall. And So that we will be effective and fruitful in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is not merely a to-do list, beloved. This is what we want to call a to delight list. Not just a to-do list. This is a delight list because it's based on God's mercy. and grace and power in Christ alone. It's a delight list because we know we have been loved by God in Christ. Through the Spirit. Look at verses 3 and 4. His divine power. The Almighty Power of God has granted to us all things that pertain to life and to godliness. Everything you could possibly imagine that we need, that you need, that we all need as believers, through the knowledge of Him who called us to His own glory and excellence. He's called us out of darkness into his light to bring glory to him, to realize his excellence, his greatness, by which he's granted to us his precious And very great promises. This is not merely a to-do list, it's a to-delight list. It's knowing what God has done for us in Christ and then delighting With diligence and devotion to the God who delights in us. It's delightful diligence and devotion To the God who delights in us. Look at what it says in verse 4b. So that through them These promises that God's made to us, you may become partakers of the divine nature. That is, not that we become God But that we share in union with God in Christ. Not that we become God, but that we become children of God and Through Christ, by his Spirit, we're restored to be the image-bearers we were created to be, to worship, and to serve, and to love God, and fellowship with God, and communion with God, and delight in God. That's what partakers of the divine nature means. Remembering that we've escaped from the corruption that's in the world because of sinful desire. This is delightful diligence and devotion to God through Christ in the Spirit because he delights in us. It's to remember that everything we do for God now, including this list that's sent before us, we do it as an act of grateful obedience. It's not just something we have to do, it's something we have the privilege of doing because we've escaped the corruption of the world. We've escaped the darkness and the emptiness through the power and grace. of Christ. We've been forgiven. We've been given a new identity as new creations. The old has passed away, the new has come. And so let's focus for a few moments on this list he gives us, being founded on the gospel, being founded on grace, being founded on the very great and precious promises to us as God's people in Christ. And I would remind you of what we read earlier in John 15, that Jesus promises us if we remain in him. We will bear fruit, fruit that will abide for his glory and our good. Verse 5 says, because we have been saved. Because we have been justified, because we have been declared righteous in Christ, because we have been given this gift of faith Peter says, make every effort. That's that delightful diligence and devotion to the God who delights in us. Make every effort Let there be exertion, let there be diligence, let there be death to self. Make every effort now to supplement your faith. Beloved, we don't want to ever be people who say we have faith and we're not making progress. We're not growing in grace. We don't ever want to be the people who say that we have faith, but there's no evidence of that faith. There's no evidence of that delight, that diligence in our lives. We're not saved through our works. We're saved through the work of Christ alone, because of his grace alone. Because of his mercy and kindness to us, sinners alone. But the faith that he gives is a faith that works. It's a faith that produces. Righteousness in union with Christ, in reliance upon Christ, in the power of His Holy Spirit. And so he says, supplement your faith. Exert yourselves to add to your faith these things, virtue or excellence. That's a a way of showing to this dark world uh the glory that is being made in God's image. It's an excellent life that's observed, that's seen, that people can watch us and see our good works, and by his grace be brought to praise him. For the glory we reflect. That's the excellence. It's a character that's Begun and then formed and shaped by Christ through his word and spirit. And so he says, add to our faith this virtue, this excellence. And to this virtue and excellence, knowledge. What is ultimately this knowledge, but a knowledge of God's Love for us in Christ. A knowledge that is an intimate communion, an intimate growing relationship with the Father, through the Son, in the Holy Spirit. Remember back in verse 3 B, where he says, through the knowledge of him who called us by his glory and his excellence He initiated the call to us in his great power and mercy. He called us forth from the world to experience His graciousness, his mercy, his forgiveness, peace with God, peace with ourselves, peace with one another, and so add to this excellent character, this virtue This new person that you are, knowledge. A deepening, growing knowledge of God's love for you, of who God is and what he has done for you in Christ. Further Add to that knowledge self-control. Remember that self-control is one of the fruits of the Spirit. It's something that the Spirit helps us. to be self-control. That is, to reign in our sinful tendencies. to die to self, especially in times when we're wanting to be selfish. The self-control is something that only God can give us so that we can truly be selfless, those who deny ourselves, those who would More and more increasingly die to our sins each and every day. That self-control in every area of our lives that gives us moderation That helps us to have the strength to put our flesh beneath the feet of Jesus. And to this self-control steadfastness. This is where it's very easy, especially in times of weakness. especially in times of suffering, especially in challenging times, for us to continue running the race with perseverance, keeping our eyes on Jesus. And so Peter's saying, be steadfast. Have the virtue and the excellence. Add to that knowledge, self-control. But remember steadfastness. Continue running the race. Continue with the same focus upon God's Love for you. Continue keeping your eyes on the Savior who has died for you. The Savior that you're united to. The Savior who has called you friend. And so this steadfastness with godliness, this godliness, is just growing more and more to be like God. To be those who are merciful as God has shown you mercy. To be forgiving as God forgives us. To be holy as God is holy. We're called, you remember from the first letter of Peter, that he emphasized and repeated that we are a chosen people. We're a holy nation We've been called out of darkness into his marvelous light. Why? To be holy, as he is holy. This is the godliness. It's the godly life that people see. It's what makes a difference. between one who merely professes to be Christian and one who truly possesses the Holy Spirit in union with Christ. And so this godliness within bringing Brotherly affection. Beloved, this brotherly affection he makes a distinction because he wants us to understand that what we learn and grow in the family of faith, in the congregation is that we desire to learn to love one another with patience, with humility, bearing with one another in love, because we can't love outside the congregation, outside our families, if we don't first love in the congregation, in the family of God And so he's reminding us of this brotherly affection in distinction from the love he's going to call us to. The ultimate agape, the love that God has shown us in Christ, the unfailing. The unfathomable, the undeserved mercy and love that God has shown us in Christ. That kind of love we're to show to one another. We're to show to the world But brotherly affection is saying in this way, let this delight list, this too delight list be that you seek to love the family of God with a priority, that you're eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. That you'll consider others more significant than yourselves, that you'll not cease to be served, but to serve and give yourself for others. That you won't say your life for me, you'll say my life for you. Because he said My life for you. Because Jesus says to us, My life for you. And so Peter says, remember this delight list. This is not how we're saved, but this is the effectiveness and fruit That flows forth from our true salvation. To put it in another way, this is a summary of how we desire to see progress in our sanctification. That this is not the way to be saved. I want to emphasize that over and over. This is how to respond to the fact that we have been saved and the progress that we want to make. For the glory of God and the good of the church, for the good of the world. We remember something about sanctification that's very important, beloved. We remember that there's three aspects to sanctification we never want to forget from the scriptures. There's the definitive aspect, there's the sense in which as we're justified once and for all declared righteous because of our faith in Christ alone. We're justified. We have peace with God. There is a definitive sanctification in that. In our union with Jesus Christ by the Spirit, there's a once and for all Consecration. That's definitive sanctification. That's consecration. That's being set apart for the life that God's called us to. That's being set apart to be his children. And to learn to live and love as God Himself loves us in Christ. That's definitive. That's once for all. That's in our union with Christ. But there's another aspect, and that's the aspect that Peter's pointing to, and that's the progressive aspect. That's the progressive aspect that is this As our shorter catechism teaches us very helpfully, concisely, and biblically, that sanctification is this work of God's grace. whereby we're enabled more and more to die unto sin and to live unto righteousness. So this is, if you will, progressive sanctification. This is, if you will, to use Philippians 1, 6 This is the progress we made because he who began a good work in us will complete it, will perfect it, will accomplish it. That's the progress It is Philippians 2, 12 and 13, to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Why? Because it is God who works in us. to will and to work according to his good pleasure. The other third aspect of sanctification is our glorification. It's our glorification. You see, if we are truly united to Jesus Christ by faith, if the faith that's been given is that gift of God, then we know as we learn in Ephesians 2. 8 through 10, that it is by grace we have been saved through faith, and that is not of ourselves, it's not of works, so that no one can boast. But here it is: we're created in Christ Jesus to do good works. Which he prepared beforehand for us to walk in. That's the faith that grows and Is effective and it makes progress in sanctification. That's the gift of faith. It doesn't just take hold of Christ as a Savior, it takes hold of Christ as a Lord, as a companion, as a friend. Who will see us to the end, to our perfection, to our glorification. So the three aspects that when you're studying your Bible, we can think about together. would be the first part of first aspect of sanctification is definitive. It's once and for all in our union with Jesus. It's distinct from, but connected to justification by faith alone. Then there's progressive sanctification. That's usually what we're talking about when we talk about sanctification. But the end of sanctification, the goal is the glory of God and the perfection of the saints. That's glorification. That's the third aspect. The third aspect is our perfection, either through death or the return of Christ, are being glorified. One way I learned this that was always helpful is that Grace that we receive from the Father through the Son in the Spirit is glory begun. And glory is gracefully realized. Grace is glory begun. That's why we're on a progress. That's why we're seeking to supplement our faith, to grow, to be transformed. Not in our own strength, again, verses three and four, but because of his very great and precious promises to us in Christ And so he tells us that these are possible as we progress little by little, as we make little progress. Listen, beloved. If we're truly walking with God in Christ by the Spirit, none of us are satisfied with where we are. None of us. If you're satisfied with where you are, that's probably a call to ask God for deeper self-awareness and to repent and turn to Jesus. But it's realizing just how difficult this is because of the flesh and the world and the devil. And it's reminding ourselves of God's promises. To be our God and we as people, not because of anything we've done, just because of his mercy and grace. It's reminding us of these uh very great and precious promises that day in day out we look to the father and we see his unfathomable, unchangeable love for the Son and for us in the Son. It's those promises that help us to make progress. And his grace, he's promised that whenever we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He tells us That he is faithful, and when we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. And furthermore, he tells us That I am with you. He tells us that his son is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Always risen, always ascended, always enthroned at God's right hand, full of grace. Full of mercy for whatever need we have. Those are the promises. Those are the promises. Those are just a few of the promises In every one of the promises, little by little, we believe in the power of the Spirit. We're transformed, and we have this delightful desire for diligence. And for devotion to the God who delights in us. One day we will be fully and finally glorified. We will see him face to face. Until then we strive We eagerly and earnestly exert ourselves. That's the language in verse 5 again at the beginning. For this reason. That is, he's saying it, let me summarize it. Because God has loved you in Christ, because he's made to you very great and precious promises, because he has redeemed you from this present age characterized by sin and misery for this reason, for this gospel reason, for this reason, make every effort. Exert yourselves. Run the race hard. Do your best in reliance upon Christ. And when you fail and you will, Peter knows this. I know this. You know this. You'll stumble. But not fully and finally. Because the one who has promised to you is the one who's risen, ascended, and thrown, and prays for you that your faith may not fail you. If God before us, who can be against us? He who didn't spare his own son, but freely gave him up for us all, how will he not with him graciously give us all things? All things that pertain to life and godliness. All things you need today. And that includes when you stumble, the mercy to get up once again and go to the throne of grace. And ask him for help. That's why his mercies are new every morning. Great is his faithfulness. When we think of sanctification, beloved, we want to be to this place where we're thinking Of this delightful diligence and devotion to the God who delights in us. When we think of sanctification We want to very practically understand it as freedom to delight and do God's will. Freedom to delight and do God's will as we were created to do. Yes, it's a process, yes, it's a progress, but we do this in reliance upon Christ based on his very great and precious promises, on his full and final completed work of redemption. And what is that? What has Christ done for us in the fullness of time? United Himself to our humanity in the fullness of the time, born under law, born of a woman To redeem we who were under law, condemned by the law, in Adam, under his wrath and condemnation, Jesus took upon our humanity without sin. He assumed our humanity in order to make us sons. Nor to make us daughters, nor does make us children of the living God. And he lived a perfect life where we have failed. He added By faith in the Father and the Father's promise. As the God man, as the one person and two natures, Jesus Christ, throughout his ministry, looked by faith and supplemented his faith with virtue And that virtue knowledge, as he grew and increased in that understanding as God man, in his humanity, as Son of God, he's the eternal, unchangeable one, same in substance, equal with the Father and the Spirit in glory and deity. But as man on our behalf, what did he do in his life? He added, he had this delight list, that's what he had. And he did it for the purpose of earning a perfect record for all of us who believe. And that is the perfect record he imputes to us. That's received by faith. The Father sees Christ Supplementing faith with virtue and knowledge and steadfastness and self-control and godliness and brotherly kindness and ultimately the love above all loves to lay down his life Coming under the wrath of God for our sins to pay our penalty so that the power of sin will be broken over our lives. That's love. That's love. That's unfathomable, undeserved, unchangeable love of the Father and the Son by the Spirit. That's what He's done for us. He's lived out this delight for the Father in the power of the Spirit and given that as a perfect record to us. He has then paid all of our penalty for the times that we failed, where we stumbled, where we have sinned. And on the third day he was raised from the dead. He was seated at God's right hand. And he continues his ministry as the risen, ascended, and throne king to ever pray for us. You remember how he says to Peter, and through Peter to the apostles. He says that Satan has requested to sift y'all, all of you, you all, plural. But then he says, but I have prayed for you singularly, that your faith will not fail you. And when you return to me, you'll be all the stronger, the better, the more effective, the more fruitful. And here's fruit of that. This is the Peter that he says, I've prayed for you. But it's not just Peter Jesus prays for. He prays for all of us. That our faith will not fail us. He knows we're up against a corrupt world, remnants of indwelling sin that won't leave us alone And the devil himself who tempts us. And if he's not tempting us, he's accusing us and making us feel guilty And outside the grace and hope of Christ. And so Jesus says, I live to ever intercede for you, I live to pray for you that your faith won't fail So that in union with me, as you abide in me and my words abide in you, you'll bear much fruit, fruit that will last. Remember what he says in verse 8, beloved. Look at verse 8 with me. If these qualities are yours And are increasing. They keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus. So we all can be ineffective and unfruitful, even in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Peter's addressing our weakness here is a very inspired, compassionate way of sharing his heart, if you will, and ultimately the heart of God. Because he knows and we know who've been Christians for more than fifteen minutes, we know that it's very easy That we all can be ineffective and unfruitful in our knowledge. And verse 9 says Whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted and blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from former sins. So it's always beloved a return to the gospel. A return to God who says, I will be your God and you will be my people. The God who says, My mercies are new every morning. Great is my faithfulness. The God who says That I so loved you that I gave you my only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him would never perish but have everlasting life. The Christ who says I will never leave you nor forsake you. The Christ who says I am the same yesterday, today, and forever, and I'm always full of mercy and grace. The promises that say Since we have a great high priest who's passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession. We do not have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with us in our weaknesses, but one who in every way has been tempted, just as we are tempted, yet without sin. And he says, so therefore, draw near with confidence, with boldness to the throne of grace, so that we receive the mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. You see Beloved, here's how we do this. We look to Christ again. That's all. That's how we make progress. It's from looking to Christ through his word by the Spirit that day in and day out we little by little make some progress And we find ourselves supplementing with eagerness, with delight to supplement our faith. With this excellence, this virtue, this knowledge of God, this self-control and steadfastness and godliness and brotherly affection and love. Agape love. Love as God has loved us. But it's easy to forget that we've been cleansed from former sins. That's part of sanctification. That's very important to do, is that we realize We are no longer who we used to be, as those who were part of this corrupt world under God's wrath and curse. We are no longer those in Adam under God's wrath and curse. We are in Christ. We're free not to live any way we want, but free now to live as we were purposed to live in worship and in service and in fellowship with the triune God. To free, to live, to delight in him and in his obedience. To work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Because it's God who works in us to will and to work according to his good pleasure. And beloved, what this brings about is not just the glory of God. Not just that others can see that glory reflected as they look at our lives, especially in this dark world where right now it's very hard to have a conversation in the public and at work Whether it's earbuds or or people just not wanting to listen or hear, we have the answers, and oftentimes they don't know even the questions. They don't we have the solution. They don't know the problem. But one thing that we should always do is we as we live in Christ this way People will not be able to deny the glory and power and grace of God exuding from us. As we reflect that glory in our delight. for him in our doing obedient works in reliance upon his grace and power. And yes we speak. We always should speak. Yes we interpret. Yes we tell folks Who may be using this list as a way to try to get to God? We explain to them, this is impossible apart from the gospel. This is impossible. Apart from the salvation offered to sinners in Christ by faith alone, because of God's grace alone. But it's something that we can shine forth as affirmment even now. And here's A very practical thing that changes us. As verse 10 says, this will help us to be the more diligent to confirm our calling and election. You see, any good works we do with the least amount of faith, with mustard seed-sized faith in sincerity, in reliance upon the Spirit, in union with Christ, is accepted as perfect in his sight And yet there's no way to do any work apart from his power and grace in Christ Not in the way that God defines good works. And so what happens is we see these things slowly in our lives, perhaps they right now you you you are seeing these in increasing measure over time. You're seeing them little by little. But perhaps some of you are saying, Well, I'm not seeing them as much as I want, but here's a new day full of God's mercy in Christ, and I'm going to make some steps forward in reliance upon His promises and his power. And I'm going to seek to be more diligent to this. What will happen is not only will you begin to make progress But you will see that all of this is rooted not just in the completed work of Christ for you. It's rooted in eternity. When the Father put his affection and love on you in the Son. Because how do we know our election? We know it in at least two ways. We know one If we're embracing Jesus Christ by faith at the foot of the cross, if we see Christ crucified for us and for our salvation, if we see his resurrection, his ascension in his throne for us. We can be assured of our election. A second is knowing that as we see these fruits, at least the desire for them increasingly We know that it's not just because of the cross, it's because God has set his love and affection on us before the foundation of the world. You see, it's what Paul says in the beginning of Ephesians 1, 3, and 4 that blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly places, in the spiritual realms in Christ Jesus. Who chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be what? Holy and blameless in his sight. And that we be adopted as his children, his sons, and so we are assured of our election Because we've embraced Christ by faith alone, apart from our works, and we are sure of our election because in Christ we find that even before we were born, before the world was created The Father set his affection on you in love. And that confirmation of your election You see, it gives you a great assurance of God's love. And it's reinforcing. The more you have, the more that we have the assurance of God's love, the more we are going to delightfully and diligently want to devote ourselves to doing what God has called us to do And so, beloved, let me leave you with these thoughts. Would you join me in putting aside your to-do list for the day? There'll be another day for that God in his kindness has given us one day when we can procrastinate in the right way. But would you join me in memorizing this delight list? Memorize with me and meditate on this delight list. Not apart from verses three and four, because we might get into that just striving and trying in our own flesh. But saying, God has promised me everything I need for life and godliness, to love him and to show forth his kindness and mercy to the world, to be truly the person that He's created me to be with joy and thankfulness and worship and gratitude. And so, Lord Help me to meditate and memorize. We want to meditate and memorize. Join me in doing that so that we can think about this delightful diligence and devotion to the God who delights in us Remember also that we've been set apart for a greater glory. We ultimately want to be this kind of people making progress, not for ourselves. The pagans might do that. They would uh if you've read Greek and Roman literature, you know that the pagans would at least make it through this list up to godliness. What makes it Completely unique is the grace of God in Christ and the fact that there's godliness from the triune God, the true God, and there's brotherly kindness, and there's true love, agape love, not just mere brotherly love. The pagans could do that. Remember that we're doing this for the glory of God so that we'll shine forth and show to the world His mercy, his kindness to us in Christ, his power, admitting that we can't do this in ourselves and especially in times of opposition. May this be what characterizes us and comes for. Because Peter's writing in a time of opposition, both within and outside the church. And let this by God's grace in the Spirit this delightless help us to be assured of God's love. Because as we're assured of His love It reinforces and motivates us to even more earnestness, even more desire to add and supplement to our faith. The virtue or excellence, the knowledge, the self-control, the steadfastness, the godliness, the brotherly affection, and love Beloved, we want to be effective and we want to be fruitful in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus. We are called to be this and to realize this. To be holy, to continually becoming holy, with an eye toward being fully holy, finally. Glorified holy one day. But until then, this is another way of being holy as he is holy It says for us to delight list so that we can have this diligence and devotion to God as he has called us to have, as he has created us. to have. And in that, as Jesus says to his disciples, my joy will be in you. And your joy will be complete. Amen. All right, let's pray together. Our Father and our God, we're so grateful that Your divine power has given us all that we need for life and godliness in Christ Jesus. We thank you for your mercies that are new every morning. We thank you for the forgiveness of sin and peace with you. Peace Within ourselves, the peace that passes all understanding, and peace with our brothers and sisters. We pray, oh Lord, that you would help us to take this delightless That you would help us to take these things that Peter desired under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to offer but also to very fervently and earnestly desire that the congregation never forget these. Because we know, Father, it's easy to be distracted It's easy to grow lazy and sluggish, especially in hard times. It's easy to get our eyes off you, off your beloved son. And it's easy for us to fall into different traps of our own making and ultimately those that the devil would tempt us into. So help us, forgive us, let us be effective and fruitful, productive in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Continue to bless Trinity Reform, Lord. Thank you for the saints here. May we grow in a deeper, greater fellowship and knowledge with you and with one another. And may we continue to shine that glory that we are reflecting in Christ before a watching world. We pray in Jesus' mighty name and all the church responded with a resounding Amen