Uh please continue to stand and turn to Hebrews chapter twelve. Hebrews chapter twelve. And we'll begin reading at verse three For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. You have not yet resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin, and you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as to sons. My son, do not despise the chaste of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we have had human fathers who corrected us and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father of spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed best to them, but he for our prophet. That we might be partakers of his holiness. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. And thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated Today I'd like us to look at this section of Hebrews chapter seven twelve, verses seven through eleven. And this will have a few changes, but it is essentially the same sermon I preached last week. Uh there was a technical glitch during that time in which, for one reason or the other, that sermon wasn't recorded. And uh I was uh I was informed that it would be good to do this again. Uh so it could be recorded. Uh I think that was uh uh uh a vote of confidence and the in the message. I take it that way. And um and so for those of you who heard this sermon last week I would ask you to bear with us. I did tweak it, some, but those of you who didn't, I hope it proves to be beneficial to your spiritual interests as well. Enduring the Father's chastening. What person is it that goes through life without any pain? who never faces crisis, who never suffers disappointment, who never experiences the loss of a loved one. A person who goes through life with all always seeming to be living the good life. For the past few weeks, we've been looking at Hebrews 12 and have seen that every believer is running a long-distance race. Over a course that is marked with trials, suffering, and pain. God, our Heavenly Father is like a good earthly father in the sense that he disciplines and chastens those whom he loves. Running the race set before us is one type of the chastening that God the Father uses in your lives. To discipline and chasten and train you. Good fathers chasten their children out of love for them As they know that their sinful and bad behavior needs correction before it leads to something much worse. So too God our Father chastens you out of love for us Protecting you from eternal disaster The Lord God has given to all of his people his only Son, Jesus Christ. He is the one we can turn to whenever we suffer in this life. So surely he has run the race too, even enduring the severest of trials and the severest of suffering. On behalf of his people, he was victorious over those trials and suffering. He is aware of the trials that you face. He suffered just as you do. From a variety of sources, he learned obedience through the things he suffered He was victorious over every trial, even the trial of death. He is aware of what you face. You can run your race with hope, knowing that you can call on Jesus for help. And knowing That He will help you. And that you need not be discouraged beyond hope. To what end does all of this chastening or discipline or instruction, to what end Does our suffering serve? What's its purpose? Couldn't God do this and realize his purpose in a less painful way? Why must we go through this pain and suffering during our life? And so as we try to understand those questions, as we try to answer those questions, I believe our verses today, 7 through 11, will give some clear reasoning Why? Why is suffering a part of our existence, particularly as the children of God So let's get right to it. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as sons. For what son is he whom the Father does not chasten? The word chasten there is the word in Greek for pi called pidea. A form of paydea, which is a word that means training. It actually is the pupil being trained or disciplined. It also says if you endure the training, if you endure the training and the suffering that God is bringing your way. uh that's uh uh enduring an ongoing struggle. It's ongoing. It uh it doesn't uh end at some necessarily at some point. It kind of ebbs and flows throughout life. It isn't always pain and suffering, but you never know when pain and suffering is going to come. But you know it will. If you're a child of God, it will God is dealing with you as sons. What an incredible statement that is It's even more incredible uh when we uh start looking at the fact that It's not just dealing with you as a son or a daughter as you might deal with your children, but it's God dealing with you as his special children. His own peculiar treasure The word dealing with you is also most normally translated as bringing And is associated with the bringing of an offering. If you think about that for a minute, And try to fit that in. God is bringing you as sons, as an offering. He has poured you up. You're a type of offering unto God. When you were chastened, when you're running that race that Hebrews 12, 1 and following talk about. When you're running the race faithfully, God is helping you along. He is bearing you up for the purpose of presenting you as an offering to himself. You could legitimately say, you're his presence. P-R-E-S-N-E-N-P-S. I think I got that right. You're his presence. And this is a proper way for you to think about yourself. It's not unbiblical. As you endure God's chastening, you are fulfilling one of God's promises. to ancient Israel after the Exodus, which the Apostle Peter later, much later, applies to believers that he is writing to in 1 Peter 2, verse 9. He says about those Christians, which I think we can generalize to say about all Christians, that you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. A peculiar people that you should show forth the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. This is a quote. From Exodus chapter 19, given first to Israel. And I want to share that quote with you in just a minute, because when it says You're a peculiar people, that is not mean you're weird. Well, you may be weird, but it does not mean that uh you're peculiar in some weird sense of the way, of the use of the word, as we often use the term. It's more of how God used the term in Exodus chapter 19. speaking through Moses to Israel. After Israel had come out of Egypt, God says, Now therefore, if you will obey me, if you will obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be a peculiar treasure. A peculiar treasure unto me, above all the people The whole earth is mine, and you shall be a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. You see One of the purposes why there is this ongoing chastening and ongoing training as one of God's children. is so that God can present you as his treasure to himself. Isn't that amazing Isn't that incredible? Well, you still might say Gee, I don't really I don't uh well what's so bad about me in the first place? Even as a redeemed Christian, what's so bad about me in the first place? Well, redeemed or not There's work to be done. There is work to be done. There's work to be done on our hearts. There's work to be done on our souls There's work to be done on our spiritual life. Because we're not really like our Heavenly Father We may have been translated from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light, but there has to be a growing holiness. In the life of God's people. One purpose or reason for God's chastening you In this race that we're running, this marathon that we're living for the sake of Jesus is to make you God's treasured possession. Now, verse 8 goes on to say, but if you be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers Then you are illegitimate and not as sons. Well, that's a rather interesting statement. On the one hand, it's telling us that if you do have this chastisement, if you are suffering in this race From sin or temptation or trials for the sake of the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and His kingdom, if you are enduring that You are being God's treasured possession. But if you're not It doesn't matter if you're sitting here today in the pews pretending to be a child of God. If God isn't working in your life through the various trials and afflictions and sufferings that you're going through, then you're said to be illegitimate. And i he says on the one hand, everybody else is partaking who's part of the body, all others are partaking of this chastening, but you are illegitimate if you're not. Now that, you know. Believe it or not, kids, you know what? I was one time like you are, a kid. I know that's hard to imagine. Now mom and dad were the same way. Your moms and dads were the same way. And I know I didn't go running up to my mom and dad and say, please chastise me. I ran and hid every chance I got. And if that wasn't good enough, I I told all my sister so that she would get it, not me. I avoided trans the chastening and the suffering. But you see, in God's kingdom, if you try to adopt that kind of mentality, he says you're illegitimate. Indeed, the the the Greek the Greek word that is used there is um is a word that um uh uh uh says you are you're not rust That's the word. You cannot claim the father will consider you to be especial children. Instead, you are illegitimate children. King James uses the graphic word bastards. To convey the fact that someone who is, you know, you know, we know, we know in the church That there is wheat and there is chaff, that there are sheep and there is goats. And we know that that situation will continue in the visible church until Christ returns. Jesus was asked at one point, should we just not get rid of the weeds, the tares? Pull them up? No, Jesus says, wait till the harvest. Then they'll be discernible. And then you can Pull out the tares and not harm the wheat. We know that that exists. And even as I am here before you today I know you all pretty well, but I don't know all of your hearts. I cannot know your hearts. Only God knows your heart. Only God knows what you're thinking. Only God knows what you're thinking is I'm preaching I don't know that. I hope and pray that you're all undergoing this discipline and this training and that every time you suffer Uh you're not trying to hide from it. You're not running away from it. You're not, well, Pastor, how would you hide? Or how would you run away from it? Well If you act in the world in a different way than you act in church, if in other words, if you conform to the world and not to the ways of God's kingdom, you're hiding. You're trying to avoid the very discipline that sometimes comes from associating With God in this world. Jesus said, In this world you will have trouble, but take heed. I have overcome the world. All who are Christ's people will receive discipline. All who are not have no legal moral claim to be Blessed by God to inherit any of God's blessings. No love a father, no being called God's special treasure In essence, you have no birthright. You have become Esau. God will discipline every son he receives. Sometimes I mean, we've been talking about one way of discipline. There are other ways of discipline. Sometimes he doesn't use the metaphor discipline. He uses the phrase refine. God is a refining fire, and He will purify His people One day, may it be that God says to you His sheep. Welcome. Welcome into my kingdom. Welcome into my heavenly realms. May none of you ever have to hear. Depart from me. I never knew you. So this idea that's put right here in verse eight that uh That those who are not partakers will receive this severe judgment On the one hand, it reminds us who are seeking to run faithfully this race and endure the chastening of God, it reminds us That we should be encouraged. Keep running the race. Keep looking to God's blessing. Don't think short term. Think long term. About your salvation. And while it encourages us, it warns those who are masquerading at being a Christian. God's discipline is real. He is actually calling you to repentance. Hear His word. And believe. Don't fool others. Don't fool yourself. Because you're not fooling God. He is never mocked. Then he goes on, then the writer goes on to verse 9 and says, Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh who corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much more be in subjection to the Father of the Spirits and lives? He's comparing and contrasting human fathers with God the Father. And he says that our human fathers, the ones of the flesh, their discipline Is a discipline. They are correcting us. The same word for discipline or chastening or training, paidea, is used with regard to human fathers training and disciplining here in this passage. Human fathers, it is said, that we give respect to them or we revere them We give respect to our parents for their effort. Boy, you can sure tell when this was written. Uh it's it's more and more increasingly rare where kids give respect to their parents. Is it not? Is it not what we see all the time splashed before our eyes on TV? You see, kids and all the rest of us, if we learn respect from our parents Then we will not only give respect to our parents, but we will give respect and reverence to God. We will be taught Through the way in which we deal with our parents, to respect their authority, their legitimate authority over you. And that will transfer unto fearing the Lord. and giving respect to the Lord our God. Shall we not much more rather be in subjection or to be in reverence to God the Father? Of the spirits that live. Every human father will discipline their children. It's so they learn to respect someone other than themselves. Our natural response is to only respect ourselves. But God wants us also to respect Him, even more so. To respect all legitimate authority. And so the purpose of enduring suffering and training and discipline In God's kingdom, for you to endure that is to lead us ultimately to have a godly fear. And I think you all remember how important godly fear is in the Bible Multiple times the passages, Proverbs and Psalms in particular. Psalm 110, verse, 111, verse 10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Psalm 115, verse 11. Fear the Lord. Trust in the Lord. He is your help and your shield. Proverbs 14, 26. And the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. His children shall have a place of refuge. And in 27, the fear of the Lord is a fountain of life. To depart from the snares of death. Proverbs 15, 16, better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble therewith. The fear of the Lord is the instruction of wisdom, and before honor is humility. Proverbs 16, 6. By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from it. evil. By the fear of the Lord, men depart from evil. Continuing to talk about the differences be in comparisons and contrasts between human parents and God as our parent. It says in verse 10, For truly for a few days they chastened us after their own pleasure. but he for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness. Why do parents chasten us? Well sometimes they're godly parents, and sometimes they chasten us exactly for what these reasons say. Because they want us to grow up in the fear and the admonition of the Lord. Sometimes they're ungodly parents, but just the being under that discipline God can still use that in a child's life. They might discipline us because they want us to realize their unfulfilled dreams. They might discipline us because they want us to do something that will make their life more convenient. As the text says, they chastened us after their own pleasure, for their own reasons, for their own desires. But God chastens us for our profit. For our prophet, and here we understand what he means by our prophet. Not dollars and cents, prophet. But spiritual prophet. Listen to the text. He disciplines us for our prophet, that In order that, so that, because He wants us to partake of His holiness, there in a nutshell is your problem, our problem. We aren't holy. In and of ourselves, we aren't holy. Christ is working the process and his spirit to make us holy. We are justified holy. We're called holy in God's sight. The minute we believe, the status changes from unholy, unrighteous to holy and righteous. And then there is this everyday process, the running of the race, the discipline that God brings into our life, where the Holy Spirit is working to conform you more and more to the image of Jesus. And brothers and sisters, that don't happen overnight. That's an ongoing process. As long as you live here in this world, you will be in that process. But it will end. It will end the day you die. And you're immediately taken to heaven. Because then you will be transformed into glory, unto glory, into holiness, pure, perfect. And God glorify We must be holy, for God is holy. We are to follow peace with all men, and we're to follow holiness. Hebrews 12, 14 says, without want which no one will see God. The greatest prophet you will ever have It is to be holy as God is holy. With such holiness, one day you will see God with your own eyes And I'm reminded of Job. Job 19, 25. I know that my Redeemer lives And that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. Though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh I shall see God. Whom I shall see for myself and my eyes shall behold, and not another Though my reins be consumed within me, how appropriate it is for Job to say these words Job, who is universally understood as the bearer of being so greatly chastised by God. He considers his greatest blessing to one day see God in his flesh. He calls him my redeemer. No chastening for the present seems to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Chastening. Is grievous. Even the great the chastening we endure from God. It means that we will have grief, we will have pain, we will have sorrow. It's not an aberration, it's not abnormal. It may not be intense all the time. Again, as I said before, it will ebb and flow. But you can be sure if you're a child of God, you will experience some of it during this lifetime Chastening, discipline, instruction is designed to yield fruit, spiritual fruit. The spiritual fruit of peace unto righteousness. Even though God's chastening can be painful, unpleasant. And can involve suffering for Christians, God promises. It yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness. That's the long-term goal. Keep your eye on it. What profit from this life do you desire most? For a Christian, the answer is that I might have peace. Peace with God. And peace with my neighbor. For a Christian, the answer is that I might have peaceable fruit. That I might display the fruit of the Spirit, which is love, joy, peace, and long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, and faith, meekness, temperance Against such there is no law. And for the Christian, it is the peaceable fruit of righteousness. That's the prophet God desires of you If you do not have that peaceable fruit of righteousness, friends, you will not see God. In glory. Again, you're either a legitimate child of God or an unlo illegitimate child of God. of God. If you're illegitimate, you're avoiding the chastening. If you're legitimate, you're going to get it. It's going to happen. As I said last week in closing, if we were to kind of try to build boil this down to a an easily thing to easy thing to remember What this text is telling you. No pain, no gain. No pain, no eternal gain. Amen. Let us pray. Great and holy God, we ask, Lord, that This particular message, Lord, would uh would be instructive to our spiritual well-being. And Lord, that you will bring this message to bear upon those for whom you design it. To those, Lord, whom your spirit is actively at work. Lord, that it will cause your people to know why they're suffering and what your purpose is for them in this life. And Lord, that it will give them confidence to know that they can turn to you And know that you can assist them in whatever trial they find. And Lord, for those who are Not enduring this kind of trial and never have endured this kind of trial for the reason, Lord, that they are Christians on Sunday, but not on Monday through Saturday. Lord, we pray that this message will serve as a warning To repent and to plead for God's mercy and forgiveness. And to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. As their Lord and Savior, as their Lord and Savior. Amen.