If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel We'll be in chapter 24 this morning and this evening. I believe that's on page 985 of your Pew Bibles. And this morning, we'll be reading through verse 28. Lord willing, this evening, we'll finish the chapter. Let's give attention now to the very and holy Word of God. Jesus left the temple and was going away when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple. But he answered them. You see all these, do you not? Truly I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? And Jesus answered them, see that no one leads you astray. For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ. And they will lead many astray. And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place. But the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are but the beginning of the birth pains. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death. And you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. So, when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place, let the reader understand. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let the one who is on the housetop not go down to take what is in his house, and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak. And alas for the women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days. Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath. For then there will be great tribulation, such as not been from the beginning of the world until now. No, and never will be. And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, those days will be cut short. Then if anyone says to you, look, here's the Christ, or there he is, Do not believe it. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect. See, I have told you beforehand. So if they say to you, look, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. If they say, look, he's in the inner rooms, do not believe it For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. Ascends the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we come to a difficult chapter in this Gospel of Matthew. And so we ask now, as we've read it, that you'd add your blessing to it, and that Father, you would use your spirit powerfully within each of us. Help me to speak in such a way that first brings glory to your name and it unfolds this particular portion of this chapter in such a way that it pleases you. And Father, we ask for edification. We ask, Lord God, that you would instruct us this morning and that you would cut quickly into our hearts. Convicting us of the truth of your word and Father, applying this word to our tender hearts this morning. Make them tender, Father, that we would receive all that you have for us this morning. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. How will you endure? Seems to be the question that's being asked by Jesus Christ to his disciples as he preached to them. And this passage that Mark that Matthew records, how will you endure? Think for a moment upon the Apostle Paul as he records all the things that had happened to him. In his ministry to the Lord Jesus Christ, he sp speaks of his imprisonments, he speaks of countless beatings, he speaks five times That he had received forty lashes, less one from the Jews. Three times he was beaten with rods. He was stoned. Three times he was shipwrecked. He was in danger from rivers, robbers, his own people, Gentiles, the city in the wilderness, at sea, and from false brothers he spent many nights Awake, he hungered and thirsted without food in cold and exposure, and yet Through all these events in his life, even as he was in constant anxiety over all of the churches that he had planted Paul endured to the end. In a sense, that brings us to our text this morning. How will you endure? In chapter 23 of Matthew's Gospel, it would appear that Jesus Christ was dealing with the Pharisees and the scribes for the last time. They were the ones who had been seated by God in the positions that they were given to lead the church, and yet they were not leading the church to God, they were leading the church away from God. And so Jesus pronounced those seven woes upon the Pharisees Stating in each and every case how they had turned away from serving the living God to serving themselves. But in that chapter, Matthew did not stop with the Pharisees and the scribes, but also addressed all of the people. And as Jesus himself spoke, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who were sent to it, how often I would have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. Jesus leaves them by saying, Your house is left to you desolate. Which brings us to our text this morning. Jesus has left the temple. And he continues his march toward the cross. And this chapter that we have here, chapter 24, as some commentators would put it, is the beginning of Jesus' sixth discourse as Matthew puts together Jesus' ministry. And this last discourse takes us up to the cross. And it begins here With this destruction of the temple described by Jesus to his disciples The disciples are looking at the stones of the temple and calling Jesus' attention to them and how wonderful and beautiful they are. And Jesus responds by saying, This will all be destroyed. Jesus wants The disciples to know the future. He wants them to know what's coming so that they'll be prepared for it and they'll be able to endure to the end. He's teaching about false signs, false Christs, and false prophets. We might sum up the teaching here in these first 28 verses of chapter 24 by this way. Enduring to the end requires one to look ahead, to know Jesus as the Christ, and to persevere through tribulation. Enduring to the end requires one to look ahead, to know Jesus as the Christ, and to persevere through tribulation. And those are our three points, or our three heads, this morning. Enduring requires one to look ahead, enduring requires one to know Jesus, and enduring requires one To survive tribulation. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to continue asking yourself that question: how will I endure? Well, first, enduring requires one to look ahead. As I said, Jesus is seemingly done with the Pharisees and the scribes. The false teachers, the religious leaders of the Jews. He's exited the temple. He has left the false teachers behind. But nevertheless, consider the disciples' words to Jesus. They point out to him the buildings of the temple. Jesus is leaving the temple, and as they do so, the disciples are pointing out the temple back to Jesus Mark and Luke open this up but just a bit more where the disciples say, look teacher, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings. In Luke, how it was adorned with noble stones and offerings. The disciples were looking at what was behind them. As Jesus leaves the temple. And they try to draw Jesus' attention back to what he has just left. Wonderful stones, wonderful buildings. The disciples were considering the physical beauty of the temple, the work of men's hands. We have a tendency to do that, don't we? The Israelites did. They had a tendency to look back, even as God was bringing them to the promised land. Constantly they were looking back toward Egypt. From where they had pots filled with meat. Here's the problem then. Jesus had left the temple. He was going away. That's how Matthew records it. He was going away. The temple was history. For Jesus, it's in the rear view mirror. Seemingly an indication that his work in the temple, in the house of his father, his ministry there was done. There was nothing more for him to accomplish through the physical temple. Well, the temple is a representation of the old covenant system of sacrificial rites, the cultic rites, the blood of bulls and goats, the burnt, the sin, the guilt offerings, the priests, the Levites, their garments, the annual day of atonement. Had all been accomplished according to God's will. Everything that God intended had been done It was complete. All of these rites, the priests, these things were pointing to Jesus Christ. The old covenant was coming to an end. It was coming to its conclusion. Jesus, its fulfillment, was about to usher in the new covenant. Isn't that what the disciples were asking about? Tell us then. When will these things be? What will be the sign of your coming? In the end of the age, certainly unknowingly. They were asking about the end of the age. But the old had served its purpose. The new had come. And so Jesus implicitly tells his disciples by saying that there's not going to be one stone upon another that will not be thrown down. He's implicitly saying, you must stop looking back and now look ahead. But the one who endures to the end will be saved. Jesus was implicitly telling his disciples, get your eyes off the physical beauty of these man-made things. Yes, it served its purpose. It was glorious because it served as the dwelling place of the living God and pointed to the fulfillment of his covenant in his son, Jesus Christ. But the disciples were looking at the exterior. They were looking at the temporal beauty of the physical place. And Jesus was saying in a roundabout way and in a compassionate manner, look at me. I am the true temple. The Godman, consider my beauty Just as he told the Samaritan woman at the well, as she was saying, Well, look, our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you Jews say it needs to be in Jerusalem, and Jesus responds by saying, true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. The Samaritan woman, like the disciples, was fixed upon a physical location. But Jesus was calling her and his disciples to be fixed on spiritual worship. Jesus was saying, you must look ahead If the disciples were to endure to the end, Jesus is saying they had to be fixed on what was coming, the return of their Savior, the one who is greater than the temple. The disciples needed to be clinging to their only hope, which is a future hope, a certain hope of Jesus' victory and triumphant return. That Jesus was saying you need to get your eyes off the physical world. Even in all of its beauty, which is going to be perishing as the new heavens and the new earth are ushered in. Strange as it may seem, as Jesus was headed to the cross. He said in and he encouraged his disciples not to look back, but to look ahead. The cross which would ultimately take him to the tomb Saying, look ahead. Look at what's coming. And then his subsequent resurrection and ascension into glory. Jesus was telling his disciples to look ahead to the second coming. Stop looking behind at the old covenant things. The new covenant is here seated before you There's so many things in this physical world which tempt us, tempt us to get our eyes off of Jesus Christ. Good things. Our family, our friends, our homes, our recreations, our employments, our money, our accomplishments. But so many things of this world Satan uses to say, cast your eyes, cast your heart upon this, look, is it not wonderful? Tempting you to get your eyes off of Jesus Christ, just like the disciples as they gazed upon the temple stones. Look, Jesus, what wonderful stones! What is it that you're gazing upon today? What is drawing your eyes away from Jesus? Just like the Israelites, as they were headed to the promised land. They refused to look ahead to the promised land. They were constantly looking behind at the world as they knew it in Egypt. But all this is going to perish. Peter writes, all these things are thus to be dissolved. The physical will perish like the temple. It will not endure. But if you are to endure to the end, Jesus is calling upon you to set your heart, soul, and mind upon Him. Upon the fulfillment of the covenant of grace, the fulfillment of the new covenant. Remember, the disciples were with Jesus Christ His very real and physical presence, and yet they were gazing upon and glorying the physical beauty of the temple stones, the work of men's hands. The Apostle Paul summarizes the need to look ahead. He writes to Timothy, he says, I've fought the good fight, I've finished the race, I've kept the faith It was over for Paul. Even as he sat in jail and wrote to those at Philippi, he knew what it was to look ahead My desire is to depart and to be with Christ, for that is far better. Paul is in prison. But these thoughts were sustaining him, allowing him to persevere even in his environment of being imprisoned for Christ. In other words, it was working endurance in Paul. What are you gazing upon? The past? Even the present? Or upon the future with Christ? Enduring requires one to look ahead. Brings us to our second point. Enduring requires one to know Jesus. And now this passage is filled with a warning, isn't it? As the disciples were considering in their minds and asking that question, what's going to be the sign of your coming in the end of the age? They're asking, what what are going to be the signs that are going to be? What's what's going to tell us that you're coming? And the end of the age. Now, I'm not sure that they knew exactly what they were asking. As we think of this, we think of the sign of your return from your session at God's right hand, but I don't think that's what the disciples were thinking of at that moment. At any rate, they do ask for the sign. What's going to be the sign of your coming? And so Jesus begins by telling them there will be false signs. See that no one leads you astray. For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ. And they will lead many astray. He continues that later on in the passage, saying, if anyone says to you, look, here's the Christ, or here he is, or there he is, do not believe it. He's in the wilderness, don't go out. He's in the nearums, don't believe it. Jesus is adamant. And so he begins with these warnings. Do not be led astray by false prophets and false Christs. Jesus is saying that there will be false prophets and false Christs. They will come and they will seek to lead you astray. And so he gives that command, that imperative, that warning, do not be led astray. The idea being if you were to follow a false Christ or to listen to a false prophet and heed his or her words, that you would not enter glory But be led to hell and damnation. So that's the warning. And there will be many who will not enter life. Being led astray by false Christs and false prophets. Now you may be wondering Why would anyone seek to impersonate Jesus Christ? Why would anyone want to proclaim lies or falsities regarding Jesus or for that matter the way of salvation? What's the purpose? What's the gain? You have to remember that Satan is behind this. It all boils down to his work, his mindset, his attitude, for Satan's work is to oppose God at every turn. Satan's attitude, meaning the way he thinks of God, the way he relates to God. Arises out of a deep-seated hatred for the Lord. We see that in Scripture, don't we? Eve in the garden, as Eve is trying to relate to to the serpent for some unknown reason what God has said. The serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. He contradicts God's word. He hates God's word. And so he contradicts it. Remember as Matthew Matthew records Jesus' preaching of the parable of the soils. The seeds that fell on the first type of soil. The evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. He hates God's word. He snatches it up. He takes it away. He's a murderer. He does not stand in the truth. There is no truth in him. He is the one who practices sin. Whoever makes the practice of sinning is of the devil. And isn't that why Jesus Christ came? To destroy the works of the devil. So Satan and his followers would do anything within their power to lead anyone away from God, from his son, and out of the kingdom of heaven. Imposters, false Christs, false prophets, seeking to do not God's will, but Satan's will. So what do they look like? We have a little bit of a description here in this passage. As Jesus says, see I've told you beforehand, verse 26, so if they say to you, look, he's in the wilderness, do not go out If they say, look, he's in the inner rooms, do not believe it. False Christ will then be earthly. Think of that, the wilderness, inner rooms. Contrasted with the true Christ. For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. You see what he's saying? He's thinking the false Christ will be localized, earthly. The true Christ will be known from east to the west. So when Satan sends his false prophets and his false Christs You'll know them because they won't line up with the Christ of the Bible. They will proclaim self-righteousness. False prophets will tell you that your sin is not really that bad before a holy God. They will tell you that Jesus Christ died for everyone and that everyone will be saved. No one will enter the pit of hell. They will proclaim that God is a loving God, which he is, and does not satisfy his justice. These false Christs will display their hideous masks as they seek to serve not God but Satan. They will not display the righteousness of Christ. They will not have the royal robes of righteousness. They will be clothed in their filthy rags of transgression and rebellion, and they will not be wearing a crown that has been fitted for them by your Heavenly Father. You will never hear the father say about the false Christ that this is my beloved Son. Listen to him. It's one thing to identify the false, the imposter, but it's quite another to know the true Jesus. How do you? How do you know the true Jesus Christ? You may be thinking, well, that's obvious. Yes. But we still need to say it. In a sense, Matthew has been saying it throughout his entire gospel. Up to this point, and he'll continue to do so. But how are you going to recognize the true Christ? We have no pictures for a reason We have no fingerprints, we have no DNA. How will you decide? How will you know? How will you be able to pick him out of a lineup? Now that's kind of a strange idea, isn't it? It's a funny picture to think of. But it actually gets to the heart of what's being preached here You must know Jesus as the prophet, the one who has revealed to you by his word and spirit the will of God for your salvation. You must know Jesus as your priest, the one who has offered up himself a sacrifice for you. To satisfy the divine justice of his father and to reconcile you to God. That's his work as a priest. Do you know him that way? So you must You must know him as the one who has reconciled you to the Heavenly Father and the one who is now making intercession for you. As you pray, do you know him as the one who is interceding with the Holy Father for you? Do you know him as your king? It's one thing for Jesus to be your Savior, but it's quite another for him to be your Lord, isn't it? Do you know him as the one who has subdued you? That means he's he's brought you to the point of submission to him. Is that what's happened in your heart? Are you are you submitting to Jesus Christ as your King? Is he the one who defends you? Every day you're under attack by Satan as he's casting his arrows and darts at you. Is he the one who's defending you? Do you know that? Is he the one who is restraining your enemies? Do you know him as the one who has bound Satan? And now Satan doesn't have free will over you. You recognize him as your shepherd, the one who is leading you to quiet waters and green pastures The one who does not flee is the wolf comes for you. That's your shepherd. That's the one who keeps on tending you, who loves you so much. That he will not leave you nor forsake you. The one who has a heart overflowing with love and compassion The one who loved his father so much that he thought of doing the will of his father as his food. You see, he loved his father so much that he'd go to the cross for you, that he'd take your sins upon himself, the sinless one. Your filthy rags, your opposition to God and all that He is, would take that upon Himself for you. That's His love, that's His compassion for you. Do you know Him that way? Will you recognize him as he returns for you? Will you be able to pick him out? Enduring to the end requires that you're able to do that To know him as your Lord and Savior. The one who loves you to the very end. Yes, enduring requires one to know Jesus as the Christ. Brings us to our third point. Enduring requires one to survive tribulation, and if there's Another thing that's set forth in this passage, it is tribulation. It's throughout. For nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom, famines, earthquakes. The beginning of birth pains. Many will fall away, betray one another, and hate one another. He will deliver you up, put you to death. You'll be hated by all nations for my name's sake. And then Jesus describes what many would consider to be The tribulation of Jerusalem and the Temple. The complete destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple in 70 A. D. Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath, for then there will be a great tribulation such as not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be. This passage is full of tribulation. Isn't that why Jesus states For the one who will endure to the end will be saved. He knew that the disciples were going to experience tribulation. He knew that the disciples, some of them Not all of them, because some of them would be martyred by this time, would endure the tribulation of Jerusalem and the temple. He knew it was coming. But he also knew that every single believer would endure tribulation until he returns. And so that's why he speaks, they will deliver you up to tribulation. You will be hated by all nations Lawlessness will be increased. The love of many will grow cold Well, brothers and sisters, we haven't experienced the tribulation of Jerusalem or of the temple. It would seem that that has already happened. And yet Jesus also speaks about tribulation that you will continue to experience, that you have experienced, and that you will continue to experience. Enduring to the end must then include surviving tribulation, persevering through tribulation. So the question is, how will you persevere Some of us have been experiencing many trials and tribulations. And it's easy for any one of us. To become discouraged and downcast and spiral into despair as a result of any one of our tribulations or trials. Or even as a result of successive afflictions coming again and again and again. But Jesus is saying and calling you even this morning to persevere through them. He told his disciples this great tribulation is coming, but you must persevere He states that those days would be cut short for the sake of the elect. He says, you know what, I'm not going to leave you nor forsake you. Even in that tribulation, even in the destruction of Jerusalem and of the temple, those days would be cut short if they weren't. Even the elect would not survive, but they do survive. They did survive. Brothers and sisters, God, through his son, knows exactly what he's doing in each and every one of the tribulations that you experience. Whether it be the love of one who you're close to growing cold and falling away, whether it be the hatred of a neighbor or even of one in your family. who has cast you off because of your love for Christ. Or whether you try to share Christ with with someone you don't even know and they reject it or maybe they spit upon you. God knows what he's doing through each and every one of the tribulations you're experiencing. We tend to think that God's abandoned me. He doesn't know what's happening to me. He can't. Otherwise he wouldn't let me go through this. And that is absolutely wrong. He's brought you to this tribulation, whatever it is, for his purposes. And he'll bring it to an end for his purposes, all in his good timing, and all for your salvation. Can we fall into despair? Yes, think of those who were in Jerusalem when it was being overrun. He said, flee, run. Don't get your coat. Go now. In the midst of going, do you think they might have been in despair? Can we fall into despair? Yes. Should we? No. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Do not lean upon your own understanding. That's exactly what we do every time a trial comes to us. We're leaning on our own understanding and failing to trust in the Lord, that He knows what He's doing. Jesus was informing his disciples of the tribulations to come, so that they would persevere in him. Enduring to the end means especially means through trials and tribulations that he's using to bring you into glory. God loves his children and will do everything that he knows is needful. For you, to make you into that son or daughter that he's purposed for you to be in Jesus Christ. Yes, enduring to the end does require one to look ahead, to know Jesus as the Christ, and to persevere in and through tribulation. Paul finished his race. He endured to the end as he looked to Christ. As he kept Christ before him constantly. Brothers and sisters, that's the call for us this morning. Pray that the Holy Spirit would work in you, that you would keep Christ before you, looking ahead to Christ. Knowing Jesus as the Christ, and in Christ, persevering through each and every trial and tribulation he sends to you for your good. Amen. Our Father and our God We thank you for Christ. I pray that you would keep revealing him to us That we might know him and be assured that he is the Christ and recognize him as he returns. We look forward to that day. But Father, as you have kept us here in this place for this day Help us to continue looking ahead. And help us, Lord God, in each and every trial and tribulation that you send our way, to persevere in Christ. Oh Holy Spirit, help us. We're weak and frail. We tend to fall into despair. We ask that you'd help us and pull us out. And help us to trust not in our understanding, but in you, our Lord and God. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.