Now here we are in the sermon text, Ecclesiastes chapter 2 this morning. We continue through Ecclesiastes this morning. It'll be Ecclesiastes 2, verses 1 through 11. You know, it's about the it's about half of the chapter, but it's the beginning part of the chapter. Ecclesiastes 2, verses 1 through 11. And here we will come once again to the Thoughts and meditations of the preacher, the son of David, Solomon. And here in Ecclesiastes 2, we have seen that You know, uh Solomon came to the conclusion that life under the sun is vanity and futility, that there's something fundamentally frustrating about life Something fundamentally broken about life in this world under the sun. We'll see that Solomon came and considered whether wisdom was the answer to the brokenness of life under the sun. Can wisdom fix it No, wisdom can't fix it. Here he's going to consider a different way. He continues to exercise his wisdom. He says this in chapter two here, but he also adds to his wisdom or makes use of his wisdom to amass for himself pleasure, enjoyment. Not even necessarily sinful pleasure in this passage, but You know, what about just enjoying life to the fullest with all that you can get for yourself? Does that answer the vanity of life under the sun? Well now this is what Solomon is speaking of and thinking of here in Ecclesiastes chapter 2. So let's then listen to it and read it. It is God's word. Ecclesiastes 2, verses 1 through 11. Give your attention to the reading of God's word this morning. I said in my heart, Come now, I will test you with mirth. Therefore, enjoy pleasure. But surely this also was vanity. I said, of laughter, madness, and of mirth, what does it accomplish? I searched in my heart how to gratify my flesh with wine, while guiding my heart with wisdom. And how to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was good for the sons of men to do under heaven all the days of their lives. I made my works great. I built myself houses and planted myself vineyards. I made myself gardens and orchards, and I planted all kinds of fruit trees in them. I made myself water pools from which to water the growing trees of the grove. I acquired male and female servants, and had servants born in my house. Yes, I had greater possessions of herds and flocks than all who were in Jerusalem before me. I also gathered for myself silver and gold and the special treasures of kings and of the provinces. I acquired male and female singers, the delights of the sons of men, and musical instruments of all kinds. So I became great. And excelled more than all who were before me in Jerusalem. Also, my wisdom remained with me Whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep from them. I did not withhold my heart from any pleasure, for my heart rejoiced in all my labor. And this was my reward from all my labor. Then I looked on all the works that my hands had done. And on the labor in which I had toiled, and indeed all was vanity, and grasping for the wind, there was no prophet under the sun. The reading of God's Word, may He add his blessing to the reading and also to the preaching of His Word in our midst this morning. Well here once again, having concluded that life under the sun is vanity, in the opening section of chapter one Here once again, Solomon continues to wrestle with the question of how can you beat the vanity of this life? How can you overcome it? He already sort of came to the conclusion earlier in chapter one. You can't overcome it by means of wisdom. You can try to gain wisdom. But that's not the answer to undoing the vanity of life under the sun. He tried it and he came to the conclusion that it wouldn't answer. So now here he considers the next thing on his list. And now what he considers is pleasure Enjoyment. Enjoyment in this life. Enjoyment in the things of this life. Enjoyment even of good things. in this life. You'll notice the things that are mentioned that Solomon gains for himself, gathers for himself. The things that Solomon mentions are not necessarily things that are sinful in themselves. There is a right use, perhaps a right place for all of these things. And yet, what is his conclusion? What is he going to come to by the end of it? He seeks to multiply for himself pleasure and enjoyment. But even then, with pleasure, he comes to the same conclusion. It was vanity and grasping for the wind at the end of the passage. There was no prophet under the sun Look at all the things that Solomon tries by which to fill that gap that he fills, the the feeling of the vanity of life under the sun. Look at how he tries to fill that gap. And again, remember, once again, how Solomon is in exactly the right position to try to answer a question like this. As he tries to answer the question, can pleasure and enjoyment make life something other than vanity? He's in exactly the right position to be able to test that out because Solomon once again is a king Kings tend to be wealthy. Kings tend to have access to things and people that other people don't have access to. Kings have a way of seeing to it that what they want, they are able to get At their disposal are many ways of doing so, many people who are waiting on them to bring them and to do for them the things that they desire to be done. And so here we see Solomon testing out as the king, as the son of David, is pleasure the answer to the vanity of life. If life is vain, why not just live for the moment? Here's what Solomon does. In verse three verse three, he starts out by trying wine. Wine. A drink that's intoxicating. Not necessarily sinful to partake of. You know, remember Psalm 104, verse 15. Speaking of God's gift tells us that wine is a drink that makes glad the heart of man. So let's consider, you know, Solomon. Trying some wine. Let's let's uh you know assume that he's doing so with a good amount of self-control, that he's not overusing it, or he's not misusing it, that he's using it with self-control Well let's remember, you know, the Lord says in Psalm 104 that wine makes glad the heart of man. It can help you to forget your troubles for a time. It can make you feel good. It can make you feel happy. Suddenly all the problems that are stressing you out and are weighing upon you about life, the things that are making you feel like life is vanity Well, you take a drink of wine and it can make it all go away, at least for a little while. So we see Solomon trying wine here in our text. There it is in verse 3. He tries to gratify his flesh with wine. Can wine help to relieve the vanity of life? Look what else Solomon tries in our text in verse 4. He engages himself in works of building. In verse 4, we see he makes his works great. He built himself houses and planted himself vineyards. Now when a king says that he built himself houses And when a king says that he planted himself vineyards, um he he means that he planned these things in consultation with other people and then he went and hired other people to go and do it. So but nonetheless As a king, you're in a position to be able to multiply your works to make them great, as he did. Houses. Plural. Houses, places of residence, places in which to relax and to take vacation as a king? Plural. Vineyards, vineyards. Vineyards are are uh pleasant atmosphere, nice things to look at and have around your houses, a way to keep the grapes growing that keeps the wine coming that he's talking about Verse 5: Gardens and orchards? Gardens and orchards, the pleasantness of fruit trees all around. Fruit trees provide shade, they make things cool. They give you a nice environment. They also produce fruit, fruit that you can eat, different kinds of fruit, that you can enjoy on your dinner table. In verse 6, he also builds water pools, a way to irrigate the trees that he has in his gardens and orchards, keeping water flowing to the trees keeping them growing and thriving. Now again here in verses five and six and four especially vineyards, gardens, orchards, fruit trees, well supplied by water Does that remind you of anything in the scriptures? Does it remind you of a certain location that you've heard of before? What is Solomon trying to do? In some ways, the the the imagery crammed together in verses four through six Is reminding us of the Garden of Eden. In some ways, Solomon, as a wise king, seeks to rebuild the Garden of Eden in a certain way. Perhaps at least its physical environment. The the pleasantness of everything that appeals to us about the the Garden of Eden as a as a lush paradise As a place where there's fruit and trees and water, an enjoyable setting. That's what Solomon is building up for himself in these verses, and he has done it. He does it during his rule as a king. What else does Solomon do to enjoy pleasure and to amass for himself pleasure? He also gains for himself servants. And so many servants that he even has servants giving birth to servants, it seems like in verse 7. Servants born in his house. So many servants that servants are giving birth to servants within his house, and servants are growing up in service of him from a very young age. He has flocks and herds of animals. Now, in the ancient world, in the ancient Near East, it's suggested that you can assess a person's level of wealthiness. based on the size of their herds and their flocks of animals or livestock. So you take one glance at the size of their flocks and herds and you can assess how wealthy they are based on that Well, here we see Solomon uh with more flocks and herds than anyone in Jerusalem before him Probably speaking about kings who had ruled over the city of Jerusalem before it had become the city of David. And so Solomon, a great wealth even among kings who had ruled the city before him. His possessions are great. He has servants. He gathers for himself riches, treasures, that which only belongs ordinarily to a king. In verse 8, silver Gold, special treasures that come from kings and perhaps from provinces, perhaps gifts that are brought as tributes to him as the king from faraway places Perhaps uh treasured gifts that you can can't really get in every corner of the land, and yet they are brought to him, and so he has treasures. He gets to enjoy music in verse 8. We see singers, male and female. We see musical instruments of all kinds. What kinds of musical performances get put on for those who are rulers or in uh who are government officials or in positions of leadership? Usually only the very best music And yet here, Solomon as a king, probably bringing in musicians into his court, is he bringing them from other places, or does he, you know, is he getting them from among his own kingdom? Um but nonetheless, the enjoyment of music. Solomon does not keep from him anything that he desires, anything that his heart desires. And also, he says in verse 9, his wisdom remains with him. In fact, it's his wisdom that he has exercised in gathering up all these things and in building these things and in making these things happen and in executing these things. Summary comes in verse 10. Whatever my eyes desired, I did not keep from them. I did not withhold from my heart from any pleasure. For my heart rejoiced in all my labor, and this was my reward from all my labor. He's built up all these enjoyable things, and he has set his heart upon enjoying them. And he has actually enjoyed them. And again, on top of that, there's the satisfaction that this is the reward of his labor, you know, when you do a job that's well done. And when you have actually used your wisdom to do it, it's there's something very satisfying about that. And then when you get to enjoy the fruits of it. But at the same time, though he gets to this place with all these things, wine, houses, vineyards, gardens, orchards, water pools, servants, servants born into his household, born to servants Herds and flocks, silver, gold, treasures, music, singers, musical instruments, all is the fruit of his own wisdom At the end of the day, notice that he still comes back around to the same conclusion that he made concerning wisdom in the passage just before this. Gathering all those things Yes, there's enjoyment, surely there's enjoyment. He expresses it. He did not withhold from his heart any pleasure. Everything that he desired, he gained for himself, that he was able to gain. At the same time, at the end of the day, as enjoyable as that was, surely, even as you know some of us might imagine what it's like to enjoy such things. At the same time at the end of the day, could it undo the vanity of life under the sun? There's a level at which life is fundamentally broken, and in which all our efforts at some level amount to vanity. Meaninglessness, pointlessness, because there's this gaping hole that is missing even in the midst of these things if you don't have it filled This is what Solomon comes to. This is the conclusion he drives at. Even gathering up all this stuff, how many years did it take him? How many decades did it take him, perhaps Even after all of that, he comes to the conclusion it doesn't answer the vanity of life under the sun. Life under the sun is still broken at this deep and fundamental level at which gathering up for yourself even a lot of good things. isn't going to answer what's missing. You can get to the to the end of that process and still feel like something's missing. Something's missing from life. And this is what Solomon expresses here in our passage. The things here are are not bad things per se, not necessarily. There could be good thing good ways to enjoy all these things and to have all these things as a king. You know, it's not necessarily sinful. But even still, the satisfaction you can get from these things can only go so far, and this is what Solomon comes to. Yes, he did enjoy these things, but there is at a certain level that he could not break through the vanity of life under the sun. Now again, we know that most people live as though pleasure and enjoyment is the point of life. And yet we also understand that if that's what you live for, that there's a sense in which your life is hollow. There is a certain sense in which life is so broken in this sin-cursed world that only God in Christ can fix what is wrong with this world and is what what is wrong with this life. And what that means is that any attempt to live in this world without Jesus Christ and apart from his saving work truly is meaningless. Truly is the thing that Solomon says here, vanity, grasping for the wind. It's pointless. You may be uh chasing after something, but you're never going to reach it if you're not in Christ If you're outside of Christ, your life will amount to chasing after things that are meaningless. And even if you gain the things you're chasing after, you'll be forced to conclude eventually that it wasn't worth it apart from Christ. And yet at the same time, for us, we have hope in Christ. We have hope. We have a hope that is the answer to the vanity of life under the sun. The same vanity that Solomon speaks of here. We have hope. That breaks through that vanity. We have hope that answers that vanity. The answer to that vanity is what Christ has done in preparing for us an eternal kingdom. And an eternal inheritance. And as we live for his kingdom today, here and now, we are able to have purpose even in the midst of things that feel like vanity. To live for Christ here and now is the only kind of life that is not vanity, that is not meaningless. Now it's very important for us to understand this because isn't it easy when we are going through difficulties or situations of lack or deprivation? To think and to surmise. Well, if only God would give me what I'm lacking, if only God would give me more health or better health. If only God would give me m more money and more possessions, better things in this life, well then I could get around to living for Him. and reflecting his glory. Then I could get on with living a meaningful life. I'll be able to live a meaningful life once I once God blesses me with More money, better health, then I can get back to living a meaningful life. But at the same time, we have to understand that living a meaningful life means living in light of what Christ has done Living for the hope of his salvation and living as a witness to that hope. And uh living as a witness to that hope, even in the midst of whatever we are suffering, you know the answer is never. We just need more from God. Again, you heard it in that parable from the Gospel of Luke. As Jesus was speaking there, you heard how life does not consist in one's abundance here and now. But but living here and now in a meaningful way is dependent upon living for that which pleases God and for that which um brings him glory, that which is focused on his kingdom. So that's important for us to remember. Christ gives us hope. He gives us such hope so that we can live in the midst of life under the sun, yet with hope, not in vanity. But we are we have something to look forward to even while we are here um suffering the things of this life. We know that we have an eternal future. We know that we have eternity that will be spent in the presence of God. We know that we will be able to find satisfaction with him, engaging in what is our chief end, to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. We know that we have a future promised in which our bodies will be perfectly healed and resurrected one day. We know that we have a future. In which our hearts will be set free from sin forever. And that is our hope. That is what allows us to break through the vanity of life in this world, what Christ has won for us for the future. But at the same time, having that future promised to us, this is also what gives us purpose in the present. And something to live for now. We don't have to just wait for that day when uh when uh when life will no longer be futile and wait upon that promise to come to us someday. We also enjoy that reality to some extent today, here, and now. After all, the reality of God's new creation has already begun in our midst. The fellowship that we have is his church. The worship we engage in on the Lord's Day These are foretastes of that coming day. These are foretastes of that new creation reality that will appear on the last day. We participate in the glories of our eternal destiny here and now. When we serve one another, when we show love in the fellowship of the saints, when we worship God here On the Lord's Day, as his church gathered in the name of Christ. The beginnings of eternal life have already come to us here and now through the promises that God has made to us. Because this is true, our lives are not spent in vain. They don't have to be. We don't have to live the way that Solomon already tried. We don't have to try to do the things that Solomon tried in order to find meaning and purpose. Because Solomon already tried it and showed us the answer already. We ought to know that the things of this life are not what we live for. Yes, it's good to enjoy things in this life. Yes, God does bless us with things in this life, and we should enjoy them as he gives them to us, and it's okay too. But we shouldn't ultimately live for such things. Let's not waste our lives pursuing things that will soon rust and pass away and be corrupted by decay In such things there is no ultimate satisfaction. There might be enjoyment for a time, and we can take it for what it is. Let's make sure that our hearts are set on what God has for us in the future, our eternal future, the kingdom of God as it is consummated in the age to come. This is our great destiny. This is our great purpose in life. This is what we live for. We live with such hope because God has given it to us and promised it to us. The rest of the world doesn't live with hope. The rest of the world doesn't know hope if they don't know Christ. Let's be careful that we know Christ. And that we therefore live in the hope that he has. And live living for that hope, not just in the hope that it'll come to us someday. But living in that hope even now and bearing witness to that hope now, so that the rest of the world is able to recognize, take notice, see that we live for a hope beyond ourselves. And so that they will even indeed ask the question, what is the reason for that hope that those people have? This is how we should live. This should be evident in our lives. Because of Christ, we are people who do not ultimately live in vanity, but we are people who live with hope and with purpose. The purpose of God's kingdom. Let's continue to live in that. Let's strive to live in that. Let's strive to be better at living in that by His grace. Because the day is coming soon when he will complete that hope, and when all things will be seen in their proper light, when that which we hope for will become that which we see, that which we know by sight. That day is soon to come. May we live for that day, and may we live in light of that day even now. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we come before you giving praise to you again that it is not for us to build the Garden of Eden. That you have built for us a restored new heavens and new earth, which reflects the glories of the Garden of Eden in a much greater way. That you have for us the age to come as our inheritance, that Christ has won this for us by his works Yes, Lord, you have not consigned us to the position of having to live for the toil of our hands. But we get to live for and enjoy the works of his hands, Christ's hands. We get to live for what he has won For us rather than what we're able to win and gain for ourselves. Lord, make us more able to have our hearts set upon the glories of your eternal kingdom The reality of what is ours in Christ, the life that is ours in him, strengthen us with hope so that we can live in such hope. So that our lives are evident. It is evident in our lives that we do not live in vanity and futility, but we live With the hope and the purpose that you've given to us, would you reflect in us your purposes for the glory of your name? And that others might see and others might be drawn to us and others might come To know you. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.