Our New Testament scripture reading this morning comes from the Gospel of John. Would you please stand? For the reading of God's Word. John seventeen, reading from verse thirteen to verse twenty-six. Let's give attention now to God's holy, infallible, and inspired word. But now I come to you, and these things I speak in the world that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them by your truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, so that they may be sanctified by the truth. I do not pray for these alone, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they all may be one, as you, Father, are in me, and I in you. that they may also be one in us, that the world may believe that you sent me. And the glory which you gave me I have given them. that they may be one just as we are one. I and them, and you and me, that they may be made perfect in one And that the world may know that you have sent me and have loved them as you have loved me Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory which you have given me. For you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world has not known you, but I have known you, and these have known that you sent me. And I have declared to them your name, and will declare it, that the love with which you love me may be in them, and I in them If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to Genesis, we'll be reading there from chapter 37. As we begin a new series, a short series on the account of Joseph. Lord Lillin will be studying From Genesis 37 all the way through Genesis 50. This morning we'll begin that study. Now, let's hear God's word. Now, Jacob dwelt in the land where his father was a stranger in the land of Canaan. This is the history of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brothers. And the lad was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought a bad report of them to his father. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a tunic of many colors. But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peaceably to him. Now, Joseph had a dream. He told it to his brothers, and they hated him even more. So he said to them, Please hear this dream which I have dreamed. There we were, binding sheaves in the field. Then behold, my sheaf arose and also stood upright. And indeed your sheaves stood all around and bowed down to my sheaf. And his brother said to him, Shall you indeed reign over us? Or shall you indeed have dominion over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. Then he dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers And said, look, I have dreamed another dream, and this time the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars bowed down to me. So he told it to his father and his brothers, and his father rebuked him, and said to him, What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall your mother and I and your brothers indeed come to bow down to the earth before you? And his brothers envied him. But his father kept the matter in mind. As far as the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, now we ask that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word. That you would work in our hearts now, by your Spirit. That He would illumine our path, that He would give us not only understanding, but convict us of sin. And Father, as you do so, be merciful. I pray that you'd also remind us of your grace, of your compassion, of your mercy and love in Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As the book of Genesis opens, the reader is given a picture of beauty and completeness and the perfection of the garden. Adam is placed in it. And then seemingly, immediately, the sin of Adam and Eve occurs. We might ask ourselves, how is it that God did not destroy Adam and Eve in the garden? How is it that he did not just rain down fire and brimstone upon them immediately as they hid in the trees in the forest of the garden? How is it that God did not merely flush the earth of their flesh and start over? How is it? That in the midst of their sin, and thus their hatred toward the living God, that He offered up grace to them. We remember in chapter 3 of Genesis is the Adam and Eve have now sinned against God as God is now speaking to Satan, who tempted the woman to sin. God tells Satan this: I will put enity between you and the woman, between your seed and her seed, and he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. As these two, as Adam and Eve, were in an ungodly estate, that ungodly estate which they had created for themselves, they deserved nothing but condemnation and wrath. And yet The Lord pours out mercy and grace. How is this possible? The only one who had been offended, the only one who had been neglected and cast off, the only one whose fellowship, whose communion was discounted and rejected, this one, this God. Loved these two. Here. Even in the beginning of the history of redemption. Especially in the beginning of the history of redemption, we see the love of God being poured out upon this these unworthy, these unlovable, these ungodly and hateful children. This is the beginning of the covenant of grace. Well, much has taken place in the history of redemption from that point in Genesis up to chapter 37. Much has happened. The flood. Noah and his family saved. The covenant renewed. Abraham is called out of Ur the Chaldeans. The covenant is unfolding. Isaac, the son of the promise, is spared. The focus was not on Ishmael, but on Isaac. The son of the promise. And then Esau and Jacob had been born to Isaac. And again, the focus is on Jacob, not on Esau. And Jacob had fled from Esau. Because he had taken his birthright, he had taken his blessing, and he flees, and he's in exile for a long time at Laban's home, where he works for him, and takes two of his daughters as wives. along with her maidservants as concubines. Jacob has now returned. He was in exile and now he comes back to the land. It returns with his two wives, his two concubines, and twelve sons, which become the twelve tribes of Israel He returns to Hebron, where Abram and Isaac had dwelt. Esau's descendants are named, and then Jacob's descendants are named. The genealogy is given In the rest of Genesis 14 chapters, Moses records for the Israelites the history of redemption as it unfolds in this expanded family called out by God. Moses records for us now the outworking of God's covenant in the lives of Jacob and his twelve sons, now focused upon Joseph. The beginning of Israel. This morning I want us to see that the love and mercy of the living God is poured out upon his children through the covenant of grace. The love and mercy of the living God is poured out upon his children through the covenant of grace. We'll see that in three points. The continuity of the covenant, secondly, the love of the covenant, and then thirdly, the enmity. of the covenant. As we go through this short passage of scripture this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, is the covenant of God significant? Not for Jacob, but for you. Is it significant to you this morning? Does it have any effect upon you? Well, first, the continuity of the covenant. We see that in this first verse. While the word covenant isn't used, it's certainly a reference back To the covenant of grace. Verse 1. Now Jacob dwelt in the land where his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. The NASB translates that word stranger as his father had sojourned. That should cause us, it should cause the reader here to think of the backdrop to the entire text, in fact to all of Scripture, so to speak, and that is the covenant of grace, which is the backbone of Genesis and certainly the backbone of these 14 chapters that we're going to be studying The reference here to the father of Jacob or Isaac should cause us to think upon that covenant made with Isaac, which was one and the same with the covenant made with his father Abraham. Moses could certainly have written. Now Jacob dwelt in the land of Canaan. He could have skipped Isaac altogether, but he doesn't. He wants us, he wants the reader to make that connection. There was not only blood that connected Jacob and Isaac, it was the covenant of God, the covenant of grace, specifically the Abrahamic covenant The reader, the Israelites would have naturally thought of the promises that have been made to Isaac dwell in this land, and I will be with you and bless you. For to you and to your descendants I will give all these lands which I swore to Abraham your father. And I will make your descendants multiply as the stars of heaven. Promises given to Isaac, the covenant repeated to Isaac. But Jacob is not only being connected to Isaac, he's also being connected with Abraham. Abraham's promises are very similar. For all the land which you see I will give to you and to your descendants forever, and make your descendants as dust of the earth. And where does Abram now worship in Hebron? Where was Jacob? Where did he return to? Hebron. There's a connection. Between Jacob and Isaac, and between Jacob and Abraham, it's all connected by the covenant. That God would be the God of Abraham and to his descendants after him, which would necessarily include Jacob. In other words, the covenant made with Abram ran through Isaac to Jacob. The continuity of the covenant ran through Jacob. And now it would be shown to run through the generations. Through his children. You see the reference also is to the land of Canaan. Jacob was dwelling and living in Canaan, in Hebron, that place where Abraham built the altar to worship the living God. And now the descendants. Of Jacob are in the same place in the land that God had promised to them this place now known as Canaan. But did you note that Isaac was referred to as a stranger or a sojourner? It connects Isaac to his father, Abraham, who is also a stranger in the land, and it must also connect to Jacob. who was a stranger in the land. That land which the Lord was giving them, but not yet. The covenant was continuing. This was the land in which he was dwelling. But yet Jacob, like his fathers before him, was a stranger, was a sojourner. He was not yet home. Even though he had returned from exile. Also see the increase in the numbers, don't we? God promised land. He promised a multitude of descendants to inhabit that land, and we see that happening. Abram is the one called out of the Chaldeans. He has a son, Isaac, who has two sons. And Jacob now becomes the schemer. Who is the one who inherits the covenant? Who is the one who inherits the promise? And what do we see? But now there are multiple sons. Twelve. Abraham had to wait 25 years to see the son of the promise. And Abraham's faith needed to be tested as he was told to sacrifice Isaac, possibly cutting off the line, the seed of the woman. But God provides a substitute. And now Isaac is in fact dead. But the covenant is yet being fulfilled. It continues in the many, the twelve sons now of Jacob. Do you see? Do you see the covenant unfolding? Do you see the continuity of the covenant? And God's wisdom. He had entered into covenant to give this people, this land, where they could dwell with him in peace and purity. And while the Lord was about that work of fulfilling his covenantal promises in his unsearchable wisdom This was not the time for his people to dwell with him in this particular place. The book of Genesis really ends with with that particular theme. Here's the land But it's not yet time for you to dwell with me here. Genesis fifty, twenty four. And Joseph said to his brethren, I am dying, but God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land to the land which he swore. To Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. A future event. Not today, brothers. He wasn't bringing them there today That is really the underlying theme of this portion of Genesis. Well, the word covenant, I don't think, appears, now that's a challenge to you. You can all look this afternoon, Genesis 37 to 15, see if that word appears. I don't think it does, but it's very present and very active. It's a theme which underlines all of Scripture and possibly even more so here in Genesis 37 to 50. The triune God is redeeming a people. Which means in essence he is preparing them to dwell with him in peace and purity forever. But all the while, God is using his covenant to do the work of preserving and preparing his people. You may ask, why is this covenant important for me? I see it's significant for Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, and now it's going to be really significant for Joseph. But what about me? Today. I think one of the great lessons here Is that the living God is still at work in and through his covenant? I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants. After you in their generations, for an everlasting covenant An everlasting possession, that's the reference he makes to to the land of Canaan, and I will be their God You see, it's through this covenant of grace that God will bring you into eternity with Him, to dwell with Him. Outside of the covenant, you have no hope. In the covenant, you have certain hope in the Lord Jesus Christ that you will indeed dwell with God. For eternity. Yes. This covenant is so important for us today. But there's a related connection here, a related application as we consider that we are the people of this continuing covenant that as we see that Cain in the promised land is to be an everlasting possession, referring clearly to the new heavens and the new earth, the new Jerusalem, which is described in Revelation. So at this point the passage serves as a reminder to us, doesn't it? We're not presently in Canaan. The new heavens and the new earth has not dropped down yet. And that thus, we are strangers. We are aliens here, sojourners on this planet, in this world. This is not the eternal dwelling place of God And we must confess, brothers and sisters, even this morning, that heart problems do arise when we treat this world as our true, as our ultimate, only home. And we fail to remember that we are strangers here, aliens, and each of us has a tendency to grip this world too tightly. We have a tendency to love the creation and long for more of it and less of Jesus. In a sense, this first this first verse calls us to repent. Calls us to live here as strangers longing for the day that Christ will return. That brings us to our second point, the love of the covenant. We've seen the continuity of the covenant, and now this passage is much about the love of the covenant. Verse 3. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age and made him a tunic of many colors. Notice the name change there in verse 3. Speaking of Joseph, we know that God has changed. Excuse me, speaking of Jacob, we know that the Lord has changed Jacob's name. He's given him a new one, Israel. Why does Moses use it here? It apparently does at least two things. First, it reminds us That this is the covenant name of Jacob. God enters into covenant with Israel. And that is Israel that loves Joseph. The reader now sees that Joseph, as a part of the covenant, is now receiving the promises. of God through the covenant through Israel. Secondly, it reminds the reader that the the head of the twelve tribes, the father of those 12 tribes, in a sense, the father of all those who would be in the kingdom has now placed his love on this one. The Father has chosen this one above all possible others. Israel to place his love on this one. And we see the magnitude, don't we? The magnitude of this love, not only in the name, but then in this tunic. It was likely a valuable garment. I don't know. A coat of many colors. I'm not sure how they made colors back then, but I guess is that they were valuable. The different dyes that they might use to to create this tunic of many colors. If nothing else, we have the impression that it was certainly a unique garment, nothing else like it. This would then represent the depth of the love of Jacob for this one son, the son of his dear wife Rachel, the wife one that Jacob loved more than Leah. The garment becomes then a symbol representing a unique, a singular love of Jacob for Joseph. You know, if we're not careful, as we get caught up in the family dynamics, As we get caught up in the malicious nature of the brothers toward Joseph, as we get caught up in the dysfunctionality of the family, we can get sidetracked by the dreams, by the sin, by the suffering All of which are significant aspects here in the Scripture, but we don't want to miss the centerpiece. The centerpiece here is the love of the Father for the Son. This picture of Jacob, of Israel's love for Joseph, his son, is a type This type of God the Father's love for the Son, even Jesus. What is a type? When we speak of types, we speak of that, whether it's a person or an event. In Scripture, a historical event or a historical person that points the reader to something similar, usually something greater than the person or the event under consideration. This is like that. Sort of. And it points our mind to it. So as we see the the love of Jacob, the love of Israel for Joseph Our minds are immediately drawn to love of God the Father for the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. How could God the Father enter into such a covenant? Isn't that where we began? How could that be? We're talking about the love of God the Father for the Son, and I think it's related. How could he give Adam and Eve such a promise when they had just sinned against him, when Adam had just broken the covenant of works? Adam had made himself ungodly, an abomination in the sight of God, so much so that he blood needed to be shed to cover his shame, his nakedness, only because Of the Father's love for the Son. That's that's how That's how God could enter into covenant with Adam and Eve at that very moment. Because of the Father's love for the Son. We only need to look as far as the high priestly prayer, that which we read a portion of this morning. Father, I desire that they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory. which you have given me for you loved me before the foundation of the world. Jesus Christ is he's praying to his Father is acknowledging, he's confessing, he's letting all of us know that the Father loved him before the foundation of the world, and as a result of that love, he enters into covenant, even at that time when But he should be wiping us out. The Father is granting the request of his son. Do you see it? That they also whom you gave me may be with me where I am He's pleading with his father that they may come and be with me, that they may see my glory. Why? Because you love me. But for the foundation of the world. Scripture is full of proofs of the love of the Father for the Son. Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, my elect one, and whom my soul delights. Isaiah 42, verse 1. And suddenly a voice came from heaven saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased, Matthew chapter 3. In John's Gospel, for the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he does. He was chosen. Singularly chosen by God, precious in his sight. This is the reason for the covenant. This is how God can pour out mercy and grace upon Adam and Eve in the garden because he loved the Son. Thomas Goodwin, a Puritan, wrote, All that Christ doth for us is but the expression of that love which was taken up originally in God's own heart. Do you see what he's saying? Christ taking on a human nature. Christ suffering the scourging. Christ having the crown of thorns placed upon his head, being nailed to the cross. Christ having the sins of us laid upon him such that the wrath of God would be poured out upon him on Calvary. Christ Does for us in an expression of the love which was originally in God's heart He follows by saying, Come first to Christ, and he will take thee by the hand and go along with thee and lead thee to the Father. If you're here this morning, if you're listening this morning, if you're hearing this on a recorded version. And you don't know the love of the Father, come to Christ. He will lead you. He will bring you into the Father's love, and the Father will pour out his love upon you and wash you of your sins. I'm hoping we can all see that the covenant of grace is a continuing covenant. Its promises are for all the children of the covenant. And we should also see that within that covenant we should see the love of God the Father for the Son, which is the foundation of the covenant That which the covenant springs out of and thus is built upon. We can't disconnect the two. The love of the Father For the Son from the Covenant, they are inextricably interwoven, so much so that if you love Jesus today Through the covenant, if you're trusting in Jesus for the salvation of your soul, the Father is loving you. He who has my commandments and keeps them. It is he who loves me, and he who loves me will be loved by my Father. What a blessing. To know that by and through the covenant, as we trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, that the love of the Father is poured out upon us just as he poured it out upon us. His son, praise be to God. Amen. Brings us to our third point: the enmity of the covenant. Well, we know that this passage is not all about the love of God, although it is, in a sense, we can see the hatred of the brothers, don't we? We see Jacob's love for Joseph. We certainly see the love for the father, for this particular son, that it was unique, that it was more. There are a couple of things to note in that love. While it was greater for Joseph, implicitly, there was love for the other brothers. Moses never says that Jacob hated his sons. It doesn't say that he didn't love his sons. There was just a unique love placed upon this one Joseph. And secondly, you might ask why. Why was it that Joseph was the one who had this unique love placed upon him? The answer is, it was a matter of being, not doing. Joseph was loved more because of his being The son of Jacob's old age. In other words, Jacob had not earned the love of his father. The love was poured out because of how Joseph was made. Indeed, he even brings a bad report of his brothers to his father. It doesn't seem like he was acting well in this portion of Scripture. It wasn't because of what Joseph did. It was because of how he was made. First, then before we get to the brother's hatred, a reminder that God's love for you is not because of what you have done, but because of how you were made. He made you to be loved. Well, now we see that opposite side of emotions as the brothers respond to the love of the father for the son. Verse 4, when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peaceably to him. They were not receiving their fair share. Interestingly, the hatred does not go to the one who would love more, but to the one who was loved more. They hate because the Father made a choice. They hate because one is favored over them. They're not getting what they think they should have. It's interesting to note that the Lord Jesus Christ tells us, tells his disciples, and he tells us. Because you're not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Joseph was chosen. A particular love was placed upon him out of all of his brothers. And as a result of that choice, There's hatred. Hatred stems, it flows. And then it increases as Joseph dreams. And even before Joseph shares the details of his dreams with his brothers, they hated him even more, verse 5. But then as he shares the actual dream with them, their response is even more hatred. The sheaves, those the binding of the grain in the fields. That's what a sheaf is. Bound together so they might be harvested. cut and then drawn together. And Joseph says, my sheaf, which was grain bound together, My sheep stood upright. Usually they're kind of laying over. His is upright. And the sheaves of the brothers gather around. They bow down before his sheaf, demonstrating clearly as the brothers get it. Shall you indeed reign over us? Or shall you indeed have dominion over us? Hey, understand the dream. They understand the implication of what he has dreamt and what he is saying, and so they hate him for his dreams, and look at that for his words. Second dream works even more hatred, jealousy and envy. As now it it moves from the field, it moves from the earth to the heavens, the heavenly realms, indicating that this reign is over all things. Not just the earth, but over heaven itself. The sun, the moon, the eleven stars bow down. To Joseph. His brother's envy. His father rebukes him Interestingly, as we look up that word envy in Webster's 1828 dictionary, it says, whoever envies another confesses his superiority. Seems exactly what the brothers were doing. They were hating. His father was rebuking because the word of God was coming through Joseph in a sense. And they hated his word. They hated what they were looking at. They hated authority. They hated the completeness of it. And they didn't want it. God ordains, even determines, that enmity will happen. This is part of God's covenantal plan You might think, well, he's wringing his hands as he's given his word to Joseph, as he's told them what will happen in the future, that if the brothers would be happy, that say, oh, this is wonderful. We're going to be saved. No, God wasn't wringing his hands. And I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your seed and her seed. We must see this as that's what's happening. God is placing enmity, hatred, a division now between Jacob and his brothers, so that God's plan can be worked God not only plans for enmity, he designed it, such that the alliance that Eve made with Satan would ultimately be broken And that he would be made friends, so to speak, with all of his children. But he's first got to place enity between the two lines, between the two seeds It's part of God's plan. It's part of God's covenant. I'm hoping that we can see the big picture. His family, Jacob, Joseph, and the other eleven were being called to look forward to what was to come about. The dreams of Joseph were visions, indeed a a form of prophecy, a form of God's revelation to his people. at a certain time in the history of redemption, revealing to them that which was to come in time future. They were given a truth-telling glimpse as to how the God of creation was going to work in their lives in the future, how he was going to raise up one and humble others. Yet, all the while, this family, this father, these sons were called to live in the moment. This is what's going to happen in the future, but you're called to live today knowing that. In light of that They were called to live in the now, knowing what was to come. They were called to live contentedly in submission. We don't see it. But that was the call. Isn't that our call as well? When the Lord is revealed to us through his word and the work of the Spirit, that all those who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ are His. And that he will keep every single one of his children through the outworking of his covenant And that as the Lord has drawn his children into his covenant and made each one a participant, a promise Holder, so to speak, then everyone who belongs to Christ knows that he or she is returning to God through Christ And that by his love, by the love of the triune God, that you will be taken to dwell with your God in peace and in purity forever. That's the vision. That's the truth that God has revealed to you if you know Christ this morning. And when you know that, when this has been revealed to you, not in a dream, not in a vision, but by his almighty word, then you do know the future. And now God is calling you to live, to live now knowing what He has promised for you. Doesn't that change everything? Isn't that the suggestion that we have as As Jacob considers the things in Joseph's dreams, his father kept the matter in mind. Isn't that the suggestion? Isn't that what Paul had in mind as we wrote, as he wrote, though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed? Day by day. For this light, momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. You know the truth, brothers and sisters. You know the future God has promised. He's preparing for you an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison by and through any light and momentary afflictions that you're experiencing today. And he's calling you to live in light of knowing that, in light of believing that, with joy and contentment. For the things that are seen are transient. But the things that are unseen are eternal. In his mercy, in his mercy, God reminds us of these things. He even uses the enmity which was harbored in the hearts of the brothers of Jacob who were in rebellion to keep his children from entering into alliance with them. As Joseph is about to experience a light, a momentary affliction which was preparing him for an eternal glory. Yes, the love and the mercy of the living God is poured out upon his children through the covenant of grace. The love and mercy of God in the garden was possible only because of the Father's love for the Son. Which now through the Son is being poured out upon every child of the covenant. Praise be to God. Amen Amen. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we thank you so much for this passage. We thank you so much for the covenant. Father, we thank you for your love for the Son. Oh Lord God, we are such a weak and a frail people, but you have condescended to us by and through your covenant And you've lifted us up. You've raised us up. You've given us a vision of the future glory with you and Christ and the Spirit. We praise you. Help us to keep our minds fixed upon these things. Knowing that you're doing all this as you prepare for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. Thank you, we praise you. We love you, Lord. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.