If you turn your copy of God's Word now back to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue our study there in chapter 18. I believe that's on page nine hundred and seventy-nine. And we'll begin reading in verse twenty-one. Let's give attention to the Word of God. Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle his accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one who was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold with his wife and children and all that he had in payment to be made. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, have patience with me, and I will pay you everything. And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. But when that same servant went out, He found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denari. And seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, Pay what you owe! So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, Have patience with me, and I will pay you. He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant, I forgave all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you, and in anger? His master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly father will do to every one of you. If you do not forgive your brother from your heart. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. You pray with me. Heavenly Father, we ask now that you would dig deeply into our hearts. But this passage is a serious and heart cutting passage. Father, help us to see. Help us to see the depths of our sin. And then encourage us in Christ. And in his forgiveness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, how valuable is the forgiveness that you've received from Jesus Christ? Do you ever think of that? Consider what happened when Joseph's brothers Knew now that they were under Joseph's wrath Remember that they had treated Joseph badly, to say the least. They sent him off to be a slave in Egypt. And when Joseph rose up and became second in the nation, and the brothers then after their father had died, go to Joseph. And ask him for forgiveness or tell him that their father wanted Joseph to forgive them. Joseph wept. Even as they fell down before him, he said, Do not fear, am I in the place of God? Acknowledging that they meant evil against him, Joseph recognized that God meant what happened to him for good. And so he forgave them. Joseph told them, Do not fear that he would provide for them. And Moses records that he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. See, the brothers were concerned that Joseph would hate them for all the evil that they had done and repay them. But Joseph responded with forgiveness. It seems that Joseph knew the value of the forgiveness that he had received. From God Himself. We are in this passage in chapter 18 of Matthew's Gospel. Indeed, in chapter 18, we've been seeing that the focus is on the kingdom and that focus continues. It began with the disciples coming to Jesus Christ and asking, who's the greatest in the kingdom? And and Jesus pointing them to the little children. And saying you need to become like them in order to enter in. He told them that they had to cut off those things that were causing them, that were tempting them to sin. He told them that they needed to rejoice when one straying sheep was brought back into the fold. The focal point of the entire chapter seems to be the fact that the Father wills not that any one of these little ones would be lost or perish. And that brings us to our passage today. Matthew 18, beginning at verse The centerpiece is obviously forgiveness. When Jesus has spoken about forgiveness many times. To his disciples, we would be remiss if we didn't remember how he spoke to them about forgiveness in the model prayer that he gave to them way back in chapter 6, as we have it now recorded. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts. Jesus conditioned that prayer, didn't he? by saying you also need to pray we as we also have forgiven our debtors. Forgive us like that Jesus himself forgave sinners, didn't he? As a paralytic was brought to Jesus and he sees the faith of those who lowered him down and the paralytic on the mass. He said, Take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. Or to the woman, uh woman at Simon the Pharisee's house who who wiped Jesus' feet with her tears. Your sins are forgiven. Forgiveness is obviously central to Matthew's gospel. Forgiveness is obviously central to the gospel itself. Jesus came to save people from their sins. And he does that by establishing a foundation, a basis for forgiveness. One must be forgiven, washed, clean, if you will ascend the holy hill of the Lord. And so as we come to this passage this morning, we can say once again that this is not difficult, a difficult passage to understand. Is it a difficult passage to apply? Yes, of course. But it's not difficult to understand. Peter asks a simple question. How often does my brother sin against me and shall I forgive him? Seven times? Could it be that much? Peter had heard Jesus' teaching on the restoration of a sinning brother. Jesus had already explained that if a brother sins against you, you're to go to him and explain what he has done. So that you might win your brother back. And if that didn't work, you take one or two with you, and if that doesn't work, you take it to the church. The whole precept, the whole idea was that this one would be restored. That sin would be confessed and repented of, that there would be reconciliation. And that seems to be the case that Peter is thinking about. If I go and he confesses his sin and repents, how many times should I go back? How often? How many times would my brother sin against me and I go to him, explaining his sin, and forgive him? Peter was looking for a limit. And so Jesus' answer rings in our ears, doesn't it? As Peter suggests seven times, Jesus takes that and says, no, no, no. That's much, much too low. I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times, or as other translations have it, seventy times seven. In other words, Jesus explains to Peter that he has an obligation to forgive his brother, who's confessing and repenting of his sins always, that there's no limit. And so Jesus uses that parable to drive the point home. He uses the parable first to show the wickedness of men's heart, the great offense that our sin is to a holy God. Represented by that 10,000 talent debt. Matthew Henry calls this a king's ransom. Hendrickson refers to it this way. Even if a laborer were to save all the money he earned, he could not expect during his lifetime to accumulate even ten talents. This debt was impossible to pay off, demonstrating to what extent our sins offend a holy God. Then the comp the compassion of the mercy of the king to forgive. As the servant falls to his knees and asks for patience, the compassion of the king flows out. And the debt is forgiven. But then the failure and refusal of the servant to recognize the great gift that he's been given, to rejoice in the forgiveness granted, and he goes and and grabs a fellow servant who owes him a hundred denare, again Hendrickson saying this is a trivial amount, maybe about a hundred days labor, three or four months. And he throws him in prison until he can pay the debt off, causing the king to revoke his forgiveness. In his anger, his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt, an eternal debt. Don't miss that. Eternal imprisonment. For this was an impossible debt to pay. The passage is not difficult to understand. I'd like to say that we will see at least three doctrines in this passage. First, that all in Adam will offend, secondly, that Jesus will forgive, and finally, unforgiveness will imprison. All under the heading that forgiveness among men is founded in the eternal forgiveness, graciously provided by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. Forgiveness among men is founded in the eternal forgiveness graciously provided by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. Well as we begin then, let me ask you that question. What value do you place on your forgiveness? Well, first, all and Adam will offend. There are a couple of things that stand behind this text, a couple of truths. And we have to begin with these unstated obvious truths. First, we are all sinners Who will at some point in time, or very possibly many points in time, offend one another Certainly that's the backdrop. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him it's false. That's the backdrop to the prior passage and it continues on into this passage we have this morning. We will sin against one another. It's part of our inherited corrupt nature in Adam. It's part of original sin. That's the way that the Westminster divines describe it as they ask that question in the shorter catechism, wherein consists the sinfulness of that estate whereinto man fell. And the answer is it consists in the guilt of Adam's first sin and the want of original righteousness and corruption of his whole nature. We lack original righteousness, we don't have it anymore. And in its place, we have this self-centeredness, we have this inordinate self-love, we have this inordinate self-preservation, and we will seek after our own good first and foremost. to the detriment of all others. That's our nature. In Adam, we will consistently seek to lift up our own interests above everyone else's. That's our individual and collective problem. It underlies this entire passage. There's a second truth that underlies this passage And that is every single time we sin, every time we break God's law, whether it be a lie or adultery or disobedience to our parents, we're sinning against God Himself. Refending God, a holy God, an infinite God. See, in this parable we have that illustration. Provided by Jesus that the slave who owed the master this sum owed him an exorbitant sum. infinite amount was owed in unpayable debt. That's the picture. And that's the picture of what we owe to God. every time we sin against him. An unpayable debt. If you get nothing else from the sermon this morning, please hear this that each one of us owes God a debt which is so great, its magnitude is so high, we can never repay it. Each and every one of your sins. Every time you break the law of God, you have offended him. And as the living and true God, who is infinite in his being in all of his attributes, you've offended him infinitely. It can't be measured. Think of it this way if you have a headache Or if you're in the backyard trying to nail something and you miss the nail and hit your thumb. That pain, whether it's the headache or the thumb. Will be limited. It might not seem so in the moment, but the offense to your head or to your thumb, so to speak, will have a limited duration. Not so when you offend an infinite, holy, righteous, pure God. And thus the punishment for an infinite sin must match Every time we sin against God, we earn the punishment due from him, and God's punishment for sin is death, and that's eternal death It's eternal separation from him, and it's described and characterized by his eternal and everlasting wrath. The fire in hell that never goes out. This is an eternal death. And so those two truths that we are an offensive people And that we have offended God eternally. Stand behind this passage. So we have to recognize, brothers and sisters, that sin offenses will come. Others Will offend you. The session, the pastor, will offend you. Not on purpose. Friends, family members, co-workers, neighbors, those close to you will offend you. The only question is how will you respond? How will you perceive the offense or the sin that's been committed against you? Isn't that what Jesus is presenting to Peter? As Peter sought to put a limit around the number of times that he would have to forgive my brother. As he was ready to stop forgiving and hold on to sin. But Jesus was saying, Peter, you must recognize that the offense which you receive from your brother is in one sense insignificant. When compared to the magnitude of your offense against the Holy God and the eternal forgiveness that you have received. You see at that moment that Peter suggested a mere seven times he was blind to the great offense that his own sin was against the living God. The question is, are you able to see it? Are you able to grasp, even begin to grasp? the infinite nature of the way you've offended your Lord and your God You must be able to see the wretchedness of your sin before a holy God, along with Isaiah, who stood in the throne room and said, Woe is me. For I am lost. I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. We need to be able to say that with Isaiah and know it truly from the heart. That's the first step. The second step is recognizing, receiving, and rejoicing in the forgiveness of Christ. Which brings us to our second point. Jesus will forgive. Well, God is a God who desires to grant Forgiveness, isn't he, isn't he? Consider how this parable begins. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. It's the king's desire. He's the one who's pushing this forward for payments to be made, for his servants to be debt-free. That's the king's desire. God is a God who considers the condition of his people. Possibly more than any other scripture clearly tells us, this scripture tells us that fact. As the servant is brought in and that debt is placed before him, that ten thousand talents owed, and since he couldn't pay, he falls to his knees. And he implores the king, have patience with me, I will pay you. And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. The king desired to settle accounts. And at that moment he desired this servant to be free. You see, we serve a God of compassion, don't we? Compassion and gracious, low to anger, abounding in loving, kindness, and truth. That's the God who Jesus speaks of in this passage, the God who forgave this infinite debt. The Lord knows your condition. He knows your estate. He the king in this parable saw it. He had pity on this one who asked for patience. God knows you're dust and that you'll return to dust. The Lord knows that you're weak and helpless. Just like that servant who owed the 10,000 talents. Just like the psalmist who wrote in Psalm 72, He has pity on the weak and needy and saves the lives of the needy. He knows you're weak. He knows you're needy. Just as Jesus had compassion on the crowds as he saw them in Matthew chapter 9, he knew that they were helpless and harassed like sheep without a shepherd. You see, Jesus knows that our flesh is weak. As the disciples couldn't keep their eyes open when he asked them to pray in the Garden of Gethsemane, the flesh is weak. Spirit is willing. And so the Father sent the Son. Because of our weakness, because of our flesh. He sent the Son to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, to the opening of the prison, to those who are bound, because they couldn't open it themselves. That describes us. It describes our helpless nature. He sent Jesus to revive the spirit of the lowly, to revive the heart of the contrite. That's the compassion of our God. And he sent Jesus to secure forgiveness. That's what the inspired Apostle Paul wrote. You were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Also the Apostle John. I'm writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. See, Jesus Christ is forgiveness, isn't he? This parable or image described by Jesus is truly about himself. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. He's talking about himself. He is the king. And he has that great desire to settle that account, to pay the account off. Think of all the Old Testament offerings we read through in Leviticus. Time and time again, the the bull, the lamb, the sin offerings, the grain offerings, every single time we read about those ten times in Leviticus, we read And the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven. It's a reference to Christ. It's a reference to what Christ would do on the cross. It's a reference to what Christ did as he proclaimed forgiveness. You see, it's the blood of Jesus Christ. Which is forgiveness. That's what the writer to the Hebrews records for us. You've come to Mount Zion. To the city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festival gatherings, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. That sprinkled blood is the blood of Jesus Christ. So this then is the value, the worth. The blood of Jesus. It's of infinite value. That's why the Father could say, This is my beloved Son with whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him. See, it's more than enough to pay off a 10,000 talent debt. Do you understand that? About the blood of Jesus Christ? It's more than enough. You might be thinking, well, why, how? It's because of Jesus' innocence. It's because of Jesus' purity It's because of Jesus' obedience to his Father. It's because his will, his singular heartfelt will, his desire was to do his father's will. That's what caused and creates this blood of Jesus to be of infinite. Value. And we know that this blood is eternal. As Jesus Himself is eternal. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. Jesus is eternal, and thus his blood is eternal. Unless the value of his blood has no boundaries. It's limitless. If you're trusting in Jesus Christ this morning How much is your forgiveness worth? Brothers and sisters, let me go out on a limb. I say that I think we value our forgiveness very insufficiently. Very little. Just as a slave in the parable goes out after receiving forgiveness and thinks little of it. So little. That he's ready to confine a fellow servant and cause him to pay off a small debt in comparison to the forgiveness that he has just received. You see, world wealth was so much more significant to him than the forgiveness that he had received as a gift. So much so that the master now recognizes you, wicked servant. Should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant as I have mercy on you See, those who place such a low value on our forgiveness are actually placing a low value on the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. In order to truly value your forgiveness, you must have a sense of the price paid by Jesus Christ. And the value of his pure, unblemished, innocent blood You must know. You must know of the value above all other people, above all other things of this world. A holy, innocent, pure blood of Christ That brings us to our third point. Unforgiveness will imprison. There's a striking image at the end of this parable. The servant who was forgiven and who subsequently refuses to forgive his fellow servant now is imprisoned. The one who pled with his master, the one who had received the infinite debt payoff. now shows his truly ungrateful heart, which doesn't go unnoticed. Consider that As he goes out and and throws his fellow servant into prison, his other fellow servants watch what's going on and they bring this to the master, and the master doesn't let this escape. God sees all things, especially the heart. And that's what was being revealed in this parable to the Master. And so his master evokes the forgiveness that he had previously pronounced And now restores that impossible burden to the back of this unforgiver and places him in prison. He's in prison until such a time he can pay off the debt, and you know that means that he's in tur in prison forever. All flowing from his refusal to forgive. That's what Jesus was teaching. But because of this one's refusal to forgive after he had been forgiven, to refuse to forgive from his heart, then he wouldn't be forgiven. And he wasn't. At this point we might want to ask ourselves why? Why why didn't this one forgive? Why don't we forgive? The truth here seems to be That this one was not trusting or believing in the full forgiveness that he'd received from his master, that he wasn't receiving truly the love that had been bestowed upon him by his master. You see this the servants, both of them, asked for patience. So this fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, have patience with me, I will pay you. This word patience in the Greek means to bear up. To bear up, to be patient, to be forbearing towards someone. It's interesting that the same word for patience is used by Paul in his first letter to the Corinthians as he's describing love. And it's the first word that he uses to describe love. Love is patient and kind. You see, the patience exhibited by the master toward the first servant was a demonstration of his love, wasn't it? But the servant didn't rejoice in it. He didn't understand it that way. He was not rejoicing, he wasn't recognizing, wasn't appreciating the value of the great gift that he received, the love that his master had poured out upon him. He didn't receive the gift of forgiveness, but he left it behind He left that love of the master behind and went off to imprison his friend who'd owed him such a small debt Unless the unforgiver remained under the unliftable burden. Of his death. He remained imprisoned forever. You see, this is exactly what happens to each of us when we refuse to forgive. We're imprisoned. We're imprisoned by our refusal to forgive. It means that we hang on to the offense that has been committed against us. Thus the debt that we perceive that's owed to us. We hang on to it. We won't let it go. We grasp it in a sense. We cherish it. We hold it like ransom above the head of the one who has offended us. We see ourselves in a light of goodness. And the offender in the black darkness, elevating ourselves to a righteous, a self-righteous platform. You see, that's what unforgiveness does. It's nothing more than seeking to exalt ourselves at the expense of the one who pleads for forgiveness. When this happens, when you do this you enter that virtual prison called self-righteousness. This parable really asks us a question. And that is, are you ready to forgive? We started with recognizing that we will all offend one another at some point in time. If you haven't been offended, which I would seem to be incredible, it will come. And there is a sense that this passage is calling you to be ready. Ready to forgive The question is, are you? And to be ready means more than expecting to be offended. It means to be ready with a response. How will you respond? Are you even now preparing a response? Are you ready to recall The eternal gift and value of your own forgiveness. That's what I mean by being ready. Are you preparing? Are you ready to remember the pardon which you've received from Jesus Christ? Are you ready to consider first and foremost the cleansing that is washed over you as Jesus suffered on the cross and rose from the tomb? Are you ready to forgive from the heart? Because that's the condition, isn't it? That's the requirement. The heartfelt forgiveness. We often forgive from our lips with mere words, but hang on to the bitterness. Here. Jesus is saying that your forgiveness must be complete. It must be a forever forgiveness, forever forgotten. Forever removed as an obstacle to a continued reconciled relationship, removed as far as the East is from the West. Are you prepared to do that? Can you do that? Like Joseph. His brothers sinned against him. In wretched ways. And yet he was able to speak with them with compassion and comfort. Recognizing God's will was being done Are you ready to forgive like Jesus? Even on the cross, asking Father forgive them, for they know not what they do. See, in order to do that, you must keep in your mind, in your heart, the forgiveness that you've received. The infinite value of the forgiveness you've received from Jesus Christ. Yes, forgiveness among men is founded in the eternal forgiveness graciously provided by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. Joseph forgave his brothers, but only because he knew that he was forgiven. Brothers and sisters, we need to be those who prepare. To forgive others. We can only do that in Christ Jesus. Amen. Father and our God, we ask for help this morning. We are a corrupt and offensive people. And Lord God, it is at times difficult for us to forgive. And so we ask, Father, that you would lay upon us the weight, the value. Of the forgiveness that we've received by and through Christ. That you'd bring it to mind, Lord God, of of the infinite gift that we have received of eternal life that begins with pardon and forgiveness. Father, help us. Help us fix that in our hearts. And Father, as you do, prepare us. Prepare us for the next offense. And help us to be ready. Help us to be ready to forgive. We ask this in Jesus