You open up your copy of God's Word now to Matthew We'll continue our study there in the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew chapter 5. I think you'll find this on page 963 of your pew Bibles. And we're at verse thirty one and thirty-two this morning. Let's give our attention to the Word of God. Matthew chapter five at verse thirty-one. It was also said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. As far on the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our God and Father, as we come to a short but full And somewhat difficult passage. We pray, Father, that you would give us much grace this morning. That you would guide our hearts by the Spirit. That yes, indeed, we would be convicted of sin. But then, Lord God, we pray that you would show us your everlasting and eternal love for your people. We ask this in the name of Christ. Amen. If you're familiar with the prophet Hosea He's a man of God, and yet God called him to take a wife of harlotry, of whoredom. The picture that God was painting through Hosea was the straying of Israel, of the nation. Which was pictured as his wife, the wife of God, he being the husband Israel, the people of God, being his forever wife. And Hosea was to take this wife of harlotry, one who had been in prostitution And bring her into his home, which he did. And she conceives three children And even by the names of the children, at least two of them, the Lord was painting a picture of Israel, the second child, a female, was to be called in English No Mercy. For I will no more have mercy on the house of Israel to forgive them at all. The third was to be called not my people. For you are not my people, and I am not your God. As the prophecy unfolds Hosea's wife returns to her life of harlotry. She leaves the house. She goes to another. And returns to adultery Possibly the most powerful verse in all of Hosea. He's in chapter 3, and the Lord said to Hosea, Go again love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress. Even as the Lord loves the children of Israel. God's love was unending, even as he pictured his love With Hosea and his wife of harlotry, and calls him to go after her and bring her back into his house. The love of God was overpowering. And eternal. We're in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount. Christ has been proclaiming the kingdom to all of his disciples. And that's really what the Sermon on the Mount is all about. It's all about the kingdom of heaven as he describes it to them. He began with the Beatitudes describing the hearts of all those who were already in the kingdom, and describing those who were trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. He called them to be salt and light amidst a world of darkness. He told them that he came to fulfill the law and the prophets, not not to erase it. Not to abolish it. And then as he told them that he was there to fulfill the law and the prophets, now he begins explaining to them the depths. The goodness of the law. He began with murder and suggested and told his disciples that, you know, you really don't understand that murder begins in the heart as anger. He continued as he spoke about adultery, a passage immediately before the one that we are in now, and told them and explained to them that adultery begins in the heart as lust. Even though his disciples felt that they hadn't broken this law, he was telling them that indeed you already have broken this law as you look upon a woman with lustful intent. Today Today as we get to this passage on what we might think to be all about divorce I want us to consider that the marriage ordinance is a reflection of the nature of God And his eternal love for his people. The marriage ordinance is a reflection of the nature of God and his eternal love for his people. We'll see that in three points this morning. First establishing the marriage bond. Secondly, breaking the marriage bond, and then finally maintaining the marriage bond. You might be thinking this morning that this passage is really only for those who are married. And if you're single, if you're not married yet, you desire to be, you might be turning your ears off. Please don't This passage certainly is for those who are married, but this passage is for all this morning. As we go through it. As we go through it, I want you to see that this passage has broad, sweeping implications for every child of God. Well, first, establishing a marriage bond. It's important for us to notice that as we begin the difference between this passage in the Sermon on the Mount and the two prior passages in the Sermon on the Mount. In verse 21, as Jesus begins to deal with a few of the Ten Commandments, he refers back to the sixth commandment, you shall not Murder. That's where he begins. He begins with the sixth commandment. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder. In verse 27, Jesus speaks of the seventh commandment. You have heard that it was said you shall not commit adultery. He begins with the commandments. But here, there's a stark difference And how Jesus begins. He does not refer to one of the Ten Commandments explicitly. Yes, he does refer again to adultery Which is the result of the sin that he mentions here. But it's important for us to note that as he begins this particular passage, these two verses, It was also said, whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce, was not and is not a command from God. What was he referring to then? Because he's saying it was also said. He appears to be referring to a passage in Deuteronomy, not the one we read this morning, but a couple of chapters later in Deuteronomy 24, we read about a certificate of divorce. Moses writes to the Israelites, When a man takes a wife and marries her, and if he finds if then she finds no favor in his eyes, because he has found some indecency in her and he writes her a certificate of divorce and it goes on from there. The end of this passage is that this man cannot take this woman back after he sends her away and she is married to a second man, for she has been defiled. This was in no way a commandment God was not speaking through Moses and saying, you shall divorce your wife. Later on in Matthew's gospel, Jesus reveals to us that Moses said this to the Israelites because of the hardness of your heart. He allowed it. John Calvin put it this way. God chose to make a provision for women who were cruelly oppressed. John Murray, another theologian who lived not too long ago. Writes that this passage, Deuteronomy 24, is not even to be understood as encouraging or advising men to put away their wives. It's not to be understood as authorizing or sanctioning divorce It's all about what that man can do once this woman is put out by her second husband. He's not to take her. That's the command. So what command is Jesus referring to in these two verses as he refers to this certificate of divorce, and if that's not the command? Well, the marriage ordinance stands behind that which Jesus spoke of to his disciples. The marriage ordinance is implicit in this passage. The marriage ordinance is found in Moses' account of the creation in Genesis. We find that amongst what theologians refer to as creation ordinances in Genesis chapter two The first ordinance was to worship. As God finishes his work and rests on the seventh day, he blesses the seventh day and makes it holy. The worship ordinance. He consecrates the day. All called to worship him. A second ordinance is an ordinance of work. Find that in Genesis 2. 15, the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. Man commanded, called to work, given the blessing of work. Worship, work, and finally the marriage ordinance. The Lord God said, It's not good for the man to be alone, I shall make a helper for fit for him. And he takes a rib out of Adam and fashions it into a woman and brings her to the man. The first wedding. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. That's the command. That's implicit within these two verses in Matthew chapter 5. These three ordinances applied to all of mankind. The ordinance to worship, applicable to all, calling all to set aside that day to worship to the true and living God. The ordinance of work to keep and And watch that which has been given to men, women, and children to exercise dominion over the creation. And the marriage ordinance, most applicable for us this morning. The statute, this law of God, establishing human marriage. Not requiring marriage for all, for we know that singleness is a gift from God. But if one is inclined to marry by the Lord, then mankind has been given this ordinance. Leave father and mother, hold fast to the wife, become one flesh. This then is the backdrop, the implicit backdrop to this passage. This is the command upon which Jesus is teaching. Yes, we have the negative. God hates divorce. That's in here as well. I see that in Malachi so explicitly. As Malachi refers to the way that the Israelites have been treating their wives. The Lord was a witness between you and the wife of your youth, whom you have been, to whom you have been faithless. Though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Malachi continues. Let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth. And here's the striking part. For the man who does not love his wife but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence. That's the way God refers to the one who divorces his wife. He covers his garment with violence. That's the negative that's included within this passage. Then the positive is what we've already discussed. The man shall leave his father and his mother, hold fast to his wife, and shall become one flesh. John Calvin puts it this way: the bond of union between husband and wife is closer than that of a parent and child. If a son cannot shake off his paternal yoke, no cause can permit the dissolution of the connection which a man has with his wife. It's the closest relationship that we have here on earth. Calvin calls it a most sacred and inviolable tie. Notice that the man, the husband, has a positive obligation to leave his mother and father and hold fast to his wife. And then the third action, they shall become one flesh. is for both parties, husband and wife, and yet neither of them are the actor. Neither of them are creating this bond. Now, this is an act of God. God making man and wife one flesh. He is the one who creates. This most sacred and inviolable time. Do we think of marriage this way? As being that which God has ordained, as being that institution which the living God of creation has defined. Certainly we have civil laws which govern marriage, but God defined it. God ordained it. He instituted it for his purposes and glory Do you consider marriage as being his work of joining two together, one man, one woman in companionship, in a covenantal relationship? leaving the family of one's youth to be joined to another, not biologically, but by becoming, by the power of God, one flesh. Two sinners, two souls, one man, one woman brought into the closest human relationship that exists in creation, so close that two sinners are brought together to become one flesh. This is a great mystery But a great truth. This is the way we must think of the marriage bond. Brings us to our second point, breaking the marriage bond. This oneness of flesh brought about by God, which was a supernatural act In the Garden of Eden before sin, before sin entered into the heart of Adam and Eve, was amazing. But it's even more amazing. That since the fall from grace, since the sin of Adam and Eve The oneness that God establishes between husband and wife was not altered. It did not change. Yes, you might say, well, sin affects marriage. Yes, it does. Obviously. But sin did not change the marriage ordinance. Sin did not alter the truth that God brings two together as one. Jesus states here as much. Obviously he's writing after the fall from grace. And he is implicitly saying sin has not altered the oneness of the marriage bond. The two sinners that are are made to come together, carrying their baggage of corruption into the marriage and lust for the world and yet living together under one roof, sleeping in the same bed, sharing the same table, the same food, the same bank account. Loving one another, to have become one flesh by the continuing supernatural work of the Lord. You say, well, where is this in these two verses? Where does he say that? When Jesus teaches, I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery, these words, divorce, sending one away. With one exception or one note. It's prohibited. That's what Jesus is saying. Divorcing a spouse, except for sexual immorality, causes sin and thus is a sin. Separating is outlawed Is what Jesus was saying. Remaining joined is the rule. Why? Because the marital oneness bond is set in place by God. Because the one flesh truth had not been eradicated by Adam and Eve's sin. But they fall from grace, because every married couple has become one flesh, which is not to be broken. Indeed, which cannot be declared broken by men. Except in one limited instance. So Jesus in essence teaches that because this marital bond is God made God ordained, it truly exists, and is humanly unbreakable, even after Adam's fall from grace. Now you're scratching your head and saying, well, there's one exception to that. We have to be careful here. We have to be very careful here. While Jesus Refers back to that passage in Deuteronomy. That passage was purposefully vague, as it was addressing a particular problem which existed in Israel. The hard hearts of men. Jesus now proclaims one exception in a sense to the marital bond of oneness. I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality. Strictly read, what Jesus is saying is that That the one who divorces, because the other spouse committed sexual immorality, does not make his spouse, his former spouse, commit adultery It's clearly what he's saying, strictly, because that has already happened. That sin had already been committed So divorce can't make the one who is an adulterer into an adulterer. What is this sexual immorality that Jesus speaks of. The word in the Greek is pornea It refers to unlawful sexual intercourse, prostitution, unchastity, fornication. That's the idea. So why is it that Pornea is sexual immorality as the effect of at least declaring the breaking of the covenant? Because the oneness of flesh is in a sense broken apart. It's shattered. by the uniting with one with another outside the bonds of marriage. A principle as explained by the Apostle Paul In his first letter to the Corinthians, as he tells them that your bodies are members of Christ. And then he asks the question: Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them a member of a prostitute? And he says, Never. Do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? The two will become one flesh. And so we can see that Paul is saying that that bond, that marital bond is severely affected by one joining him or herself to another outside the marital bedroom But now Paul gives us the deeper explanation. He who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him. Do you see as Paul speaks of the marital bond and the breaking of it? He's ultimately speaking of the bond that a Christian has with the Lord The sexually immoral person sins against his own body. Flee from sexual immorality. You see This then sexual immorality is the single exception. Or better, the single circumstance where the offended spouse may, not a command May pursue divorce and not cause the other spouse to sin. It's a single instance Mentioned here by the Lord Jesus Christ, and it ultimately goes back to one's relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, as we look around the world today, as we even look within the church, we see that we make up other exceptions to the oneness bond. Are there exceptions to breaking the oneness bond made by God as sinful as corrupt human beings, we've devised many or manifold ways to break the oneness bond. Our culture, our society, even the church has justified reasons why and how a marriage might be dissolved The primary way might be to conclude that I've fallen out of love with the person to whom I'm married. This message, this device of seeking to break the bond of marriage is based upon a false and a faulty understanding of love. Love is defined by God. He is love. That emotion which one may think of as he or she declares that I've fallen out of love would be better to put this way. I love myself too much. I'm the centerpiece of this marriage, and it is my desire which matters most, regardless of what God has said or how he has defined love. We are a people who put conditions upon our love Conditions for our neighbors, yes, but also conditions for our spouses. Indeed, even conditions for our God. Our love for our spouses tends to be conditioned. If you treat me this way, the way I deserve, I will love you. If you make me feel good about myself, I'll love you. If you submit to my will consistently, I'll love you. If you agree with me about everything else, I will Love you. See the pattern? You see how this not only applies to a spouse. But also to our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. What was it that happened to King David? How did he sin against God and his multiple wives as he looks down upon Bathsheba, a very beautiful woman bathing upon her roof? Two things which precede his sin of adultery. First, he sees a beautiful woman, and second, he knows that he's that she is the wife of another. David was only concerned about his personal pleasure. He was concerned about himself. He was not concerned about his relationship with the Lord. He was certainly not concerned about his relationship with his wives. What is then the problem with divorce on demand? What does Jesus tell his disciples? I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife except on the ground of sexual immorality makes her commit adultery. And there's more. Whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. You see the truth. But the unlawful divorce has not severed the marital bond. It still exists. And that's the first sin. Sinning against God, sinning against what He has done, what He has made, the oneness. And then sinning against the spouse by making this one, in this case a woman, commit adultery. The idea seems to be that the woman needs protection, she needs to be kept, she needs to be provided for, and so she's going to be looking for the second husband, and as a result, and when she does Because the marital bond was never righteously broken, she enters into an adulterous relationship You see that which men attempt to break cannot be broken as the Lord has put these two together. God had made them one flesh, and they cannot become two. That's what Jesus is telling his disciples. Brothers and sisters, we we need to pray That the Lord would lay this upon the hearts of many, especially in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Brings us to our third point, maintaining the marriage bond. Since the fall from grace has indeed affected each and every one of us, every person who enters into a marital relationship, question might be asked, is it possible? Is it possible to maintain a one-flesh marriage? Let me suggest to you this morning that the answer is found in Christ. That a true God-honoring, God-revering one flesh marriage can truly only be maintained. As the parties to that marriage are in Christ Jesus. Only when he's the head of the marriage can that bond, that one bond, be truly Maintained. There's a movie made a few years ago. Some of you probably were not alive, in nineteen seventy called Love Story. And the single line that I remember from that movie, which became extremely popular, was love means never having to say you're sorry. Well, that's just not theologically correct, or not even realistically correct. Love, true love, one flesh love, marital love. Means just the opposite. It means constantly humbling yourself before your spouse. Because you're humbling yourself before your Savior and saying sincerely Daily, please forgive me For each party to a marriage is a constant sinner. All have turned aside. Together they become worthless. No one does good, not even one. There needs to be a humbling, a contrite heart. It's only made by the work of the Spirit within each party to the marriage. So we can constantly be coming before one another and seeking forgiveness. Because we've received forgiveness in Christ. Well, maintaining is one thing, but restoring is something completely different. When that sexual immorality happens There is a loss of trust. There is a heartbreak. Given the closeness of the marital relationship, the oneness, the intimacy, we must consider the pain, the heartache Experienced with a break of trust with marital unfaithfulness is one of the greatest emotions felt by the injured spouse. This trust has been broken. The heart has been emotionally crushed. The pain is real and shattering. It's searing. A great gap has been created, a breach. What is the solution? Divorce? It's permitted. But it's not commanded. It's not God's desire. Divorce is never pleasing to God. Yes, there must be forgiveness for the truly repentant spouse. That cannot be withheld. Lord's Prayer even tells us that at the end of it. If you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. But restoration of trust is quite another thing. That requires a constant looking, seeking And pursuing of Christ Jesus. Can a broken marital relationship be restored? Absolutely. But only in Christ, only in Christ can that trust truly be restored All of this must point us to our perfect husband. God Himself, through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, if we join ourselves to another God, which is no God at all, we have broken our bond to the one who is the true and perfect husband, the Lord Jesus Christ. We become an adulterer or an adulteress. So the theme, the foundation of these verses is this, yes, first, God hates divorce And we can see that as Jesus promotes an enduring marriage bond. But the real root, the real foundation of this passage is that God is a covenant-making and a covenant keeping God. God is a God of eternal and everlasting and unbreakable love See, he will not, he cannot stop loving his people. We see that in Hosea. We see that throughout the scriptures. You see that in your own heart As a result, he he will not, he cannot break his covenant. He is not merely a God that hates divorce. He is that, yes. But the root of the matter is that God will not divorce. He will continue to love the bride of his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. He will continue to prepare the bride of Christ for that great wedding day. There will be no breaking of the covenant. There will be no divorce ever There will only be the continued beautification of the bride's church until Jesus returns. The bride will never ever be sent away. There will be no certificate of divorce handed to her, all because God's love is eternal, unbounded, and unconditional. So this passage is a dim reflection of the nature of God and his eternal love and his eternal marriage to his children. And this is the amazing thing. If anyone deserved a certificate of divorce, it would be you and me. We can certainly think of the Israelites. They deserved one too We stray from the Lord, we manufacture other gods, idols, we worship in our hearts. We have defiled the marriage bed with our only true and living God. And yet Because of the Lord Jesus Christ, he still loves you. So much so that he would send his son to die for you and continue to dress you for that great wedding day.