Return your copy of God's Word now to Leviticus. We'll be in chapter twenty-four tonight. I believe that's on page one hundred and twenty-one of your few Bibles. And we'll read the whole chapter tonight. Let's give attention now to the Word of God. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Command the people of Israel to bring you pure oil from beaten olives for the lamp, that a light may be kept burning regularly. Outside the veil of the testimony in the tent of meeting, Aaron shall arrange it from evening to morning before the Lord regularly. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generation. He shall arrange the lamps on the lampstand of pure gold before the Lord regularly. You shall take fine flour and bake twelve loaves from it, two-tenths of an epha. Shall be in each loaf. And you shall set them in two piles, six in a pile, on the table of pure gold before the Lord. And you shall put pure frankincense on each pile, that it may go with the bread as a memorial portion, as a food offering to the Lord. Every Sabbath day Aaron shall arrange it before the Lord regularly. It is from the people of Israel as a covenant forever. And it shall be for Aaron and his sons, and they shall eat it in a holy place, for it is for him a most holy portion out of the Lord's food offerings, a perpetual due. Now an Israelite woman's son whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the people of Israel, and the Israelite woman's son and a man of Israel fought in the camp. And the Israelite woman's son blasphemed the name and cursed. Then they brought him to Moses. His mother's name was Shelometh, the daughter of Gibri. of the tribe of Dan. And they put him in custody till the will of the Lord should be clear to them. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Bring out of the camp the one who cursed. And let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him, and speak to the people of Israel, saying, Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him. The sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the name, shall be put to death. Whoever takes a human life shall surely be put to death. Whoever takes an animal's life shall make it good, life for life. If anyone injures his neighbor. As he has done, it shall be done to him. Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. Whatever injury he has given a person shall be given to him Whoever kills an animal shall make it good. Whoever kills a person shall be put to death. You shall have the same rule for the sojourner and for the native, for I am the Lord your God. So Moses spoke to the people of Israel, and they brought out of the camp the one who had cursed and stoned him with stones. Thus the people of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses. As far as the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we come once again and plead for help. Lord God, we pray that you would help us, guide us by your Spirit tonight through this passage. That as your servant speaks, that I would be indeed faithful to your word. That you, Lord God, would apply. Apply this text. To our hearts tonight. All for your glory. Amen. When Jesus stood before the High Council, so to speak, when he was tried by the religious leaders of the day. As I said this morning, they failed to bring someone who could actually accuse him truly of a crime. And it was not until Jesus confessed himself to be Christ, the Son of the Blessed That they convicted him of blasphemy. Jesus spoke the truth. Jesus used the name of God. Reverently, and those Those religious leaders of the day called him a blasphemer. Tonight we come to a passage wherein the name of God is set forth for us. We recognize that throughout this book of Leviticus, we have seen, as I've said last week, that sin has complicated all things. And that God has been about the work of creating a place for the people to worship Him. And tonight, while it may be difficult to see, it would be my understanding that this passage is all about the true worship of the living God. Tonight I want us to see the true worshipers are called to bring only that which is pure before the living God. True worshipers are called to bring only that which is pure before the living God. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, what is the call? Secondly, what is the object? And finally, what is the blessing? At times we can get bogged down in Scripture when we just don't understand things. Tonight I'm hoping that as we consider the things that are set before before us, we'll see the simplicity. Of what God calls us to in worship. Well, first then, what is the call? We have set forth before us in these first two paragraphs commands for the Israelites. And I want to make sure that we understand what is being said here as there is a command to bring pure olive oil from vegan olive oil. And a command to bring fine flour or twelve loaves of bread to be set within the worship space. Now, if you remember, the tabernacle was a tent And within the tent, there were several things, several pieces of furniture to be used in worship. One was a lampstand. This lampstand was to be lit all the time. And it was the priest's job to make sure it would stay lit. And opposite the lampstand was a table. And on the table were to be twelve rather large loaves of bread. And the light from the lampstand was to be shining down, so to speak, upon those twelve loaves of bread. Now these were things that the priests were called to do in worshiping God. These were things that were in the holy place, not in the holy of holies. These were outside of that place where the Ark of the Covenant was kept. Both of these things were used As worship would take place 24 hours a day, 365 days a week. The lampstand was lit, the bread of the presence Was there representing the twelve tribes of Israel. And so that's a little bit of background to help us understand now what the people are being called to. Remember the Lord provided the pattern. He provided the pattern and the process. He provided the pattern for the tabernacle. Everything about the tabernacle. was designed, so to speak, and given to Moses. You shall build this thing exactly according or concerning the pattern that I give you. Meaning those were God's words. to Moses. And even the furniture was to be constructed exactly according to the pattern given to Moses. An ark of acacia with two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height, overlaid it with pure gold. And then the process, not only the pattern, but the process of worshiping God was designed and implemented Aaron shall come into the holy place with a bull from the herd for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. He shall put on the holy linen coat and shall have the linen undergarment on his body. He shall tie the linen sash around his waist and wear the linen turban. These are the holy garments. He shall bathe His body and then put them on. And then notice he called the people. The people of God were to bring the things for the house of worship. The entire tabernacle was constructed of materials to be brought by the people. The Lord said to Moses, speak to the people of Israel. But they take from me a contribution for every man whose heart moves him, you shall receive the contribution. God designed it, He calls the people to bring all the materials. And we've seen the role of the priests. We understand what their job was. We understand what the Levites were to do. You understand that there was a role for animals, animals brought by the people. And now we know that the tabernacle has been erected, it's functioning. as the meeting place of God and the representatives of the people, Moses and the priests are are going in and using the tabernacle just the way God has has promised and called them to. We might we might think that this is just the priests who are involved We might think that the rest of the Israelites, the six hundred thousand men plus women, plus children, are just outside. That's not the case. The people were always involved. In fact, the people must be involved. The people must be participants in worship. The building of the tabernacle should be involved The bringing of the animals and the grain, the sacrifices showed that. It came from the people. And now, now here getting close to the end of Leviticus. You see that the lamps are to be kept burning regularly. How many times does does Moses use that word translated here in English? versions regularly. Three times maybe. How? How are the f Lamps to be kept burning regularly. Well, it was only because the people of Israel were commanded to bring pure beaten olive oil. He's set up to burn. It was by and through the use of pure oil from beaten olives provided by the people of God. Listen, you shall command the people of Israel. Specifically, the Lord spoke to Moses. Moses command the people of Israel. The people of Israel, the church, were to bring the oil. They were to prepare the I don't know how to make olive oil. But apparently it requires requires some beating. And it had to be pure. It couldn't be a mixture. They had to pay attention to what they were doing. Presumably the people who were bringing the oil were to prepare it by beating the olives, ensuring that And nothing else was mixed in with the olives. It was to remain one substance, it was to remain pure. And not only the olive wood. Look at verse five. You shall take fine flour and bake twelve loaves from it two tenths of an etha, and you shall set them in place in two piles, six in a pile, and you shall put pure frankincense on each pile Who was supposed to do that? Well, the priests were to take it in. But it was the people of Israel. They were the ones who were bringing the bread. They were the ones who were taking fine bread They were the ones who were baking twelve loaves. They were the ones who were bringing the frankincense. And did you notice But the frankincense was to be pure as well. But the flower was to be fine. It was from the people of Israel. And it was a covenant forever. They were bound by a covenant. The people of Israel were participants. They were engaged. It was not just the priests. Indeed, how were the priests to survive? Well part of it was by eating these loaves. Remember these loaves would only stay a week. And the priest would take off the old loaves, put on the new, and they would have those twelve loaves for themselves. That's how they would be sustained in part. By and through the labors of the people who are bringing the bread. It's a picture of the church today, isn't it? How are the past The preachers to survive. It's not by their worldly labors. No, they're workmen, they're worthy of their wages. It's another way in which the people of Israel participated in worship. by caring for those who interceded for them. There was a mutual dependence going on. The people of Israel depended upon the intercession of the priests. And the priests depended upon the people whom they interceded for to bring them sustenance. So what do we see in these passages? What were the people of Israel to do? What was the call? The call was to bring that which was pure. The call was to bring only that which was pure We've seen that in the animals, unblemished. And now we're seeing it in the oil, the pure olive oil, the pure frankincense. Indeed, the whole book of Leviticus could be summed up in this. Bring that which is pure, undefiled, unblemished before the Lord. Lord. But here it's it seems to be focused on the people of Israel. We can get off track if we think it's just the priests. That's not the case. The people were to bring that which was pure. Both of these actions By the people of Israel involved that picture of in the need for purity. These things that the people were to bring, youth and worship were to be pure, and these things happen had to be pure as they were being brought to to approach the living God to worship before him. And it symbolized and it likely reminded the Israelites of their own need to worship in purity. They were to be engaged in bringing to the Lord through the priests that which was pure. be pure. Isn't that the call? Isn't that what we see as the call tonight? How can you bring that religion Which is pure. How can you approach the living God in purity? We're not bringing frankincense tonight Bringing our prayers. We're not bringing oil. We're bringing the light of Christ. How can we bring only that which is pure? Gives us some insight. Chapter ten. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus. By the new and living one. He opened for us through the curtain that is through his flesh. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart and full assurance. With a heart sprinkled, clean, from an evil conscience You see, without Christ, without faith, we we can't bring that which is pure. Because our consciences are divided. They're filthy. But it's only in Christ. As we come in faith in Christ Jesus that we can and are purified. Our consciousness have been washed clean in Christ. That's the only way. You have to bring Christ, so to speak. If I can put Put it that way, in faith. The only way to bring purity to God as you come to worship is to come in faith in the one who is pure. To come with the faith in the one who has cleansed you. To come in faith with the one who is Sprinkled your hearts clean and cleanse your consciences because you know you're forgiven in Christ. Otherwise you're you're bringing defiance environment with you. Because you come in faith in Jesus Christ. You've been purified. And did you notice that the writing to the Hebrews says this, in full assurance? Should be no doubt. But if you're trusting in Christ tonight, and you're coming in Christ tonight, to come with full assurance that what you're doing is you're bringing Pure, undefiled worship to the living God. Brings us to our second point. What is the object Now we come to this portion of chapter twenty-four, which causes us to ask why is this here? Look at verse 10. Now an Israelite's woman now an Israelite woman's son, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the people of Israel. And the Israelite woman's son and a man of Israel fought in the camp. And the Israelite woman's son blasphemed Commentators are question why is this passage here in this place. It's not abundantly clear how it fits in, but we will try It certainly sets forth a contrast to what has gone before it. The people of Israel were to bring that which was pure to the Lord as they engaged in worship, and now we have uh this man, this son of an Israelite woman, coming and bringing that which is defiled It would appear by inserting this passage here, Moses is in effect asking an unstated question: what am I to bring? Or better yet, just how pure am I to be The third commandment appears to be that which was violated in this passage. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. But the Lord will not hold him guiltless. He takes his name in vain. Just how pure is a worshiper to be? It's just a name. It's just a misuse of the name of God. How serious could that be? And the answer is it's definitely serious Webster's defines blaspheme as to speak of the supreme being, meaning God, in terms of impious irreverence to revive. Or speak reproachfully of God. In Mark's Gospel we read in chapter three that whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has Forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin. Blasphemy is death. serious. The Jews thought so. One commentator writes that modern uh rabbinical Jewish culture judges it forbidden to pronounce this name. In prayers it is replaced by the word Hadonai. Indeed, I have listened to Hebrew scholars who are reciting the Hebrew text, and they will not say a time. Some of them will not say Yahoo, but replace it with Adanai. The name Serious and so serious that some Jews would not even say it. Serious enough that this man was stoned to death by the entire congregation. Everyone needed to know how serious God was about purity, about sin, and about reverence for his name. Well what was going on here? What happened in this account? We don't have much in terms of detail. Two men were fighting. One man was the son of an Israelite woman and his father was an Egyptian, and the other was an Israelite. It seems that this is everyday life. If you can imagine six hundred thousand men in a camp with women and children, there were likely fights. This seems like an account of everyday life. We can speculate, but consider this. The Israelites left Egypt behind. They were at the base of Mount Sinai now. As Moses is writing these things. They had been slaves in Egypt for 400 plus years, and now the Egyptians who had survived the plagues had been left behind. The Israelites separated themselves. They separated themselves from slavery and oppression that they'd been subject to for 400 years. Or so years, and the son of an Israelite woman now appears to be fatherless. But the Egyptians were likely thought of not as friends, but as taskmasters among the Israelites. So is it possible that some of the Israelites were mocking this one who had an Egyptian father? Maybe. We don't know. Could it be that this one blaspheming the name of God and and cursing was in response to that mocking? We don't know. Was he opposing God as a result of the plagues? A result of the destruction of Egypt. Did he spew hatred? And that's what this was. Did he spew hatred toward God because he would not submit himself to God's justice? We don't know. But we can say this. This son of an Israelite woman opposed the living and true God. So much so that in his everyday life he vocalized his hatred by blaspheming the name of God. He spoke out of his heart, as Webster has put it, impious irreverence. He reviled, he spoke reproachfully of God. What's the object of our everyday lives? What is the chief end of man? To glorify God and to enjoy Him forever, every day. That's how we're to live. Even if we're mocked or treated wrongfully, whether we engaged in fights, hopefully not, or at work or at school, or just at home. Our object is to glorify the living God, especially as we use his name. This is seeking, this is bringing purity. Anything else is bringing sin. And if that is to be our everyday life, what then is the object of worship? How do you worship the living God? It's obviously a big and broad question, but if we simplify it, if we simplify the question, if we think very basically, very simply and clearly, we would necessarily say that we worship God by and through his name. Isn't that the case? Isn't that how we know God? To the extent we as finite creatures know him by his name. Isn't that what Moses was seeking as the living God was sending him back to deliver the Israelites out of bondage, out of slavery? As he stood before the unconsumed burning bush, didn't he ask? If I come to the people of Israel and they say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me what is his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. That's That's when the Lord told him his name. That's how he was to be Identified. That's how he was to be followed by his name. Tell them I am has sent me to you. That was it. His name, that was the way in which God refers to himself, and that was what he told him to tell the Israelites so that they would follow him out Remember, they were being delivered to worship. And so God gives them the name. Isn't that the way in which you're saved tonight In the prophet Joel, it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's what Peter preached and recorded in Acts chapter 2. Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. And Paul expands on that. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how will they to believe of him whom they've never heard? And how are they going to hear without someone preaching? Preaching in the name of the Lord Jesus. Isn't that the name which is placed on everyone who's baptized? Brought into the church. Isn't that what's what's happening? Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father. of the Son, of the Holy Spirit, the name of God is being placed on an individual when they enter into the church. It's the way in which God has made himself known, isn't it? He's made himself known to the name of his son, Lord Jesus Christ. But in these last days he's spoken to us by his son. Remember how the angel told Mary and Joseph his name. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sin. That was told Joseph just as he was told that the Holy Spirit would conceive him. But I want you to know his mean. Mary is told the same thing. You shall call his name Jesus. He was named Jesus because he would save his people. Why were the apostles told by the religious leaders of the day as they threatened them? They beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus. Because the apostles were teaching of the one Living and true God through the name of His Son, Jesus. How do we know Jesus if it's not by His name? The Savior, the Son of God, the Holy One of Israel, the Son of David, the righteous one, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. Isn't that not how we worship Him? I'm hoping we'll begin to see the significance of the name. Even so we read it Tonight from Philippians. Being found in a human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him. And bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. You see the object of our worship. You see how blaspheming the name of God, of the Lord Jesus Christ, of the Holy Spirit, how that denies any possibility of worship? Once the name is defiled within your heart, there can be no worship. Blaspheming the Spirit is the only unforgivable sin set forth before us in Scripture. There's a whole nother lesson on blasphemy in the spirit, but it's been pointed out here that the son of this Israelite woman seems to have harbored hatred in his Heart for the living God. And he knew God enough because he was the son of an Israelite woman described to us tonight. Mother's name was Shalomith, the daughter of Debri, the tr of the tribe of Dan. Moses wants to make sure we have enough information to to know that this son of this woman likely had all kinds of knowledge with regard to who God was, and he nonetheless blasphemes his name. He blaspheme the object of worship. He was not bringing that which is pure and undefiled. And so, brothers and sisters, I think this passage is Here to remind us to remind the Israelites first, but then also to remind us of the name of Jesus. And that it has Exalted by his Father above every name. He is the object of our worship and we worship By his name, as well as the name of the Father and Holy Spirit, we bow before him. His name is so important for us. That brings us to our third point, then what is the blessing? And here we've We see much about death in this passage, don't we? We see much about the call for justice, the the result of our sin Verses seventeen through twenty-two just have this general precept of Of when you kill someone, your life shall be taken from you. If you injure another neighbor, uh it shall be done to you as it is done to another. God's justice is set forth in a few verses here at the end of this chapter. And did you notice that there is an emphasis here on punishment for crimes committed against God, and there's a duplication of the punishment. of death. First for the blasphemer, then for the murderer. The same punishment, the same result These rules, these laws, these punishments applied equally to all. Whether one was found guilty of blaspheming or one was found guilty of murder, the end was the same death. Sets forth before us again the seriousness of blaspheming, the seriousness of God's name and how we use it And did you notice that it was the entire congregation that was to place their hands upon this one who had blasphemed and then to stone him? Set forth forth in Deuteronomy as well, seventeen, the hand of the witnesses shall be first against him to put him to death. And afterward the hand of all the people, so you shall purge the evil from your midst. That's exactly what God was calling them to do As they put their hands on him and then each one of the congregation stoning this one to death They were purging the congregation of evil so they could return. To pure worship that they were called to. So they could continue bringing that pure olive oil, that pure frankincense. sense that symbol of purity coming before the Lord once they had purged the evil from amongst their midst. I can return to using the name with reverence, in honor, with joy, with joyful submission. It seems to be what's happening here. Have you ever noticed how Paul begins what we read in the second chapter of this letter, the church at Philippines? He was writing of unity. He was calling the church to unity. If there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection Sympathy complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love. And how does Why does he encourage them? He encourages them to this by looking at Christ, by looking at the one who came, who condescended. Who didn't count equality with God as a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, and humbled himself and was obedient to the point of death. Paul writes of unity. He writes of the basis of fellowship and communion, which leads to the ultimate communion. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Worship. A unanimous, joyful submission by the people. You see, communion begins with dying to self. That's What Paul's writing. Communion begins by having the same selflessness as Jesus. Communion or fellowship begins as one comes in the purity of Jesus. Jesus Christ. And it ends in a corporate confession of Jesus Christ as Lord, a joint worship of the one living and true God. Let's not make a mistake tonight. Let's not leave this place without fixing this truth in our minds, but even more importantly, in our hearts But the greatest blessing that any sinful human being can enjoy is the gift given by the Spirit of God to call upon the name of Jesus Christ in worship. To exalt the name of Christ above all others in the purity of worship. That's what Isaiah writes in chapter 58. If you turn your back from or turn back your foot from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure on my holy day and call the Sabbath But the delight in the holy day of the Lord honorable, if you honor it, not going your own way, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall take delight in the Lord And shall take the light in the Lord. Isn't that what we do as we worship in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? As we come in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we exalt the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, are we not taking delight in him? And as we do, do you hear the blessings? I will make you ride on the heights of the earth I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob, your father. Greatest blessing. is to be able to reverently use the name of the Lord, calling upon him in a Worship through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, whose name has been exalted above every other name. So we can worship As a community, as the body of Christ. And as true worshippers are called to bring only that which is pure. Before the living God. Jesus was convicted of being a blasphemy, even as he He was the only one in the room using the name of God relevantly. What a blessing. To know that this one is the one who went to the cross for you. And as a result, his name been exalted above every other man. So we can come tonight and worship him, worshiping his name Blessed be the name of our triangle. Amen. Father in heaven, we've only touched upon this passage tonight, and we all have to confess that it's much deeper and much richer. we even comprehend tonight. And that we thank you for the bit of understanding that you've given us by and through the Spirit tonight. Father, what a blessing it is to be able to use your name, to be able to use and and know the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to know that his name has been a Exalted because of his righteousness, because of his sacrifice, because of his pure atonement. To know that we can come tonight in purity. His name. He thank you, we praise you.