If you're able to remain standing, we will look at God's word together from Luke 25 and we will begin Reading in verse 25 and then read through verse 48. This is the last chapter of the Gospel of Luke And this is where the Lord Jesus Christ appears to two of his disciples on the road to Emmaus. They're traveling about seven miles from Jerusalem, and the Lord, after he's risen on the third day, And in that transition between his resurrection and his ascension, he appears to many, but he appears in this passage to two first. Who asked him with sadness, have you not heard of the things that have happened? How we thought this Jesus of Nazareth was a prophet sent by God, but Our own chief priests and the rulers of the people, the Jews and the Gentiles together, have put him to death and crucified him. And they were very sorrowful and sad. And this is the response we get. And before we read, let's look up, before we look down at God's word and pray for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Lord Jesus, we see you with eyes of faith, risen, ascended, enthroned, and full of the Holy Spirit, and we ask now that you'd pour out your Spirit upon us as we read. As we hear, as we understand, we ask that you'd open our ears to hear, our hearts to receive, our minds to understand, that you would help your servant to decrease That you may increase, that we might behold your beauty and your glory, your greatness, your power, and be transformed from one degree of glory to the next. We pray in Jesus' mighty name. Amen. And how did Jesus respond in verse 25? He says to these disciples, O foolish ones. And slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things? and enter into his glory and beginning with Moses and all the prophets He interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going further, but they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us. For it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it, and he gave it to them. And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. They said to each other, did not our hearts burn within us while he talked to us on the road, while he opened to us the scriptures And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven. And those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon. Then they told what had happened on the road and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. And as they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them and he said to them, Peace be to you. But they were startled and frightened and thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled and why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate it before them. Then he said, these are my words. That I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. And he said to them, Thus it is written that the Christ should suffer, and on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance For the forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you, but stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. May He bless not only the reading but the preaching of it. You may be seated. Beloved, this is a powerful post-resurrection passage about the Lord Jesus. Jesus has fully paid through his own precious blood on the cross the penalty for our sins. He has broken the power of the principalities and powers over mankind. He has disarmed the principalities and powers that he has laid in the tomb. On the third day he rose from the dead, and he's making these very gracious generous appearances to his disciples. And you notice something most authentic about this passage. You know that Luke is a historian, he's a doctor, and he's very importantly inspired by the Holy Spirit. And there is an authenticness about this passage we see right away. First, when the two disciples on the road to Emmaus are speaking to Jesus, they said that they heard first about the empty tomb from the women. And in the ancient world, in this culture, a woman's testimony was invalid. And yet that's the truth. It was the women who saw Jesus first and saw his empty tomb But the second very important authenticness about this that makes it real and true and shows us this evidence that it is inspired from God is that The disciples, when they see Jesus, whether on the road to Emmaus or whether he appears to them and says, peace be to you, do not immediately put all the pieces of everything they know about the Old Testament and his teaching together to form a picture that Christ has died and that he has risen from the dead In fact, they're defined, all of them are described, as sorrowful, as troubled, as marveling but disbelieving, as joyful but doubting Oh, the Lord knows us. He knows each one of us. And it's an important reminder. We say that if we just saw Jesus in the flesh, we'd believe. But the truth is Jesus Himself says to us Even if someone were to rise from the dead, if they don't believe Moses and the prophets, they will not believe even if someone appears risen from the dead. That's Luke 16, 29, and following. He's very clear on that. So Jesus wants us to see him through his word. And that's why even as the risen Almost glorified Lord in this time period points the disciples to the Bible study. He points them to the Word of God. Inspired, inscripturated, and illuminated by his spirit. In fact, once we see that this passage is quite authentic In the way it honestly describes the testimony and the troubled hearts of the disciples, we see that there's a need for illumination. We need the Holy Spirit. to hear and believe and have eyes to see Jesus through the scriptures. That's why in this state, the disciples on the road to Emmaus at first do not recognize him until he opens their eyes to see. And in the second passage where Jesus appears and says, peace be to you, in verses 44 and following, Jesus says These are the words I spoke to you while I was still with you. I'm just reminding you of the teaching you've had, the Bible studies you've had with me for the last three years. What a privilege. He said that everything written about me, that is Jesus, in Moses and the prophets and the writings must be fulfilled. And then it says he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. So we as his people, even those who were with him in the flesh, we need the power of the Spirit to see The glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ in the scriptures. We need the Spirit to hear his word as the very word of God. We need his spirit to take all of these pieces And put them together as one beautiful, glorious portrait of Jesus Christ. And that's why he says, everything was written about me. And he summarizes the Old Testament in three parts, a kind of inspired trilogy He says, beginning with Moses and the prophets and the Psalms of the writings. Those were the three parts of the old covenant That they would have understood that what he's saying when he's saying the scriptures, he's saying at this point, the Old Testament scriptures. Now the same thing applies for the writing of the New Testament as Jesus will send his Spirit. to write the rest of the twenty-seven books of our Bible. But at this point, he's talking particularly about knowing Christ. Everything that we need to know about Christ from the Old Testament, from Moses, the prophets And the writings or the Psalms. He even tells us that this is tied to the mission that we have as a church That knowing this by the power of the Holy Spirit through the Word, we are then to verse 47, as church founded on the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ being the cornerstone, we're to proclaim. Publicly, like we're doing right now, proclaim publicly, or like we do for the Lord's Supper, that we're proclaiming the Lord's death until He comes. As the church corporate, as families, as individuals, we're proclaiming what? His name to all the nations, Jews and Gentiles, beginning from Jerusalem, and he tells us, you are witnesses of these things. You see, this understanding Christ from the scriptures is part of our ministry. It's part of our message. It's part of our mission. It's most important. And to remember again as they were. He says with his holy hand, whoa whoop whoop whoop whoop whoop Hold on one one moment, he says, in verses 49 in verse 49, he says, behold, I am going to send the promise of the Father. To you. But wait until you're clothed from on high. Because the church needs Pentecost. The church needs The cross and the resurrection. But the church needs Pentecost. The church needs the Holy Spirit to accomplish this task faithfully through God's word. And that's how Jesus then sends off his disciples to wait upon the day of Pentecost. Now the day of Pentecost Is as unrepeatable as the cross is unrepeatable. It was a once and for all pouring out of God's Spirit upon his people. There's daily fillings of that Spirit that each of us need. Daily direction and guidance by that Spirit. Through the Word. We're to daily be filled with the Spirit. We're to daily seek the fruit of the Spirit. But that once and for all pouring out was just that once and for all, to equip God's people in union with Him to be those who would proclaim Christ from all the scriptures. Now let's think about this person. When you think about what he says, that everything written about me in Moses, the prophets, and the writings. How do we find that everything he's talking about? And how do we do that rightly? Let me ask you something Have you thought lately about what it takes to not only possess 39 books, But to study and know those thirty-nine books well. Well, that's what God has given us. Thirty-nine books, a trilogy. A library, an inspired library. And there are some parts of that Old Testament, of that trilogy, of that inspired trilogy, of the very Word of God, that you go, I get this. Isaiah 53, I get this. Wasn't it necessary that the Christ should suffer and then enter his glory? Okay, I got that. Isaiah 53, good. I got that. Isaiah 9, wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the Prince of Peace, the everlasting Father. Okay, I'm close. But there's some parts of the old covenant where you're scratching your head going, now, this is about someone that I have not heard about in a place I've not heard about nor visited doing something strange uh in a way that I've never practiced and I don't quite understand all that's going on You see, if you do this as a family, when you take your puzzle out during your vacation times, we as a family would like to challenge ourselves to a thousand pieces sometimes. Don't think we've gotten ahead of that But but but a thousand. We'd put all those pieces out on the table and some of them, you know, you could get the sides. You could get the sides. The sides are like Moses, the prophets in the writings. Okay? So you can see the ones that go on the sides. But then you've got these other pieces. You look at the color and you Well I don't know where this one goes. I'm gonna have to wait on that. I'll put it over here in this color pile. But what you do have, what you do have is a picture And whenever you lose or you're lost in all of the pieces, you can go and look at the picture. And you can see again. This is the picture. It's framed. And this goes in there and this picture is going to help guide me to put this in the right place. That's what Jesus is doing here. He's saying that the inspired word up to the time of his resurrection and uh what would be his ascension is are the m are make up Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms And then he says, but what I want you to understand by the Spirit's power is how to understand that everything, all the details, all the little puzzle pieces, they actually fit together. And he says, and I want you to know these things. And immediately we say, well now I've known some people to do this in church history and it's allegorical. They'll take something like uh David's five stones and say that's the Pentateuch when really that has no way of being checked And nothing rooted really in history. But if you look at David facing Goliath, but not only Goliath, but the the dragon serpent lord, Satan himself behind Goliath, an enemy of God. If you see David as the chosen, anointed, spirit-filled shepherd king from Bethlehem, you're on to something. You start saying, wait a minute, I was looking at the five stones. Or maybe I was looking at too much of the surrounding, not knowing enough about it, but right here, smack dab in front of me is a picture on the front of the box of Christ Jesus given to me in David David is pointing forward and upward to Jesus. David, he is a chosen Anointed, spirit-filled, psalm-singing, shepherd king from Bethlehem. So that means that when Jesus says everything written about me in the Old Testament, I can be assured that what David is doing At his best, as a servant, as a man after God's own heart, in his office as a faithful king, I can be sure that that's pointing to a greater son of David. And see, that's what we have when Paul begins the book of Romans. He says, I am Paul, a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. That I am one who's called to be an apostle, and then he says, I'm set apart for the gospel. He says, concerning God's son, who was descended from David. According to the flesh, but declared to be the Son of God with power through the Spirit, according to the Spirit, through the resurrection of Christ from the dead. And so that is the way, that is the proper way that we see everything written about Christ. And so these things have helped me to be able to properly in a right way study the scriptures to be able to see how everything is written about Christ in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. And it's with first this little uh jingle And this is nothing new with me. It's just I put it in a little jingle. I won't sing it. But it kind of rhymes. It's that when you're reading your Old Testament, after you've prayed for the illumination of the Spirit, ask yourself, where is the prophet, priest, and king, the person, place, or thing? Ask yourself of every prophet, every priest, every king, how it's pointing forward to Christ. Prophet, priest, and king, person, place, or thing. Now using David, that's a very popular example. It's a useful one, because when David's standing up to Goliath, he's the chosen anointed spirit filled uh psalm singing Shepherd King from Bethlehem. That sounds like someone else more much greater, more glorious that we all know. And so what is he doing in the Old Covenant? He's standing up at that point in the story of redemption to say This is what's to come, but better, bigger, that my son, my greater son, will come and destroy not just Goliath, not just a manifestation of evil, not just this manifestation of God's enemies and Israel's enemies, but the dragon serpent lord himself. The one who will come disarm. He will disable, he will bind the strong man through his powerful work. He will disable the principalities and powers. When Jesus is described in Acts 10 In Peter's sermon, it says that how describing Jesus, that God anointed Jesus of Nazareth and that he went about doing good. healing those who were oppressed by the devil because God was with him. And so how do we see Jesus in the Old Testament. One example is seeing him through David Now when David falls and stumbles into sin, we don't see Jesus in that But we see the need for a greater, more beautiful, more perfect king who will love his bride, and who will lay down his life for his bride, and he will be faithful to his bride, and who will never fall into sin. And so that's how we're to read our Bibles. But let's go back to the prophet, priest, and king, person, place, or thing. We think of all the prophets in the scriptures. From the very beginning, God called prophets to speak for him, his truth, to the people. And so every prophet is ultimately showing that there is a fullness of time. There's a great prophet who's coming. And and Jesus, when he comes, is named, is called, is scribed as a prophet, because he speaks God's final word. The Bible says in Hebrews 1, 1 through 4, that in times past God spoke to our fathers through the prophets. But in these last days he has spoken to us through his Son. And so the prophets point forward to Christ. It's very helpful to see that. You know, our own confession teaches us this in chapter 8. in the Westminster Confession of Faith. Very helpful to remember this uh prophet, priest and king. As a priest, what was a priest? Well if a prophet particularly was one who spoke from God's word to the people. He was one who was carried along by the Holy Spirit to speak God's word to the people, the priest. Because they were in their sins, the priest would represent God's people before the throne of God, his thrice holy throne. And the priest would be tasked with taking blood, substitutionary blood, to take that blood in the place of the sinful people and bring it into God's presence to show that if that person truly believed and was looking to God for grace through that priest Through that blood, that person would be forgiven, that that person would be cleansed, that though their sins were as scarlet, they would be made white as snow through the through the blood of the Lamb And so that the priest who would come would come on behalf of God's people to bring the people into the presence of God so that God could love and relate to and could reveal himself as a father to his children. Through Christ as a bridegroom to a bride. And the ultimate priest was Christ. The the whole book of Hebrews. I'd have to read we'd have to start from Hebrews uh write around chapter five and read it all through to the end. But the whole book of Hebrews is about the fact that Christ was ultimately the true priest, the true high priest, the true priest that not did not offer blood of a of a mere lamb or a goat or a beast. But offered his own blood to pay the penalty for our sins before a holy God and to break the power of the serpent, the dragon, the principalities and powers, the forces that had enslaved us, because we had willingly followed them. Rather than God. Jesus is a priest. Every time you see a priest, every time you see a prophet in the old covenant, you ask, How is Jesus? How can I see his face? You say, Brother, this is important because not only can we misinterpret the old covenant, we can oftentimes, as I said earlier, think it's just uh uh Little pieces that don't make any sense to us. But this is getting at how to put those pieces together because it gives you a picture on the box. And it reminds you that God always speaks. Truthfully and clearly. There are some places that are not as clear to us, but God speaks truly and clearly. The third thing we note about this prophet, priest, and king is that it was always a promise that though God was king He would have one who was really, truly man to rule over his people from the very beginning. Adam made in God's image. Part of that image that he was to bear forth for the world was to have dominion. It was to rule over the creation. It was to Serve God on behalf of all creation, bringing the glory of God to the ends of the earth. He was called to be a king. We were called to be the king in that sense. He was called to be a servant king to God, an embodiment of God on earth. But he failed. He sinned But God didn't destroy us. He didn't destroy humanity. He gave a promise that the seed of the woman would come in the fullness of time. The seed of the woman would come. And though he would be hurt, he would be harmed in his ministry, he would nevertheless crush the head of the serpent And through Scripture, through Genesis 12, through Abraham, Abraham would be the father of many nations. That Abraham's descendants there'd be a king. That through Judah there'd be a king. That in the fullness of time there was David, a chosen, anointed, spirit-filled, song-singing shepherd king from Bethlehem. There'd be a king! There be a one, a king with all the wisdom in the world. And none of them, none of them, lived up To being image bearers any more than we do. Every one of them had their own fall and their exile from the presence of God. But God God, in his infinite wisdom and knowledge, his kindness, his love, he persistently pursued his people to make a people for his own possession. Through the blood of his beloved son, the true king, the king, according to the order of Melchizedek, the true prophet, priest, and king. Who came as a servant? He was in the very form of God. He was the eternal, unchangeable, glorious God, the divine one. Distinct from the Father and the Spirit, but one in power, in glory, in deity, in eternality. In infiniteness, in goodness, in beauty, all of those things. And he was in the form of God, but he considered that not something to be grasped at, like we humans. Grasping at a name for ourselves, grasping at sin against God, grasping at some fruit on a tree that's been forbidden. Grasping at forbidden days. He didn't see it as something He emptied himself. Put aside all his prerogatives, the right that he has as God to be worshipped. To be obeyed, to be loved, to be honored, to be reverent. And he took the form. of a servant. Being born in the likeness of man, and being found in human form, he humbled himself So unto death, even death on a cross. But God didn't leave him there. God has shown him the path of life He has shown him that his Holy One would not seek corruption. His soul would not perish in shea in death Because God has exalted him and given him the name above every name, that at the name of Jesus, every knee will bow, every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is lord of God. to the glory of God the Father. You see, one of the ways you can see on the front of the box the glorious picture of Jesus as you have put together Moses and the prophets and the Psalms and you have the outer rim You can put the pieces together because you can see in every prophet, every priest, every king, at their best, what it is that's pointing forward to Jesus, the perfect one They're like prototypes. You know what a prototype is? It's like when you think of a a car, a beautiful car, a beautiful jet. They make the first one as a prototype, but it's pointing to Others that will be made. The prophet, priests, and kings were like prototypes. But they were all pointing forward to the perfect one who was Christ Jesus, who is the one who is the eternal one. And so when we read the the prophets in the old covenant and we read about them being anointed with the Holy Spirit, that's exactly what Jesus did in his uh his ministry of humiliation. He went about Telling the people, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He went showing the love of God through uh compassion and forgiveness. He went telling the people who came to him that you are forgiven. In fact, he'd say, I forgive you And though the rulers and leaders would come up to Jesus and say, How dare you say such a thing? Only God can forgive sins. He would ask this question. Which is easier? To say, take up your mat and walk, or to say your sins be forgiven, but that you may know that the Son of Man is here, that what every prophet of old was pointing forward to He is here I am the Word made flesh Jesus said You see, that word that was spoken by the prophets, Martin Luther has a beautiful way of saying it. He says, the prophets of old had the spoken word that became The birthcloths of the incarnate were they were awaiting him to be delivered. From Mary, so that the word made flesh would dwell in our midst. It's beautiful to think about, isn't it? And all the word of God that he had sent. There was an ultimate word That all the priests of God that could not continue because of their own sins and their own death, that God would send a priest Not according to Levi, not according to Aaron, but according to Melchizedek? That this would be a priest who is also a king and who would lay down his life for his people. And then this king would come so humbly, so kindly, so gently, not on a war horse, not coming the first time to condemn his enemies or condemn sinners But coming the first time to offer a day of salvation. Coming the first time to say, I haven't come to condemn you. I've come to forgive you. I've come as your king. But then the king took his first enthronement on a cross that we deserve. That's what Jesus means in John 12 when he says, when they lift me up, I'll find my first level of enthronement on a cross. Because I'll have brought glory through obedience by the Spirit to the Father, and I'll have brought salvation to my people. And this king will return with grace for all who believe. Kind Savior who's with us now by His Spirit, who helps us to understand the scriptures. so that we might see him through all the scriptures. Prophets, priests, and kings, person, places things. For time's sake I won't do all three of these, but the persons. You've already got the prophet, priests, and kings, the persons, but when you think of certain persons, ask yourself, are they pointing forward to Jesus or are they giving us what Jesus will not look at or what Jesus doesn't look like. And with the places Think about the temple. Think about how God dwelled with his people in Eden, and we sinned and rebelled. And then he brought them out of slavery in Exodus so that he'd dwell in their midst. So he'd be the God who's near to them, the God who is with them. He'd be our Emmanuel. But no, more sin, more rebellion, more exile. And the prophets come and say there's going to be a glorious temple The likes of which you'll never believe it. It'll cause you to tingle if you knew all the details of this new thing that God's going to do. But God's going to make his dwelling. You ready? Here it is. In us. The Son of God's going to come. Rather than the priest going into the Holy of Holies, the high priest king, the true one at God's right here, he's going to come down. out of the Holy of Holies, taking our own flesh and coming to bring life to the world. You see, that's why on Pentecost, when Jesus was enthroned at God's right hand, he poured out his spirit. That's why he says, Behold, I'm sending the promise of the Father upon you. What's the promise of the Father? But that the Old Testament taught that upon the completion of all righteousness That the king would be enthroned, that the king would receive the fullness of the Spirit, and that the King would pour out his Spirit upon all flesh. Male and female, not just prophets, priests, and kings, but everyone who believes will have the Holy Spirit, not just near to the people, but in the people You're not your own. You've been bought with a price. You're the very temple of God. The Almighty. The place The place of Eden or tabernacle or temple is now the dwelling place is in Christ fully and finally, and we who are united by his Spirit are united to Him as His holy temple. So every time you read now the old covenant, and you get to that place in Exodus where you wish you had more of Exodus chapters 1 through 15. And and you get to Exodus twenty-five to forty and you go, Why was there fourteen or fifteen chapters about a temple? We won't answer that anymore. Because everything about that temple is where God is making his home with man. point in history that's pointing forward and upward to the true temple who is Jesus and his people. You see this, as he was telling them this Bible study He was then sending them on mission to say, you need the illumination of the Holy Spirit. You need to acknowledge this is the inspired word of God, and you're to now go as my witnesses to proclaim these things that you've seen my glory and my beauty, not just in flesh, but in scripture. And to proclaim these things, that repentance for the forgiveness of sins, I think that's the right translation. Repentance for the forgiveness of sins. A repentance that leads to forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed to all the nations And we have the Spirit living within us. See, from the very beginning God dwelt with man, and it was ruined by rebellion. And then God came to dwell with man in Israel and it was ruined by rebellion. And then he came to dwell with man in Christ. And he killed the rebellion who death And resurrection. And he took possession of his people. And Jesus is leaving. In the end of John, he's telling his disciples, it's better for me to go away. Because I'm going to send to you the promise of the Father, the Holy Spirit. He's going to reveal to you further, more fully the things that you can't fathom right now. And the Spirit will lead you into all truth. And then He says, I won't leave you as orphans. I'm going to come to you. I'm going to make my home with you. And we're his home. Now it gets better. Because one day Jesus will return. He will separate the sheep from the goats. If there's anyone who does not believe in Christ today, there's no other prophet whom we are to believe his word ultimately than Christ. Christ. There's no other priest that we're to approach the thrice holy throne of God. We're never to approach the throne of God who is a consuming fire apart from The priest he's provided in his beloved son through his blood. And with the king, we're to acknowledge him as such, through obedience. to his power. And we're to live for him. And we're to delight in obeying him. Because he's the king that's making things right in us, and he's the king who's making things right in the world, and he's the king that ultimately bring in a new heavens, a new earth. And listen, there'll be no more sin. There'll be no more suffering. There'll be no more frustration. There'll be no more waiting on the Lord. They'll need no more trials and temptations. They'll need no more of the pain and the tears. They'll wipe away every tear from our eyes. And you know what it says? In Revelation 21, 3, and God will dwell with man, and he will be our God, and we will be his people If you ever wonder what the one gospel is, the one summary of the gospel throughout all the Bible, in three phrases. I will be your God. You will be my people. And I will dwell with you. I will be your God, you will be my people, and I will dwell with you. That is, you'll be my family, and I'll be home to you, and you'll be home to me. Jesus saw everything about me and the law of Moses, the prophets and the Psalms. The prophets, priests, and kings, persons, places, like the temple. Tabernacle, Eden, and things. The thing I want to end is what we read in Isaiah. Jesus was the Lamb of God Who takes away the sins of the world, beloved. He was the Lamb that went to the slaughter without opening his mouth. You know what that tells us about Jesus Is it because he knew his mission, his prophet priest and king, as a humbled one, was coming to save slaves People enslaved to sin. People enslaved to the dragon serpent lord, thinking they're serving something better. They're serving self, you're serving Satan. And he came with the mission of glorifying his father and obeying his father to earn a perfect righteousness to all who believe. That righteousness that he had, that faithfulness, that love for God and his neighbor, you see, is given to you as a gift. It's given to me when we believe. And all of our transgressions, all of our sins, and every word that thought and deed, all the terrible things, all the nasty things, all the more subtle things, all the things we think no one's going to see He places them on his sign. And he crushes him for our iniquity. The Bible says in Isaiah 53 that we read that he opens not his mouth. Why? Because it's where he realizes this is his mission from before the foundation of the world. This is his mission for his people This is his mission, so that God will be our God and we'll be his people and he will dwell with us. It's his mission to honor the Father by fully and faithfully keeping all the commandments. And laying down his life in our place as the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. It's through Jesus' death, it's through his resurrection that he brings us back into fellowship with God. that he destroys the rebellion that characterizes us, the self-righteousness, the self-focus, and he teaches us to see him In all the scriptures. He teaches us to see him in his beautiful face, his glory, his power, his grace. And we are transformed from one degree of glory to the next as we behold him. And so he tells them, these are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms, the whole Old Testament. must be fulfilled. He opened their minds to understand the scriptures. And then he says, thus it is written that the Christ should suffer. on the third day and rise from the dead, and that repentance and forgiveness for sins should be, repentance for the forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name. To all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem, you are witnesses of these things. And behold, I'm sending the promise of my Father upon you. But stay in the city until you're clothed with power from on high. God is good. He has accomplished his mission of being our God in Christ, of calling us his prize possession, his people in Christ. And of making us his home by the Spirit in Christ, in union with Christ. And so everything Remember the outer edges of the puzzle that we used as a illustration? Moses, the prophets, the writing. Everything in the Holy Scriptures, now more fully in the New Testament as well, but everything in the Old Covenant, and then remembering that the picture on the box can be found if you memorize prophet, priest, and king, person, place, or thing. And that thing, especially, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. That's a beautiful one to remember today as we're thinking about these things. And as we seek to understand Christ in the scriptures, the reason for Our coming to see him better is that we might know him more fully and know his love for us and thus be changed. It's one thing to just know about him. It's another thing to know him intimately. When Jesus is praying, his high priestly prayer in John 17, 3, he says, This is eternal life, that they know you intimately. They know you, the one true God, in Jesus Christ, whom you've sent. Do you know him? Intimately? Are you in a relationship with him that he has forged through the blood of Christ Jesus by his spirit so that you could grow, be further released from your sins? Know that you're no longer a slave but a son. And that you have this privilege of having God Almighty as your inheritance and living with Him for all eternity It's very good news today, isn't it? Let us be thankful and pray to our God as we close. Our Father and our God, we're so grateful for the Lord Jesus. We're so grateful for all the ways that you revealed yourself through Scripture. We thank you for the time of the Old Testament, the time of promise, the times of types and shadows, of prophet, priests, and kings. of persons, places, and things. We thank you that you designed the Old Testament as a picture book As a book for the church underage until Jesus would come in the fullness of time. And we thank you that we have that We thank you that we can see and understand even more now of what you were revealing all along as we take the fullness of your teaching in the New Testament. As a guide, as a light to go back into the old and see. Lord, help us to rightly interpret your word through your spirit uh help us to rightly interpret with the church in a proper way. Help us to uh be aware of of things where we're either formally or functionally um uh p uh t turning away from the Old Testament, not reading it as as much or as well. Um, we pray that you would forgive us for that. Uh because it's the place where you particularly uh for many years were revealing yourself and your son. by the Spirit. We pray that thanking you that we live on this side of the cross and resurrection and Pentecost, thanking you that we have the full light of your word, even the ending of the story. But we pray that we would never forget all that has gone before us and treat it as sacred writings, inspired, inscripturated. And illuminated by your Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' mighty name. Amen.