The book of Acts, chapter 5, verse 17 to 42. But the high priest rose up along with all his associates, that is, the sect of the Sadducees. And they were filled with jealousy. And they laid hands on the apostles and put them in a public jail. But during the night, an angel of the Lord opened the gate of the presence. And taking them out, he said, Go, stand, and speak to the people in the temple, the whole message of this life. Upon hearing this, they entered into the temple about Then when the high priest and his associates came, they called the council together, even all the Senate of the sons of Israel, and sent orders to the prison house for them to be brought. We did not find them in the prison. And they returned and reported back, saying, We found the prison house locked quite securely and the guards standing at the doors. But when we had opened it up, we found no one inside Now when the captain of the temple guard and the chief priest heard these words, they were greatly perplexed about what about them as to what would come of this. But someone came and reported to them, the men whom you put in prison are sure Standing in the temple and teaching the people. Then the captain went along with the officers and proceeded to bring them back without violence, for they were afraid of the people that they might be stoned. When they had brought them, they stood them before the council. The high priest questioned them, saying, We gave you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name. And yet you have filled Jerusalem with the teaching and intend to bring this man's blood upon us. But Peter and the apostles answered We must obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you would put to death by hanging him on a cross. He is the one whom God exalted to his right hand as a prince and a savior to grant repentance to Israel. And forgiveness of sins. And we are witnesses of these things. And so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. When they had heard this, they were cut to the quick and intended to kill them. But a Pharisee named Gamaliel The teacher of the law, respected by all the people, stood up in the council and gave orders to put the men outside for a short time. And he said to them, Men of Israel, take care what you propose to do with these men For some time ago, Thutic rose up, claiming to be somebody, and a group of about 400 men joined up with him, but he was killed. After this man Judas of Galilee rose up in the days of the census, and drew away some people after him. He too perished, and all those who followed him were scattered. So in the present case I say to you, stay away from these men and let them alone. For this pl if this plan of action, plan or action is of men, it will be overthrown. But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them, or else you may even be found fighting against God. They took his advice. They took his advice. And after calling the apostles in, they flogged them and ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus. Then released them. So they went on their way from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer shame for his name And every day in the temple, and from house to house, they kept right on teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. This is God's wonderful Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we read these accounts And we wonder how can men and women have such boldness? How can men and women have such courage? How can they They keep from being so scared by what might happen to them to keep from doing what these men did, continue proclaiming the name of Jesus, no matter what happened. Oh Father, remind us that there are brothers and sisters around us in the world today who are doing exactly this, some of whom lose their minds Heads because they are faithful. Some of whom are beaten almost to death because they are faithful. You give your people the strength they need. at that moment to be faithful. Oh Father, change our thoughts, change our desires, change our willingness So that we too are ready to go on preaching and teaching about Jesus to others. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. It is really quite something. I was thinking yesterday when I was at the meeting of Presbytery with Alex. Well the Presbytery meeting was yesterday over uh let me see, what church were we at yesterday? Uh Purcellville, yes uh up in up in Perciville, northwest of Leesburg, over in V over in Virginia. There are ministers from all over the Presbytery, ruling elders from different churches from all over the Presbytery. Presbytery. And I was thinking I was thinking when uh seeing Dan, I mean I'm sorry, see seeing Alex, um that when it's because of him that I know something of the Church in Bolivia. I know almost nothing about the church in Bolivia. Or or events in Bolivia. It's not, you know, I'm not from there. I don't I don't think of it. Um but I think of it now, which is which is wonderful. I can pray about it. And I was thinking yesterday that I came across the fact there was something about there was someone who was no longer in Haiti, one of the missionaries. uh Ben Hop because of unrest in Haiti. And I had not really been thinking about Haiti. It's almost like there's too much news, there's too much happening in the world around us. It's hard to keep track of what is going on all over the place. I mean it's it's enough we have enough things happening in this country. And then all of a sudden you hear let alone South America, then you can look at Europe and you just you lose track. And it's not just news news. I mean I'm thinking about, you know, what's happening to God's people. What is happening to God's people And then it's even harder to find. I mean something like the internet is awfully handy and helpful. I can find general news about a country, but to actually find something about what's happening in the church in a different country, that's hard sometimes hard to find. But it's happening all the time. I mean sometimes you have this this grand and And bold statement of faith like we had when those people from ISIS were attacking people and and beheading people on beaches and things like that. That's what I was alluding to in my prayer. Um you have somebody who at that moment will not deny Christ and will then very soon go to see him because they're about to about to be killed for his name's sake. And people being persecuted, obviously, because they are Christians. People being persecuted because they know God, they know what God has done for them, and they can't deny it. And because it's because he's changed their hearts, they're joyful and happy about it. They're delighted. They're thrilled. And they know it can be true for you. Or you or you. This could happen for you. Let me tell you about Jesus. You sin like I do? You have guilt over sin just like I do. But we you know but there's a way out. God will forgive that. Trust in Christ. I mean you can you want to share that, you want to tell people. And it goes all the way back to that's why I was reading Jeremiah. That particular chapter, because it mirrored what was happening to the apostles in Jerusalem in the text this morning. Time and again and again and again and again, people who speak the truth of God are attacked, are persecuted And they're persecuted by people who need to know. I mean, the people who persecute us need to know the gospel just as much as anyone. They're less likely to sometimes, but they're they're the ones who need to know. But it happens all the time. And I want to look at this text here because this is obviously foundational for understanding how we need to be Acting in the world around us, and what God's call to us is, and what his claim on us is. How we are obligated to follow. These are sort of marching orders for us, as it were And so it's interesting here you have, you know, you had Peter and John, and this man had been crippled, they'd healed. Who wind up being brought before the Jewish authorities? They're told not to speak in the name of Jesus. And what did they say back in chapter 4 when they're told not to speak in the name of Jesus? Jesus. They say, whether it's right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than God, you be the judge. We can't stop speaking about what we've seen and heard. We have to And so here when you have and then later when you had Satan attack the church inside by having Ananias and Sapphira lying about what they're doing. Lying about giving the whole gift, selling all the proceeds, going to the church. God again disciplines them. And the church grew after that. So we see the same phenomenon as in this passage here, as Luke records three consecutive waves of persecution. Against God's people, against the church. And, you know, here we have an example of the forces of evil trying to drown Fill the church with a flood of suppression. Squash it down. Kill it. Tell them to shut up. Stop talking about Jesus. And these people were still so full of joy in what God had done that they could not be stopped. There's a there's an old there's a gospel song I know of it's called How Can I Keep From Singing? How Can I Keep From Singing? How Can I Keep From Telling People About What Jesus Hone? I am a sinner. I deserve to go to hell. There is a hell, and I deserve to go to it. But God in his mercy chose to have mercy upon me He just not because of anything wonderful about me, but he just decided to. And the same could be true for you. Let me tell you about him. That's what we need to be doing Because anyone we know and anyone we see is like us, deserving of hell. But God could have Mercy on them. So here, looking at this text this morning, it's helpful to us because few of us will ever pay face as much persecution as you see here. Most of us will not see the kind of persecution we hear about in the news. But we need to be able to share with people around us, in our families. Classmates in school, co-workers, we need to be able to share, because that's what God's call on us is, to share the gospel with others. Share the good news with others. To be an aroma of life, as Paul later calls it. So let's look at this. And the first thing I'll look at in the beginning verses is the fact that the word of God is not bound. You can put it in jail, but it will not be, you cannot cover it up. It will come out. And here we have verses 17 and 18 High priest with all everybody else. They were filled with jealousy. They laid hand on the apostles, put them in jail, tossed them in jail. And after this judgment, the church continues to minister, you know, after after after what had happened with NNS since fire, they're still sharing the gospel with people that There and they've been at what's an area near the temple called Solomon's Porch. And in the midst of one of these sessions, the temple police close in on them and toss them in jail. Toss the apostles in jail. And they did this why? Because they're jealous. What a wonderful human emotion. I don't mean wonderful in a really good sense, but I mean such a typical human emotion. Jealous. We want that kind of we want that kind of crowd. We can't get that kind of crowd when we teach out of the Torah. Nobody listens to us. These guys talk, they get a crowd. So they're they're jealous And obviously, jealousy is an ugly word. Proverbs 6. 34 says, jealousy enrages a man. And so you have these fellows thinking that, you know, they they the crowd should be listening to them. And so they when this meanness comes out of them, they toss the apostles in jail And this is obviously not the last time the apostles would find themselves tossed in jail. But these people, the people they tossed in jail were not like other prisoners. I mean there no doubt they were probably singing in jail here too, even though it doesn't talk about that. You know, the the guards and the guards had never seen anything about what was like what was about to happen. So verses 19 to 21, during the night, an angel of the Lord opened the gates of the prison. I mean there are things that are happening here that were not described as fully in a way that we're like, okay, exactly what happened. But the angel of the Lord shows up, opens the gates, takes them out. And we know from later on that nobody's watching them leave. They didn't know it happened. For all they knew they're still in there. There's guards standing there. There'd always been guards there all night. No one walked by that they saw. But, you know, the angel tells them this wonderful statement. Go stand and speak to the people in the temple the whole message of this life. What life? You can be a sinner saved by grace. You can be speak Your sins can be forgiven. The Messiah has come. Jesus the Christ. Follow him, the Son of God. All these things, the whole message of this life. And then they enter the temple and start teaching there. Well, they're divinely delivered. Now we don't know where the guards put to sleep. Told. Were the apostles made temporarily invisible? We're not told. I mean, one minute they're there, the next minute they're at the top. We don't know. We're not told. told. We just know it happened. Obviously, you know, like the cliche is like whether something's in your pay grade. The ability to do this is in God's pay grade. He can do this if he wants to. That part's easy. Um and and it's interesting, there's sort of a divine humor here because when you think about different groups that would attack God's people At this time you had the Sadducees and the Pharisees. Well the Sadducees, it's funny, they don't believe in angels. So of course God uses an angel. In this instance. Right here in their own city, a sort of close encounter of a spiritual kind. And why this intervention? God was teaching his twelve apostles. By this time, they would have replaced Judas with Matthias. He's teaching the twelve apostles that he can deliver his servants anytime he wants to. He certainly has the ability. He's God. And I can you know I can take you out of jail and put you over here. There's no problem. It's not not a problem. He is God. And he delivers two other times in Acts with Peter. With Paul and Silas, with an earthquake opening up the jail. Um and of course in that case he has God didn't want the apostles to escape, to stay in the jail Jail even with the door open. And that way he could save the guard. So it was a wonderful circumstance there. So in Acts 5, the angelic liberation was not only meant to free them, but to encourage them God can do whatever he wants to do. And you never know how it is that he might save you, how it is that he might take care of you, how it is that he might bless you. We don't know what kind of deliverance, and it might not be an easy or full deliverance. It may be a partial one. We have an issue of health. There's no guarantee of full restoration of health. But we do know that he can care for his people and use and use and do that in ways that will bless us. And so Scripture says that when waves of persecution or trial come, God can deliver us if He wills. It's like I've often prayed for people when I pray for people who have uh like kinds of cancers. And you you know, or other types of issues like that. You know, Lord, I pray that you might bring healing. You bring you pray for full healing. But I'll often when I s say the same prayer, but Father, whatsoever you will, please bring uh them pe your peace and comfort. I put that there because I don't know that his will is to bring them full healing. I I never we don't know that. We know too many godly people that have who who the Lord has has healed to heaven. So, you know, I pray for the healing, but I don't know what the Lord will do. I pray for comfort and peace because that that will be needed no matter what happens. And likewise here, we don't we we we don't have a lock on this. We don't have a guarantee that God's gonna I mean all twelve of these apostles are taken out there and they're fine at the moment. They're fully taken out. They're not hurt. They went up being flogged again, but I mean they're all right. Um so we don't know how he's going to rescue us. But he will bless our prayers as we come to him. So here they're brought out, and you get this we get a marching order from the angel. Go and tell the whole message. Speak to the people, the whole message of this life. And they knew what that was. He didn't have to unpack everything. But they knew what that was They knew what the angel was talking about. And they were to hold their ground, they were to stand firm, they were to deliver the whole message of life in Christ. You know, stop sinning. Turn to God. He will help you. Confess your sins, because you will sin. Help each other, one another into the life of the body. in the life of the church. Care for each other. Care care for the poor. Care for the widow. All those types of things. The whole message. So the it was daybreak, they're back in the temple, again speaking of And the Sanhedrin was just getting out of bed, but but Christ's ambassadors were already at work. Verses twenty-one to twenty-five. We have the whole description of things where they can't find Nobody's in a jail, but the doors are all still locked. I mean, it's not like the later one where the jail door opens up, the guy's going like, We're in here, don't worry about it. Here, everybody's gone. It's like they'd never been in there But the guards had not moved. And verse 25 is wonderful. Hey, the guys who were supposed to be in that jail are over here. You know, and What in the world are these the Jewish authorities thinking? What is going on? That makes no sense. And you bless his heart gamelially you wonder if like I wonder if God's doing something here Because how else would this happen? Unless they think Satan's fooling them by moving people around. But we don't hear that at this moment. But here we have these here we have these people, and you obviously you can't Contain God's word, you can't contain God's people. Not when they're faithful. Next section I'll look at is the word of God was not bound. The next one is the disciples are bold and they're witness. And Verses 26 to 28, they went and got them again and brought them before again. They said, We told you not to not to talk about Jesus. And And here it's interesting. You can hear that they blurt out to the apostles what their fear is. You intend to bring this man's blood upon us. I feel like if you're one of the apostles, you're thinking, don't you know what you did? We we we're not putting we're not we're not giving you blame you didn't already have You guys are the ones who put Jesus to death. That was God's plan, we understand. But you know what you did. We're not making it happen. We're not going back in time and making that happen. You did it I mean they're the ones who had said, crucify him. They're the ones, Matthew 27, his blood shall be on us in our children. They seem to have forgotten that So how do the apostles respond to this? Verse 29 to 32. Well, we have to follow God, not man. I mean you can say what you want, and you can worry about blame or not blame. And some of the apostles were no doubt thinking, we'll pray for you. You obviously need it. Because you don't understand what's going on yet. But got in verse 30, God raised up Jesus. He's talking about what God did. Then he says, Who you put to death. You did put Him to death. He's the one God exalted to the right hand. And then he talks about who he is. Jesus is the prince. Jesus is the Savior. What does he do? He grants repentance to Israel, forgiveness of sins. Who he is and what he's done, and what he will do for others now. That's the same message they were saying on the porch And then verse 32 is like, and we're just the guys telling people. We're the witnesses of these things. It's interesting, the word, the Greek word for witness is martyr. Greek word for witness is martyr. No wonder we think about martyrs. They're the ones who were faithful witnesses to the end. witnesses to the end. But we're witnesses of these things. And so in other words, and then they pull God back into it in a sense that and so is the Holy Spirit. Whom God has given to those who obey him. So basically basically Sad Sadducees, Pharisees, you really got no chance against This. This is God. As I've heard people say in these modern times, it's a God thing. You really don't have any chance against this. You know what you did, you know what happened, we're letting you know it was God's plan, which you should have been able to figure out. And God's changed us. This is what Jesus was sent for. And the Holy Spirit's involved with this, you're not going to be able to stop this. You can stop us, but you won't be able to stop the message. And so they just what kind of what kind of freedom that they felt. Imagine being one of the guys who just said that to them. Imagine having the courage to do that. These are the same guys who a few weeks or months before had been scared to pieces after Jesus was arrested That's one thing that's always got me about the apostles. Jesus had for weeks and months been saying, you know, Son of Man is going to be, you know, is going to be killed. And after three days rise again. How many times did Jesus say that to them? You can find three, four, five, six times he said that to them them. And not one of them is sitting there going, Okay, it's been a day. Where where is he buried? Let's check it. You don't have them doing that No, they're scared to pieces. Sounds like John was a little believing, but these guys weren't f were for forgetting what Jesus said and were s Scared. They're gonna come get us next. They're gonna arrest us. Now these guys are saying this basically they're basically They're not cursing, but you can think of some modern expressions of things they're saying back at these guys. I mean, yeah, back at you. We're not gonna we're not gonna leave. We're gonna keep doing this. No problem The courage, the freedom. The the I mean I don't always feel that free. That, you know, I can say I can I can say this without fear of what's gonna happen to me because I know it's true and it's from God. And He wants me to tell you this I mean this reminds me of of the wonderful story about this fellow named Daniel and his friends. And remember how, you know, what did they say when Nebuchadnezzar, the big king, had said, I want you to bow down before me? Now what would most of us think when somebody told us that? You've got armed guards behind you. Maybe your hands are bound behind your back when he's telling you this. But bow down before me and you've got somebody there and you know something bad really bad is about to happen to you if you don't. How comfortable do you think you'd feel? How calm do you think you'd feel? Daniel and his friends, you know, told that we'll toss you in the fire if you don't, you know, if you don't bow down. And they said, oh Nebuchadnezzar, we don't need to give you an answer concerning this matter. That's rather nervy, isn't it? But that's what they say. If it be Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us. In other words, if God wants to, he can save us from this fire. Even being tossed in is his implication. And he'll deliver us out of your hand, O king. But if not, but if not, in other words, if he doesn't, Let it be known that to you, O King, that we are not going to serve your God. So even if he doesn't save us physically, we're still not going to not we're still not going to disobey God and bow down to you. But if not, they were going to God might save me just like I pray, God save that person from cancer. Well if he doesn't save the person from cancer physically, do I go, well, I'm not listening to that guy anymore What kind of God is that? You're supposed to heal my my my cousin. You're supposed to heal my wife. I'm not going to say no. That person trusts Christ. They're with the Lord now, they have no sadness and no disappointment. They're in utter joy and utter peace. But if not I will be faithful. Whatever happens to me, I will still obey you, God. I will not disobey you. I will do what you have told me to do. As Martin Luther said when he could have been taken and executed. He says After he says, No, I can't deny what I wrote. They had a whole bunch of books in front of them that he'd written about justification by faith alone, through Christ alone. Um and they said, We want you to deny those works. We want you to deny what you wrote there. And he says, I can't. It's failing It's true to the Word of God. I can't deny it. It says, here I stand, God help me, I cannot do otherwise. If you have to kill me, kill me And how do you how do you have this remarkable liberation and power in Christ? Well at the core, first thing to think of is obedience. A lot of times we think about our heart attitude. We don't think about the head attitude or if something is boring or something as plain or something is oh it sounds legalistic What has he told me to do? Keep and don't do the things he's told me not to do. Obedience. Oh I love you, Lord. I love you, Lord, but I can't do that. Jesus says to the disciples, if you love me, in other words, if you say you love me, and you actually do, keep my commandments, i. e. Obey me. Don't call me Lord if you're not going to obey me. You don't mean it when you say Lord. Lord is somebody you obey Obey. So here's obedience. Peter, they say we must obey God rather than men. And they say, we're witnesses to these things. And so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. So this witnessing power of the Holy Spirit is released how? Through obedience to Christ. Jesus said, I will give you the word to say when you're called before the authorities. You have to obey and go to those authorities and not buckle. And some some some self check questions for us. As we think about this, it's like three things here. Am I living consistently in view of what I know about Christ? Am I living in line with what Jesus has taught me? To ab do how to live. Second, am I living a life that's in accord with what I'm learning in the scriptures And third, am I refusing to do what I know he wants? Are there things that we know he's told you or you or me to do? It's like, no, I I can't do that. Maybe someday. Am I trying? Am I trying to obey? We can't have the power of the Holy Spirit if we keep saying no to him Obedience is not an accumulation of a life full of saying no to God when He's telling us to do certain things, obey certain things. The last thing we see here is the disciples are free to proclaim. They're so courageous. Verse 33 says, when the when the Jewish authorities, the San the Sadducees, when they heard this, they were cut to the quick and intended to kill them. They weren't listening. And you feel like saying it's like, how in the world did these guys get from one place to the other and nobody saw them on this? Is God ha is there anything God is doing here I mean here we are, these are the guys who sort of should really know God's word real well. And they they thought God could kill all the firstborn. God can cause water to part. God, you know, all these things that God can do, and yet somehow they're not noticing, you know, this sort of fits the kind of thing that God might be doing And it's interesting, you wonder whether what would have happened if Gamaliel had not been there. Gamaliel is interesting. He's actually referred to as somebody who was a teacher. of uh the Apostle Paul at one point when he was Saul. Paul was a a very learned Jewish Pharisee named Saul at the time before he was known as Paul. And he he studied under Gamalio among others. And you wonder, would they have killed the apostles on the spot if it wasn't for Gamalio I don't think so. But the intervention eased the severity of the punishment. And you wonder, you listen to Chamellion, you're wondering, would did he turn out like Nicodemus? It would be not Nice, we'll find out when we're in heaven. Don't know. I'm guessing not, probably, but still, you know, it could well be. You wonder. This guy's got a little bit of perception Because what he's saying is actually true. If this is from God, we can't stop it. And he's right. The first word of somebody actually wondering, what is God doing in this? obvious thing from people who were supposedly custodians of God's word. The only place where God speaks in the entire world is in his word and the Jews had it They don't seem to be thinking about what God's doing at all. But um so verses 34 to 39, he winds up giving this account, and he ends it by saying If it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. Or else you may even be found fighting against God. In other words, we might be doing that right now, guys. Let's pause and think about this. And so then they wind up they wind up flogging them. And you could say they're let off easy, but likely they would have been given thirty-nine stripes. That means thirty-nine times with with With the whip. So if you think that's being let off easy, I guess that's being let off easy. That's what the apostles would have gotten. One by one they're whipped, and one by one they each had a kind of joy. As the text tells us, they consider, he says, verse 41, they rejoice that they have been considered worthy to suffer shame for his name. Not just suffer shame, but hurt a lot. To be whipped like that was not really a comfortable thing. Jesus had said in Matthew 5. 10, Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness. They knew Jesus had said that. And they're thinking the Lord considers me worthy of being blessed like that. He enabled me to be righteous. And if they if they had if they had A good self-consciousness of their own lives and the fact that they were sinners, they knew God enabled me to do this. God enabled me to confess him. God enabled me to be Faithful because they knew that in their own strength they would have betrayed Christ. In their own strength, they would have given up. But as they trusted in Christ and obeyed That's where they got the strength, because God enabled them to do so as they asked. There's a wonderful anecdote told about a pastor In Romania, years ago in the in the fifties and sixties and seventies and eighties, Romania was a wicked um communist Country, persecuted the church bitterly. And there was a pastor there by the name of Richard Wormbrand, who later founded a ministry called Voice of the Martyrs. But he describes this kind of joy. When he was in a Romanian prisoner, uh in prison, his tormentors ripped chunks of flesh out of him, and he had the scars to prove it. He was sentenced to solitary confinement, and for weeks or months on end no one would speak to him in his cell. During all that time, there were times, though, amazingly, that he was overcome with joy He told later. He would actually stand up in his weakened state and dance around his cell, confident that angels were dancing with him. He was released from prison unexpectedly. And as he left the prison dressed like a scarecrow, with his teeth rotted and a terrible shape, he met a peasant woman on the road carrying a basket of beautiful strawberries. Well she offered him when he started to take up and said, No, no thanks. I am going to fast He went home to his wife and they prayed and fasted as a memorial to the joy he had experienced in prison, asking God for the same kind of joy outside of prison. See, we're not expected to be perfect or faultlessly consistent in our faith and walk. The Lord Knowing that we will sin, I mean he's obviously that's not that the expectation. The call is to obedience, the call to be perfect, as our Father in heaven is perfect. But he knows that we We are weak. He knows we will sin. But we are expected to be joyful. Because we have so much obviously and clearly and right in front of our faces that we should be so thankful for. We should always be aware of the fact that we are sinners, deserving of God's anger and wrath. We deserve damnation. For our sin. If the Lord has changed our hearts and minds, we know the truth of God's Word. And so when it describes who God is as the holy God and ourselves as sinners, We know what we deserve. But if our hearts have been changed, if he has caused us to be born again, then We know that we who deserve deserve hell are being given heaven. And We still sin, which makes it all the more amazing each day. Because Lord, I keep reminding myself of why this is undeserved. Because I keep doing things that make me think that I'm not gonna that I'm not yours, and yet if I am if I'm his, I am continually reminded I am his And he continually convicts me of my sins. We should be like these apostles. Every day, temple of house to house, they kept right on teaching and preaching of Jesus As the Christ. The last verse in Acts describes the Apostle Paul, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching concerning the Lord Jesus with all openness, unhindered. Until he was hindered. Until he was stopped in jail. And then the only people he could the Lord could convert through him were the guards, which he did. The apostles were victorious. They were liberated even when they were prisoners. See, we flatter ourselves if we imagine that we know anything like that kind of oppression. That they had. Or that many people in the world have today. I've seen photographs of some people who've been beaten in China for their faith. And we know of people all around the world who are def who are d beaten for their faith. We face opposition, but it's more subtle. Mockery. Um People thinking we're nuts. People you know, people thinking we're jerks or something like that, or idiots, or who knows what The enemy knows and celebrates, though, because we don't always teach and speak the whole message of this life that the angel said we should be telling. Do we tell others? Do we challenge somebody that we know who's a friend when they tell us when they speak back to us in unbelief? We should be calm, we should be joyful, we should be at peace, and just in a friendly conversational way, let them know about the one true God who has changed our hearts. If they think we're nuts, they think that we're ridiculous, they think we're silly, so be it We just keep on praying for them and hopefully the next time we talk to them we have a better opportunity. Where the Lord gives us a a different opportunity. See, we need to be set free and know the liberty that God has given to us in this Lord give me the courage. Lord give me the strength. Lord give me, kick me in the past. Push me out of my comfort zone to use that modern expression. To speak to friends and neighbors. They should be the they should they should be used to hearing something from us about this Because when we take our stand for Him, speaking the message of this life, knowing the joy of sins forgiven, knowing the joy of Of community with brothers and sisters in Christ. When we obey him rather than men, we will feel we will feel some of the waves of persecution, but we will also feel and know. God's pleasure. We know God's blessing, as Jesus tells us. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this example. This description of a of encouragement of your people, very prominent people among your people Your apostles, faithful. And all of your people can be faithful like this. Father, we pray that you would push us, you would move us, your spirit would work upon us Upon us to move us to to ask for that courage, to ask for that boldness, that we might share the good news with those around us We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.