Well this morning our sermon text is Ecclesiastes chapter 3 verses 1 through 15 or 1 through 13 actually. Sorry about that. Ecclesiastes 3 verses 1 through 13. Um what I'm going to suggest by way of my sermon and the way I read this passage is That what we are seeing in this passage is something of a remarkable shift on the part of Solomon. Now remember, most of chapters one and two And except for maybe the very end of chapter two, Solomon's approach has been to point out the vanity, the futility of life under the sun. Life under the sun is very frustrating. Things don't fit. Things don't seem to work out the way they should. Well I'm gonna suggest that in chapter three, he's presenting a different perspective. Because here suddenly everything fits. Everything has a time. Everything has a place. How can that be? Now sometimes when um two things are said that seem like they're saying the opposite, sometimes the reason for that is because it's coming from two different perspectives. And so we're going to understand what is the perspective that Solomon's coming from here. He was speaking truly when he spoke of life under the sun as futility, but that was from a perspective of under the sun. What is the perspective he brings? So that somehow everything seems to fit and have its place and its time. He does come from a different perspective here. That's how I read this passage. But this is God's word. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verses 1 through 13. Listen to the reading of it, and please give your attention to it as the very Word of God. To everything there is a season, a time for every purpose under heaven, a time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to pluck what is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh. A time to mourn and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones. A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. A time to gain and a time to lose. A time to keep and a time to throw away. A time to tear and a time to sow. A time to keep silence and a time to speak. A time to love and a time to hate. A time of war and a time of peace. What profit has the worker from that in which he labors? I have seen the God given task with which the sons of men are to be occupied He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he has put eternity in their hearts. Except that no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. I know that nothing is better for them than to rejoice and to do good in their lives. And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor. It is the gift of God. As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to the reading and the preaching of his word this morning. So again, I would suggest that this passage in particular shows us a significant shift in Solomon's outlook. Now again, you'll remember, um, you know, we've been in it for a few weeks. Chapter 1 and Chapter 2. Um Solomon had really emphasized there that everything was vanity. It really emphasized the futility and meaninglessness of life. Life under the sun labor of under the sun, wisdom that's exercised under the sun. He mentions how things don't always seem to work out the way that it feels like they should. And one of the things that causes this to be so is the great fact of death. You know, you work your whole life for something good, you exercise good uh your wisdom for something good, and then you lose it all when you die. And then you probably sometimes hand it on to somebody who doesn't deserve what you built up. This was part of Solomon's attitude in part of Ecclesiastes chapter 1 and chapter 2. Again, those earlier chapters of Ecclesiastes, he was really emphasizing, life under the sun is vanity of vanities, vanity to the extreme. There's a futility, something that's frustrating about life in a sin-cursed world. And as Solomon had really taken in deeply in his wisdom the fact of this vanity He came to the result in chapter 2, verse 17, that he came to hate life. He came to find all work done under the sun as distressing. He came to hate even the labor that he had spent himself on for years, to the point that he would express despair. over the work that he was engaged in. Chapter 2, verse 20. And we saw that as most of the outlook that Solomon had on life In chapters 1 and 2. An outlook that sees everything that's wrong with life. An outlook that sees that everything seems to be broken beyond repair. And that nothing works out the way that it seems like it should. That was Solomon's outlook in chapter one and chapter two. But when you remember that that was Solomon's outlook in chapter one and chapter two, for the most part Doesn't it seem like chapter three is a sharp contrast, a major contrast to what had been said before, at least if you are able to see it there. Indeed, um suddenly, you know, before Everything is meaningless. Even the things that should be good, Solomon had said, it's meaningless and frustrating. But now suddenly in chapter three Everything has its time, and there's a purpose. There's a place for every purpose under heaven and a time. And in chapter 3, notice, it's not only the things that are good that have their place and their purpose. But Solomon seems to be saying that even those things that we sh would think should be bad also have their time. And also have their place. There is a time to be born, but there's also a time to die. Remember, in chapter two, death was something that Solomon was complaining about. And again, you know, in a lot of ways, rightly so. Death is something that brings frustration and futility to the labors of this life. But now suddenly death has its place. Even things in our passage like hatred and war have their place. There's a time to love, there's also a time to hate. There's a time for war, there's also a time for peace. You know, two things that one is good, one is bad, and yet suddenly Solomon seems to see there's a time for it all. It all has its place. It all has its place in which it fits. Again, as he says in verse 1, to everything there is a season. A time for every purpose under the sun. And then he goes through the list, and that list includes things that you think are positive, things that you think should be negative, and yet he finds a place for it. Now again, contrast this with what he had said before, because before Solomon had talked about some things that really are good things in this life. So some of the enjoyments he had sought to build up for himself, those really were not bad things per se, but because of his outlook, he was only able to see the meaninglessness of them. Because they did not ultimately satisfy it. So before his outlook was, well, everything's meaningless, even things that you would think should be good and should, you know, give some joy to life. But now he says, everything has its place, everything has its time, even things that you would think are bad, and th things that you shouldn't be able to find a place for in your own thinking Now the question is, how does Solomon come to this perspective? Because, again, if I'm correct in my reading of this, you know, I believe that this is a shift on the part of Solomon's thinking. He is looking at it from a different perspective, and he is able to see things in a new light. So what explains that shift? What explains that new perspective that he's able to have? Well, I suggest that it comes from the middle of verse 11. It comes from what he said in the middle of verse 11. Now, look at how he gets there though, when he starts out in verse 9, after he's described So every purpose, uh you know, everything there is a season and there is a time for every purpose under the sun or under heaven. What does he say in verse 9? So he he poses a question. Now, it's a question that we've seen before and that Solomon has told us before. Now in verse 9, he's asking that question. What profit does the worker have from that in which he labors? Now that should sound familiar. What's the point of work? Does it bring results that are satisfying? Is there a purpose? Is there a profit? Is there something to be gained? Now he'd ask that question again back in chapter 1, verse 3. It was the beginning of all his deliberations concerning life under the sun. What profit has a man from all his labor in which he toils under the sun? And back then in chapter 1, how had he answered that question? He had basically answered, there's no prophet, there's no point, it's all vanity. But how does he answer it here in chapter 3? Now he says, what profit has the worker from that in which he labors? And he goes on to verse 10. He has seen the God-given task, the labor that the sons of man are engaged in. And what does he say about the labor of mankind now in chapter 3? In verse 11, he says, He, speaking of God, has made everything beautiful in its time. Again, do you see how that's the flip side opposite of the way he was observing and evaluating labor in the first chapter. In the first chapter it was everything is futile, everything is meaningless. Suddenly it's everything is beautiful or even pleasant. Everything is pleasant, everything is good. In its time. So there's a shift of perspective taking place here. What's the point of labor? What's the profit of labor? Before it was there is none, because all of life is meaningless. But suddenly it's now. What's the point of labor? God has given something to men which has the effect and the result of that everything is beautiful in its time. Again, this is a a shift in perspective on the part of Solomon. Now how is he able to make that shift in perspective, once again? I would suggest that the the way he is able to make that that shift is based on what he says in the middle of verse 11. Also, he, speaking of God, has put eternity in their hearts. So eternity. Eternity future. Eternity future is the perspective from which we will be able to look back on all things in this life. Both the good and the bad. And as we look back on it from that perspective and see where God has brought us in the end, in Christ. On that day, that's when everything is beautiful in its time. That's the time when everything will appear. in beauty. No, not because everything in itself is actually beautiful. War isn't beautiful. Hatred isn't beautiful. Death isn't beautiful. Mourning isn't beautiful in Life. It's life seems. At least it sure feels that way when we're in the midst of it. But at the end, when we see where God brings us, when we see what God was doing all along. In eternity, in eternity future. When we look back then, we will be able to praise God and say that God has made everything beautiful in its time. Now I think that's what's uh taking place here in verse eleven. Um, you know, somehow God has made everything beautiful in its time. Somehow due to the work of God. All things have their place. Everything has its beauty in the right time, in its time. And that right time is eternity, the eternity that is planted in the hearts of man. Now Solomon seems to be suggesting, you know, um it wouldn't, you know, y there's not necessarily a direct collection a connection between this passage and Romans 8. But you can hear some of those similar themes, how creation itself longs for the day when it will be set free from futility. We long for that day. We who have the first fruits of the Spirit. We who belong to Jesus Christ, we cry out for that day Partly because it's when our own bodies will receive the fullness of their redemption, when our bodies will be perfectly healed with resurrection glory But it's also the end of the futility that we see in the things of life. And in a sense, this is what Solomon comes to. He comes to it ahead of the time, doesn't he? Um, you know, Solomon is able to say this in the past. He is not standing in eternity future. But he is able to get a glimpse of eternity future ahead of the time, and therefore by faith he's able to say, one day, one day, everything will appear beautiful in its time. Yes, when you're in the thick of it, when you're in the midst of the suffering, the struggling, trying to figure out um which way is left or right, trying to keep your head above water in whatever you're dealing with, how difficult it is to stop and think and try to have this perspective. And yet Solomon, as he speaks here, and as God's word speaks here, shows us that one day If not before, we will be able to have this perspective that all things are beautiful in their time. Everything has its place. Everything has its place within the plan that God is working out from beginning to end. Now there is, again, one aspect to this is what Solomon then goes on to say in the rest of verse 11. Well he has put eternity in their hearts, so you know I I I think that's pointing to we have a longing for that eternal future. When such things will make sense. But at the same time, Solomon says, except that no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end. So we have a longing for such a perspective in which everything will appear beautiful in its time, and yet none of us can figure that out. None of us really knows what God is doing None of us really knows what God's purpose is in one thing or another here in our lives, do we? Our sufferings, our successes, our failures. None of us can really know what is God actually doing, what is God ultimately doing with that? Now again, a day is coming though when we will see what God was doing. And we will be able to say on that day that what God has made and what God has done is beautiful in its time, including everything. Both birth and death, both hatred and love, both war and peace, both the things that we were able to keep and the things that we had to throw away, both the things that we were able to gain and the things that we had to lose. etc. Every detail of our lives, the Lord is working something, but what he's working will not be seen until the end. Now the question is, if we can't figure out what God is doing in the midst of this life, if we don't know the work of God from beginning to end, Well then what implication does this have for us? Well one thing is in verses 12 through 13. So verses 12 through 13 shows us what our viewpoint should be. Well one thing is true w that's true is that if we can't figure out what God is doing from beginning to end, then there are times when we shouldn't even try to figure out what God is doing. If he has already told us that we aren't going to be able to understand fully all his ways here in this life with us Then at some level, we need to be content with that and just rest in the fact that, okay, there are some things I simply don't understand and can't understand And especially when it comes to the things that we are suffering. You know, you think about Job, who was prone in the end to question and to challenge God's purposes. For him in his sufferings, and how at the end of the day the Lord rebuked him for questioning him, and at the same time, the Lord did not answer his question. Well Job is able to understand now where he stands in heaven and the fullness of God's purpose for sufferers like Job will be seen one day in the end. Now again, we don't know exactly what that is, but we need to be humble about that and willing to say that I don't know what God is doing with me. We need to be not quick to judge and to jump on, oh well if God is causing allowing this person to suffer, it must be because they did something to sin. You know, that would be to take the approach of Job's friends, if you know you know the book of Job, you know how they were quick to jump on Job. They said, Job, nobody suffers this badly without doing something against God. Well, let's not have that attitude. No. Let's take Solomon's attitude. None of us, no one can find out the work of God from beginning to end. We're not able to figure out what God is doing with everything. None of us can But one day. One day the Lord will make make it known and he will reveal it, and when he does, we will be able to recognize that he has made everything beautiful in its time, as Ecclesiastes 3 says here. Um we don't understand all the details of life. We don't understand why somebody suffers and why someone else doesn't. But the Lord will make it known on his day. And we will be able to recognize it, and we will be able to praise him for it. We will be able to praise him for it. But if we can't figure out every detail of our lives, now notice Solomon's mindset in verses 12 and 13. Because here is the mindset we should have. And we should have this mindset. Sometimes putting those big questions of the big picture out of our heads And just saying, okay, we don't know, so what we need to do is what Solomon does. To know that nothing is better than to rejoice and to do good in our lives. And therefore to eat and drink and enjoy the good of our labor, for it is the gift of God. So if we don't know the full plan and we don't have access to it, and we can't understand it. Just take what God gives you. Enjoy it. Use it. Thank Him for it. Use it to do good for His glory. Take it for what it is. And also wait for the answer. Because the answer will come one day. That answer will come in eternity future. And this is what's reflected in what Solomon has to say here. Again, the thing that Solomon was looking for in life earlier in Ecclesiastes, he was not able to find. An answer to everything that's broken in life. Solomon couldn't find that. Neither can we. A reason for everything that happens under heaven, both good and bad Solomon couldn't figure that out. Neither can we. An account of the rationale for everything that God is doing in our lives and why he is doing it? Solomon couldn't find that. Neither can we. So what do we do? We wait for that answer to come. We take what God gives us for the present. We take it from him, we try to use it, we try to enjoy it. That means we don't stress out for the answers that we're not able to come up with. We don't waste our time and our energy on these things. And so this is where Solomon is at. This is where he has come to in this text. And again, I would suggest what a remarkable shift this is for Solomon. Again, um after what we saw in chapter one and two What's happened is his focus has changed. His perspective has changed. Both those outlooks are correct perspectives. So don't get me wrong here. What he said about the brokenness of creation, he was speaking truly and righteously in assessing That creation is beyond um beyond our ability to fix and to undo what is broken about it. But at the same time, it's a shift, a shift in perspective. From this eternal perspective, Solomon understands ahead of the time that the Lord is doing something, that the Lord does have a plan And that that plan is and will be something that is beautiful in its time. Now, we ought to believe what Solomon says here, and we ought to adopt that same mindset But in a way, don't we have even more reason to take it? Because we have seen more of God's plan unfold? And more of God's plan unveiled and revealed? For what have we seen? Solomon saw the beginnings of an eternal perspective. We have seen it in an even fuller way in the fact that the Son of God came, died for our sins Was raised for our justification to give us new eternal life forever. And in seeing that fact We have to understand the beauty of God's plan. Because the very center of what makes that plan beautiful Is God the Son coming in the flesh to die for the salvation of sinners, to redeem them as his sons forever, as those who will receive an eternal inheritance? Because we have seen that, and because we have received that salvation in Christ, we have ever even more reason to recognize that everything in its time will appear as beautiful because of what the Lord has done. We see the very center of God's purpose, the sending of his Son to save us And therefore we are able to say ahead of the time that everything is beautiful in its time. How can we not say that, having seen God send his son out of love for us? Those who trust in Christ, how can we not say that when we know the beginnings of that plan? Well beloved May you, by God's grace, be able to share in Solomon's perspective that he has here in Ecclesiastes chapter 3. None of us has this perspective in ourselves. But we are able to have it only through Christ, only through what Christ has done. May you therefore have it as evidence of your salvation. May you look upon things in this way. May you be quick to take a moment to pause and to consider that the Lord does have a plan He is working out. And that that plan has involved your salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ, and that therefore you can trust that the outcome of this plan will appear, and all the answers will come, and everything will appear in its place, in its time, but the time for us to see that is still to come. But we're promised that we will receive it, and we will receive it one day. Well, let's be quick to to uh seek that mindset ahead of the time. And do so by the by the grace of God and by the Spirit of God for His glory. Amen. Well, let's pray. O Lord God, today we give praise to you that you have revealed to us in your word the great hope that we have. Yes, O Lord, life under the sun is, as you have said, through Solomon, vanity of vanities. Truly life is broken. Truly this world is broken beyond our ability to repair or fix it. Yes, yet we also praise you. That you have done the work by which this world is fixed, and by which we are fixed, for we are those who are Uh uh uh uh our own lives are futility, and our own attempts to serve you are so often futility and end up in failure. And yet you have fixed us By the work of Christ. By His redemption we have salvation, and by His redemption we are assured that your plan involves bringing us into your presence one day, perfectly healed, perfectly restored. And on that day we rejoice that we'll be able to look and see all that you were doing and say that you indeed have made all things beautiful in their time. And that time will be, on that day, it will be our present, our now. And on that day, we will praise you for revealing your own beauty and your own glory to us. through Christ and through all that transpired in this world. Lord, help us to take this perspective, yes, even in the midst of our sufferings and our struggles. Help us to take uh uh this perspective even in our relative successes and the things we're able to enjoy in this life, to to realize that there is a bigger picture even when life is good Help us to look to you, we pray. Give us grace that we might do so. Glorify yourself through us, we ask. We ask all these things only in Christ's name. Amen.