Well, our New Testament reading this morning comes from the book of Acts, from chapter 2, beginning at verse 22. If you would stand for the reading of God's words, This is Peter's first sermon as recorded by Luke, or at least a portion of it. Hear God's word. Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves also know him. Being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by lawless hands, have crucified and put to death, whom God raised up. Having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be held by it. For David says concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face. For he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was glad. Moreover, my flesh also will rest in hope, for you will not leave my soul in Hades, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption. You have made known to me the ways of life. You will make me full of joy in your presence. Amen. Our Old Testament reading comes from the book of Genesis, chapter forty-one. We have many verses to read this morning. So if you're inclined, please feel free to sit. We'll be reading verses 1 through 49. Joseph, if you remember, is in prison, has been placed there because of his righteousness. As he refused the advances of Pharaoh's wife. He's interpreted dreams Now hear God's word. Then it came to pass at the end of two full years that Pharaoh had a dream, and behold, he stood by the river. Suddenly. There came up out of the river seven cows, fine looking and fat, and they fed in the meadow. And behold, seven other cows came up after them out of the river, ugly and gaunt. And stood by the other cows on the bank of the river. And the ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven fine-looking and fat cows. So Pharaoh awoke. He slept and dreamed a second time. And suddenly seven heads of grain came up on one stalk, plump and good. And behold, seven thin heads, blighted by the east wind, sprang up after them. And the seven thin heads devoured the seven plump and full heads. So Pharaoh awoke, and indeed it was a dream. Now it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled. And he sent it and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. And Pharaoh told them his dreams. But there was no one who can interpret them for Pharaoh. Pharaoh. Then the chief butler spoke to Pharaoh, saying, I remember my faults this day. And Pharaoh was angry with his servants and put me in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, both me and the chief baker, we each had a dream in one night, he and I. Each of us dreamed according to the interpretation of his own dream. Now, there was a young Hebrew man with us there, a servant of the captain of the guard. We told him, and he interpreted our dreams for us. To each man he interpreted according to his own dream. And it came to pass, just as he had interpreted for us. So it happened. He restored me to my office, and he hanged him. Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him quickly out of the dungeon. He shaved, changed his clothing, and came to Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I have had a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it. But I have heard it said of you that you can understand a dream to interpret it. So Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me. God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace. Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, Behold, in my dream I stood on the bank of the river. Suddenly, seven cows came up out of the river, fine-looking and fat, and they fed in the meadow. Then behold, seven other cows came up after them, poor and very ugly and gaunt, such ugliness as I have never seen in all the land of Egypt And the gaunt and ugly cows ate up the first seven, the fat cows. When they had eaten them up, no one would have known that they had eaten them, for they were just as ugly as at the beginning, so I awoke Also I saw in my dream, and suddenly seven heads came up on one stalk, full and good. Then, behold, seven heads withered, thin, and blighted by the east wind, sprang up after them, and the thin heads devoured the seven good heads. So I told this to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, excuse me. And Joseph said to Pharaoh, The dreams of Pharaoh are one. God has shown Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good heads are seven years. The dreams are one. The seven thin and ugly cows which came up after them are seven years, and the seven empty heads blighted by the east wind are seven years of famine. This is the thing which I have spoken to Pharaoh. God has shown Pharaoh what he is about to do. Indeed, seven years of great plenty will come throughout all the land of Egypt. But after them seven years of famine will arise, and all the plenty will be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine will deplete the land. So the plenty will not be known in the land because of the famine following, for it will be very severe. And the dream was repeated to Pharaoh twice, because the thing is established by God and God will shortly bring it to pass. Now therefore let Pharaoh select a discerning and wise man and set him over the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land to collect one fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt. Egypt in the seven plentiful years. Let them gather all the food of those good years that are coming, and store up grain under the authority of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. Then that food shall be a reserve for the land for the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt, that the land may not perish during the famine. So the advice was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants. And Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom is the Spirit of God? And Pharaoh said to Joseph, Inasmuch as God has shown you all this, there is no one as discerning and wise as you. You shall be over my house, and all my people shall be ruled according to your word. Only in regard to the throne will I be greater than you. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh took off his signet ring, took his signet ring off his hand and put it on Joseph's hand, and he clothed him in garments of fine linen and put a gold chain around his neck, and he made him ride in the second chariot which he had, and they cried out before him, Bow the knee. So he set him over all the land of Egypt. Pharaoh also said to Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without your consent no man may lift his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphanath Panayah, and he gave him a wife, Esanath, the daughter of Potaphara. Priest of Awn. So Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went throughout all the land of Egypt. Now in the seven plentiful years the ground brought forth abundantly. So he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities, and laid up in every city the foods of the fields which surrounded them Joseph gathered very much grain as the sand of the sea until he stopped counting, for it was immeasurable. You pray with me. Father in heaven. Come to a very powerful section of Scripture, a powerful passage. Help us to fix our minds upon Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever thought about the disciple Thomas? The one who doubted. Jesus had risen from the dead, and he had just finished visiting with all the disciples, except for Thomas. He wasn't present. And so as Thomas rejoins the disciples, the group that had just been with Jesus Christ, and they relate this to him. He tells them, unless I see in his hands the print of the nails and put my finger into the print of the nails and put my hands into his side, I will not believe. Thomas thought that Jesus was still in the tomb. Thomas thought that the grave clothes were yet wrapped around the lifeless body of Jesus. Thomas thought that Jesus had absolutely no position over him, not king, not lord, not savior, not God. So much so that Thomas could say I will not believe. We know that Thomas does change his confession as he sees Jesus. This passage that we have before us today is much about change in the way that we see the Lord Jesus Christ. Joseph has been sold off. The favored son, the one who had the tunic, the one who took much pride in that tunic, in the love of his father. The dreamer of dreams and sold off. His brothers sent him down to Egypt. He's now in the hands of the enemies of God And while he is, the sins of his family just continue even to multiply, as Judah does not adhere to the Word of God, as he has cast off the Word of God by sending his brother to Egypt. Breaks God's law. He sins in many ways, along with his daughter-in-law Tamar. But yet Joseph continues to persevere in righteousness. Even as his family is continuing to break the rules, the word of God, Joseph is the one who is. Keeping the word. Joseph is the one who is exalting God in a spiritual battle. Even so, he's left in prison, even by the butler who fails to remember him. Joseph had been taken away from the worship of God. He'd been removed from the only family that we know of in the world which worship the living God, the oral traditions, the accounts. We're not being heard by Joseph. The only thing that Joseph has his dreams So now today we're going to take a look at those. And we're going to see, I hope, that suffering ends in the exaltation For those called and clothed by the all-wise King. Suffering ends in exaltation for those called and clothed by the all-wise king. We'll see that in three points. Called with authority, clothed with royal garments, and then finally endowed with righteousness. Excuse me, with wisdom. As we go through this passage today, I want you to be asking yourself, how do I see Jesus today? Well first called with authority. Two years have passed since the butler has been raised up out of the dungeon It's been serving Pharaoh. Two years the butler has forgotten all about Joseph. He's still in prison. And now Pharaoh has dreams. Think of this. The third time dreams have been mentioned. In this portion of Scripture. Joseph has dreams, the butler, the baker has dreams, and now the king of the land, Pharaoh has dreams. There's a problem, though. Pharaoh's spirit is troubled. Look at verse 6. Even as he recounts his dreams, as Moses records them, we come to verse 8 and we We see very clearly the king of the land of this powerful nation is troubled. No one could interpret the dreams. Think of that. This king has all power, all authority over this most powerful nation called Egypt. But he's troubled. He receives this powerful message, but he can't understand it. And so he calls together the 18. All the magicians, all the wise men in Egypt, quite an amassing of the best minds the sleight of hand of the superpowers of this day. All those who could supposedly control the natural world and uncover its secrets come before pharaohs, the smart ones, the tricksters. But none of these, individually or collectively, could understand or interpret. Well, that's not surprising. Dreams are of a spiritual nature, aren't they? Just as the other two sets of dreams were. These dreams of Pharaoh were certainly of a spiritual nature, not of the material world. And clearly, Pharaoh's dreams cause him, cause his spirit to be troubled. And none of these could address it. None of these could provide comfort or soothing to Pharaoh. It required a unique person. With unique abilities and unique power. None of those who were before Pharaoh fit the bill. His spirit continued to be moved. There was no peace with the king, the soul of Pharaoh. No one could interpret. No peace. Think of that. For the second time in as many chapters, unbelievers, Gentiles, are troubled. downcast because their dreams are not understood. Each of them, the baker, the butler, and now Pharaoh, they have no peace The dreams have been received, but not understood. Can you see that there's no peace outside of communion with God. We're surrounded by people who have absolutely no peace because they're outside of His Word. His word is ready, it's available. But they're outside of it. They can have no peace. Well here is where the butler remembers. Two years. And it takes Pharaoh's dreams and his recounting of those dreams, even in the presence of The butler for him to remember that there is one who does interpret dreams. A young Hebrew man. Why did the butler remember? What was it that caused him to think of Joseph at this point? Was it because he was righteous? Because he was imprisoned wrongfully? Because he had rebuffed Potiphar's wife's advances? Was that it? Was that what he was remembering? No, absolutely not. Wasn't what he was thinking about. Was it because he was so prosperous? Everything his hand touches turns to gold, so to speak. Everything's working well in the prison. They're being well-fed, well-kept. Is that what the butler was thinking? No. Didn't enter into his mind. What was it? What was relevant What qualified Joseph in the mind of the butler, it was that he interpreted. Look at verse 40, excuse me, chapter 41, verse 12. He interpreted our dreams. He interpreted according to his own dream. Verse 13, just as he interpreted, do you see the emphasis For the butler was upon Joseph's interpretation. It was in Joseph. He did it. He was the untroubler for the troubled heart. to the supernatural, the spiritual interpretation of Joseph. So what does the king do? Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him quickly out the dungeon. You see, Moses' narration gives this idea of immediacy. His spirit is so troubled. He needs to get this one before him. Tell me what it means. Give me peace. Get him! No intermissions, no coffee breaks. There was an immediate need. Why did it take two years? Came to pass at the end of two full years. Why didn't the butler remember sooner? Why didn't Pharaoh have these dreams sooner? Why did Joseph have to stay in the prison two more years? Do you see Joseph's confession? Look at verse sixteen. It's not in me It is not in me. God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace. Joseph immediately gives Pharaoh, even before he interprets, he immediately tells Pharaoh, it's not me. The butler was wrong. He denies the butler's claims and accolades, and he gives praise to God. It took two years, two more years, to get Joseph to give that response. So that his heart could be made contrite and humble, even before the king, even as one is lifting up his praise in the king's presence, he says, No, no, it's not me, it's God. Now think of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's parallel to Joseph. As Jesus lay in the tomb, there was still work to be done. It wasn't finished He had satisfied the wrath of God wholly and completely, taking it all. There was not one drop left of God's wrath for all those that believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, because he took it all. But Jesus lay in darkness. The task was not yet done, and his father, from a human perspective, was troubled, troubled by the sins of men. And like Joseph, a portion of the work, the suffering was complete, but a task lay ahead There was more work to be done, and there was only one who had the nature, only one who had the character, only one who had the power, the personhood to accomplish all that the Father needed to be done according to his perfect will His only eternally begotten Son must be brought out of darkness back into the light. Isn't that what we read in chapter 2 of Acts? Him being delivered over by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God. Think of that. God The determined purpose allowed his son to be delivered over to accomplish a portion of his work. And now Whom God raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should be held by it Are you seeing a parallel between Joseph and Jesus? The only ones called out to do that work that only they could perform. The Israelites were being called with authority to enter into the promised land, weren't they? They stood on the precipice. Of getting into the promised land. Moses was writing to them, reminding them of all these things now, and now their minds were being filled with what Joseph has done, and the land where the Lord was giving them rest lay before them And God would be in communion with them, but they needed to exercise dominion over it, didn't they? Just as God had called Adam and Eve to exercise dominion over all that he created in the place that he called the Garden of Eden Seeing Joseph being called up and out of the dungeon now and placed where he was in this place of Power, the Israelites saw the justice of God, but more so that Joseph was raised from a humble and low position up to that position of power, to dominion and authority. The Israelites were being raised from being slaves, now being called to be rulers over the land. They had to see that it wasn't in themselves that they could do this, but it was in God. Today, this message should remind us of our own calling, shouldn't it? How Christ has become the first fruits, the first one called out of the tomb to life by his Father, even so in Christ all shall be made alive, all those whom God has predestined unto life, and those only he's pleased in his appointed time effectually to call by his word and spirit, out of that state of sin and death, in which they are by the nature to grace and salvation by Jesus Christ. Westminster Confession Chapter 10. If you've been called today, if you've been raised out of that state of sin, how are you seeing Jesus Brothers and sisters, I think we need to confess that we see Jesus too lightly today. Do you see Jesus as the one who lay dead in the tomb and because of his righteousness didn't belong there? Do you see Jesus' righteousness? as his garments, which he could not take off, and therefore death could not hold him Do you see Jesus as the one who is called out, the one who responded immediately to the call in his own power? Do you see Jesus as the only one who's able to finish this work of salvation, the true seed of the woman, without whom you would be in your sins today? Do you see Jesus is the one the Father loved so much that he longed for his son to return and take his seat on the throne? Oh, brothers and sisters, that we would Repent of our light thoughts of Jesus and ascribe to him all of his divine due Brings us to our second point, clothed with royal garments. Clothing is a big deal in this account of Joseph Other personal items and clothing are throughout this account and they have significance. They have much to say about the spiritual estate of Jacob's family. Indeed, there's a sense in which these outer dorments and adornments are a road sign for the reader. For us today. First, the tunic of love. Clearly, clearly, the tunic of love was that garment which indicated to everyone The love of the Father for Joseph, the Son, it was a garment of honor and elevation. It was a source of pride for Joseph. And then Tamar's garments, the daughter-in-law of Judah, she dons on garments of a harlot. She takes off her mourning garments, puts on garments of a harlot. Which represented just the opposite, not righteousness. She replaced her garments with garments of deceit. And garments which would call even Judah, tell him that she was ready and willing to enter into sin with him. So much so Judah's signet and cord and staff. Initially indicating his status amongst the people, but but as Tamar brings them out and shows them to everybody, now they're these symbols of Judah which point to his sin, his wretchedness. Before God. And then there's Joseph's slave garments. That which he had to put on, indicating he was now a servant of Potiphar, and that which Potiphar's wife rips off of him as he flees Those who hated Joseph, those who were offended by him by the love he received, by the words and by the righteousness Of Joseph, they remove his garments, don't they? And Potiphar's wife removed Joseph's garments of humility. That which represented his confession of obedience to the God of Christ. Creation, and therefore, which represented his refusal of her sinful advances and temptations. And now Joseph has come full circle, hasn't he? The garment of pride, the tumic, has been stripped from him. That he could be forced to put on the garments of a slave, which needed to be removed from him, that he would be ready to be clothed in royal garments And now as Joseph interprets the dream for Pharaoh and gives him much wisdom, Pharaoh takes off his signet ring and clothes him in garments of fine linen and a gold chain around his neck. Everything outwardly was different now, yet internally the changes had already been made in Joseph. That which had been done in Joseph's heart was now evident in the garments that he had now been given to wear by the king, all of which were in disha that God was indwelling in Joseph You see, Jesus also wears marks of triumph and victory, doesn't he? As he said to Thomas, reach your finger here. Look at My hands, reach your hand here, put it into my side. He was clothed within disha of victory. The marks that have been placed upon his body were were marks of of that battle, a battle which he won over death and over sin. And God's approval had been placed upon his hands and in his side, and just Jesus in a very particular way was marked for all to see him as the victorious King of King and Lord of Lords. We saw Joseph as he goes out, as he's put on these these royal garments now, and he's put in the second chariot, and he's he's called to go throughout the land of Egypt. And what are the men calling before him as he goes out? Bow the knee, bow before Joseph. Look at his royal garments, look at his righteousness. Joseph's second dream has come to pass. The very will of God the Father has become. The sun, the moon, the eleven stars have bowed down to him. Because Egypt was that powerful nation in all the world. And it was as if the sun and the moon and the stars bowed down to him. Do you ever wonder what the jailer thought? This is the guy that he saw in slaves' clothes, and now his the chariot is coming by with Joseph, and all his splendor and all his righteousness is being shown before the jailer. I knew that guy. You ever wonder what the angels thought? As Jesus Christ passes through the heavens. As Jesus Christ has died As he suffered the wrath of God, as now he's been raised from the tomb and now ascended. Where does he go? You say, well, he's sitting next to God. Yes, he is, of course, but he passes through the heavens. Hebrew 5 Hebrews 14, 14. Seeing that then we have a great high priest who's passed through the heavens. Jesus Christ has gone on a victory tour throughout the heavens displaying his righteousness, displaying what he's done for God the Father, how he has fulfilled his holy will I can just imagine the angels bowing down before our Savior, before a high priest. Praising him, singing his praises. But Joseph became a king over people who were not the people of God, this lover of God. This one who was submitting his will to God in righteousness, this knower and worshipper of God, had now become ruler, second in command. Of those who were not of God, but of the world. And as the Israelites were about to enter that promised land, they had to be asking themselves that question: how will we take this land? It's already occupied. How would they remain in it when they were surrounded by nations who hated God and hated them? What an encouragement to see Joseph. Not an Egyptian, an unlikely candidate for kingship, come into power not with the sword, but by the powerful word of God. As we think of our Savior Jesus. He's not merely jumped into a chariot and paraded throughout the streets of a city or even an earthly country. No. Unlike Joseph, he's been raised up with divine garments to pass through the heavens. How do we respond? How do you respond today? Thinking of that, seeing that we have this great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God You know how the writer to the Hebrews finishes that verse? Let us hold fast our confession. I think that's the call today. I think that's the response today. Just as Thomas was called to believe upon seeing the divinely marked Jesus Christ. This marking, this elevation, this exaltation of Jesus Christ should work in us a confidence and assurance of the truth. He's our high priest who has worked a perfect atonement. An eternal substitutionary sacrifice for our sins, for your sins, who sits blamelessly and righteously before God the Father. How are you seeing Jesus today? That's a great question for evangelism. But it continues to be a really good question for us today, here Do you see him with all his marks of his kingship? You see him with all of his his battle wounds and yet his battle Victory? Do you see him with a crown as the king who rules over you body and soul? Do you see him as the Lord of your life? That brings us to our third point, endowed with wisdom. Well, this passage does not end merely with Joseph interpreting the dreams, does it? He certainly does. By the power of God, by God's abiding with him, he's able to understand what God is conveying, what he's communicating to Pharaoh the king. But he goes beyond that, doesn't he? He provides wisdom. Even those wise men, those magicians, were not able to come up with a plan. Joseph is the one who comes up with the plan. Gather in these seven years. Don't just Neglect the fact that seven bad years are coming. To what What was Pharaoh seeing and hearing in Joseph? I think it's significant. In verse 38, that we read, Pharaoh said to his servants, Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom is the Spirit of God? Pharaoh was a pagan And he's looking for one in whom there's a spirit of God, and he sees, in fact, here is one standing before me today. I think this is the first time that phrase, that title is used since Genesis chapter 1, verse 2. Spirit of God! Certainly, Pharaoh, like Potiphar, like the jailer, saw in Joseph the blessing of God. The Lord blessed the Egyptians' house for Joseph's sake The Lord blessed the jail and all that he did. He made it to prosper. The Lord had given him inspiration to interpret the dreams to the butler, to the baker, and now Pharaoh. And Pharaoh heard and saw that which the Lord had given to Joseph. divine wisdom. Inasmuch as God has shown you all this, there is no one as discerning and wise as you. What is wisdom? What was Pharaoh seeing? I don't think he had Webster's 1828 before him, but if he did, he'd pull out that book and look up wisdom and it would tell him The faculty of discerning or judging what is most just, proper, and useful, most conducive to prosperity or happiness. Isn't that what Pharaoh was seeing in Joseph, placed there by God? The ability to use all things properly and justly and usefully for God That God might preserve the seed of the woman, that God might save a people for himself, that God was doing all this, and that's wisdom in Joseph? Maybe Pharaoh didn't see all that, but he certainly was looking for the Spirit of God to rest upon a man And if Joseph was given wisdom, if Solomon was given wisdom, how much more the Son of God, the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, that the description of Jesus. Christ the branch, the root of Jesse, the stem. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom Of God. Christ is, by definition, the wisdom of God, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. For the Israelites in Agricultural Society, they must have been so encouraged See how God was planning, knowing that they had already suffered times of plenty, times of little, and seeing how Egypt was about to do that, and how God was planning and preparing for that. Let me ask today. Well Joseph provided materially through the wisdom that was given to him by God the Father. Jesus is providing for the hearts of the people of God. And I think ultimately that's what this passage is telling us As we go through times of spiritual abundance, we also go through times of spiritual abundance. dryness and it is Jesus who is the one in his wisdom who is ruling over and reigning over our hearts in both times In his governance, he is preparing and planning for times of dryness. Even using times of dryness in our hearts for our good, isn't he? How are you seeing Jesus? Do you have confidence in him today? I don't know where you are. Today you might be riding a spiritual high. Tomorrow, you might be in the depths of despair. Do you have confidence in Jesus That he's able and desirous of bringing you through those times of dryness. He's the one in whom is all wisdom. He is the one who has all dominion and authority, who reigns above all things. And his divine throne above the heavens, do you have confidence in his wisdom? In whom all things All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden. Pharaoh had confidence in Joseph after seemingly a few moments with him Confidence to give him all of the kingdom. We have so much more in Jesus Christ. If you're trusting in him today, he's been with you. And he's told you that he will never leave you nor forsake you. And in his wisdom, his planning, preparing, even if you haven't gone through them yet. Those times of spiritual drama. Yes, suffering ends in exaltation for those called and clothed for the all-wise King. Thomas looked to his eyes for belief. He didn't believe that the suffering of Jesus had ended and that his exaltation had begun. We might think, oh, what an error Thomas made. Missed out on eight days. Eight days of praising the Lord, being with the Lord, knowing that the Lord was risen, rejoicing, eight days he missed out. But the truth is that Thomas has all eternity now to enjoy his Savior. His Lord and his God. We have today to see Jesus as he is, the exalted, the glorified King of kings. And Lord of Lords, the one who has the treasures of God's wisdom hidden within himself, that he might bring us Through times of spiritual dryness, preparing for them. Praise be to God. Amen. Do you pray with me? O Heavenly Father, we ask now that you would give us eyes to see Jesus clearly. The one who has been called out, the risen king, the one who is victorious over his enemies, and the one in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen