Until in the top of God's word now to expand. Freedom will be human. Fan five. We're found on three five hundred and twenty nine of these two values. Why am I for the fleet to stand at the door to my words, thy lords, and fiddle my brain, to the content, to the sound of For to you be our fault. O Lord, in the morning you hear my voice, in the morning I prepare sacrifice For you and right. For you are not a God who delights in liquidity. Either may not dwell with you. Those folks are not turned before you Your eyes repaze our evildoers, to destroy those who seek lies. The Lord absorbs the blood spirit and the speaker man. With the abundance of your steadfast love will enter your heart. I will bow down toward your holy temple in the flea of you, release me, O Lord, and your righteousness because of my enemies Make your way close to my mind. There is no peace in my mind. The inmost self is distinct from the cloud. It's an open way They flatter with their pen. Most one build their years are there. They can fall by the unconscious. Because of the abundance of these things, bless them Pass for me, but they have rejected against me. But let all who take up me given to reject. Let them other sin forgive me. But those who love the moon will exalt in you. So you bless the rights of the world. And cover from it. So this I didn't read it too. And the heart of mother could kind of be a ray, the each one might be a ray of a light now. But how do you know that these are words of life? But to understand these words requireed as a death of the word Jesus Christ. And the coming is true. If the father we said, man. If we pray, I can die. That the words that are spoken tonight would be season in their sights, that they would be in accordance with their words Make it black with it. Sometimes I tell us it that no thing. I think In the first chapter of Nehemiah, we read that Nehemiah He is the top bear in exile to the king and the country where he has been taken. He is that the war around the Jerusalem has been broken down. That was kept Jerusalem, the people of God, in, and then it was kept the enemies of God out. That was surrounded at the centerpiece of God's worship the temple and Myanmar meaning. And then kill. We begin his prayer by saying, Oh Lord God of heaven, gate and ask from God who Covenant and steadfast laws with those who lay hands into Remara was still a pet bill in upside at the time that he plays this story. Ultimately he wants to go back And help rebuild the world. And yet we call him to disguise, the name we identify. A constantly waiting at time a little even at the thing. And if you know Niamara, you know the result, but you dad Provide the way for me and I to go back and read the rebuilding of the way it is done in the moving thoughts kill the game. And down to keep heaven with steadfast life. Hold the code and think in the manner If we look at Sam's eyes, we see something strange. David is the author, we see that and he's open. This is intended to be Not sure when it was written. We might suspect that it was after David was in Ranchers Maybe even before he closed the family could say, don't know. 258. So we need to win that and do it together. I want to see to know that exception kingdom here is founded in God No full and host sanity. Very simple. Acceptance kingdom school is founded upon that most of them Confidence not in self, definitely confidence in the nature of God and in family confidence It means uncertain classes for some looks. And did it so we are Briad or is new I feel it's kind of cool. I think it's important to us to absorb little. If the psalm opens, if David opens, it's clear that there is a think of distress within them. He believes my words, O Lord, consider my dwelling. David has common with a purpose is World with the sense of affliction, thank you. It's not when he's he's coming to afflicted by his sense of personal goodness or accomplishment. He's not standing before God. He doesn't come teaching to God about the way in which the kingdom has already advanced He cannot exalt him in his own personal appealing. David can't ask him for God to to heal based upon anything in David In fact, he's doing just the opposite. He's lower in himself, isn't he? He's saying the lowiness of his style, of his experience, he's feeling He was his friend. The David Truth and Jam. If we do it in our road, they will come to put them on the drain. and I'm not gonna have open up your name for word, if you open up a book tonight has this meaning of firing and so But it's one is it combined with human life, with this one, since I'm not a land, right? Combined with a crowd to the conference to the sound of my sword. And it was a common lesson with this. Anyway, and then cry to God. If you cry David didn't find the distance before the Lord goes by in the high days This can express himself in a single node. There there's no access to it. There are layers which must To expose before the Lord. Thank God. He's still not his house and mysteries and insane life And you would have to be voice by that. You would think of a voice of my face. Not only in actual words, but then in the Man! The cloud or cloud. They were recognizing his human immobility. The only thing about that was clear from the chance. This kingdom is God's kingdom. This kingdom is full of God's peaceful. We're going to access. We're going to be the enemy. It's bad to not see the fact. It's bad, we might see the access out like that ours in its vein. Venus has no life outside of its heart, outside of the vein. But as it is receiving that life blood as it commanded and drafted into the line then one that don't take it to the transfer Didn't it come to remember we're doing that standing up and coming to the pandemic Perfect. The U to the point of time attentions that are imperative or meditative commands. important and I can assem it the factory birth as we say. As a clean thing. That's the bathroom of the life. This can fall. It's like totally funny things. Little good early that I'm sorry and freedom of these to complete on my journey. If you give a constant my voice, it's came up to dance, it's coming up to a home turn up to yellow. Didn't know if David had taken a turn at this time. Most likely he'd been wanted already. He needed it. clear couldn't advise it whether he had taken a fine. recognize his distinction. In fact, we Israelite area, but in fact we are mighty as their kings, we are their time and time with land. David not Newly knows him as Yahweh, as I know him as one who is in wings over his head. The God of heaven, the God he be all the gods of heaven. It is eternal kind of redemption for his people rolling his eternal kingdom down into the Christian and worship his son the Lord Jesus Christ to then you're kind of kind of not lying. David may just be nothing. And I think it's so Yes, the promise does not say, I will order my prayer to you and then I'm going to go about doing my business. My business. And sit for this aircraft aim. And now you can Young things, as it's gone, and it's clarity, is the answer to God and heaven. It's very That's the venture of David again in his case. You think David is likened in his chair is God as a sacrificial offering to him A man I could put a couple guys to re and right. What is the thing? You know two types of six on the name and the order and pay for you and easy and whatever. And saying fast, is a line in the bidding? Is it a line in the test? we began to consider this fan. We have to remember that fire should have unpredictable. He's the same one how he's saying the guy's right hand right now. What he's doing, he's equal to him for me. That will have happened. But we're doing something. It's the middle of my side The temple said second thing. Can't bring some bad moods. And if you're asking yourself, how is it But Dav David was able to raise the man and had to pay a sacrifice to be um that David In the past, he's drawing his coming out to God and whiskey and done. There's something going on, we got to it. Because we know a God who delights in listening. Therefore, it should be sent straight away because I'm able to do this, I'm able to walk So we've got a Because of the holiness and spirit of God, and because of his everlasting life, because he wanted to suffer. So let's do the morning. Okay, when it's a 421, holding a die. clearly negative for you are not a god who delights in wickedness. You belong not be all wickedness The both folks are not to understand you you think or evil deals to be cure to keep your own. Well, why would David step forth the clarity and the holiness of God in negative tone? Okay. Because it takes a religious manual thing. The more you couldn't. You know basically, you know faster. We can hold it in how we understand the time. Because we're the scriptures of what line is We didn't move man. That which is inherited from our first title Adam. Importantly we just walk in the moon. We're just encrowned with what God hopes You know, the concept of the things those who were not wanted with Yaram had died. The house had died. not with them. They since the love of God will not abide you again. to do they'll be trusted to multiple. So we're going to use that to the nice to the play and He takes no pleasure in wickedness, maybe the earth would die, only the poor. He may ascend into the way of the Lord, he may stand in the holy place, he who has seen him God. As we think of Hammer Young who emptied the whom the one he was offended by anticipating. Only the poor. Only the one with things Jesus Christ went to the cross to kill him. And now he is sitting at the right hand of God. He drives with his father. Let me feel the male nurse that the time to put much pleasure in this. Both just cannot stand before But David knows it's a I see the family. The voice that they're not standing before their eyes. You see how easy I do before I decide for the blood source of people. It's not a core. It is going to be the basis for my confidence. Melanes of God himself, his infinity, his spirit, his pay truth Yes. And it shouldn't have ability to wait and write the same thing. May and May is the Father, I thought the Son, and anyone who's in the same season to be real The father to David has defended this time. So that is the recordness of man and knows it to run him and knows that we are playing the un The of the kingdom of God. The King of Worship. The King of Worship of Christ. To the food out, they're exercising of themselves. To do the learnings to their holding. To know that they're holding. And that declared, based upon the holiness of God, it's the primary basis for a spirit of confidence, acceptance, waiting and watching Because the things didn't rotten the smoke, routine up to God, knowing that he's praying, knowing Learns and justice and righteousness and knows that God's righteousness will use. They seven basis. They seven foundation. They go to excellent first and say, yeah, but God, look at those seconds. But I re abundance of your third past will enter your heart. You see this is where God is building expanding. And David recognizes this. He recognizes this will be a God is heaviness is righteousness I don't know if you made it a dungeon third time. Well and the final third recognizes that it's not by his sense that his transfer taken will be seen some days he can in wickedness that I think But as for me, though the answer, not twice, I would enter this place. That would be abundant for this for us to just be unable. But the only distinction which means David And they who delight in wickedness. But the Lord God that was him. This is why. Wasn't David he never hit his one his name? Wasn't he one of his evil and white? Of course he wake. But then it was the penis to do David, to put him attack, and the thing is long as I'm hands. And above the room. Did you see that? Drive to the abundance of yourself as we enter your heart, die down to your whole country Think about this for a minute. I think it's terrifying the thing to be going to leverage. Appointing to the appointment at the third point That's real bad to average. It's not a little bit fuel, a little bit. But it's a friend. Definitely between more than me, but feeling in the middle of it. Remember he's infinite. He's unbounded. There's nothing that he's anything there. Infinite commit. We can't put it on a box, we can't get around around it. Inside. The man who is known the mercy of God. And I don't think it's a very good man. He enters into his drying thing. He ventures into his conflict. And then first of all. discover the two parts of everything. I can get a So to be an expectation of uncle outside of the fear of God Absolutely man. It's just level one for two that David keeps that as he's entering the house and bowing down and prostrating himself, not as a rebellious card, but as as when he is declaring before a God to use. Obedient through the empty will be He's been granted entrance by the love of God and and so he comes with his patron house, it's a beauty in house, and wait for him not too far and down here but the way of the part of about who is one to find I don't know Okay, I think it is to maybe extra decent to be able to tell reasoning. Let's hear the gun that I find. Body human heaven. Puts it this way as you if you think of the first position which is why I do by man, it's a while But if it are an all men to honor God rightly, honor to your mind. But God would do so The more one example, more of his things and his holy disasters, his ordinance, his will, his work, whatsoever he seems best to make himself We know that is the way a hundred and loving times to all the telephone. If you get a career use, waiting, a touch for me. If we finish the appearance Is that is that when you see it? Mike then How often you gotta play even over. What is the thing that you take the case Why do we care even when we downcast the faith? Even if there's no way that God is going to grant this request. It depends on whether you're turning the closer to the rib, then happening. But if you're not letting you learn the follow up is a anything, I'm not gonna help you feel That could be a lack of test, lack of teeth. Like a beliefs are going to be real bad. Well I even get all our thousand. We ask and do not recruit because we are Brothers and sisters, if we're not stumbling over those things, our case would be fair and easy. Young friends, what we call the crimes as a whole. Why meaning of these poor to these crimes? And through the flip thing, children, tribulations, it's reality. And each of them is Reliable with a damn But the data thing was not for his speech. If God is for us, we should do against us. His he's not for us anything, but those who must be asked to ask. No i think the only system didn't say I believe it's not where we follow the next stuff. doesn't make this aid is a is kind of a headline for the rest of the farm reason they're world and the right of us because of our enemy. Most world waste the oil That would be described in negative points and this is 46% here, but this average could be real life for time In some cases, this birth and capplate the entire time. But now I can look down his wife and this way a line is played. I've told you to go and tell it to your national. I thought you were going. They said the women is a bad, they see sin, righteousness of God, but they didn't know to respond to them with being of righteousness for in the display, I've found it the right we have there and put this They're in most stars with disruption that they can open goals. They scatter the thing. Make them do their job They can try by their own country. Because of the abundance of their transgression plus the minute because they died against you. What's the gives the evidence the climb to those who are post good and certainly okay? The factors who are communicated, most people know. They've had a choice of no But I'm done with my things worse. And it's done. I kind of feel uh deal to be more than one bird or joke. The prices are laid against the wicked uh David's asking for this to be the sentence. Let them fall by their unconsciously because of the abundance of the things, let them cast them out to rebel against me, make them bear their joy. God be Well this time couldn't change the chicken. to become one to the word speaker from itself. God speaks to Adam and the bad and the day that he eat some of each our fully done. The guilt which David cars for is the punishment for sin, the liability which comes upon our person for sins and for Holy God and David may be God is watching righteous and praying. God pour out their jobs. But let all his perfect and reason. David knows that if it were not for God's mercy and grace, the tree would be in the past. And the children in the messiah and the one who is the same from David processed. From I could suffer from the one who has come. But for now he's not only planning for the dead of all the earth to deal just as he's actually planning for the king, the one who Yes, and the one who has confidence and has mercy and his abundant love, even Jesus Christ will have mercy to allow received in the Christian. Isn't that a thing to do? Well, the cut things based again, the baby loves them and direct these I think David knows that God blesses the righteous and he knows that no one is righteous unless himself. The same thing he has taken your friends tonight from a classic project, the same one who is now slowly If you along with David can carry this prayer tonight, will be glad to righteous allow me to take light revenue and be You know, this has been people and those all the things. The words are tall Your enemies who rise up against you to be defeated before you they will come out against you one way and will free before you seven way. Either enemies completely And be the only fruit. And if I keep it chastising, and it comes and given to those of the value of you and the codes after you can live long on my life. No one below the direction to ask. Listen towards the planet of your chance when Rose of penguins. And I rose up to do the road to We were warm and torn enough, wise, and be justified and righteous and those who are eager to risk for even a truth. Okay, so it's the kind of coming. Because it's just an hour that we're saying I can along the call for individual physical and temporal needs. How much can we be able to to give you three to sort of things and concentration to the queen. On the go to The game with the first person I will now replace coming to the new week. That follows high that it seems that we can have even if it's not a bad as well. Food honestly can clearly can frequently The word of God is the option that is Yeah, so I know in fact Christian if a body Even hope. But a lot of ties would penetrate the house of even one and so When he asked him to expand. But even then he be saved and delivered from the time of Satan and brought into an estate of righteousness, violence through the Lord Jesus Christ. There is freedom advanced. But no space and expensive. You am I amigo? Even before. Even before the queen said yes, right. I feel it can see it. Actually, it's kind of good. Coming with the angle over there. Oh my god. But you feel like awesome and it's a time to come before you with little and no expectation. The times we we don't come as preaching beliefs out Mayom if we feel like you're in free and if we're confused. Have it depended where you would a constant say how to pretend it where you would feel them But we need to try to be home to the message of work from the more water to be brought in the place. Blood be the five. More work with him. More too worth with him. Heaven. Remind us. Work with I have to complain to Remark. We'll call it on the space. I have to do really Young cadet and grooving.