Amen. If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue our study there in chapter thirteen. I believe that's on page 973 of your Pew Bibles. We are in the midst of the parables of chapter thirteen. Having looked at the parable of the soils last week, we'll continue Our study this week, beginning at verse 24. Let's give attention to God's holy word, Matthew 13, beginning at verse 24. He put another parable before them, saying, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field. But while his men were sleeping, these enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away. So when the plants came up and bore grain, the weeds appeared also And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him, Master, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have weeds? He said to them, An enemy has done this. So the servants said to him, Then do you want us to go and gather them? But he said, No. lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them. Let both grow together until the harvest. And at harvest time I will tell the reapers, gather the weeds first, and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into He put another parable before them saying, the kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field. It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it is grown, it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches He told them another parable. The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was all leavened. All these things Jesus said to the crowds in parables. Indeed, he said nothing to them without a parable. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet. I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter what has been hidden since the foundation of the world. Then he left the crowds and went into the house And his disciples came to him saying, Explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field. He answered, The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world, and the good seed is the sons of the kingdom. The weeds are the sons of the evil one, and the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels. Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the end of the age. Son of man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all lawbreakers, and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears, let him hear. Would you pray with me? Our Father in Heaven, we thank you for these parables. Sometimes they are difficult for us to understand, to grasp. And so we pray, Holy Spirit, work in us powerfully this morning. Give us ears to hear, eyes to see, give us understanding, Father, and not mere intellectual knowledge. But drill deeply within our hearts, Father. Convict us of sin. And Father, we want to see the promises of Christ. in this passage. Help us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if you remember the account of Joseph in the Old Testament, in Genesis, it begins with the description of Joseph being young. He is amongst many of his brothers, and he is a young shepherd boy. You might also remember that he was hated by his brothers because his father loved him so much he gave him that coat of many colors. And then he had those dreams. And it would have been hard if if Joseph wasn't prideful as a result of those dreams, indicating that he was going to be Lord over everyone, especially his family. And then we see that Joseph was weak, as he's thrown into a pit by his brothers who hated him, finally sold off into slavery. And then unjustly imprisoned, as Potiphar's wife lies He was being humbled before God before he was ultimately raised up Remember, he was in prison and interpreted dreams and finally was called to interpret Pharaoh's dreams, and as a result of that interpretation given to him by God He becomes second in the land of Egypt. He goes from being a weak shepherd boy To being second in power in probably what was the most powerful nation on the face of the earth at that time Through all those trials and tribulations, the Lord was working on Joseph's heart. So that at the end of the account, as his brothers come to him, not really seeking forgiveness Joseph says to them, Do not fear. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. Joseph's heart was so changed that he didn't retaliate, but he poured out grace upon his brothers It's a bit of what we have in these parables this morning. We see much growth in Joseph. And as we come to these parables, we're going to see that the Lord is showing us that the church of the Lord Jesus Christ will indeed grow. At this point, Jesus has gathered his disciples. There are only twelve of them. He's called them to follow him. And as they're following him, the Pharisees have begun their battle against Jesus. They have accused him of being of beelzebel. He's casting out demons only by the power of Satan. That they have demanded a sign. And they have conspired to destroy him. In this context that we come to this morning, we see three separate parables. But they all appear to be connected. The first parable that you might think of as the parable of the weeds and tares, or excuse me, parable of the of the wheat and tares, or wheat and weeds. is broken up by the parable of the mustard seed and the parable of the leaven. And then Jesus explains, he goes back to the parable of the wheat and tares and explains it. And so there seems to be a connection between all of these three, and I think if we consider that they're all speaking of the growth of the kingdom of heaven, we can agree that they go together. That's how we'll be reading them this morning. I want us to see that the Lord preserves and grows his kingdom according to his infinite and holy will for the good of his people. The Lord preserves and grows his kingdom according to his infinite and holy will for the good of his people. We'll see that in three simple points this morning. First, kingdom growth. Secondly, kingdom significance, and then finally, kingdom presence. Well first, kingdom growth. You see in each of these three parables begin with either the words, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to or the kingdom of heaven is like. Why does Jesus speak this way? Why does he teach about the kingdom of heaven this way? It's like It's important for us to remember, even dwell upon, that we are finite creatures. We're bounded by space and time. And the kingdom of heaven is not something that we can touch. It's not something that we can see. It's not something that we can feel. What's being described by Jesus is the kingdom of heaven here on earth. You might think he's describing that which we are going to as those who are in Christ at a later date But no, he's describing the kingdom of heaven here. He's already said, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And so Jesus is speaking about what he is ushering in, what he has ushered in. He's speaking of the kingdom of heaven here, but it can't be touched, it can't be seen. And the truth is that those who were listening to Jesus that day knew nothing, absolutely nothing, about the spiritual kingdom of heaven unless Jesus were to describe it to them in terms that they could understand. Unless the king of the kingdom condescended and described this unseen kingdom in a way they could grasp because they had no concept of the spiritual realm. And so Jesus uses images and pictures and people that they were familiar with, that they could from their finite perspective begin to appreciate and understand that indeed the kingdom of God was at hand amongst them. And so he uses these metaphors. Jesus first wanted his disciples to know that there was a spiritual battle. Going on. Spiritual warfare was raging around them even that day. I certainly read of it after Adam's fall. God, the Lord said, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. God was saying, I'm going to separate you from that which you've joined yourselves to. And that's going to cause not merely tension, but a battle. We read of it after Jesus' baptism. As Satan tempts him in the wilderness forty days and forty nights, a true spiritual battle going on. We see it as the Pharisees and the scribes have challenged Jesus. Already here in Matthew's gospel, they're not aligned with Jesus. They're constantly asking, why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? Look, your disciples are not doing what is lawful. And they are now conspiring as to how they might destroy him. So we see a battle going on between those in the kingdom and those outside of the kingdom. We see it even today. We know that a worldwide battle is going on, and it is for the kingdom. It's a battle that's raging within the kingdom of heaven, within the kingdom of God, here on earth. And Jesus pictures it as these two armies planted in one field With their respective leaders, their heads, their commanders, pitted against one another. The wheat and the tares or the weeds. Kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field. And while his men were sleeping, his enemy came. And sowed wheat, excuse me, weeds among the wheat and went away. It might be easy to miss, but this first parable is centered on this man. The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man, the one who sowed the good seed. And the question seems to be whether there will be a harvest, whether the weeds sown by the enemy, who does not want to see a harvest, whether he will prevail. Or whether the man's efforts and his wisdom will prevail, and there will be a harvest So once again the parable seems to call into question the growth of the kingdom of God. We know that Jesus is using these parables to teach those with ears about the kingdom of heaven. And specifically here, Matthew is presenting an unstated quist question, will there be growth? Will this man's labor produce an edible crop? Will anything be brought into the barn? Will the kingdom of God survive this battle? Will it last? Can it last? Will the enemies prevail We might have those same questions this morning. Will the church survive? This picture given by Jesus then is as true then as it is today. The enemy, Satan, has planted his children, his followers, amongst the children of God here in the world. Indeed, God, the God of creation, has not merely allowed this. But he has planned this and decreed this, this mixture on earth, the sons of the kingdom amongst the sons of the evil one. Why? Would not the growth, the continued existence, the preservation of the kingdom of heaven have been faster, easier, indeed unthreatened? If the sons of the evil one were not permitted to exist, to live, to grow alongside the sons of the kingdom, wouldn't that have been better? Why doesn't God immediately take up saved sinners into glory upon their conversion? Why cause believers to remain in the world with the sons of the evil one? Those are valid questions that we might be asking this morning, even as we read this parable. But in God's perfect wise plan, He chose to allow a battle to ensue. The Lord chose to subject his people to a fight. Why? Because this is his way of preparing a people for his inheritance Could the Lord have used Joseph to save many from famine without hatred and injustice and suffering? He could have. Did he? No. Could the Lord have led the Israelites by Joshua into the promised land that was vacant? Without occupants? With no battle? Of course he could. But did he? No. They needed to fight. It was real. It certainly happened. But it pictures for us the fight that we are in today and God's will that you grow alongside tares or wheat or the sons of the evil one That you be strengthened spiritually as you're using the spiritual muscles and the spiritual weapons that God has given you Isn't that the idea? Paul, as he writes to the church in Ephesus, speaks of the whole armor of God that you must be put on if you're going to be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. Paul knew. that there was this planting of weeds among the wheat. He know that the sons of the evil one would be living alongside the sons of the kingdom. And he said, you've got to put on this whole armor of God. Because we don't wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. And so he was saying, take up the whole armor of God, the belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, the gospel of peace, the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit, praying at all times. You see, Paul was telling those at Ephesus that they needed these things because they were in this battle, because they were in this Fight. And he was urging them to use them. And there's a sense that he was saying, if you don't use these spiritual weapons, you will not mature, you will not grow. But more importantly Just as those who first heard this parable and its explanation on the day Jesus preached it, you're being taught Even now, even today, as you're in the spiritual battle, to depend completely upon Jesus Christ You see, the Father has entrusted the kingdom to him. That's what we read in Psalm 2. I've set my king on Zion, my holy hill. And he tells him, ask of me and I will make the nations your heritage. The Father has entrusted the kingdom to his son, the Lord Jesus. And Jesus Christ is the man pictured in this parable. He's the captain. He's the commander of the Lord's army. He's the one appearing as the pillar of cloud and fire who defended the Israelites and led them through the Red Sea. Jesus is the one who's gone to the cross and to the tomb to battle all of your enemies and has prevailed. He's the one who will never leave you nor forsake you. Jesus Christ has promised that the gates of hell shall never prevail against the church. And so through these spiritual battles, the Lord God is pushing you, He's urging you, He's drawing you to depend even more upon Upon your Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the commander of the army. And so through these spiritual battles for the kingdom, for your heart. The Lord is teaching you, he's reminding you, depend not upon yourself. Yes, he's giving you the spiritual weapons, but they have to be used in Christ. They have to be used as you depend upon Christ. And unless you are Unless you are depending upon Christ this morning, those spiritual weapons will be of no use to you. This is the only way you can grow in your faith. This is the only way the kingdom can grow. Depend upon Jesus Christ and use those spiritual weapons in that dependence. That brings us to our second point, kingdom significance. That brings us to our second parable We're not done with the first. But the second parable is the parable of the mustard seed. You see that in verse 31. The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed. And as Jesus describes it, he describes it as the smallest of all seeds. But when it grows, it becomes this one that is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree Think of the Old Testament church. When it began. There may be some dispute about this, but I think it began with the Adam and Eve. There are only two. Only two in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Think of Abram being called out of the Ur of the Chaldeans. Seventy-five years old, an old man. But only two families called out. Only two families that made up the church. What about Jacob? He goes down to Egypt. Who does he take with him? Twelve sons. We're multiplying now. Seventy people in all. And then think of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. How significant was it? Well, we know its leader. He's already under attack. He's leading this band of uneducated men. fishermen, laborers with their hands, not schooled in the scriptures. It seems to be really insignificant, populated by only a few Twelve men, not throngs rushing into it. And how committed were they to Christ and his ministry? They didn't even know who he was, really Would it survive? Would it grow? Well, that's how it begins. That's the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. But all along, all along there is a covenant promise of God Think of the promise he made to Abram. Look toward heaven and number the stars if you're able to number them. Then he said to him, So shall your offspring be. And so God has promised, promised even Abram, as he was called out of the Ur of the Chaldeans with only two families, one of which he would separate from. That he would multiply his offspring as the stars of heaven in the sand that is on the seashore. He's saying the church will grow And that's what Jesus Christ is saying here in this parable of the mustard seed. We have this question. set forth in in the first parable. Is it going to grow? Are the weeds going to choke everything out? Is there going to be any harvest? Is anything going to be brought into the barn? And he brings the second parable and says, Yes Yes, it's going to grow. You know that it's small. It's small now, but it's going to be this large garden plant, larger than all, it's going to become a tree. He's promised. He's covenanted with Abram. And Jesus Christ is promised That the gates of hell shall never prevail against it. Do you see the connection? I looked on the internet this morning and some estimate that there are 2. 4 billion Christians in the world. I don't know that that's accurate. But the church has grown, hasn't it? But I want you to see one aspect of the growth here that I think Christ wants us to see this morning. Yes. The church starts off small. The smallest of all grains of seed, but then it grows. And it grows into this tree. It's so large. Branches are so strong. Leaves provide so much shade that the birds of the air can make nests. in its shade. That's how Mark speaks of it. It's a picture of blessing. It's a picture of the provision, the reflection of the Lord Jesus Christ by the Church to all those around it. It's exactly what Abram was told. As he's called out of the Ur of the Chaldeans, God tells him, I will bless those who bless you, and to him who and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Jesus Christ in this parable is saying exactly the same thing It has grown, it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches. It's a picture of blessing. It's a picture of the church being a blessing as it grows and is able to sustain and provide. We see this at the end of chapter two in the book of Acts, as Dr. Luke is describing the church at that point in time, and all who believed were together and had all things in common, and they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need It's a small beginning. And now it's growing in the hearts of the people so much so that they're they're willing to sell their possessions and give give to any as they had need, just like the birds making nests in the mustard tree And what happens? As the people outside the church see that, then the church is having favor with all the people. Meaning those outside the church. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. Do you see? We see a promise here in this parable of the mustard seed that the church of the Lord Jesus Christ will grow to become a great blessing to the world. Have you ever wondered how or why? Please don't make the mistake that it's because the church is filled with a lot of good people No, the church is filled with a lot of sinners. But the church will be a great blessing because of its head, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's only because he is the blessing to the body. And as Jesus Christ blesses the body with his atonement, with his purification, with his satisfaction of the Father's wrath, with his righteousness. With his defeat of sin and death, he is the blessing And through his blessing, he enables the church, his body, to bless. Yes. Kingdom significance. Kingdom has significance because of Jesus Christ. And finally, that brings us to kingdom presence. And it brings us to the third parable. Verse 33, he told them another parable, the kingdom of heaven is like leaven the woman took and hid in three measures of flour, till it was all leavened. The New American Standard speaks about three pecks of flour. Now, I don't know much about baking. But I understand that three pecks is a lot. It's about a bushel. Some would say it's about uh thirty-five liters, a lot of flour Now I also understand that leaven is this agent which is put in, not much of it though. to provide air or gas into the dough so that it expands. I think that's the idea. And so there's this little leaven that's placed in this lot of flour or this dough, as this one presumably is making bread. And it goes throughout. Is that right? The leaven goes throughout. Yeast or whatever is the leavening agent, it goes throughout all of the flour and affects the whole lump. Again, it starts small, but then the idea here seems to be that it goes throughout all of it The leaven infuses all of the flower. Seems to be equating the kingdom of heaven to being infused throughout the world. Not that the world becomes the kingdom of heaven, but that the kingdom of heaven goes throughout. There's no place where the kingdom of heaven is not. That seems to be what Jesus is teaching, just like the leavening agent going throughout all of the flower. But it it doesn't just merely go throughout. It has an effect The leaven has an effect upon the flower. It makes it lighter. It adds gas. And so thus the kingdom of heaven isn't nearly isn't just present. Throughout the world, it adds something, it does something good, something beneficial to the world in which it's present. There is an effect upon the world as a result of the presence of the kingdom of heaven. It seems to be what Jesus is saying here with this third parable. Now remember, as Jesus taught the Sermon on the Mount, one of the first lessons that he gave to his disciples were telling them that they were the salt of the earth. Right, just a little bit going throughout the whole earth that they were the light of the world He's saying that that you who are following me will be this salt and light And the light the light gives light to all in the house Do you see the parallel between what Jesus taught in the Sermon on the Mount and now how he teaches this parable of the leaven? The light is not just present, it gives light for others. And we should be able to see that experientially in our church today. How is our church being that light? How is our church, the kingdom of heaven here on earth, how is it affecting those around us? We should be asking that question, not just today. And then how are you individually being the light that Jesus Called you to be? How are you being the salt that Jesus has called you to be? How are you, as part of the kingdom of heaven, affecting the world that is around you? Those are questions for us to meditate upon, dwell upon, and then act upon. And while it's good and right to consider the effect that we individually have upon the world and certainly as a church I want us to see that the real growth, the real growth that Jesus speaks about is within. That's how he ends these three parables. As he's explaining the parable, the first one, the parable of the wheat and the tares, or the parable of the wheat and weeds. to his disciples as he brings them into the house, as he opens it up to them, the mysteries of the kingdom. What does he say? He's talking about judgment. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers of the angels, just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so will it be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of the kingdom all causes of sin and all lawbreakers and throw them into the fiery furnace. And there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. He's speaking about judgment Those who are not in the kingdom will be sent to hell. But then You see, as they grow together, this is what happens. In the wisdom of God, this is what happens as a result of those spiritual battles that are going on even today. Then The righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. See how he transitions from what's going on today to what will happen on judgment day? You see how he transitions from you're in a spiritual battle today, but look, as you go through that spiritual battle, what's going to happen? There's going to be a change within your heart Yes, you've been changed. Yes, you've been given a new heart, but but it's going to shine even brighter. As a result of the spiritual battles that you're engaged in today, then the righteous will shine like the sun. You see, that's where the growth is. That's where the real growth is happening. All three of these parables were about growth. But Jesus narrows it down and focuses in at the end and says, you know, the real growth is happening as I'm changing your heart through my spirit working in you in these spiritual battles every single day. And at the end of it, at the end of all of them. Even as you're asking that question, why, Lord? He answers. And the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father. That's why. Yes, the Lord preserves and grows his kingdom according to his infinite and holy will. For the good of his people. Joseph's growth was exponential. It was explosive. The primary growth was in his heart. As he forgives his brothers and cares for them, those that wanted to kill him. Praise be to God. He grows his kingdom heart by heart, as the Spirit works powerfully in us by the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Our Father and our God, we pray even today that you'd use these spiritual trials, these tribulations. These battles that we are in as we are growing amongst the weeds to produce in us, Father, even brighter light, shining forth, radiating Christ. To all those we come in contact with. Help us, Lord. Help us to search our hearts, to determine if we are doing that which Christ calls us to do, to be light. To be salt in this place. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.