Let us now hear God's word, beginning at verse one, and we will read on through verse nine. Thus the Lord God showed me. Behold, he formed locust swarms at the beginning of the late crop. Indeed it was the late crop after the king's Moes. And so it was when they had finished eating the grass of the land that I said, O Lord God, forgive, I pray Oh, that Jacob may stand, for he is small. So the Lord lamented concerning this, it shall not be, says the Lord. Thus the Lord God showed me. Behold, the Lord God called for conflict by fire. And it consumed the great deep and devoured the territory. Then I said, O Lord God, cease I pray, oh, that Jacob may stand, for he is small. And the Lord relented concerning this This also shall not be, said the Lord God. Thus he showed me. Behold, the Lord stood on a wall. made with a plumb line. With a plumb line in his hands. And the Lord said to me, Amos, what do you see? And Nemos said, A plumb line. Then the Lord said, Behold, I am setting a plumb line in the midst of my people Israel. I will not pass by them anymore. The high places of Isaac shall be desolate. The sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste. I will rise with the sword against the house of Jeroboam. And thus far it ends the reading of God's word. Uh those of you who've not been in the evening, uh we've been going through Amos And uh trying to set this the give you the setting just uh so you have a little bit of understanding of what is happening here. Um This vision of Amos, the whole book of Amos, is to the northern kingdom, the kingdom that's composed of the ten tribes that's that went and left uh s under uh Solomon's son, Rehoboam. Uh when Solomon died and Rehoboam became king, uh ten of the tribes went north and formed the nation of uh what it was called Israel, Judah and Benjamin stayed south and formed the nation of uh of Judah. Um That occurred in roughly 1000 BC. The Northern Kingdom, this this group uh that Amos is writing to uh was m their their their entire kingdom was marked by evil kings. There wasn't anyone that was good. Uh they were among the the the most horrible of the kings of all of the nation of Israel. Uh most notable in this group include Ahab and his wife Jezebel. They were horrible because uh not only did they do wicked things But they promoted the worship of a false god and other false gods. They erected two sanctuaries to quote unquote Jehovah, one in Dan and one in Bethel, and they made golden cows for Israel to bow down to. Instead of Israel going to Jerusalem and worshiping where they were supposed to worship at certain times of the year, like on the day of Pentecost, on the day of the sac on the on the day of the head of uh of Yom Kippur and Passover, not Pentecost, Passover, uh the kings of the north, started by Jeroboam the first, um didn't want his people going going down south uh fearing they might defect and stay in the south. So he in all of his wisdom erected A new uh worship center, Dan and Bethel, north and south of the Northern Kingdom, and they uh and and that that idolatry plagued Israel throughout her existence. Which would end in 722 BC. Amos is writing as one of the prophets of God. He's not the only prophet of God that's speaking to Israel. at this particular time, which is probably somewhere around 770 to 750 BC. In other words, right before they're gonna go into captivity. and be destroyed as the armies of the Assyrians come and will take will completely destroy this nation. Um they were marked by excessive riches, they were a very wealthy nation and and and idolatry and they oppressed people. They enslaved people, they made a lot of their wealth off of the the suffering of other people. Um so they had many things that were going wrong in this uh in this coun in this country uh composed of the ten tribes of Israel. And from time to time, uh God would send his prophets and he would give warnings to Israel to repent. As you go through Amos up to this point, you'll see there are many different ways in which God tried to communicate He did communicate to Israel in very clear language that they were in jeopardy. They were in jeopardy of total annihilation And if they did not repent. Always there was that holding out of repentance. And you see it in this chapter seven. Did you catch it? Uh there the first two there are the in chapter seven there are two visions, three visions given to Amos, and then there's a fourth vision that starts in chapter eight, verse one. But in two of those visions The first two, one and two, God promises, I'm going to bring locusts. And what happens? Amos intercedes. Not now. Please remember Jacob because we are small. Jacob, name for the covenant people of God. And and remember, remember, this is interesting because he's pleading on behalf of Jacob, who are the covenant people of God, who are the elect of God. And remember When Elijah had his famous confrontation with the prophets of Baal. That's to the Northern Kingdom. That's under Ahab's reign. When they had that confrontation, um Jezebel, after Elijah vanquished the prophets of Baal, Jezebel put a hit out on Elijah. And Elijah goes running for his life, and he is in misery, and he cries out to God, Am I the only one in Israel? That's faithful. And God showed him. No, there are seven thousand that haven't bowed the knee to Baal. There are seven thousand in the northern kingdom of which Amos is talking to When he calls them Jacob, they're the same uh they're the elect of God that Jacob is interceding, excuse me, Amos is interceding for. And he does it twice. He does it once in the vision of the locusts, and he does it again in the vision of the fire devouring water. Now we have come to the third vision, and that's what I would like to share with you tonight, or this afternoon. Um this is a a vision which I My wife can attest to this. I am an awful carpenter. I am an awful builder. Um when it comes to doing things with my hands. And having the patience to cut a 45 on a miter box, I can't do it. I can't do it. I can't I even have a power saw that that swivels, you know, and says you can So you can put set it at a 45. I still can't get a perfect 45 joint. So um And in order to understand this vision, uh you have to go into the building trades a little bit to appreciate it. And and uh what we have here Amos sees in this vision, Amos the prophet of God, sees the Lord standing on a wall. And in his hand, the Lord has a plumb line. Plumb lines are still used today. And um as I understand them, uh they are generally pieces of string from which a brass uh object, doesn't have to be brass, it could be anything heavy, is uh Is uh affixed to the bottom of this thesis strength. And the Lord is standing with this plumb line and um This kind of instrument has been documented to be in use at least since the time of ancient Egypt. So this even predates the use of a plumb line in construction has predates The days of Amos and Israel. And the point of the plumb line is to ensure that who's ever building the building uh makes the walls straight vertically. As you build on a foundation, of course you want the wall to be straight, so you stand with this plumb line somewhere in an elevated place and you get a kind of a reading of where that corner ought to be. So you can do one wall with a plumb line, and then you can do another wall to a fixed at a 90 degree angle. And you do that until you have your your foundation And of course when you have the foundation correct, then you can build the superstructure upon the building. And so what we have here in this vision that Amos sees is a plumb line. And um and it's uh uh and the Lord the Lord is the one holding the plumb line. And um This would represent, I believe, a perfect a perfect uh construction, a perfect wall that God desires to be built. And uh it's perfectly aligned for the Lord's uh desires. Uh it it it it the the plumb line serves as a standard A kind of standard to of measurement, a kind of standard of what the right angle should look like, what the walls should look like. Since the plumb line is involved in the perfect construction of a building, it begs the question. Is God here telling Amos about the place wherein he dwells with his people? Is God, in other words, holding this plumb line out for Israel, who are his people And is he saying, are you conforming to my standards? My standards of a perfect building. And it's good to think about the idea that that God um has a building with his people. And it's it's called In the Old Testament it's called the Temple of Israel. But in the New Testament it's called what? The temple of the living God. You are the temple of the living. God. And God promises, you see, that He will be with His people. But God can only be with His people if His people are like God. It is people are holy. It is people conform to God's standards. And what are God's standards? Well, of course, it's they're they're written down. They're the Ten Commandments, the Ten Commandments of Holiness And though we cannot keep those standards, we know one who did, Jesus. But that gets ahead of the story a little bit. But I think it's possible that what You remember what Peter, that verse I read in Peter earlier in 1 Peter 2? Listen, listen to 1 Peter 2 and think about This plumb line that Amos chapter 7 says that the Lord is holding in his hands. 1 Peter chapter 2, and especially Especially verse 5. Verse 4 and then 5. Peter's talking to the church, the church of his age. He says, coming to him as a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious. Now, of course, that's referring to Jesus. You also, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house. You see, God is interested in dwelling with his people. I will be your God, and you will be my people. And it's not a physical building, it's a spiritual building. The Lord comes to do what? To tabernacle with his people, to dwell in their heart. To be their God and they should be his people. And what we're seeing here is that he is given this vision to Amos, and he asks Amos, What do you see? And Amos correctly says a plumb line, and then God proceeds to tell Amos the vision. This vision is not left open to men to interpret, but God is the interpreter. God is the one who tells Amos what this plumb line means for contemporary northern kingdom Israel. And he explains the meaning in verses eight and nine. Verse 8, then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumb line in the midst of my people. I will not again pass by them anymore. The high places of Isaac shall be desolate. The sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste. I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. There are three things that he says. in that passage associated with the laying of the plumb line in the midst of Israel, the northern kingdom. I will set a plumb line in the midst, my plumb line, my standards of what is righteous. And he concludes, I will I will not again pass by them anymore. Though I promised that I would uh have a people for myself and I would dwell with them Covenant promise with Abraham, I'll be your God, and you will be my people. They have failed to be God's people. He will no longer dwell in their midst. Instead, he will pass by them. He will pass by them. He will not display his favor, but he will now forget about them. He's leaving them He's no longer to be in their presence. This is judgment. I will pass by them. You have failed this my standard. You have failed my word. You have not lived up to the covenant promises that Abraham kept. I will not pass by you anymore. You are judged and you are wanting in holiness. I will not overlook your sin. I will not allow your sin to have any hope of being saved by the blood of the Lamb. The time for grace has passed, and God now passes by Israel. The day of judgment is coming. We should not, no one should take that lightly For today is the day of salvation. And God will judge his people. He will judge not only his people, but as Acts chapter 17 verse 30 puts it, the time of ignorance God has overlooked But now he commands everyone, everywhere, to repent. The second thing that God promises is this the high places of Isaac shall be desolate. Now if you know anything, that sounds out of place to you. If you know anything about scripture, that sounds out of place because He's not talking about Israel when he uses the word Isaac. Isaac is heir of the promises. To Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. If anything, Isaac, now here in this text, would refer to the southern kingdom Judah, the two tribes of Israel. And the the the the two the two more faithful tribes of Israel in the south. Not the northern kingdom. That's Israel. Even though some of Jacob's own grandchildren, you know, received that tribal, ten of his grandchildren received that tribal allotment. But the the the scene suddenly shifts to a word about Israel. Excuse me, a word about Isaac. I have to keep this in my own mind uh clear. And that's because, you see That's because if you go back to the first two and a half chapters of Anos, there are seven prophecies. Remember, we went over all those prophecies. And we talked about how the prophecies of God were against all the surrounding neighbors of of of the northern kingdom. And the last of the prophecies is to Judah. I don't remember the exact specifics of the prophecy. But the same spiritual idolatry and falling away from God was happening in the southern kingdom, in Judah, or As this terminology here is Isaac, the southern kingdom And after uh Israel fell in 722 BC, Judah would fall in 753 or 86, I get it confused BC. But for the similar reasons. The same reason being the high places of Isaac. Well, what are the high places of Isaac? It's where they're worshiping heathen gods. It's where they're worshiping the Baals. They may not have the two golden calves, but they're chasing after everybody else. as to be their God. And they built altars. Remember? Solomon built altars to all the the the pagan women that he that he married. And there was always this This problem of having uh false worship, uh worship the other gods in the sun and kingdom. Even though Amos is primarily addressing the northern kingdom. The southern kingdom here is getting a warning. It's a warning shot across the bow that God is giving to the southern kingdom. Your places shall be desolate. And you, Judah, you, Jerusalem, you need to repent, or God is going to drop his plumb line. into Jerusalem itself. And you too will be found wanting. When the last part of this prophecy, it says, I will raise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. Well, the house of Jeroboam was the The the the first there was there were two Jeroboams in the Northern Kingdom. The first Jeroboam was the first king of the northern kingdom. And then later on, not his son, but at the very end of the kingdom. The kingdom was bracketed by two Jerobo well, mostly by two Jeroboams. The Northern Kingdom. This Jeroboam 2, this is what it refers to. God is going to personally see to it that death and destruction fall against the house of Jeroboam the Second. And we find that this was fulfilled uh right before the destruction of the northern kingdom, right before it's completely destroyed in seven twenty two, as Jeroboam's son Zechariah is murdered. Second Kings fifteen, eight through ten. In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah, king of Judah, did Zechariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord as his fathers had done He departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, the sons of Nebat. That's the first Jeroboam. I know it's confusing, but notice it connects this Jeroboam to who made Israel to sin. That is a direct connection to the establishment of the two temples with the worship of the golden calves, Jeroboam I. did that. Shalom the son of Jabesh conspired against him and smote him before the people, slew him, and reigned in his stead. And so the house of Jeroboam, on the eve of its being destroyed, their king is killed at a new dynasty in the house of Shalom begins to reign. But his reign too would be short-lived. And so this is the this is the third of the visions There is one more coming in chapter 8, beginning at the first verse, of what uh is going to happen to the northern kingdom. It's it's um it's a very interesting thing that God uh uh warns his people He keeps warning them. And he warns them in very interesting and creative ways, trying to show them their need for repentance. This whole plumb line thing. is something that they would have perhaps some of them would have understood what God was doing with that plumb line. The the prophecy that comes out in chapter 7, beginning in the first verse about the locusts. Eating the crops. The farmers would surely understand that. And so God is just continuing to urge Israel to repent, not to go down the road of disobedience. But She would not. Her heart was hardened, and she would not turn, and God brought destruction. And the destruction that he brought with Sennacherib was human destruction. It was total. It was physical. But there was a worse destruction. He no longer dwells with his people. He no longer dwells with that nation of Israel. They're no longer his chosen people. They are not his people. And you remember in the 1 Peter passage that I read, 1 Peter chapter 2, it says, it's talking to Gentiles in 1 Peter chapter 2. He says, though you were once not a people. Now you are the people of God. The gospel would go out to Gentiles, to these Jews who were in the northern kingdom. They were the people of God. But now you're not a people. You're not my people. All of this is is very uh a lot of that's very covenantally uh uh conditioned. And uh and uh it's just uh a testimony to the human heart. It's uh the the the the hardness of the heart, it's a testimony, however, also to the long suffering of the God and His mercy. Same long suffering in a different context and a different culture, but the same long suffering he has with this world in which we live. Postponing the day of, from our perspective, the day of judgment. But the warnings are still there. Repent and believe. Don't chase after false gods. Turn Let's pray. Father, thank you for Thank you for giving us this these words in Amos. And though, Lord, they are uh words from a in a historical context that are so much there's so much um difference between the cultures that um that between our culture and the culture of ancient Israel. However, there is no difference at all between the The spiritual lives of men of our day and of those of that day, still in desperate need of the Savior Still in need of repentance and faith. We do pray, Father, that you will encourage your people to warn uh the world of unbelief, uh to call them to repentance and faith in the name of Jesus Christ to avoid uh Lord the judgment of God which is so certain which is so certain. come. And it will fall, and it will fall swiftly, and there will be no more opportunity for grace. Just as here in Israel, the Lord has passed by. His covenant people, those who were outwardly identified as the covenant people of God, and yet inwardly were doing everything to um to blaspheme the name of God by their wicked practices. Father, again, be merciful to us as sinners and encourage others, Lord, to come. to know you use us in that uh in that endeavor. We pray it in Jesus' name, Amen