Remain standing. Turn to the Word of God. Hebrews chapter eleven. Today we will look at verses four through seven. Hebrews chapter 11, verses 4 through 7. Let us hear now the word of the Lord. By faith, Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous God testifying of his gifts, and through it, he being dead still speaks. By faith, Enoch was taken away, so that he did not see death, and was not found, because God had taken him For before he was taken, he had this testimony that he pleased God. But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he who comes to God must believe that he is. And that he is the rewarder of those who diligently seek him. By faith, Noah being divinely warned of things not yet seen. Moved with godly fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his household, by which he condemned the world And became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. Thus far ends the reading of God's most holy word. Please be seated. Our verse today. Really, we're only going to get to verse four about Cain and Abel. Because there's so much to say. And I suspect that for the upcoming weeks that we'll be moving rather slowly through each individual that is named. And this section begins to tell us About the faith of some individuals who lived after the fall, after Adam and Eve fell into sin. It does seem to me that the author of Hebrews is giving us examples of people with faith so that we can better understand what it means For a person to have such faith, saving faith in God. What is it that makes up a person's faith One who embraces God, the God of the Bible, the God of redemption, and the God who keeps his promises. In verse 7, 4 through 7, we learn about the faith of Abel, Enoch, and Noah. While at the same time, we learn about the first person after the fall to show a lack of faith, namely Cain. We should not conclude that because only three of the faithful are mentioned here, that comprises the totality of all people. Neither should we conclude that since Cain is the only unbeliever that's mentioned here, that He was the only unbeliever during that time. God is simply using these four individuals simply highlighting their existence because he serves his purpose. The purpose being to benefit our understanding of saving faith And secondly, to exalt his glory. The same set of circumstances should be understood to be in play when we discuss the rest of the people who are mentioned throughout Hebrews eleven. But our focus today will be on Cain and Abel, the first two children of Adam and Eve. Let us first note a couple of facts about the text in general. And will be true for the remainder of our studies in Hebrews 11 as well. Everyone in verses 4 through 40 Everyone but one is placed here because they are said to have true faith. Whatever the reason individuals are commended in Hebrews church their faith is commended in Hebrews chapter 11. No one in this list Would have been commended if it were not for the gift of faith that God gave to them God citing them is a direct result of his gift of faith working in their lives. The faith that they had in the person and the promises of God. There is only one exception To this by faith rule. If you notice the most re most often reoccurring phrase In this passage, verse 4 through 40, is the word by faith. By faith. There's only one exception to this by faith rule in Hebrews 11, and that is Cain. Cain is the lone unbeliever cited throughout these pages, this chapter. His exception is one, therefore, of significance. A significance Of unbelieving Cain included in such a chapter where we find all the faithful mentioned. One out of all who are mentioned Well, let's turn to our text and expanded versions of the text, other verses that help us understand this text. Let the first focus our attention on Abel. By faith, I will offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he witnessed That he was righteous. God testifying of his gifts, and by it being dead, yet he still speaks. In the Greek, we read that that phrase, God uh He offered to God a more excellent sacrifice Certainly the word sacrifice is used, but the word for much there or more excellent is a word of comparison. Many as opposed to little. Great as opposed to few. Excellent as composed to awful. So he offered uh a uh uh a much more excellent sacrifice than Cain did. And um It says that that sacrifice further um gave witness to the fact or testimony uh to the fact that he was righteous And God testified that his gifts were righteous. It wasn't just that everybody else said his gifts were righteous, no one less than God Said, your testimony is righteous. Now the interesting thing is about when it says Abel offered his gifts and his testimony showed that he was righteous. That is the same word that is used in uh in verse 4 about God. who testified of his gifts. The same word is, Greek word is operating in both instances. However, however It's helpful to understand that the first use of the gifts is written in a passive voice. Which in Greek would mean that Abel's Past life was a life of regularly offering righteous sacrifice sacrifices or more excellent sacrifices. We have one example here. But this was a pattern. That's the point. He had testified. You see. He was testifying. His life was reflective of an ongoing pattern of giving God righteous gifts. And God was also testifying that indeed they were righteous. Abel's current offering is a continuation of regularly giving God much more excellent gifts. Even though this one here is singled out. Don't miss that point. His life repeatedly Was such that he offered God best gifts, the greatest gift. Presumably, Cain's offering suffered in that it wasn't by faith. Like I said, you don't see by faith attached to anything that Cain did. It wasn't by faith, and consequently, neither was it excellent. Neither was it excellent in the view of the only one who mattered, who is God. It seems logical to think that there is a great comparison going on here between Abel and Cain. And it seems, uh even though I can't prove this from the text, but it seems okay to suggest That just as Adam, Adam, just as Abel had a pattern of giving most excellent righteous gifts, so Cain had a pattern of giving. Not excellent righteous gifts And that further shows that Cain was not righteous in God's eyes. Let's uh go back to something that Ken read from John, Genesis chapter 4. And I won't go over all of it, but I want to highlight a couple of verses. John chapter 4, verse 2. Yeah. Thank you. I don't know where John is coming from today. Genesis chapter 4, verse 2. Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. And in process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground as an offering to the Lord. And Abel also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering he had no respect. The difference between the two offerings. Again, it's succinctly put in verses 3 and 4. Cain brought the fruit of the ground Abel brought of the firstlings of his flock and the fat thereof. The real linchpin that unlocks the difference between the two is the word firstlings. The word firstlings. Abel brought the first fruits unto God of his sheep. Maybe even we could stretch that to say the firstborn. It shows, you see, when you offer the first fruits or you offer the firstborn. It shows that he trusts God for more In contrast, Cain decided what fruit of the ground God got. Abel is guided by giving God the best he has. Cain is guided by giving to God whatever he thinks is okay. And that also assumes that he held back whatever he wanted. You see that There is more to this story. And again, I think Firstlings is a clue, an important clue. Let's see why Abel's offering is a faith while Cain's is not. We have to go a little bit further into this chapter to get clues About righteous gifts by faith as opposed to unrighteous gifts that are not offered in faith. And to do that, we want to look at verse Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 1. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it the elders obtained a good testimony. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Keep that in your mind. It's important. It's critical to the understanding here. And along with that verse, also keep in mind verse 6. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God must believe that God is. And that he is the rewarder of those who diligently seek him. These are like the two lenses of your eyeglass. These are lenses into the reality of what is true faith. These two verses We can begin, if we look through those lenses, to see why Abel's offering is much more excellent and why God saw him as righteous Through his in his offerings. You see, according to those definitions If the text says by faith Abel did this. According to those definitions, that means that Abel hoped for more from God. Then all of the best things this world could offer. All of the best things this world had to offer, especially spiritually. But even materially as well. Abel knew that this world could never give him the best in life because this is a fallen world. Abel knew that God's world had something better. Even better than his first fruit offering. Abel couldn't see that far better world of God, but by faith he saw enough of God in creation around him to know. That God was and Abel isn't. To know that he can therefore trust God. And not himself or even the dictates of the world He knew that God is. That God is, and that is precisely where he wanted to be. be in his thoughts, in his hopes, in his actions. He wanted to be with God Doesn't it say in verse six of Hebrews chapter eleven For he who comes to God must believe that he is, and a rewarder of them who seek him. Abel's faith in God led him to desire to please God. To please God more than anything else. Abel saw how God repeatedly blessed him in his labors, and he wanted to give God the very best he had. So he gave God the firstlings of his sheep, the very best lamb he had. And I want to make a jump here, but I think it's appropriate. In that respect of offering the firstborn. Abel's faith is eschatologically redemptive. His gift, you see, follows the same pattern of God's greatest gift to us. He gave us the firstborn of all creation, as Colossians chapter 1, verse 15 reports. He gave us the Lamb of God. He gave us His most beloved one. God believe excuse me, Abel believed that God is. And what is it that God is? Another way of saying this, if this was written in Hebrew, it would read, he believed that I am. That's the essence of God is. He alone is I am. No one else is I am. When God says he is I am, that means he's the sole self-existing, self-sustaining being in the universe. Abel knew that he was dependent on God and that he was not immortal. Neither was he self-existing or self-sustaining. Abel knew that he was not I am. And no amount of his efforts would ever change that. I threw in here a little Latin because it's very important that you understand why this is this view is wrong Abel did not believe in what is known as cognito ergo sum. I am who I am. I think. He did not believe, excuse me. I think, therefore I am. That's cognito ergo sum. That's a very I know that it's you might know who that who said that, but it was a French philosopher named Descartes. And you see, either God is I am, or we are I am. And Descartes was saying, because I have the ability to rationally think, I am. Descartes laid the foundation for every atheist, the philosophical foundation for every atheist To pontificate upon the non-existence of God. And he lays the philosophical foundation for all others who want to go that way, whether they're philosophers or not. Abel believed that God would reward him for seeking through his offering to honor and glorify God. This was the way he lived his life This is the way his faith informed him. And these fundamentally are the reasons why God considered his offering righteous. Now, we can assume that Cain's offering was rejected. Because Cain was the polar opposite of his brother. Especially in his faith and in his life and in his attitudes. Whereas Abel hoped for more of God in this world, excuse me, whereas Abel hoped for more of God than this world has to offer. Cain lived for the material treasures of this world. Whereas Abel couldn't see The fullness of God's great glory, but hope for that far better world of God, Cain scoffed at the idea that a holy God was revealed in creation. The creation he saw all around him. Whereas Abel's faith in God led him to desire to please God more than anything else, Cain's unbelief led him to please himself first. And then maybe God could get the crumbs. Abel believed that God is, he is I am, the only self-existing, self-sustaining being in the universe. But Cain embraced the thoughts of Satan. And Isaiah chapter 14, verse 12, Satan is recorded as this. For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High God. Whereas Abel believed God would reward him for seeking through his offering to honor and glorify God first Cain wasn't interested in waiting for whatever he felt was due him. He was grabbing the gusto, refusing to wait. And in summary, Cain had faith. Excuse me. In summary, Abel had faith. Cain had unbelief. Whereas Abel hoped for more of God than all the best this world had to offer, Cain was satisfied with seeking the things of God. this world. He craved material pleasures of this world, for that is what his heart coveted most. Where Abel could not see God but believed in the world of God's kingdom and its existence, Cain was an agnostic. If God was there, it really didn't matter much to him. Where Abel's faith led him to please God first in all things. Cain only cared about numero uno. Cain heard God bless Abel's offering He might even grudgingly acknowledge that God had materially blessed him, but for Cain, he didn't think he had any reason to love God. So he went through all the religious motions of giving an offering, but it was an offering in unbelief. Because he believed any old offering would be good enough. Whereas Abel believed that God is, I am, God alone. Cain kept longing to be the supreme being in his life. Cain longed for his own independence day from God Whereas Abel believed God would reward him for seeking his honor and his glory first, Cain could care less about receiving uh could care less about God receiving glory from anything. This, I believe, constitutes the reasons why God was pleased with faithful Cain's, faithful Abel's offering And promised and pronounced his offering, and Abel personally righteous in his sight This is why God was not pleased with Cain's self-aggrandizing, self-important, half-hearted offering unto God. The two men represent two worlds. And those worlds are polar opposites And they're always on collision course. The world of faith, which is composed of men who are given faith by God And those individuals love and serve God. This is opposed by the world of unbelief, which is composed of men who love and serve themselves. It's really all it's really that simple. These two worlds continue to this day and will continue to the last day And then Jesus will return. And then he will reward the patient and the faithful in God with the blessings of their kingdom service. The self-centered, self-serving, self-important ones like Cain will perish forever, along with the pleasures of the world of sin. I issue you this challenge this morning. Repent and believe Ask God to give you the faith of Abel, which really means ask God to make your faith like Jesus'. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Heavenly Father, we commend the message to your work. To the labor of your Holy Spirit, speak Lord to your people's hearts. And grant unto those who are living by faith Grant them, Lord, great encouragement that the God who is Does not forget his people's testimony to him. And that serving in his kingdom and in his world is of the most great, greatest blessing. Comfort your people, Lord, with The words which we're speaking today, trust hopefully, words in truth. And bless, Lord, our understanding. And Lord, wherever we need to be more faithful and more devoted to you. Take away those wrong thoughts about ourselves and continue to replace them, Lord, with ever increasing thoughts about living for your glory and your praise. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.