Amen. If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of John Be in chapter six this evening. I believe that's on page one thousand and sixty of your pew Bibles. Begin reading at verse fifty two As we're planning to take the supper tonight, thought this might be a good passage for us to meditate upon as it leads up to the supper. Let's give attention now to the very Word of God. John chapter six at verse fifty-two. Then the Jews disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. As the Living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father. So whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came down from heaven. Not like the bread the fathers ate and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Jesus said these things in the synagogue as he taught at Capernaum. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we come tonight to what may be a difficult passage. Even many followers of Christ determined to stop following after the preaching of this word. We ask for God that the opposite would actually happen tonight, that we would even follow more closely. That we would long, long to feed on Christ. Help us, Holy Spirit. Open our eyes, open our ears. Open our hearts to your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we have entered a new year. And just like last year and the year before, there are all kinds of diets for you to consider. All kinds of exercise programs. The question is, which one will you select? What will you eat? What will you feast upon this year? What do you desire? What's your longing In the garden, there were all kinds of fruit trees from which Adam and Eve could eat. But there are only two in the garden that actually had names. The Tree of Life. And the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And Adam and Eve had been given a choice as to which one they would eat from. And if you're familiar with the text in Genesis chapter 3, as the serpent or as Satan was in the process of deceiving Eve, she looks At the tree, she determines that it was good for food, that it was a delight to the eyes, that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, and she takes of the fruit and eats. She selected that which looked good and right in what had become a deceived heart and mind. They selected the wrong food, not that which nourished, but that which brought about death and destruction. In a sense, that brings us to John chapter six. Jesus Has just healed an invalid by the pool at the sheep gate in Jerusalem. The one who is waiting for Someone to help him into the pool. Jesus asks if he desires to be made well, and he tells him to get up, take up your bed and walk And he was healed immediately. And as a result of the healings that Jesus was doing, a large crowd was following him because they saw the signs. And as they follow, he feeds them. Feeds five thousand men. He creates so much food that not only were they all filled and satisfied, but the disciples gather up twelve baskets full of fragments. And then Jesus walked on the water. As his disciples were rowing away as they were sailing across the sea, he walks on the water And then the crowds ultimately follow him to Capernaum. And as Jesus addresses the crowds after he has done all of these supernatural Acts or signs, he tells them that they were seeking him not because of the signs, but because they had the fill of the loaves that he had given, because their stomachs were filled. And then he says something very interesting. He says, do not work for the food that perishes. but for the food that endures to eternal life. And that's where we find ourselves tonight as Jesus continues that teaching. As Jesus tells those who are listening to him that the bread that Moses gave was actually bread from heaven. And that he was indeed the bread of life. Tonight, as we go through these several verses, I want us to see very simply that one must feast upon the body and blood of Christ to be raised up to eternal life. One must feast upon the body and blood of Christ to be raised up to eternal life We'll see that in three points tonight. First, the necessary feasting on Jesus. Secondly, the sacrificial giving by Jesus. And finally, the glorious receiving of Jesus. As we go through this passage tonight, once again, be asking yourself that question, what will I feast upon this year? Well, first, the necessary feasting on Jesus. Disbelief has been a theme of John's Gospel up to this point. It's been a theme even of this chapter, chapter six. Despite the supernatural workings, the supernatural acts of the Lord Jesus Christ, feeding five thousand, healing Walking on water, the crowd demanded a sign from Jesus As he tells them that the work of God is to believe upon the one that he sent, they say, Well, what sign do you show us? What work do you perform? Jesus responded by saying, I said to you that you've seen me and yet do not believe. Belief has been a theme, it continues to be a theme of this chapter, the disbelief of the Jews, as they grumble about him because he said that he is the bread of life, the bread that came down from heaven. And that's what brings John's readers to this particular passage. The grumbling, the murmuring, the disputing of the Jews amongst themselves. How can this man give us his flesh? to eat. That's the question. Maybe you're asking that question tonight. How could Jesus give us his flesh to eat and his blood to drink? It is, in fact, the problem of the day. It's a problem of that day, and it's the problem of this day. The problem is disbelief. The disbelief is no less than it was in that day. Maybe it's more because there are more people, but even as Jesus stated, this is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He has sent. And so disbelief is actually sin. The problem of the day. It's pictured here in John 6 as the refusal to accept That which one could see with the eye, hear with the ear, experience, as that which was true, was real. Disbelief in this case was going against that which was obvious, obvious to the senses, to the mind, especially to the heart. Disbelief of those in the great crowd who had eaten the 5,000, pushing against that which they had experienced. Disbelief was then and now the refusal to accept the truth. Disbelief was and is a deadness. to the truth. And that's exactly what Jesus said. Look at verse 53. So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. See, this is where John is saying his readers begin. His readers begin in no life. His readers begin in deadness. That's where we all begin. John is saying this is the condition. This condition of no life is already your condition. In Adam we are dead. Deadness is our human condition in our first father Adam. Remember, as as God drives Adam out of the garden, what does he do? He places that Flaming sword and the cherubim at the entrance to the tree of life, so Adam can't get back. He was dead. That's exactly what Paul writes in his letter to the church at Ephesus. You were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you once walked, and were by nature children of wrath. And that's what Paul recognizes of himself in chapter 7 of Romans, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death. This is a deadness to the things of God. That's why the crowds, the Jews, were unable to receive the truth that Jesus was sent from heaven, that Jesus was the very Son of God. They were dead to that truth, as they hated the thought of it, and would not, because of their deadness, receive it. Paul writes to those at Corinth, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. That's exactly what it was for these Jews on that day. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, and he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. They were dead to the truth. And so Jesus uses one of his greatest and most powerful analogies here in this passage. The analogy is to your physical body. Your physical body to your spiritual life. We know that all humans must have food and drink. To nourish the body. You need food to sustain your physical body. Without food, without water, for a significant period of time, the body will stop functioning and it will die. Similarly, if you eat the wrong things, if you drink the wrong liquids, you will also die. Without spiritual food, sustenance, like your body, without food and water, you will remain in your state of deadness. That's what Jesus is saying. Consider the fact that he references the last day, verse 54. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Well, the opposite must also be true. That whoever does not feed on his flesh, whoever does not drink his blood, does not have eternal life, and he will not raise that person up on the last day. What is this last day? What's he referring to? This is the fourth time here in John's Gospel that he expressly refers to the last day. He refers to it six times in his gospel. The last day must refer to the coming day of judgment John 12, the one who rejects me and does not receive my words, has a judge. The word that I have spoken will judge him on the last day. Isaiah chapter 66, for by fire will the Lord enter into judgment, and by his sword with all flesh, and those slain by the sword shall be many. Jesus speaks of the last day in Matthew's gospel. I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give an account for every careless word they speak. Jesus speaks more of the judgment day in Matthew 25. When he comes in his glory, he'll sit on his glorious throne, and before him will be gathered all the nations. For what? For judgment. Peter refers to judgment. In his second letter, in his second chapter, the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and to keep the unrighteous under punishment. Until the day of judgment. And then he refers to it later on as the destruction of the ungodly, the day of judgment. The last day is a reference to the day of judgment. And John, in the last book of the Bible, refers to it once again in chapter 20. And as he gave up the dead who were in it, Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. So Jesus refers to Judgment Day. And he links Judgment Day with the importance, the significance, the critical nature of feasting upon him. That, then, is the solution, isn't it? Verse 53, Truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has. eternal life and I will raise him up on the last last day. That's the solution to disbelief, isn't it? The solution to unbelief, the solution to sin and sinful thoughts and words and deeds, the solution to the coming last day, the day of judgment Is given by Jesus Christ life, the opposite of death is clearly the central offering of these verses. There are four separate references to life in these verses that we read tonight. For example, verse 54, whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. I will raise him up. Verse 58. This is the bread that came down from heaven, not like the bread that the fathers ate and died Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. This is the only solution to disbelief. It's the only solution to sin. The solution to the coming judgment for all. You must feast upon Jesus Christ. You must eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him. Whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. Do you see? Do you see the necessity? Do you see that these are Jesus' words? This is the Savior speaking, calling out to even those who were in disbelief on that very day, questioning How can he give us his flesh to eat? And Jesus was saying, you must, if you're going to live. Because of your sin, this is the only way. Feast upon me That brings us to our second point, the sacrificial giving of Jesus. This passage is full, I think you might as well have noticed it. It's full. Of Jesus giving himself up. Verse 38, which we didn't read which we did not read tonight Reads this way, for I've come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me This is where the giving of Jesus, of the Son of God, begins. That the Son of God left his home. I have come down. From our creaturely perspective, he left the perfect and pure fellowship and love that he enjoyed with the Father and the Spirit. He gave of himself by leaving the righteousness, the very embodiment of righteousness within the Trinity. to enter a realm of sin and misery. Also he could take on a human nature and give up himself by veiling his own glory. That's what Paul writes in his letter to the church at Philippi. Though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant. Being born in the likeness of men, Paul is describing the incarnation of Jesus Christ. Of a Son of God coming and taking upon himself a human nature and thus veiling his glory. The very thing which the crowds would not believe. The son left his abode, his home, so that he could bring the children of God home. And the only way that he could do that was by giving himself to those he was saving. You see, in doing so, in in committing to do this, the Lord Jesus Christ committed to laying aside his own will and doing the will of his Father. I remember the prayer of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. Indeed, Paul puts it this way, being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross, Jesus Christ took his own will and lays it aside or aligns it. more appropriately, will the with the will of his father. Do you see how he's giving himself up? Do you see how he left home to serve? This humbling of self is the very definition of being a servant. It's the essence of giving self up to and for others. It's the picture of pure love of Jesus Christ for the people of God, that which we studied this morning It's the very giving of his flesh. You see, he states the need, the necessity to feed upon him to feed upon his flesh, to drink his blood. Jesus Christ is speaking of giving himself up. I And the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. See, we recently studied the passage in Romans where Paul explains that the father spared not the Son. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? But you see, as the Father gave up the Son, first to wicked men, and then to suffer his eternal and righteous wrath, and the father didn't spare anything. The Father didn't even hold one drop of his wrath from his son. And Jesus Christ was at the same time giving himself up. Such that in his sacrificial giving Jesus Christ was fully consumed. Think of that. Even as we read Earlier this evening, the Old Testament sacrificial rites. Think of the whole burnt offering. That's how Moses begins in Leviticus chapter 1. If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall bring a male without blemish. The bull shall be killed, and then the priest shall flay the burnt offerings and cut it into pieces and put it on the altar, on this burning fire. The priest shall burn all of it on the altar. As a burnt offering. Nothing but ashes were to be left and to be carried outside of the camp. The animal offering was to be completely consumed by the fire. And so Jesus Christ is saying I need to be completely consumed even by you. We know that he was consumed by the wrath of his father. We know that he died. We know that he rose again from the dead. But even in this passage, Jesus is saying that he's giving himself up and over to be consumed by you. Completely consumed. That seems to be the idea here. That Jesus is telling those who would listen to him that they must consume him, that he will offer himself as the propitiation, as the true and only atonement for their sins, and if they will be atoned for, they must consume his flesh. They must join themselves to him through the eating of his flesh and drinking of his life, giving blood. And Jesus was saying, I'm giving myself up to be consumed by you. The children of God. Giving his flesh, giving his blood, that which represents the very life. But the life is in the blood. And Jesus is saying, I'm willing and I will give up my very life for you. Just let that sink in for a moment. But this one with a human, a real human nature, would completely give himself up for you. That he would give himself over without hesitation. That he would exchange his life for yours. Isn't that the picture here? Isn't that what Jesus is saying? I'm willing to and will give you my life so that you may live. How could you want anything or anyone else? This should take us back to this morning's sermon in Romans 8. I'm sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Don't we see the endless love of Jesus in this passage as he says, I'll give you my very life? This is the love of Christ. This is the power of his love. This is what John meant when he wrote Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. You must see the love of Christ in this passage as he offers himself his very flesh and his very blood. To be consumed by you so that you can live That brings us to our third point, the glorious receiving of Jesus. Did you notice in these verses there is actually a universal call That as Jesus is speaking, he uses the word, the pronoun whoever, four times. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. Verse 56: Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. Verse 57. So whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me. And verse 58: whoever feeds on this bread will live forever. Whoever. Again, he was speaking to a crowd full of disbelievers. I say, whoever, come feast on me The offer was open. Whoever, come eat, just like we read in Isaiah. Fill yourself with what is rich and live. He was offering himself to all who would listen, to all who would hear And they were asking, how do we do that? How is that possible? How can he give us his flesh? You may be again asking the same question tonight. Because feeding and drinking Christ Jesus is certainly an analogy. Feeding and drinking Christ is an absolute and unbreakable and eternal connection and union with Christ. That's what he's talking about. You must be in complete union with me, so that my life will lift you up. One must feed first upon Christ by faith. See, that's what stands behind this passage, isn't it? Not as some might think that we actually eat the body and blood of Jesus Christ in the Lord's Supper. That's not what Jesus Christ was saying. He wasn't even preaching about the supper at that point. I'm saying, you must feed upon me by faith. Faith is the mouth that takes in Christ Jesus. Faith is the stomach which ruminates on Christ Jesus. Faith is the body which is nourished by Christ Jesus. Faith and repentance Like muscles strengthened by food are increased and fortified. Faith is the recipient of the nourishing, the wholesome spiritual flesh of Jesus. That's what Jesus was saying. You must be in union with me. And you must do so by feeding upon me. And so the question stands, how? Feeding and drinking are actions, their verb which describes actions, aren't they? And as we've already discussed, these actions are that which leads to life or death. Nothing in between, no other results. Either you feed on Christ or you don't, either you live or you die. And you must feed upon Christ to live. So an You must act. There must be an act to be fed, to be nourished, to be strengthened. Just like one who sits at a banquet table of delicious food. But it does no good unless that one sitting there actually draws the food and drink into his or her mouth. He must act to be nourished. Like those who heard Peter's first sermon, who were cut to the quick, cut to the heart As they heard what they had done to the Savior of the world, brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized. Actions. Like Adam and Eve, there's a choice. Jesus offers a choice that you have to do something to change your condition, so to speak, from no-life to life. Now we have to qualify this, don't we? Because we know that it's the work of God to save. We know that the Holy Spirit must change one's heart. From stone to flesh in order for you to have that desire for life in Christ Jesus, don't we? For by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It's the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boss. We cannot cross that boundary and we won't. But there it is, it's still set before you. Life and death. It's exactly what Moses preached to all the Israelites before they were to enter into the promised land. See, I've set before you today life and death. If you obey the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you today, by loving the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his rules, then you shall live. But if your heart turns away and you're drawn away to worship other gods and serve them, then you shall surely perish. Therefore choose life, that you and your offspring may live. So how do you then by faith Feast upon Christ to your spiritual increase and eternal life What are the actions of eating and drinking? Well, first you must die with Jesus. You must be so joined to Jesus that you actually die with him, that you die to yourself, that you die to your sins. This is eating his sacrificial flesh. That's what Jesus told his disciples. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Jesus is saying, You must eat my sacrificial flesh. You have to die to yourself. Feasting upon and following Jesus are one and the same, aren't they? This is so participating in Jesus that you become like him as you consider that you must also lay down your own life as he did his. Secondly, you must be raised with Jesus. Notice that these are all actions of the Holy Spirit, aren't they? Isn't that what Jesus was calling the Samaritan woman at the well to do? To drink, not the worldly waters, not the water that she was coming for. But that she must take in the living water which was standing right before her that Jesus was offering himself To drink of the righteousness of Jesus, to drink of the living water which was Jesus Himself, the living water which have quenched her thirst for unrighteousness and given her the sweet taste for righteousness. And third, once raised, now we're called to use the means of grace to feast upon Jesus. Those first two, dying to yourself, being raised with Jesus, those are clearly acts of the Holy Spirit. And now He's calling you to participate. Once you've come to faith in Christ Jesus, and through that faith you're feasting upon him, now that feast becomes the means of grace set before you like that banquet table. The outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption, especially the word, sacraments, and prayer. This comes from the Westminster Shorter Catechism. All which are made effectual to the elect for salvation. And how is the word effectual? to your salvation. Isn't it but especially by the preaching of the word, as you're listening, as you're engaging to the preaching of the word, is that not how you feast upon Jesus Christ? It's a means of enlightening and convincing, humbling sinners. Of driving them out of yourself and drawing you to Christ of conforming you more and more day by day to his image, of subduing you to his will As you use the word, as you hear it preached, as the larger catechism Even as Paul is giving his defense to King Agrippa, as he is recounting how he was called by Jesus Christ, who called him to rise and stand on his feet because he's been appointed to serve as a witness. And that he was sending Paul to open the eyes of the Gentiles that they might turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God, that they might receive forgiveness of sins in a place among those who are sanctified by faith In Jesus Christ, the preaching of the Word of God, that is how you feast on Jesus. If the word becomes effectual, you must attend to it with diligence, preparation and prayer, receive it with faith and love, and lay it up in your hearts and practice it in your lives. That is how you feast on Jesus Christ. The question tonight is, are you Are you feeding upon Christ? And if so, are you satisfied? You see, it's not so much the act, but the result. What is your result of feeding upon Jesus? Are you filled? As you open your Bible for quiet time, your devotional time, as it comes to an end, are you satisfied? Are you full? As you leave the worship service, as you've been feasting upon Jesus, are you full? Now so there's a sense in which the answer to that question could be yes and no To be satisfied means to be to have your wants, your wishes, your desires gratified to the full extent. And as you feed upon Jesus, you should be gratified to the point where you're saying, I want more. Yes, I'm satisfied for this moment, but but I I want more. I want to continue to feed upon Jesus. I want more of your word. I want more of your word preached. I want more of your sacraments. I want more prayer. I want to spend more time in your word. I want more. I want to feed upon you more. And I can't wait until I enter glory. And my entire day will be filled with feasting upon Jesus Christ. Is that your desire? Is that the feasting that you desire for this year? One must feast upon the body and blood of Christ to be raised up to eternal life. Adam and Eve had two choices in a sense. They chose to feast upon what was not Christ. And you have a choice tonight. You have a choice to to feast throughout this year. Upon the Lord Jesus Christ. And in fact, He's calling you to it. Heed the call, brothers and sisters. Feast upon Christ throughout this year. Amen. Oh father, we are so fallible. We have so many things in this world that consume our time. And at times we think we have so little time for Christ. Pray that you'd help us to long after Christ throughout this year, to to truly feed upon him, to enter our prayer closets and Father, even when our our prayer time is over, to to can't that we could not wait until we enter back into the prayer closet or when our devotional time is over, Father, that we can't wait for that time that we can open back up your word. Or or when worship is over, Father, we can't wait until next week and until we can enter into that that Time of corporate worship, that corporate feeding upon Christ. Help us, Lord. Holy Spirit, work in our hearts. That this would be our longing, this would be our desire. And as we feast upon Christ, that you would, Father, continue to make us more, more and more like Him. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for his offer. We thank you, Lord God, that he's given himself up for us. Help us, Lord God, to feed upon him this year.