Our New Testament reading this morning comes from the Gospel of Luke in chapter five. If you would stand. For the reading of God's Word, Jesus Christ is calling his disciples. One of them happens to be a Tax collector, not well thought of in those days. Let's give attention to God's Word. Luke chapter 5, beginning at verse 27 After these things, he went out and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office. And he said to him, Follow me. So he left all, rose up, and followed him. And Levi gave him a great feast in his own house. And there were a great number of tax collectors and others who sat down with them. And the scribes and the Pharisees complained against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? Jesus answered and said to them, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And they said to him, Why do the disciples of John fast often and make prayers? And likewise those of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink. He said to them, Can you make the friends of the bridegroom fast while the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, then they will fast in those days. Strong the reading of God's Word. Amen. Turn in your copy of God's Word now to Genesis. Continue our study there in chapter 43. Again, this is a long reading of Scripture. Feel free to sit if you need to. Joseph's brothers have come down to Egypt. They've received grain, and now they've been sent back. Simeon is still held in bondage in Egypt, and that's where we find this account at the beginning of chapter 43. Let's hear the word of God. Now the famine was severe in the land. And it came to pass when they had eaten up the grain which But Judah spoke to him, saying the man solemnly warned us, saying, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with With you. If you send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food. But if you will not send him, we will not go down. For the man said to us, You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you. And Israel said, Why did you deal so wrongfully with me as to tell the man whether you had still another brother? But they said, the man asked us pointedly about ourselves and our family, saying, Is your father still alive? Have you another brother? We told him according to these words. Could we possibly have known that he would say, Bring your brother down? And Judah said to Israel, his father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die. Both we and you, and also our little ones. I myself will be surety for him. From my hand you shall require him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever. For if we had not lingered, surely by now we would have returned this second time. Their father Israel said to them, If it must be so, then do this. Take some of the best fruits of the land in your vessels and carry down a present for the man. A little bomb and a little honey, spices and myrrh, pistachio, nuts and almonds. Take double the money in your hand, and take back in your hand the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks, perhaps. It was an oversight. Take your brother also and arise, go back to the man. And may God Almighty give you mercy before for the man, that he may release your other brother and Benjamin. If I am bereaved, I am bereaved. So the men took that present and Benjamin, and they took double the money in their hand and arose and went down to each other. Egypt, and they stood before Joseph. When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, Take these men to my home and slaughter an animal and make ready, for these men will dine with me at noon. And the man did as Joseph ordered. And the man brought the men into Joseph's house. Now the men were afraid because they were brought into Joseph's house. And they said, It is because of the money which was required Return in our sacks the first time that we are brought in, so that He may make a case against us and seize us and take us as slaves with our donkeys. Then when they drew near to the steward of Joseph's house, they talked with him at the door of the house and said, Oh, sir, we indeed came down the first time to buy food, but it happened When we came to the encampment, we opened our sacks and there in each man's each man's money was in the mouth of his sack. Our money was in full weight, so we have brought it back in our hand And we have brought down other money in our hands to buy food. We do not know who put our money in our sacks. But he said, peace be with you. With you. Do not be afraid. Your God and the God of your father has given you treasure in your sacks. I had your money. Then you brought Simeon out. So the man brought the men to Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet, and he gave their donkeys feed. Then they made the present ready for Joseph's coming at noon, for they heard that he would eat bread there. And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house. and bowed down before him to the earth. Then he asked them about their well being and said, Is your father well, the old man of whom you spoke? Is he still alive? And they answered, Your servant, our father, is in good health. He is still alive. And they bowed their heads down and prostrated themselves. Then he lifted his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother of whom you spoke to me? And he said, God be gracious to you, my son. Now his heart yearned for his brother. So Joseph made haste and sought somewhere to weep, and he went into his chamber and wept there. Then he was by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians who with them by themselves because the Egyptians could not eat food with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians. And they sat before him the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth. And the men looked in astonishment at one another. And he took servings to them from before him, but Benjamin's serving was five times as much as any of theirs. Mary with him. Amen. Please be seated Would you pray with me? Our Father, now we ask that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word. Lord God, there is so much in this passage. It would be difficult for us to absorb it all. But we pray now that you would give us, Father, all that we need this day Feed us with this bread of life, each one as as he or she has need. Work by your Spirit powerfully in us now. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Hospitality is, I think One of the greatest means of evangelism. Something happens when we invite people into our homes. And bring them to our dining table and feed them. It's really not rocket science. We're a people made for communion We crave communion. And in a culture where doors are shut and people are frightened, an open door is an invitation for communion. An open table is an invitation to get to know and care for a person and to share the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. The only question is, who are you going to invite? Who would you invite to such an occasion? Into the inner spaces of your home. To dine with you. What if you had a special guest? What if the Apostle Paul were coming? Or John Calvin? Who would you invite Who would you want to introduce your neighbors to? Matthew or Levi, as Luke calls him, he invited his friends. He invited tax collectors. He invited those he knew. Sinners. And he did so probably because he had a special guest, the Lord Jesus Christ, who probably wanted him to bring sinners to him. I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners I think that's part of what we have here in this passage before us in Genesis 43. Joseph has been sold off. He's been hated by his brothers. He's been sent to Egypt. Egypt. He's been made to suffer much toil and tribulation while his family engaged in sin, sin, and more sin, Joseph was being brought closer and closer to God. Remember, Pharaoh had those two dreams. Joseph was called in to interpret them, and the interpretation was seven years of abundance, seven years of famine. And now Joseph has been seated as second in command, governor, ruler of the nation, just behind Pharaoh. And they've entered into now those seven years of famine. Joseph brothers have gone down to Egypt. They've gotten their first installment of grain. As we read, they've eaten that up. Simeon is still bound. Joseph is still waiting for them to come back with Benjamin. And the brothers have begun to consider their sin against Joseph. As we enter into now chapter 43, I'd like us to consider that Jesus Christ leads sin-starved sinners in faith. To the table of the God of creation, to feast, and to be full of joy. Three simple points. Drawing near the king's house, entering the king's house, and finally feasting in the king's house As we go through this passage, I'd like you to be thinking about asking yourself: what is it that draws you near to God? Well, first, drawing near the king's house. There was famine in Canaan. See that there in that first verse. Now the famine was severe in the land. Well that land is not a reference to Egypt. Because the scene is still back in Canaan. That's where we left them in chapter 42, and that's where we are in chapter 43. This narrative that Moses continues Is really focused now upon the land of Canaan. The brothers had returned home. Jacob had refused to send them back with Reuben, his firstborn. And now the famine continued. And it was severe in that place, in that land, in Canaan. And we have to ask that question why? This indeed was the promised land This indeed was the land that that Abram was told would be given to him and to his descendants forever. This is where they would dwell with God, meet with God. This was the place. They were already there. Why not bless the family with food in Canaan, why not keep them there? Why not provide for them there in Canaan? Seems to me that was the efficient thing to do. Avoid this 400 years of slavery in Egypt. Avoid that 40 years of wilderness wandering. Feed them in Canaan. They don't have to leave. But this seems to be the beginning of the second exodus possibly, the first being that from the garden Now, this family of God seems to be being pushed out of the land. They'll be gone for 400 plus years. Was this merely to fulfill Joseph's dream? Certainly not. The history of redemption, the story of salvation, will never be and has never been about efficiency. It's never been about merely providing food and shelter. The work of redemption is all about the glory of God. And how that's shown and demonstrated. And the ways in which he effectively calls people to himself and fellowships with them. Them. This act of God and bringing famine upon the land of Canaan, a land which would become the promised land, must be seen in that light. The problem was not famine. The problem was a lack of trust. We saw it. We saw it in the garden as Eve takes that fruit and she eats it. It was a lack of trust. Adam failed to trust the very words of God and followed after his wife. Genesis chapter 42, we saw it in Jacob. He was not grasping the goodness of God. He was perceiving all the things that were happening were against him, not for him. Jacob lacked trust. He lacked faith in God. Unlike Abraham, Jacob was not believing in God's promises. Unlike Abraham, Jacob been unwilling to give up his youngest son, Benjamin, so that the family might be saved from this famine, from this scourge. Jacob's heart and thought were fixed upon his own personal grief and potential future suffering. Rather than the sure promises of God. So, how does the famine then work? Trust There's a great sense here in which the Lord works in mysterious ways. Judah says that. Could we possibly have known that he would say, Bring your brother down? Can we know how God is going to work? It is mysterious. This famine, like many other afflictions, was taking away that which the family depended upon and moved them back to God. Fanon becomes the great motivator, driving Jacob and his sons, the entire family to Egypt. But Jacob doesn't seem to realize that yet. The famine was severe, but Jacob says, go buy us a little food. Grain from the first trip was gone. The stockpile had been eaten up. However, Jacob seems to minimize the problem. Buy us a little food, we'll get by, come back. We got to stay here Situation is not that dire. But Judah. Judah expressly proclaims the significance of this event to his father. Send the lad with me that we will arise and go, that we may live and not die. Judah acknowledges that which Jo Jacob was unwilling to stay Jacob continued in a lack of trust. But now the picture's clear. Judah has stated it. Death was at the door. And it has been since Adam's fall from grace, hasn't it? For in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. Or as Paul put it in the Letter to the Romans, death spread to all men because all sinned. God was using the threat of starvation, the threat of impending death to move Jacob. So now Jacob begins to trust. But only in part, did you notice what he wants the brothers to take? A little bomb, a little honey, spices, myrrh, pistachio, nuts, almonds, take double the money in your hand. Take these things, take these gifts with you Seems to be relying upon the gift. That these good things, as the brothers bring them, as his sons bring them to Joseph, they might somehow placate his roughness. If they arrived with these gifts, maybe the man would be willing to receive them and have mercy. But then Then there's this. Take your brother also. And arise, go back to the man, and may God Almighty give you mercy before the man. The famine seems to have driven Joseph now finally to approach the Lord in the light of his true nature The way Scripture describes him. A God of might and a God of mercy The one who abounds in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, the one who delights in mercy, the one who's rich in mercy. What was keeping Jacob back from faithfully trusting in God immediately? Wasn't his misunderstanding of the prophet Providential hand of God? Don't we see that throughout this account of the generations of Jacob? Even as Jacob is mentioned sporadically, but when he is mentioned, he's usually in despair Jacob believed that Joseph was dead, that he was no longer. And that he had continued throughout these 13 plus years to mourn and grieve the loss of this favored son birthed by his beloved Rachel. You may think upon the other events of Jacob's life, and having labored fourteen years, manipulated by his father-in-law, being sought after by his brother Edom. Esau, suffering, difficulties in Jacob's life, and as he considers these things, he's full of gloom. He appears to be hopeless and despondent Jacob only saw the surface of the circumstances around him. He wasn't seeing the underside of that tapestry that God was weaving together. He did not know. And was apparently not concerned with what God was doing under the surface. Using all these things to prepare Jacob for eternity and a people for himself. Jacob's despair was an impediment. It was an obstacle that had to be overcome in order for the sons of Jacob, the generations of Jacob, to go. To the house of Joseph. Why don't we draw near? Why don't you draw draw near to God, to Jesus. You might be thinking, well I do Brothers and sisters, if we're honest with ourselves, there are more times than we like to admit that we don't draw near. That we don't approach God. Why? I think our circumstances get in the way. In two different ways. When when things are going well, we tend to forget Jesus. It happened to the Israelites. They were warned by Moses, weren't they? Beware that you do not forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commands, his judgments, his statutes. When your herds, when your flocks multiply. When your silver and your gold are multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied, when your heart is lifted up and you forget the Lord your God, Moses knew when they were rich, they would forget It's clearly happening in this country. But it happens to Christians. It happens to us, brothers and sisters. When we have an abundance of all that we need, food, clothing, shelter, money, we tend to think we're doing pretty good. And spend more time and effort gathering those things that make us feel pretty good. Spend less time with Jesus. Because we don't think we need him so much when things are good, when our circumstances are full. Kind of like Jacob and his sons when they returned with the grain. Everything was pretty good in that short period of time. They weren't thinking about going back. Secondly, when things are not going well We tend to blame God. And when we blame someone, we tend not to be close to them. Brothers and sisters, I think we need to take a lesson from the Apostle Paul, who knew how to be abased, and he knew how to abound. Everywhere and in all things, he learned both to be full and to be hungry, to both abound and to suffer need. And you might think, well, that just means that he was okay. He was okay with not having much and he was okay with having much. But I don't think that's what Paul's saying. I think what Paul is saying in all of these things, in all of these situations, he continued to seek Christ. He continued to long after Christ. He continued to love Christ. Didn't make a difference. I can do all things through Christ, who strengthens me. I think that's what he meant. We need to learn How to be both full and to be hungry, to abound and to suffer need. And in all these things, cling to Christ. Brings us to our second point, entering the king's house. Well, the governor's house was locked. And when I say the governor, I mean Joseph's House. It was shut up tight. Remember in chapter 42, Joseph told them twice, not just once, bring your youngest brother to me. Bring your youngest brother to me. Sinclair Ferguson has noted that throughout this account of Joseph, there are many doubles throughout He noticed it first in Pharaoh's dreams, and as Joseph interprets, he says, Well, you've had those both true two dreams to confirm that it's actually going to happen. Here we see this doubling throughout. Bring your youngest brother to me. It's firm. It's established. And then Judah emphasizes it as he speaks to his father, saying, the man solemnly warned us, you shall not see my face unless your brother is with you. He also says that two times the house of the governor, the ruler, is tightly locked, shut. And it won't be opened unless one person goes down. Remember, Jerusalem's up on a hill, Canaan's high, and they had to go down to Egypt. They need Benjamin in order to get more grain, in order to see the face of the man in charge of handing out grain. Remember what the king of Egypt did say for those who were seeking grain, go to Joseph. Go to Joseph. He's the gatekeeper of grain. He's the ruler. He's the governor. He's the second in command of the entire nation. But the first in command of the grain, he is the storehouse, so to speak, in order to get the grain to sustain the lives of the brothers in Canaan, their wives and children They needed to see the face of Joseph. They needed Benjamin. He was the condition. He was the key. He was the key to entering into the house of the governor, to seeing the face of Joseph, to entering the house of life, so to speak. Remember what Judah said to his father, that we may live and not die. Without Benjamin, these will not have food for the family for the Family to become that nation, the nation of God. Benjamin becomes the conduit through which life becomes a possibility Without Benjamin, no grain, no life. With Benjamin, grain and life. Benjamin must go down So he does. Jacob relents and begins to trust And then there's this great surprise. The governor receives them. Joseph receives them. He looks upon Benjamin and he tells his servants that these men will dine with me at noon. When Joseph saw Benjamin, those are the words that are spoken to his Steward take these men to my home. No longer Calling them spies, no longer accusing them of searching out the nakedness of the land, no longer speaking to them roughly as Joseph sees Benjamin Is an invitation to come in. Benjamin's the focal point. Why? For Jacob, Benjamin represented a lack of trust and a holding on to the world. For the brothers. Benjamin represented the way back, the way to get into the grain house. For Joseph, Benjamin May have represented righteousness and innocence. Joseph has been surrounded by paganism During his brother's first trip down, Joseph was surrounded by those who didn't tell the truth, by those who hated him. Now Benjamin's present. The only brother who is not present and involved in casting him into the pit, the only brother who did not send him down to Egypt and and enslave him, the only brother who did not hate him, the only brother who did not lie to their father. Notice Benjamin doesn't speak. And now he becomes Comes the key to open the door to the governor's heart. Benjamin unlocks it Look at verse 30. This is speaking of Joseph. His heart yearned for his brother. Don't you see that in God the Father? As He considers his Son Isaiah 42, verse 1. Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights. God, the Father, is saying, look upon my Son. He's the one in whom I delight. Those are the very same words that that God uses as Jesus Himself is now being baptized And a voice comes from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son. God looks upon Jesus. And even calls others Do same. Benjamin is seen by Joseph as being the innocent one in the midst of sinful brothers. God sees and knows the Lord Jesus Christ, his beloved Son, in whom he delights. He's the key to opening up the heart of God, so to speak Well, just as the brothers of Joseph needed Benjamin to enter into the house of plenty To enter into the gates of life, so to speak, if you're to enter into the presence of God, into his eternal house, into glory, into eternal life, you need the Lord Jesus Christ. You need to be with the Lord Jesus Christ. He needs to usher you into glory, into heaven, to dwell for eternity. There is no substitute. There's no other. Just as Benjamin was the only one requested, even demanded by Joseph Just as Benjamin was the only key to the door of Joseph's heart, which opened up the storehouses of grain for the brothers in lion Just as Joseph did not ask for his father, just as Joseph did not look upon the gifts of balm and honey and spice and myrrh, but only upon Benjamin There's no substitute for Jesus. You must have Jesus He represents and he is righteousness and purity and innocence. He was and is pure before his Father God. He kept his Commands and the will of his father completely. And you must have this. You must have this one if you're to have life. You must have Jesus' righteousness to enter into the very house of God that He may look upon you with favor. Brothers and sisters, in order for you to live, you must be in God's very presence To gaze upon his life giving majesty and glory. You can't see the face of God, but Jesus can. Indeed, we can see the face of God in Jesus Christ. You must have Jesus. We have a problem, though Because we want to bring something. We want to bring something. We want to say, God, here's what we've brought you. Look at my good deeds. Look at what I've done out of the goodness of my heart. For brothers and sisters, this will not gain you entry. Your good deeds are filthy rags before a holy God. Repent of your thoughts, of goodness, and the gifts to appease the holy God of creation. Again, we must think like Paul. I count all things lost For the excellence and the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, and count them as rubbish that I might gain Christ and be found in him, not having my own righteousness We need the righteousness which is from God by faith. We need Jesus' righteousness. He's the key. He's the only one who tore the veil in two. It's Jesus' righteousness, his perfect sacrifice, which gains us access into the house of life. Nothing else. That brings us to our third point, feasting in the king's house. He might be satisfied to stop there. Just entry. Entry into God's house. That might be enough, but it wasn't enough for Joseph's brothers. They were summoned. The men are to dine with me at noon. They didn't stop at mere entry into Joseph's house. They were summoned, but they feared They were afraid. He may make a case against us, seize us, take us as slaves. They were not trusting that God would protect and provide like Jacob. They were thinking that the governor meant evil, even in his invitation to enter evil. And but you see what God does to allay their fears The pagan, the steward of the house, the unbeliever is the one who says to them, Peace be with you, do not be afraid. These men of God, this family of God, need to be told do not fear. It took a pagan to remind them, to remind this family of God that God was present and he was giving them good things. And thus, as they enter, they receive the sign. Sign of peace. Simeon is released and peace is spoken to them. They're welcomed The servant gives them water, they wash their feet, they give donkeys feed. That's just a sign of welcoming. We don't have donkeys. I don't know about that But back then there was a time of being welcomed, a sign that they were welcomed into the household and then summoned to eat. They'd entered the king's house and now were ushered into his table, the table to be fed to enjoy the food of the king of the land. So they drank and were merry with him. How do you perceive of the blessing of being brought in to the family of God? If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ today as your Savior, does your blessing stop with the title? I'm a son, I'm a daughter of God, I'm adopted, I've been brought in. Is a blessing complete? As your foot crosses the threshold Today, if you enter into a restaurant, which we haven't done for fourteen plus months You might consider mere entry into a public restaurant a great blessing, but in reality, you want to head to the table. Joseph's brothers were fearful. Until the servant declared peace to them, until Simeon was released as As a believer in Jesus, who's adopted into the family of God and given a mission to the house of God, peace has been declared to you. The war is over. You're to take off your sin-stained, ineffective battle gear of pride and lust and rebellion, which did you no good Which was of no value, of no protection, and did God no harm, and merely weighed you down to death, or to take that off and to put on in peace As a friend of God, as a child of God, that battle gear, which has great value Girding your waist with truth, putting on the breastplate of righteousness, preparing your feet with the gospel of peace, taking the shield of faith, which you'll be able to quench the darts of faith. the wicked one and the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with prayer and supplication in the Spirit. That's what you get when you enter into the house of God, this blessing of peace. And do you rejoice in the abundant goodness which is being poured out upon you? As you've been seated at the king's table. Did you notice the change in attitude of Joseph's brothers? We saw Joseph's change of attitude as soon as he saw Benjamin. But what about the brothers? They were fearful, they were apprehensive, they had thoughts of guilt and punishment, even death in their hearts. But did you notice the seismic change? They were astonished as they sat at the table. They drank and were merry with him. Fear has left them, and in amazement it's been replaced with ease and comfort and gladness. If you're trusting in Jesus today, is that a description of how you live in the house of God? Because you've been seated with Jesus Christ. You were dead in your sins. But he made you alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved and raised together, made to sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus Today. It's only because the brothers were sitting with Benjamin that Joseph granted them a place at the table, and it's only because of Jesus That you've been made to sit with him before God the Father. Are you feasting? Are you feasting today? You're sitting with Jesus. What is that feast? The ordinary means of grace, the word, sacraments, prayer. Are you being fed by the word? Have you been given the The sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper, are you feasting upon them? And by grace you've been given prayer, and all these things are true spiritual food that He feeds you with. An abundance to cause you to grow at the table of God in the house of God Yes, Jesus Christ does leave sin-starved sinners in faith to the table of God of creation to feast and to be full of joy. Brothers and sisters, we do need to be hospital. We need to have people to dinner. But as we do We need to remember that it's Jesus that's brought us to the table of the true King to feast. And it's Jesus who's calling all those who enjoy this feast, all those who have been and being fed to, like Matthew or Levi, to invite others to come and take. And see that he is good. Amen. Father, we thank you For Jesus Christ, the one who is the key to your heart. We thank you, Lord God, that He has ushered us in not only to your house, but then to sit at your table and to feast, to feast upon Christ. Help us, Lord God, to long after your word and the sacraments and prayer To use these things, to feed upon them, that we might be built up and proclaim Christ even from our homes Help us, Lord God. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.