Our message this morning comes from Proverbs 26, chapter 26, verses 20 through 22. The book of Proverbs contains wisdom for everyday life. If you're like me, if you're like me, there's just so many times you wish you were just a little bit wiser, maybe a lot wiser Sometimes I frankly just don't know what to say or what to do in a situation. But perhaps more often it's not a lack of knowledge. It's not that I don't know enough. It's a lack really of a sound judgment or the courage to apply the knowledge I do have. And so this evening's um this morning's passage talks about a really common problem, really common problem, and that is conflict among people, conflict or between people. And it compares fighting to a fire. So it tells us how to fight that fire of conflict. So please follow along as I read from Proverbs 26, verses 20 through 22. For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases, as charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels. They go down into the inner parts of the body. This is God's holy word. Let's pray and ask for his blessing on it this morning Our Father in Heaven, we do thank you for the wisdom contained in your word. We ask for you to help us treasure it more than gold, to eagerly learn from it, and even to have the wisdom to apply it to our lives. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, when you want to build a fire, what's the very first thing you do? The very first thing you're going to do is collect some kindling, some small sticks, you're going to collect some bigger logs, and you're going to get all the wood you need. Not only the wood to get it started. But really enough wood to keep it going for as long as as you want to have a fire. So if you're starting at 7 30 at night and hoping to keep it going till ten, you're going to get a lot of wood, right? Uh so you even the best fires, even The most finely built fires are going to go out if you don't have fresh supplies of wood. Well, in that way Conflict is really like a fire. It needs to be fed. Conflict needs to be fed to keep burning. So without fresh supplies of juicy information. Gossip is going to die down. Without an irritable response, an angry word isn't going to devolve into a full-fledged fight. As Proverbs 15, 1 says, a soft answer really does turn away wrath. Well, this morning's text teaches us how to fight the fire of conflict. And we fight it. The most the primary way we fight it is by refusing to throw more wood onto that fire. We fight it by not participating in strife with our words, or or to put it positively We fight it by speaking the truth in love. So we only say things that are true, loving, and necessary. to say. We put an end to conflict again by speaking the truth in love, and we'll see that in three points, as I believe you can see in your outlines in the bulletins. So first, verse 20 teaches us how to fight a fire. And again, if we want to start a fire, we need wood. And if we want a fire to die out, we need to stop feeding it with wood. But, of course, Proverbs isn't giving us a lesson, a very elementary lesson, on how to fight a fire, a physical fire. It's using this as a metaphor for conflict And so if we want conflict to stop, again, we need to stop feeding it with gossip, with angry words, with harsh tones. And so look again at verse 20. For lack of wood, a fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases. A pretty basic point, but before we begin unpacking that for our own lives, Let me pause on this word whisperer. At least that's how the ESV translates it, a whisperer. And Proverbs here isn't referring to someone who just speaks really quietly. It's not someone who you're asking to speak up. And in fact, actually a whisperer can be actually a good thing sometimes. Like if you're in a library, you're supposed to whisper. Children are often told to use indoor voices. And that's not what Proverbs is talking about. It's a translation of a Hebrew word that can mean to appear sullen or to backbite. It can also be translated as the king James does as a tail bearer. A tail bearer now is not a word we commonly use. In fact, I don't think I've come across that word. Except in my reading of Proverbs 26 of the King James. I haven't heard it used recently at all, maybe never. But it a tail bearer is a person who spreads gossip or rumors. Or to paraphrase my study Bible, a spreader of malicious murmuring with little concern for the truth. A spreader of malicious murmuring with little concern for the truth. So a whisperer is someone with little regard for the truth. who has no concern on the impact of his or her words, who, in short, has no motive of love behind their speech And in fact, quite to the contrary, sometimes the motivation is hatred or enmity. They're saying these things specifically to hurt someone else. And I think it's fairly easy to see how that kind of approach can lead to conflict, how it leads to quarreling and fighting. If people are speaking in such ways, it's really like adding wood to a fire, right? But the opposite, again, is equally true. If there is no whisperer, quarreling is going to cease. It's again like allowing a fire to slowly burn out on its own. Well, since this is the case, let's think practically about ways we personally can put an end to conflict. So let's think about some practical ways. First, First, don't waste your time on who started the conflict. We all do this all the time, actually, parents Or those of you who've had children, or me, if you haven't had children, think about nieces or nephews, or remember your own childhood. What's the first thing a parent hears When they s yes. Who started it? He started it. She started it. I hear that all the time. I have young children. And it's always who started it. Not always. Quite often. Fairness. It's quite often. Who started it? But let me ask you this. Does it matter who started it? And when someone's having a conflict, in fact, did anyone ever ask who started it? No. It doesn't matter. Imagine, picture yourself on a camping trip. uh with let's say your spouse. So say a husband and wife, and now this is a made-up story, this is not a self-revelation about my wife and I, but imagine we are on a camping trip and this fire, we've built a nice lovely fire, and it just gets out of control. And now it leaps onto the f onto the tent and then starts to spread through the trees and the neighboring campsites look like they're in danger What sense would it make for me to grab a pile of sticks, look angrily at my wife and be like, you started this and throw the sticks on the fire? That'd be foolish. It may make no sense whatsoever. And yet that's what we do. It's a ridiculous illustration. Yet in real life, we do that kind of thing sadly all the time. This approach comes from a heart that refuses to suffer a wrong. She started this fire, she's insulted me And I will not tolerate it. And so I'm just going to throw logs onto the fire. Unlike Jesus, who's enabled to entrust, who wasn't able to entrust himself to the one who judges justly, we won't stand for even any perceived If you snap at me, I'm going to snap back at you. And after five minutes of this big conflict, I'll remind you that, by the way, you started it. And if you hadn't started it, we wouldn't be here. Well, instead of worrying about who started it, we should consider our own role in the conflict first. And that's a second way to end conflict, a second in a related way. Consider your own role in the conflict. So Jesus tells us to take the log out of your own eye before you can see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. Now, let me pause here and say, yes, I know all conflict is not 50-50. So imagine someone is robbing a bank and the police are called and the police show up, they arrest the criminal, and then they look at the teller and said What role did you have in this conflict? No, no, no. Not all conflict is like that. And so let me give a real real life practical example, an important one, I think. Abuse is a prime example of the 50-50 myth, I'll call it, where, hey, what did you do? What did you do? No, no, if there's an abusive, say, marriage, which is more often in this case a husband abuse. losing his wife. You don't look at the battered woman and say, you know, what what did you do to egg him on? No, that's not a that's not an approach and that's not what the Bible would uh call us to do. In some conflict I'm saying most of the blame, almost all of the blame, really does lie on one person's shoulders. However, that's the exception. And let's not let the exception guide our general approach or the or make the general rule out of the exception. It's not our starting point. Most often Most often, almost all the time, when you're in conflict, you played a serious role in it. There's a website, depending on your sense of humor. There's a website called despair. com and it has uh demotivational posters. You've probably seen all those pretty motivational posters. These have demotivational ones And there's one with this picture of a chain, and it has the word dysfunction written on it. And then underneath the word dysfunction, it says the only consistent feature in all your dissatisfying relationships. Is you. The only consistent feature in all your dissatisfying relationships is you. Take that to heart. So if you're having a lot of conflict, think about your role. If you think people are constantly misunderstanding you, Maybe you're not communicating well. If people aren't treating you well, maybe you've never really told them how you would like to be treated or how they're hurting you. Or maybe you have really unreasonable expectations for people. people. If you have a bad boss, an annoying neighbor, a disrespectful wife, and the road is just full of idiots who don't know how to drive, maybe the problem is actually you Maybe you're the bad driver, the demanding husband or wife, the difficult neighbor, or the poor worker. So take the log out of your own eye first. Third, consider the powerful the power of the words I'm sorry. I'm sorry can be two of the most powerful words in diffusing conflict. That's more powerful really than simply refusing to add wood to the fire. Saying I'm sorry could be like taking water and dumping it on the fire at times. And as Christians, As Christians, we should actually be quite good at this, even though I suspect many of you, like me, could really grow in this area. I should be much better at saying this than I am, and we should be willing to say it because we're forgiven sinners. We're not accepted by God because we never sin. Oh, it's not because we never mess up. It's not because we never start a conflict or Never add wood to the fire. We're loved by God simply because He has chosen to love us. We're reconciled to Him because Jesus has died in our place for our sins. And so we come to God confessing ourselves to be sinners, repenting of our sins. That is, again, saying we're sorry for them and asking for His help to change. And so that's how our relationship with God is established. And so we should apply the same principle in relationships with others. Of course, I do understand there's a risk here. There's a risk with people that we don't take in relating to God. And I say that because God never turns a repentant sinner away. If we come to him in faith and we say, I'm sorry, please forgive me. We know he will. He he promises if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. That's not always true with people. Sometimes people hold grudges, sometimes people refuse to forgive. It can be risky to apologize to someone else. else, uh not knowing how they're going to respond. But let me say it's still the right thing to do. It's still the best way to avoid to help diffuse conflict and it's still the way that most reflects the gospel that shows that I really do know that I'm a sinner. I really do know that I need to be forgiven And I'm asking you to please forgive me. And then it's up to the other person to decide what to do with that. And by the way, let me say we should not only ask for forgiveness. Yes, we should also be willing to extend it to those who apologize. Remember, Jesus has forgiven us, which frees us to forgive others. You know, sometimes we may feel like, hey, they owe me a debt, and I'm going to let them go with nothing They're not going to have to suffer at all for what they did to me. It's the same way we stand before God. He doesn't force us to suffer, but Jesus has suffered for us. And so we too are as Christians are equipped to let other people suffer. people's debts go to forgive them without extracting a punishment. Well a fourth way to fight the conflict is that sometimes the fire department needs to be called. Really, sometimes the fire is raging outside of control, and it's not simply a matter of letting it die down. You know, this picture in Proverbs 26 is really of a more contagious fire, a fire that will, if you just kind of stop feeding it, will eventually burn out just on its own. But in real life not all fires are like that. Again, sometimes so much wood or even gasoline has been thrown on the fire that it's gotten huge It's left to the surrounding trees, it's invading the neighbor's home. You can get the picture. And it's not simply a matter of, hey, just stop feeding it. Call 911. Get the police, get the fire in here. And if that's the type of conflict you're in, uh you need to get help, right? And so sometimes conflict uh uh you need to call in other people, the pastors, the elders, uh friends, uh go see a counselor, sometimes mental health professionals. Sometimes police need to be involved in certain types of conflict or or the law and judges need to be called in. The point is don't let fires get out of control. And in relationships, you know, if you're counseling someone Encourage them not to fight the fire on their own. By the way, some of those things I've just mentioned, we can do those with just ordinary, ordinary run-of-the-mill content. Right? So you don't you can see a counselor if you're having trouble. Go get a mediator to help you work through something. Ask one of the eld ask an elder or a friend to come alongside you. Again, mental health professionals or others can be necessary in a fallen world. And so those aren't bad things. But in some conflicts, those are absolutely essential things. to take part to to use. Well, fifth and finally, uh uh uh principally, let me say speak the truth in love. And that can be more of a perhaps more of a summary of this type of approach than a So we should not uh we should only rather speak what is good for building up as fits the occasions. 4 says. We read that a little earlier this service. And so taking that approach is really the exact opposite of what the whisperer does. So to refuse to whisper is to, again, apply the principle of speaking the truth in love. In other words, you're not going to say something if it's not true. But you're not going to stop there. Sometimes something may be true, but it's not necessary to say. At least not now, or not to these particular people. And so you're going to think very carefully about your words. And you're going to think, do these words build someone up or do they tear them down? So for if, for example, let's return to a conflict with your spouse, and let's say my wife and I are in a conflict and it's really true she started it. She really did start it. But is that loving to remind her? Is it true? Is it necessary to be said? Or is it helpful? Does it build her up in any way? Does it do anything to restore this relationship or to help with this conflict? No. And so instead I should start and maybe end with acknowledging my own part in the conflict. And that would be speaking the truth in love, not being a whisperer. Now remember again, Jesus died to save sinners, and so especially if your conflict is with another Christian, this is a person Jesus died for In your words, are you going to use your words to tear down what the Lord has built up? Can't we love this person for whom Jesus has died? Who, if he shed his blood for them, are you going to really try to destroy them with the way you handle conflict? And let me say, if this person isn't a Christian that you're having conflict with, how do your words and how does your approach to conflict demonstrate the gospel? Does it show anything different in you than in their conflict with other unbelievers? It's a wonderful opportunity to point people to Christ by the way we handle conflict. So that's how to start a fire, or how to fight a fire, I should say, but what if you wanted to start one? Verse 21 teaches us how to start a fire. And again, of course, it does so to encourage us not to do this. I'll look at verse 21 again. As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man For kindling strife. And so this is essentially the exact opposite of what verse 20 taught us. If you want to start a fire, do the exact opposite of everything I just said. So pass the blame to the other person. Focus on how they started it. You wouldn't be I wouldn't be angry if only you hadn't pushed my buttons. Say those kind of things. And then keep your focus on the spec in their eye and ignore the log in your own eye. Just lays your focus on their sin. Refuse to apologize for anything, refuse to get help, or listen to other people who are trying to help you. Say whatever comes to your mind without any regard for what it will do to the other person. If you want to start a fire, those are some good tips for doing that. But again, this is not what we're supposed to do. And when we behave like that, again, we're behaving like the permanent And adding fuel to the fire, or like that charcoal to a hot ember, keeping it warm. Now, we all quarrel. We all quarrel. at times. We all fight. But I think this text also indicates that certain people can really be characterized that way as a quarrelsome man or woman. It's just a way of life to them. They seem to be constantly getting into fights. Even minor offenses can greatly upset them. My study Bible says that such people are not happy. Unless they are actively undermining personal relationships. Some people can behave in relationships that way. Maybe you've met some. It's their way or the highway. They'll get their way or they'll just burn it all down. My way or it burns all down. They'll never suffer a wrong done. They'll never accept another opinion prevailing over their own. They'll fight you tooth on the animal on anything and everything. You might picture this like a game of chicken. If you don't know what the game of chicken is, it's a really dumb and dangerous game So two people get in the car and they drive towards each other and eventually someone's going to move. The chicken moves. The brave person supposedly. The dumb person, I would say, doesn't move. Right? And so it's a really stupid game, but there are some people who will get in their car of conflict and just drive straight at you and I'd rather have a full-speed head-on collision than move. So you're moving or we're having an accident. You choose. And that's kind of their approach. to conflict. Those are like the type of whispers we need to avoid. These people again will slander others' reputation without cause. They'll misrepresent others' words or actions. Take Taking them way out of context. They like to pit people against each other. They'll sow discord wherever they can go. Again, all of us can engage in these types of behaviors at times. But there are people some people who are absolutely characterized by this. They're perpetually behaving that way. They're the extreme fire starters. We could say they're highly flammable. So how should we interact with such people? Well, in general, the Bible would encourage us to strive to avoid them. So Proverbs 17, 12 says, Let a man meet a she-bear robbed of her cubs rather than a fool in his folly. You really don't want to meet a mama bear when she's on the hunt for her cubs. You want to stay as far away from her as possible. And Proverbs is saying stay even further away from a fool in his folly. You can see the same principle in the New Testament in Titus. Titus 3. 10 says, As for a person who stirs up division, after warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him. And it's important in Titus to remember the steps here. Have nothing more to do with him isn't the first step. It's a three-step process. Warn a person once. Warn them twice, if they keep refusing to listen, have nothing to do with them. But avoidance, the point is, is a necessary step sometimes. And Titus gives a reason for it if you look at Titus 3. 11 Knowing that such a person is warped and sinful, he is self-condemned. See that self-condemned? A person's own self-condemnation is the basis of that final step. It's a settled pattern of sin and resistance to counsel that leads us to that third step. The less we can associate with a quarrelsome person. the better. It's better because they can't avoid fighting, and it's better because they only cause division within the church. Let me just pause here and say, that seems awfully harsh to be saying at a Christian pulpit, doesn't it? After all, aren't we forgiven sinners? Didn't Jesus come to seek and save the lost? Didn't He come not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance? Yes. But he also condemned those who were too self-righteous to repent. And the quarrelsome person is like that person This isn't a humble person, or isn't the person who says, I'm sorry, and then does it again and says I'm sorry and really is trying but struggling. No, this is a person who continues insisting on their own way and Really, they just cause destruction to other people. And another benefit, let me say, of of really being firm with these people is it really also lets them see the gravity of their own sin. And it's another opportunity to call them to repentance. Let me also add that the same principle applies in marriage. So if ever you're considering marriage or have someone you love considering marriage, take this to heart. So Proverbs 21. 9 says, it is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife. And 2119 says it is better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and fretful woman. And the same thing could be said for uh bad husbands, right? So there's some people that you would even if you desperately want to be married or know someone who's Just longing to be married. I'm 35 and I'm still single. It would be better to be 85 and still single than to 85 and living on a corner of a roof than without woman, right? And that's what Proverbs says, and so really we need to apply this wisdom into our personal relationships. All right, so that's how to fight a fire and how to start a fire. And so far I've not really described why fires are bad. I've just kind of taken for granted we want to avoid starting them. And I haven't done that, I've assumed that because I think we can all we all agree that fires, at least uncontrolled fires, are bad And so so too are unresolved conflict in relationships. They can ruin them. They can even divide churches. But if that's so, and if we all know that, Why do we still start fires? Why do we start fires? And well we can see one answer in verse 22, and that's the third point in your outlines. Verse 22 says, the words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels. They go down into the inner parts of the body. And so here is that whisperer from verse 20 again, the person who is wood to the fire of conflict. And verse 22 tells us the reason we swallow what they're dishing out. It's because it tastes good. It tastes good to us. Now remember how we defined a whisperer. This is a person whose words, uh the word can be translated as tailbearer. It's a person who spreads gossips or rumors, one who does these malicious rumors with little concern for the truth, often actually with the intention of harming someone else. And so why would words from that kind of person Taste good to us. Why would we want to eat them up? Well, first of all, let me encourage you to be honest with yourself because I think the in at least my reaction at first is say, well, I don't. That tastes bad to me. It doesn't look good. It's like liver. Sorry if any of you guys like liver. Uh it's something whatever you don't like. Think of that. And that's the way the whisper is to me. Not me. I don't like this kind of thing. But ask yourself, has it ever felt good to hear a bad report about someone else? Has it ever felt like tasting something good. You might be ashamed to admit it. I might be ashamed to admit it. I think most, if not all of us, can say yes. We felt that way before. By God's grace, not all the time. By his grace, hopefully less and less as we grow in our sanctification. But yes, verse 22 has described me. Has. And if you're not yet convinced, just think about the blogs you read. If you open up or open up the internet, what kind of article are you likely to click on? Is it like the good news, tell me something good? Uh or is it uh kind of bad Bad news, that politician you don't like, that pastor who finally got caught in the scandal, who you never liked anyway, his theology, and you're like, aha, I knew he was crooked, right? Do you read that? Or do you gravitate to something more edifying? Right? Have you ever talked about how judgmental someone is? How judgmental they are without actually noticing that you're doing the very same thing To them. We do this kind of thing. We all do it, but why? Why do these words taste so good going down despite their ill effects? Perhaps sometimes it's because, again, we don't really like the person very much And so when we hear of bad things about them, we take delight in it. When there's conflict with them, we add fuel to the fire rather than letting it And again, as we do this, we're not heeding Jesus' words. Judge not that you not be judged. And so, in other words, we want God to show us mercy, but we can be very merciless to other people in the way we think about them, talk about them, and treat them. Well, another reason we may delight in these words is because they make us feel better about ourselves, don't they? By bringing the others down, I mistakenly bring myself up. Oh boy, I think I do. So I I like basketball. And imagine I'm in a free throw contest at like a basketball camp and say I'm missing. Well, if others start missing, I don't feel so bad about myself, right? Hey, I'm not so bad. Everyone's missing Or let's say I'm really making my shots and others are missing, then it makes me feel even better because look at the gap between me and between everyone else. It somehow makes me feel better about myself. When others are failing. You might think of an exam you ever got back in school. You know, C plus. Ugh. Start looking around. C minus, oh, I'm not feeling so bad anymore, right? And so sometimes I think that we delight in these things because they make us feel better about our own weakness and our own sin. And so verse 22 gives one reason for conflict. Conflict spreads as we listen to the words of a whisperer, and rather than rebuking that whisperer or refusing to participate with him, we delight in his words. And the fire continues to spread. Of course, more could be said about our motives, other than verse 22. So for example, James 4 says, What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this that your passions are at war within you? You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain So you fight and quarrel. You see, our sinful desires lead us to dump wood onto the fire of conflict. And at the root of all our conflict, really is a failure to love. We don't love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. We don't love our neighbor more than ourselves, not even anywhere close to as much as ourselves. Instead, we're often full of greed, jealousy, hatred, and Self-love. And this rears its ugly head in our conflicts as we quarrel and fight rather than speaking the truth in love to each other. And so, let me just say, if you're a Christian, this wasn't only true of you before you became a Christian. We still struggle with these sins. We still need God to be patient and merciful with us as we grow in our maturity, in our faith. We must confess that we still throw wood onto the fire of conflict way too often. And it can be so utterly discouraging, can't it, to find yourself doing that? To watch yourself irrationally feeding the fire as you kind of see yourself picking up logs and throwing it in as you say, you started it, and you kind of think What are you doing? And you're a Christian and you're acting like this. It's discouraging when we find ourselves doing that. And again, I think we find ourselves doing this rather than speaking the truth in love because frankly, we just don't love other people enough. Just don't love them enough to suffer a wrong. And so as we start to fight the fire of conflict, we need really more than just a list of do's and don'ts. You know, and I've given you some and I encourage you to think about them. These strategies have told us to stop. But more fundamentally, we need to do battle with our sinful desires. We need to look to Christ for His mercy and grace again. We need His Spirit to be at work in us, sanctifying us. That is making us more like him, growing in our love for him and for others, giving us gospel perspective, a perspective that says, I'm a sinner who's been forgiven. And as we gain this and as we continue to mature in this, we can ask ourselves, if God has loved me Can't I also love this difficult person? If God has shown kindness to me when I don't deserve it, can't I extend the same kind of kindness and compassion? To someone else? If I stand before God forgiven, can't I humble myself and apologize for what I do wrong? And can't I also freely forgive others just as I have freely been forgiven by God? You see, if we see the beauty of God's grace, his amazing love for sinners like us, why will we continue throwing logs into the conflict, the fire of conflict? I shouldn't. Instead of fighting, instead of at f of starting the fire, I'll fight it. I'll fight it with love. I'll fight it by doing my part to speak the truth in my life. love rather than in hatred or other reasons. Let's pray and ask for God's help in doing this. Our Father in heaven, we do thank you for your mercy and grace that's extended to us in the Lord Jesus Christ. Our God, we are amazed that He would love sinners like us. We pray that you would give us that full gospel perspective that would truly see the depths of our sin, so we might see the heights of His love and the depths of His mercy for us, a love that is far greater than our even deepest hate Lord, as we consider your mercy, teach us to be peacemakers. Help us to resist the urge to throw logs on the fire of conflict. Instead, help us to speak the truth in love, to speak what is only what is true and necessary and loving and good. Help us to speak words that would build others up rather than spreading fires of conflict. As we do this, we pray that you will be glorified in us and in our conversations. We ask this in Jesus' name.