Please be seated. Now our sermon passage for this morning comes from Acts chapter two, verses one through thirteen. Acts chapter two. Here we are in Acts. Those who are disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ are gathered together in one place. We've been told in chapter one that at this point there are something like about 120 of them. About 120 of them. There are twelve apostles once again. Judas has been replaced by Matthias after, you know, Judas. was removed through death. He's been replaced by another, Matthias. There are about 120 disciples altogether. Mary, the mother of Jesus, and his brothers seem to be with them. There seem to be also other women with them at this point. Point. They're all gathered together in one place in Acts chapter 2. The Lord Jesus has ascended from out of the midst of the eleven disciples. He ascended up into heaven earlier in chapter 1. And so now what are these disciples doing together? Well they're likely praying. That's probably one thing they're they're in the the habit of doing together. But the other thing they're doing is what he had said earlier on, they are waiting. In verse 4, they are waiting. Waiting for the promise of the Father. The Father had made a promise to them. They are waiting for that promise. Now listen to the reading of God's Word. Acts chapter 2, verses 1 through 13. When the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind. And it filled the whole house where they were sitting. Then there appeared to them divided tongues as of fire And one sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven. And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and were confused. Because everyone heard them speak in his own language. Then they were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, Look, are not all these who speak Galileans? And how is it that we here, each in our own language in which we were born? Parthians and Medes and Elamites Those dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya adjoining Kyrene Visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabs, we hear them speaking in our own tongues the wonderful works of God. So they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, Whatever could this mean? Others, mocking, said, They are full of new wine. As far as the reading of God's Word, may He add His blessing to it and the preaching of it in our midst today. Well again, like I said, here the disciples are in our passage. There are something like 120 of them. That was mentioned earlier in chapter 1. We're back up to twelve apostles again. We're back up to the number of twelve as Judas has been replaced by the man Matthias. That group also seems to include within it Jesus' own mother, Mary. And some of the brothers of Jesus who are also with them in their midst, as well as other women who have been uh mentioned. It seems like they're all together in one place. All of the disciples, this gathering of those who are devoted to Christ, Jesus has gone up from their midst. We saw early in chapter one, one of the first things that happened. Was that Jesus had gone up into heaven? He had been resurrected. He had spent something like 40 days with them, with his disciples, and he had gone up into heaven from their midst. Well now here they are gathered together. Jesus has left them, has left the earth. How long has he been been gone? Probably something like about a week's time, you know, in rough estimation as you uh you know compare different dates and you think about how different dates could be uh counted. Approximately something like, you know, roughly a week's time He had been gone from their midst for about a week's time. These disciples gathered together. They know they have a task to complete Jesus had told them. He had told those he had been among back in verse 8 that they would be his witnesses. They would be those who would testify to his resurrection to the ends of the earth. Starting in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria to the end of the earth. He had told them they would witness to him not just in their own strength. But also with a promise, a promise of power that would be provided for them, also in verse 8 of chapter 1, the power when the Holy Spirit comes upon them. He has said that they would be his witnesses when the Holy Spirit comes upon them. Here they are in our text. They're not yet being witnesses, are they? What are they doing? They're gathered together in this house. They're gathered together in this house. Now what are they doing? They're likely in the habit of continuing in prayer. It seems to be something they were engaged in In verse 14 of chapter 1, similar language, you know, it was speaking of the eleven. These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication. We note similar language in chapter 2, verse 1. When the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. Again, this is a gathering of disciples of Jesus Christ, a gathering of followers of Jesus Christ. They're going to be in the habit of praying together. Yet not only are they praying, Together, what else are they doing? Once again, they're waiting. They're waiting. They're not yet witnesses to Christ. They're not try yet trying to leave the house and go out all the all around Jerusalem and all around Judea and Samaria and the ends of the earth, are they? Why aren't they doing it yet? There's something they need to wait for. There's someone they need to wait for. There's a power that they need. They need the power of the Holy Spirit when he comes upon them, as Jesus had said to them in chapter 1, verse 8. They're all together, they're in one accord, they're praying. You know, we can read that into that. But they're also waiting. And then what happens? Then what happens. They're waiting, and then the Spirit comes. Or that's what happens in our text, right? They have been waiting. The Spirit is poured out. The Spirit is given. We read in verse 2, we read a sudden event that comes without warning. Or expectation in verse 2. First of all, a sound from heaven, a sound from heaven. A sound from heaven comes from which direction? It comes from above you. So they hear something coming from heaven, a sound coming from heaven. There's something coming from above them. Now again, the language of chapter 1, verse 8 had been that the Spirit would come upon them. So this has all the marks of fulfilling, the very thing that Jesus had promised them and anticipated. The Holy Spirit would come down upon them. Well, here is a sound from heaven. Not only is this a sound from heaven, what is the sound? It's the sound of a wind, a rushing mighty wind. Wind is often compared to the spirit, the Holy Spirit. You could think of John three eight, for example, where the moving of the spirit is compared to the blowing of the wind. The word that is most commonly used for spirit, both in Greek and in Hebrew. means sometimes spirit, but also sometimes means wind or breath. So there's kind of a natural connection between wind and spirit. So, you know, that's not the word that's used here in verse 2, but nonetheless it is describing a wind, the blowing of a wind through the house they are in. And so this is also suggestive of a connection to that promise made back in verse 8 of chapter 1, the Holy Spirit. So he's coming from above. He's coming like a wind. There's a rut sound of a rushing mighty wind that fills the whole house. It sounds like a powerful wind is blowing through the house where they are sitting. Once again, um rushing and mighty is suggestive of that power that would come upon them in chapter one, verse eight. So, you know In so many ways, we're getting direct links to the very promise Jesus had made, the promise they were waiting for, that the Spirit would come, and then the event that is happening. The Spirit comes. And then what happens in verse 3? As the Spirit comes, what do we see? We see in verse 3, fire. We see tongues of fire in verse 3 appearing. Okay, so first of all, we have this sound. The sound from above, rushing mighty wind. Powerful wind fills the house. That's the sound of it. But then what do we see? We see tongues of fire. and each above each of them. So each of those gathered together, a tongue of fire appears above them. Now what does it mean here by tongues? Well first of all, tongue is speaking of literal bodily tongue, right? The kind of tongue you have in your mouth. Tongue. A tongue of fire. So there's something that looks like your tongue that is hanging over you know, it seems like it's above each one of them, and yet it's is made of fire. Okay? So there are tongues of fire above each one. But as we uh what is it that a tongue points to? Well a tongue points to speech, doesn't it? You use your tongue to speak, and doesn't that make sense? Again, how are they going to witness to Jesus Christ? It will be by speaking words about Jesus Christ that they will witness. So tongues hovering over them point to their use of speech. That they will have to engage in as they are given the power of the Holy Spirit. And that's what we see here. So again, there are tongues pointing to speech. The tongues are tongues of fire. What does fire indicate? Think about how often fire points us to the very presence of God. We think of the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. Think of God appearing on top of Mount Sinai in Exodus chapter 19, attended with fire. You think of the presence of God with his people in the wilderness in a pillar of fire. Fire, pointing to the presence of God Himself. So again, fire appears over them, tongues of fire. This is God Himself coming to them This is God Himself, God the Holy Spirit, making his presence known upon them. Not only upon them, but as we see in verse 4, also in them. For they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. So here is the fulfillment of the promise, right? They're gathered together. They're waiting. They're waiting for the promise of the Father. The promise of the Father comes. The promise of the Father is fulfilled The Spirit comes down on them. The Spirit fills them and gives them utterance. Now, what do they speak when the Spirit fills them? It says here that they speak other tongues. We've already seen the word tongues, and we saw it pointed to the literal appearance of like a tongue. But here this word tongues means languages. So the very same word for tongues can refer both to a tongue, but also to that which we do with our tongues, speaking of languages. Now these other tongues suggest that there are other languages. Okay, so they speak other languages than what they normally speak And so whatever the case is, they were probably accustomed to speaking one language together, yet here they speak other languages, how many languages We don't know necessarily from verse four, do we? We know that it's multiple languages, and we know that it's the spirit giving them the ability, the spirit giving them the the utterance. Okay? So here is the event that they were waiting for. The spirit comes down. God provides the spirit. Christ provides Now, how many other languages is suggested by what we read in the next verses 5 through 13. Notice we read of many native languages. We read about people from lots of different places, and from those lots of different places, they each hear in their own language. Verse 9, Parthians and Medes, Elamites. Those dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, etc. , when you count it all up, it's something like ten to fifteen groups of people who are named there Some are Jews by birth and by genealogy, but others are not. Others are what is called proselytes. They are people who have come to worship the God of Israel, even though they are not born Jewish. And so we see that some are actually Jewish and yet, you know, speaking other languages, Jewish by birth, Jewish in terms of lineage, but others are not Jewish by lineage, and these are proselytes. So they come from other places and they speak other languages. And each of them hears it in their own language. So again, you know, this crowd of disciples, they're speaking, and there are different languages. But then this other this multitude that's gathered together in Jerusalem, they're also hearing each in their own language. And this is an amazing thing because we see in verse 7, the men are Galileans. It seems like they're all from a certain region in a certain place. Not really people who you'd expect to be educated in lots and lots of languages, even in the midst of something like 120 people. It'd be surprising probably to hear this many languages coming out of that group. But the point is, a lot of languages are being spoken, and a lot of languages are being heard, and this is the work of the Holy Spirit, as He has come down. It is He who gives utterance. It is the tongues of fire that, you know, he has appeared as, as he has filled them, that gives utterance to these many languages spoken to many kinds of people. And again, isn't this the beginning of that promise Jesus made to them in verse 8 of chapter 1? He said that they would be witnesses of him to the ends of the earth. Well, here we see a gathering of people from different parts of the earth who have come together to Jerusalem for the Jewish Feast of Pentecost. But as the many of the earth come together, news of God's work goes out to them. For what they hear in these other languages is in verse eleven, the wonderful works of God. They hear news of what God has done and they hear it. in their own language. Now, interesting. Those who are religiously Jewish, you know, all the people here gathered together in verse 5 to verse 12, they're all religiously Jewish. Now, in what language would you assume you would speak the things of God if you were religiously a Jew? Well, the Bible was written in Hebrew. The Old Testament was written in Hebrew. Now, not all who were Jewish necessarily spoke Hebrew at this time. We also know that the Old Testament was translated into Greek. We think of there's a translation known as the Septuagint, a Greek translation. Of the Old Testament. That's because so many of them spoke Greek in this time and in this place. But the point is: when they gather together to worship the Lord, when they gather together to observe a feast, They would expect that there would be one language spoken, and it would probably be one or two main languages that were spoken. The works of God would be heard in just one or two main languages. But what do we see here? Again, they're all gathered together, and we see something like 10 to 15 different languages The witness to what God has done, the witness to God's work spreads and multiplies through linguistic diversity, many languages, many languages all at the same time. It sounds kind of chaotic. You know, it's not surprising that people some people who are observing mock and say they are full of new wine. It seems kind of chaotic for what it is. But again, what's going on here? Well, now we're reminded again of Genesis 11, the Tower of Babel How God multiplied the languages of men as a judgment upon them, as they tried to make a name for themselves. He spread them to the ends of the earth as a judgment upon their foolish attempt. At trying to unite themselves and make a name for themselves. But now in Acts chapter 2, God gathers the nations. God gathers the people. People who are bound in sin, people who are bound in darkness, God gathers them back together, and the diversity of their languages, the multiplicity of their languages now becomes A beautiful theater of His grace. A beautiful display of how God's good news comes to strangers. comes to those from different places and of different backgrounds and comes to them comes to them in their own language This is what we see happening. In many ways, this is a reversal of what happened with the Tower of Babel. The Spirit comes. The works of God are spoken in other tongues. And the witness of Christ goes out. The strangers are gathered. The strangers are brought to God as they hear news of what God has done. This is what Christ is beginning to do here. Here's why he went up into heaven. Here's why the promise was made by the Father that the Spirit would be given. So that the languages would go out, so that the word would go out. So that the word would go and regather the strangers who had been spread abroad across the earth, dispersed with many different languages to many different Now they are gathered. Now the word itself spreads. Now the word not only gathers them to one place, like it does here. But the word also begins to spread and begins to go in other languages other than the ones that have been known up to this time. Well now you think about what's happened here. And you think about when it happens. Is that significant? When does this event happen? Well, it happens in verse 1 of our text on the day of Pentecost, the day of Pentecost. That's a Greek word, a Greek name for the Old Testament Feast of Weeks. You know what the Old Testament Feast of Weeks was all about It was an observance and a feast that was meant to celebrate the harvesting of wheat. It was a celebration for those who were rooted in God's land. That God had provided for them a harvest of wheat. It was a celebration of the wheat he had provided. And therefore it was the beginning of enjoying the wheat that he had provided. The earth had borne fruit, wheat had grown up, this by God's blessing This is when these languages go out. This is when the Spirit comes on the day when the Jews were to observe the Feast of Weeks. You know, again, back in the Old Testament when the people of God were um you know to be rooted in the land. And that wheat harvest was again indicative of his blessing in rooting them in that land and also giving to them a fruitful A fruitful harvest. Well, here we see the Spirit spends words about the deeds of God to many people. And what does this have to do with the Feast of Weeks? What does this have to do with a harvest being gathered and enjoyed? This is the beginnings of a harvest. This is the enjoyment of a harvest. Here, as the word spreads by means of other tongues, as it's empowered by the Holy Spirit, There are fruits that are being enjoyed. There is a harvest that is being enjoyed. And that harvest is the fruit. Of what Jesus Christ accomplished through his death and his resurrection. Did you know that? What is the fruit of Christ's work of death and resurrection? The harvesting and the gathering of a multitude of people from a multitude of places who speak by nature a multitude of languages. He raises them up, bears causes them to bear fruit for God, causes them to praise and glorify the one true God. This is what Christ came to do by his death and resurrection. Well here on the day of Pentecost. God's people begin to enjoy the harvest that Christ has gathered. And this is who we are. We are that harvest, aren't we? We are the ones whom Christ has died for, all who put their trust in Him and all who repent from their sins. We are the ones who have been harvested. Who have been able to bear fruit unto God, not of our own doing, but of his work in us. And how have we become part of that harvest? Well, his Spirit has brought to us the good news of what Jesus Christ has done. So again, the news of what Christ has done in his death and resurrection has brought us into that harvest. But not only has it brought us into that harvest and raised us up as part of that harvest, he by his spirit and by the good news of the gospel also uses us. Uses us as ongoing instruments in continuing that work of the gathering of his harvest. After all, the harvest is won by Jesus Christ. It's his death and his resurrection His obedience unto death on the cross that has purchased the harvest, but his spirit is used in the gathering of that harvest. And what does the spirit use? He uses the speaking of words. The speaking of words about Jesus Christ. The speaking of the witness to Jesus Christ. Yes, the very same message that was committed to the apostles The message pertaining to the resurrection of Jesus Christ and how his death and resurrection is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. And is that which brings to pass the kingdom of God? This is the message that is committed to us. This is the message that's been committed to us in the scriptures. And again, as this message goes forth, and as the Spirit uses that message, he is gathering his harvest. Now again, it's not our harvest, it's not our harvest, it's not fruit that we have borne It's fruit that Christ bears, and it's fruit that we therefore have the privilege of sharing in the gathering of, if by his spirit, and if by his grace. But in light of this, let's keep in mind who we are. Let's remember the purpose of the church. Let's remember what is our calling as Christians who live before Him. Let's remember that we are those who have been part of the harvest of What Jesus Christ has won and raised up by his death and resurrection. Let's also take our place in the mission that he has given to his church and share in the spreading of that news. And as we do, let's give all the praise, all the glory only to him and to him alone, for this is our calling, both now and forever. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, we rejoice in what you did that day, that day of Pentecost that came. We rejoice because what you started there is the reason why we are here. We are here acknowledging the Lord Jesus Christ, acknowledging you as our Father, because the Spirit has brought that word home to our hearts. He has spread it. He has brought it by means of words being spoken. And as those words are spoken, it's you that uses it, and you even use it in us. You use it to continue to Grow us up into a fruitful harvest. You use it to continue to gather to yourself a fruitful harvest. Oh Father, we don't always know how you use the words that we speak or the words that are spoken to us or by us. But we trust you and we know that it is your harvest. Father, we ask that your Spirit would indeed give boldness You know, sometimes we need boldness to speak of you. We pray that your spirit might indeed give that to us, so that we would know that it is not of our own strength and not of our own power. That people come to you or that even we come to you. O Father, uh be glorified, we pray, and may your harvest be large. As the word is spread. May your spirit gather many and use us in that we pray. We ask all these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Now let's continue to uh pray for the needs of God's people today. Father, we come to you this day uh giving thanks to you once again that you are faithful to us, that you uphold us. May you sustain us. Lord, we are weak. Lord, we are sinful and frail. Lord, our our hearts deceive us Our imaginations lead us astray. We lead ourselves astray on purpose more than we care to admit. Fathers sustain us. Father, give to us the grace that we need. It all comes from you. None of it comes from us. What we need is of you. Wisdom from above. Your grace, your sanctifying work. We don't have this in ourselves. We don't have a secret technique to unlock sanctification in ourselves. It's you who does these things. So we need to come to you. Father, bless us. Hear our prayers. Lord, be with those who are struggling today spiritually, those who are struggling with discouragement. Those who are struggling in areas of sin and temptation, those who are struggling, perhaps doubting your goodness towards them, we pray that you might, if it be in your your good time. Restore them or help them bring them to what they need. Father, we pray also for those who are struggling with health issues and difficulties. Father, we are all I'm having different struggles to some extent, and yet you know some more than others. We pray, Lord, that your healing uh be upon them, that that your um encouragement be upon them. We ask that you would give opportunities to find healing, opportunities to find uh recovery and restoration of health, where that be possible. You know, we know it's possible by you that you are um capable of all things, yet we know it's not always your will to heal all things in this life. But Lord help us to be comforted in your promise, but also help us to seek diligently the means by which we might find healing if that be the case. And Father, also grant to your people much perseverance, much encouragement in the promises of the gospel. Grant that we would hold fast to you in all that we um have in this life. Give to us a faithful, steady hand in the callings that you have given to us. Lord, some of it uh The places where you have placed us, the tasks you have set in front of us, the circumstances we are in at the moment. So, Father, be with your people. Grant that they seek your goodness and your will. And seek to be doers of your will. Seek to please you and you alone. Father, we pray this day, also asking that you would hear our prayers for those who are in positions of authority. We know that those who are in positions of authority, you know, they've been they've been placed there by you. Um it's true that you are able to uh take down one and put another in its place, but those who are where they are are where they are by your your sovereign hand. We pray that you would uh bless and grant good blessings through such people. We pray that um you would grant that justice would be done in your name, that all those who are made in your image might be protected and preser have their lives preserved and taken care of. We pray that as it please you that you would supply this in civil government, in those who are in positions of official leadership, you would use them to that end. Father, help us to trust you. Help us to trust in you as we look forward to the coming of your kingdom. Grant that we would be Those who um enjoy it even at this moment, who enjoy the promises we have, and yet that we live in light of it Strengthen us, we pray. Grant that we would continue to pray the way that our Savior taught us to pray, as we say. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.