If you turn in your copy of God's word now to Matthew, continue our study there in chapter Chapter thirteen that's on page nine hundred and seventy four of your two Bibles. We're going to continue our study of the parables. This morning we'll be reading two of them, beginning at verse 44. Let's give attention to the holy word of God. The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field, a command found and covered up. Then in his joy, he goes and sells all that he has And buys that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls, who, on finding one pearl of great value, Went and sold all that he had and bought it. As far as the reading of God's word. And then please proceed. Our God and Father, we pray if you would use these parables this morning. Work in us. Strike at our hearts, Father. Show us where we have erred. Show us where we have sinned against you. And then Lord God, encourage us. Encourage us with all the promises of Christ. Guide and direct our hearts now to speak Give us attentive ears. Give us ears to hear and eyes to see. Work in us by your spirit. We ask that in Jesus' name. Amen. Some of you are likely familiar with the rich young ruler who comes To the Lord Jesus Christ and asks him, what deed must I do to have eternal life? And if you're familiar with the account, Jesus goes through not the Ten Commandments, but the second half of the table regarding His relationship with others, the rich young ruler tells Jesus, I've kept all of these, what am I lacking? And Jesus tells him to go sell what you possess. He was rich. If you know the account, the rich young ruler goes away not happily but sorrowfully For he had great possessions. The Lord Jesus Christ set before the rich young ruler a fork in the road. He called him to make a decision as to what his best and highest treasure was. Would it be earthly treasure treasures or would he choose treasures in heaven? What was he really looking for? What was the rich young ruler really seeking to Pleasures of heaven were actually set right before him as Jesus spoke to him. In a sense, that brings us to these two parables in chapter 13 of Matthew's Gospel. Jesus, as you know, has gathered his disciples. And now he is teaching them very specifically. He's teaching everyone through parables. And we know that those parables are only getting through, so to speak, to those who have each other Jesus is using parables to hide the truth and to reveal the truth. And as he does so, each one of these parables we have seems to describe some aspect of the kingdom of heaven. And so now as we continue our study in those parables, we have two And so we'll take these two together this morning and see what the Lord would have for us. I'm hoping that we see that the kingdom of heaven is filled with Christ and with those seeking. Christ. The kingdom of heaven is filled with Christ and with those seeking Christ. I see that in three points. The hidden treasure, secondly, the Searching merchant and finally the kept find. If we go through this this morning, I'd ask you to be asked to Asking yourself, which would you take? The earthly treasures or the heavenly ones? Let's begin. The hidden treasure. In order to understand these two parables, we have to understand the And the simile that's set forth before us. A simile is like a metaphor, but it's a slightly different. It's certainly a figure of speech. And uh One dictionary describes it this way. Two essentially unlike things are compared. This is like that. That's what we have this morning. So what's the comparison this morning in the first parable? The kingdom of heaven is like treasure, hidden in the field. It's not treasure, but it's light. Treasure. Hidden. We all understand and have a good idea of what treasure is. We watch movies. Hidden treasure. People seek treasure for it. But this simile is about that hidden treasure. That's significant. It's not overtly obvious. Consider the picture, it's a field. For a time I grew up in Indiana. Flat. Full of fields. Fields of corn, fields of soybeans. On a clear day you can see for long distances it's just flat That's the idea here, this picture of a field. It's open to the eyes, and yet there's nothing above the surface to indicate the presence of this treasure. Why is it hidden? Why not obvious? Why not apparent? Why not readily visible to the naked eye? Why can't we see the kingdom of heaven? And it gets back Remember the disciples asked him that question, why do you speak to them in parables? And he gave a very simple answer. To you it's been given to know the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but today It has not been given. Seeing they do not see, hearing they do not hear, they nor do they understand. Their eyes they have closed. So that's why Jesus uses parables, and that's why he pictures the kingdom of heaven as hidden treasure. Jesus is teaching that the good news of salvation in Christ Jesus, even the mystery of Christ Himself, is hidden Think of how many times Jesus tells those whom he healed not to tell others. We saw it in Matthew chapter 8. A leper comes to him. healed, what does Jesus say? See that you say nothing to anyone. Think of the rich young ruler. Jesus stood right in front of him. Jesus tells him exactly what he needs to do. But you'll have treasure in heaven. Follow me. And the rich young ruler couldn't see In a sense, he was hidden. Think of Pilate as Jesus sits before him With the claim that he's king. And Pilate just asks him because he could not see, are you a king? Even after the resurrection, consider the disciples, even Thomas, who refused to see Jesus unless he could put his hand into the mark. Of the man. The kingdom of heaven is life, hidden treasure. Well that's not where this parable stopped. It's that hidden pressure which a man found. It's interesting. In contrast to the next There's nothing in this first parable which indicates this man was actually looking for treasure. He's not presented as searching for it, no indicates He's printed he's presented from a worldly perspective as kind of stumbling upon this hidden prize. We don't have any explanation as to how it is. Think for a moment of the thief on the cross. As these three are dying on the cross The two robbers, the two thieves, mocked Jesus Christ. They revile him in the same way as did the chief priest, the scribes. And the elders. Neither one was looking for Jesus. But then there's a change And he reviles the other. He says, this man has done nothing wrong. He said, but Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. See, he wasn't looking. But in a worldly sense he stumbles upon Jesus hanging on the cross next to him and convicted But he sees the pleasure in Christ, the sinless person. So this man presented not as a searcher, but as a finder of that hidden treasure Now goes once it's found and covers it up. As soon as it was found, its value was apparent to this one. Once it's uncovered, the value was obvious There was no need for someone to come and tell the man of its worth. He knew. The value was open and clear once it was unclear covered once the hidden miss nature of the treasure was taken away. So valuable. But now he covers it back He re-hides it so that others wouldn't take it from him, giving him time to go and and buy the field and best have the treasure We don't need to misunderstand this parable at this point. Some would say, well, that guy should never have covered up. He wanted it for himself. He wasn't That's not the point of this parable. Jesus was not teaching, keep the kingdom to yourself. That's not the lesson. The lesson of this man covering up the treasure and buying the field is one of recognizing the inestimable value of Jesus Christ. And so in his joy. In his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys the field. Again, the joy of this one speaks of these. value that he saw, that he recognized in this pleasure. Just think of a child opening up a birthday present presence when the gift is just what the child was hoping for as the child is taking off the wrappings and sees the label on the box. Oh, his smile comes up. He squeals It's exactly that which he desires. He knows the value. That idea, as this one in his drawer, goes and says sells all that he has and and buys the field. Presents this one as one who immediately realizes and grasps its worth. We see that in his joy. He wants the treasure for So we have enough to buy the field and thus not really the field, but the pleasure. Think of how this points to Christ. Consider the Gentiles of Christ's death Who are not looking for the Messiah? The Gentiles, meaning those without the scriptures, meaning those who are not in the bloodline of Abraham, meaning those who are not expecting They were not looking for a savior. This man, in a certain sense, may represent Gentiles. He was not looking for this treasure. And the Gentiles were not looking for the Messiah, the Son of God. They were not looking for the one who would establish an eternal kingdom They were not looking for the one who would deliver them from their sin. And yet as the gospels unfold and the New Testament letters are written, you see the Gentiles being Brought unexpectedly to Jesus Christ. Think of a Canaanite woman Who cries out to the Lord Jesus, my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon, and Jesus says in response to her request to help her, pleading with him to help her, it's not right to take the child He was referring to her as a dog, and she said, Yes, but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the master's table. She was immediately grasping the preciousness of the Lord Jesus Christ. This parable is a picture of conversion, isn't it? The picture, a clear image of one who's been changed in an instance, one who has come out of darkness into light, into the light of Christ, is the picture of the heart which has been changed from stone to flesh One has been given the ability now to believe in Jesus, seeing his majesty and his beauty. As a result, this one is filled with joy. You see, when the treasure of Jesus has been unveiled, joy, inexpressible joy, follows. Nothing else matter. Think of Paul's letter to those in Philippon. For his sake. He read it this morning. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. That I may know Know him and the power of the reservoir. Nothing else mattered to him. And nothing else mattered matter to this one who sold every time. Jesus Christ is the hidden treasure, isn't it? Some of you You may be asking why. What is it about Jesus that makes him afraid? I'm glad you asked And I'm just going to sketch out a few things. First, Jesus is God. The prophet Isaiah tells us so very clearly: for to us a child is born, to us a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulders, his name shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God. Everlasting peace. Prince of peace. Jesus is God. He is our peace. These are righteousness. You see the treasure of Jesus just in that Jesus' king Daniel writes of the vision he sees, the ancient of days presented before him, and then one like a son of man comes to him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages could serve him. Dominion is an everlasting dominion. He's king. He's sovereign. But he's a loving king. He's a caring king. He cares for you this morning. Jesus is a gift, isn't he? Isn't that what the shepherds were told as they were told keeping watch over their flocks by night and the angel descends and reveals to them what has happened just a few maybe a mile away Fear not, for behold I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. Unto you a gift. Give one who would say you're Sin. And the only way that he can do that is because Jesus is pure and holy. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. God, do you see the purity of Jesus? The perfect obedience of Jesus is more than enough for you to know Him this morning as your most valuable Satan. And Jesus is life itself. See, in our sins we have earned eternal death. The wage of sin is death. But Jesus came to give life. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. Are you grasping? Are you hearing the most valuable treasure of the Lord Jesus Christ? Has it been revealed to him? Has his value been uncovered? If you're saying yes, there's God. And so what are you doing to uncover Jesus? Have you thought about that? If you have been trying to uncover Jesus for others, you may be thinking, well, yes, I try to share my faith. I try to test And if so, you likely come into contact with those for whom the treasure is hidden. As you speak to some about Jesus, you will have experienced They are unable to truly see the beauty and the treasure of Christ, even as you describe it to them. And I guess you've asked yourselves why. Why can't this person whom I'm speaking to you, I'm telling them about the beauty of Christ, why can't they see it? This parable answers that question, doesn't it? The treasure is hidden. The beauty, the value, the treasure of Christ cannot and will not be seen by all, for the word of the cross is folly to Those who are Persian. What does that mean? Does that mean you should stop telling others? Absolutely not. Some will see. Jesus preached to all come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. He preached to all, and at the same time, he knew that not all would see the treasure as he was presenting it in himself. Remember his words. He who has ears, let him hear. Jesus knew that all would not hear. He knew that all would not see him as their treasure. And yet he continued to preach and teach about himself, about the good news of salvation in his person, in his work, about the precious things But if you're here this morning and you're saying, no, I haven't grasped the treasure of the Lord Jesus Christ I don't know him as my all in all. He's calling his name. This parable, his words, his call. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will Give you rest. This morning Jesus Christ is not hidden. He has come. And he Go to Christ Believe upon him. Cast off your sin. Brings us to our second point, the searching merchant Again, we must grasp the simile here in this second parable again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant If you've read this parable before, you might have thought, well, the kingdom of heaven is like the fine pearl. Pearl of great value. That's the point. And that's not the point. Jesus is saying the kingdom of heaven is like the merchant. searching. Grasp that just for a minute. It's like the merchant who is searching. We think of the kingdom of heaven as a place But it's more than a place. It is those who occupy it. If we think of the first parable, team of heaven is like treasure hidden. You think that this is referring to Jesus Christ. He is the primary occupant of the kingdom of heaven. Now this The second parable is described those who are worshiping Christ. Describe those who are seeking for Christ. To fix that in our minds as we begin just to briefly look at this second parable. And so the difference between these two is that this The second parable includes a search. Unlike the first parable, which does not mention a search, it mentions the finding, but not This second parable uh is a simile as the merchant is a searching merchant. He's not an idle merch. He's not one who is resting on his laurels. He is searching. And that is what causes him to be a simile for the king. And it's a knowing search. He's a merchant. He knows what he's looking for. He's a merchant of pearls. He's one who deals with buying and selling pearls. This is how he makes his living. How else do you think would he know when he comes upon those fine pearls or those beautiful pearls as then the King James uses that word to describe the pearls he was looking for. He has much experience. A little bit like the Jews who had and knew the spirit. Scripture, who were educated in the scripture, who were knowledgeable of the scripture, which told them of the coming Messiah, and so they were looking, they were searching. Searching for the Messiah. This parable is about the merchant who is searching. There may be a parallel there. He's strange. specialized in his knowledge, so were the Jews. He has experience, so did the Jews. He's tried and he's tested, so are the Jews. He's been in this business long enough to make a living and as a result he knows what he's searching for. So do the Jews He's searching for fine or beautiful pearls. He's not presented as searching for run-of-the-mill pearls. He's not looking for common or blue pearls. Or imperfect pearls. He's looking for fine. He's looking for beautiful, specific pearls. This presented as a purposeful, intentional, intelligent, dogged search for pearls. That are out of the ordinary, casting off all others which don't meet this standard of fine, of beautiful, pushing aside those with which he might have made a profit because he knows there are others of greater, of better value, and so he sets his eyes on looking for fine and beautiful pearls. He searches with confidence. And then, the parables come together because he finds a single Pearl of great value. The treasure, the singular treasure which was hidden, and now this singular pearl of great value is the one other pearls. It is found. It's pulled out. It's separated. Now this confident, knowing search is over. Just as the man found the treasure in the field and sells everything. The merchant finds this singular, this greater than anticipated, so valuable pearl that his search is over, it's gone He sells everything. It seems that this merchant in search appears to point us to the true worshiper of the living God. The one who's already an occupant of the kingdom of heaven. And as a true worshiper, as a believer in search of pure and holy and righteous and blessed Communion with his King, and he knows the only way to do that is by knowing Jesus Christ. By seeking him. And so now we see the similarity between these two parables. And the first the man had no right, no title to the field and thus to the Treasure. And you must see how that points us to the Gentiles from the viewpoint of the Jews. See, they had no claim upon the Messiah And so this man who finds this hidden treasure, he has to buy it. He has to get rid of everything else before he can buy it and possess it. Possess it That which he had no right to and similarly the merchant. He had no right to the pearl of great value Unless and until he sold everything else and then purchased it. Until he sold everything he had no ability to buy, and until He bought the merchant had no right or claim upon that pearl of great value, like the Jews who knew of the Messiah, who knew of the promised prophet, who knew of the eternal king to come, who were looking for him, who yet had no right to him. Unless they came in faith. Do you see how this points to faith? No one, no one born of Adam has a right to Jesus. No one has an absolute right to have Christ Christ Jesus, He's too valuable, He's too righteous, He's too holy. Sinners, as they remain in their sin, do not have a right to Christ, just like the man had no right to the treasure in the field until he sold all that he had. Sinners in their sin have no right to claim Jesus, just like the merchant, just like the Jews had no No title to the pearl of great value until he sold all that he had. Sinners in their sin have no right to claim Jesus. And he casts off sin through repentance and comes to faith in Jesus, then and only then can a sinner claim and I'll put quotation marks around that word price. Because that changes everything. Before the man sold everything and bought the fields, he had no right to purchase the treasure. He had no right to the treasure. But after he purchased it, he had every right to the treasure. Before the merchant sold all and bought the pearls, he had no right to it But when he did, he had every right to. And you see, before you came to Jesus Christ Christ in faith. Before you were given the gift of trusting in Jesus Christ, you have no rights to Him. But as God God has gifted you this morning if you're believing upon Christ by grace a new heart. And as you are now repenting because of the work of the Spirit, Jesus dwells within you and as you now have come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ now you do have Jesus as you're expecting And you can claim him as your own because he has claimed you can have a That brings us to our third point. The kept find. There's one more way in which these parables come together. And are alive. So neither one of these ends with the find. So no, no, they've got to purchase it, yes of course But neither one of these actually end with the purchase. The man who finds the treasure in the field, yes, goes and buys the field so that he may have and hold The treasure. A merchant sells everything that he has in order to buy the pearl of great value wild So he may sell it? No. So that he may keep it, have it, possess it In both of these parables, there is a holding on to the thing of great value. There is keeping the precious treasure. There is the keeping of the pearl of great value. You see, neither one of them could, in a sense, live without it. But there's a problem for us this morning, isn't there? It's the work of Satan. See, Satan doesn't want you to seek and find the treasure of the kingdom of heaven. want you to perceive the unbounded treasure of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he knows that as you have, His work, His job is to present to you you not the beauty of Christ, but the beauty and pleasure of God's creation, so that you might release your grip. from the precious treasure of Christ. Satan wants you to be blind to the magnificent treasure of Jesus by pointing you to your corrupt Valuation of the creation. He wants you to value to treasure your personal pleasure above the treasure of Jesus. Christ. He wants you to place your mind not upon the things above, but upon the things of this earth. Think of how he deceived you. He pointed her not to the Word of God, but away from the Word of God. He pointed her not to God Himself, but to His creation. And he called her to value the creation above the very Word of God. And that's exactly what Eve did. She looked and she made a value determination. That it was better for her to have the creation than to have the creator. You see, that's what our corrupt nature Does to us. It gives Satan a door. It makes us susceptible. It causes Satan to think that he can blind us to the treasure of the kingdom to even Jesus Christ. And so there's a sense in which these parables this morning are asking the question, how will you keep the treasure? How will you keep the treasure keep the pearl of great value. How are you claiming to price? You see, the first thing that both of these did in these parables was to get rid of everything else. that they have. Everything else that they could set their eyes on, everything that they possess that they may have valued before they found the treasure or the pearl of great value. Nothing Everything was gone. You view your worldly things. There's a sense in which Just like Paul who called the first thing that we have to called everything he had, he owned, he accomplished, rubbish, so that he could seek Christ What those the words of Jesus? Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures I think in a sense Jesus was speaking of himself. So the call this morning is in part, cast off your sin. Hate it One point seek Christ. And as you do, remember, remember our forefather David. Who wrote Psalm fifty-one, who spoke and wrote about joy, joy that he had lost in a sense because of his sin And he pleads with God, let me hear joy and gladness, let the bones that you have broken rejoice, restore to me the joy of your salvation, uphold me with a will You see what David was doing? He had sinned grievously against God, and he was pleading with God that if he would restore him, restore his joy. Gee, if the man finds the hidden treasure, what happens? There's immediate joy as he knows the value of it. Isn't that our case? But what takes that away? Isn't it our sin? And David was pleading with God, help me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. Brothers and sisters, that's how you continue to cling to Christ, pleading with God to continually restore Your joy lost in a sense in part because of our sins. As the Lord does, Christ will continue to be your joy, your eternal life And yes, the kingdom of heaven is filled with Christ and with those seeking Christ. Young ruler was unable to see the precious treasure of Christ. His heart was blinded. worldly production. Brothers and sisters, Christ is your treasure this morning. Heaven is filled with treasure. Keep seeking Christ this morning, your joy and your precious Christ. Amen. Father in heaven, we are weak, we are frail, we are sinners saved only by grace. Father, it's only because of your gift of faith to us that we have a claim upon Christ this morning that we've been able to see and be You see his excellence, his precious value, his treasure, his beauty His majesty. Father, help us to keep seeking Christ. Like the merchant. A dogged pursuit of Christ. Paul who had seen all that he had done, all that he had as rubbish before Christ. Help us this. Work in our hearts. Guide and direct us. Help us to thank you.