Our third scripture reading tonight is from the Gospel of John. The preaching of the word this evening will be on one verse. That will be verse thirty. Let's give attention to the very Word of God, John chapter nineteen, beginning at verse one. Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him. And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head. And arrayed him in a purple robe. They came up to him, saying, Hail, king of the Jews, and struck him with their hands. Pilate went out again and said to them, See I am bringing him out to you, that you may know that I find no guilt in him. So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, Behold The man. When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify him, crucify him! Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God. When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered him. You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore, he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin. From then on, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at the place called the stone pavement and in Aramaic Gabbatha. Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, Behold your king! They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and he went out bearing his own cross to the place called the place of a skull, which in Aramaic is called Galgotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but rather this man said, I am King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. So when the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier, also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom, so they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be This was to fulfill the scriptures which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So the soldiers did these things. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple, whom he loved, standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her into his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said to fulfill the scripture, I thirst. A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. As far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, these words of yours are difficult for us to hear. For we know they describe the suffering of our Savior. And we know, Lord God, if we confess Christ tonight that He suffered In our place. He suffered for our sins. And so, Father, we sorrow. Tonight, we grieve. For we actually were the ones who nailed him to the cross. And so we pray, Father, as we open this text tonight, that you would Dig deeply within us. That you would help us, Lord God, to see the wretchedness of our sin. And but alongside that, to see the joy of Christ as he went to the cross for us. Help us now. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. Has it been finished for you? If we asked that question to Adam, after he had sinned against God in the garden, Adam would have said no. No. Adam was given work to do in the garden, and this passage that we've just read tonight actually goes all the way back to the garden. He was placed in the garden to work it and to keep it. He was given the very word of God and called to live before God according to his word, according to his will, perfectly. Adam was called to righteousness. Adam was called to live righteously and purely and obediently before his Creator. He was called to acknowledge and submit to his Heavenly Father, His only Father, His loving Lord and Maker. Adam was called to trust that his father knew what was best for him and was continually guiding him in that direction. For his good and for the glory of his creator. Adam was called to enjoy his pure and very good communion with his God. That was Adam's calling Indeed, that was Adam's work. It was his obligation. And we know that Adam refused to do all of that which was graciously given to him. This good work, this glorious work, this privileged work of obediently serving the living God Since Adam's fall from grace, we know that no mere human being had the ability to finish the work given to Adam in the garden. We read in Romans, for the mind set on flesh is death. It's hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. And so Moses didn't finish Adam's work. In sin, Moses struck the rock and was unable to enter the promised land. David didn't finish Adam's work. He lost his kingdom as he entered into sin with Bathsheba. The Pharisees didn't finish Adam's work. In their pride, they cast off the Word of God for their traditions. Even the Apostle Paul, the one who wrote, I do not do the good I want. But the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Wretched man that I am who will save me from this body of death. Paul didn't finish the work of Adam, which brings us to our text tonight. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, it is finished. What does that mean? Jesus was referring to the work actually given to Adam and that he had now We might sum up the teaching in just this one verse, as we briefly look at it tonight, in three points. First, Jesus finished obedience. Secondly, Jesus finished righteousness. And then finally, Jesus finished judgment. As we go through this text tonight very quickly. As we meditate upon the death of Christ, as we meditate upon those words, it is finished. I'd like you to be asking yourselves. Has it been finished for me? That brings us to our first head, our first point. Jesus finished obedience. In a letter to the Hebrews, the writer, and I'm not sure if it was Paul or not In chapter 5, he writes, In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. In fact, passage tells us nothing else, and I think it tells us much. It does inform us that Jesus was fully human. Yes, Jesus is the God man. He has two natures, fully divine and fully human. But to be clear, as Jesus cries out on the cross, it is finished. He speaks of the work that he finished in his human nature. And so as we think of the obedience of Christ, as we think of the failure to a- of Adam to obey, as we think of the refusal of Adam to perform the work which he was given by his father, the same work which Jesus was tasked with. We must think upon the obedience of Jesus in his human, his fully human nature. And so the writer to the Hebrews tells us that he learned obedience. Consider that Let's be clear the writer to the Hebrews was not saying that Jesus was disobedient at any time And that as a result of his disobedience, he became more obedient or learned to obey out of his disobedience. No, no. That's not what the writer to the Hebrews is saying Jesus never sinned. And so this learning obedience was not coming out of disobedience to obedience, no. If we can put it this way, Jesus' obedience increased over time as he matured. Jesus in his human nature went from obedience to more obedience. Jesus' obedience became more and more and more over time. As he suffered. And we know that Jesus suffered throughout his entire earthly ministry, didn't he? You see, his obedience was learned, and he kept learning until he suffered on the cross. Until the wrath of God for your sins, if you're trusting in Jesus tonight, was poured out upon him. At that point his learning was complete. It is finished. The obedience of Jesus had reached its pinnacle as he makes that statement. Not that his obedience was never not perfect, but if we can put it this way, in human terms, it reached the ultimate level of perfection on the cross. The suffering was so great, so complete, physically and spiritually. The testing of the obedience of Jesus by his heavenly Father was finished. There was no more suffering to suffer. His obedience was indeed complete on the cross as he cried out, it is finished. You see, it's this obedience. If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight, it's this obedience Which is credited to you. It's as if Adam's disobedience was nullified. And it's as if your disobedience was just erased. And the obedience of Christ. was credited to your account. Brings us to our second point. That Jesus finished righteousness. You may be thinking right now, and I think that's a good thought. Obedience and righteousness are so similar. Are they not the same? Can we really make a distinction between the two? It's actually very difficult. They certainly go together. They go hand in hand, don't they? But I think there's a distinction to be made. Think about the Sermon on the Mount for a moment. As Jesus taught his disciples. That they were not to be concerned about what they would wear, what they would eat, what they would drink. Gentiles were concerned about those things. They were not to be concerned about them. Their Heavenly Father knew what they needed. But they were to be seeking after the kingdom and his righteousness. That was the first thing that his disciples were to be doing. But first seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. That was the first, that was the foremost thing to be on their hearts. constantly, consistently. And Jesus, and I need to be careful about this, set the example for them, if we can put it in those terms. He was constantly pursuing righteousness. Yes, he sought the kingdom of God. Yes, he talked upon the kingdom of God. He knew the kingdom of God. He's the king of the kingdom of God. And yet, throughout his earthly ministry. He was constantly pursuing righteousness. Righteousness could be defined as pursuing the things of God. And thus we might say he was constantly doing that. His food was to do the will of his father. And that certainly is pursuing righteousness, isn't it? Yes, Jesus obeyed his Father perfectly. He obeyed the Ten Commandments. He obeyed each and every jot and tittle of the law, which Adam refused to do. Jesus fully did. But there's a sense in which Jesus' righteousness, his pursuit of righteousness, goes even beyond obedience. For obedience can be merely external, can't it? Children think of your parents asking you to clean your room. Now you might do that, and you should do that. But do you do it from the heart? Or is it merely external obedience? You might think that about the cross It was merely external, but it wasn't. Wicked men who hated God and hated his son and sought to silence the very word of God by putting him to death had Jesus nailed to the cross. That is the cross, at least in part. But at its foundation? At its base? As that That tree, so to speak, was planted in the ground for Jesus to be hung on. It was based in, it was anchored in, it was founded upon righteousness. It was righteousness that led Jesus Christ to the cross. It was righteous for Jesus to submit himself to his Father's will wholly and completely. It was righteous for Jesus to submit to align his will with his fathers, as we heard tonight, so completely that he could say, Your will be done That's more than external obedience. That is an internal longing and desire for the will of God to be accomplished. And that's what was perfected on the cross in Jesus' heart. Not that he was never not righteous. But like obedience, Jesus' righteousness reached its pinnacle, if we can put it that way. Its height Such that it could not go any higher, reached on the cross, that he could say it is finished. In other words, my righteousness, these are Jesus' words, I'm speculating, my righteousness has reached its top. It's upper, its highest level here on the cross. It is finished. And that's righteousness, isn't it? That's the pursuit of righteousness. That's the righteousness of Jesus Christ, the perfection of righteousness that covers your sin. Isn't that what happens? As you come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, you're still filthy And yet the robes of Christ are covering you in the eyes of his Father. His righteousness, his pure, his perfect, his can't be any higher righteousness. It's covering you. Praise be to God. That brings us to our third point. Yes. Jesus finished obedience, Jesus finished righteousness, and now Jesus finished judgment. There is this one more significant aspect. There are many aspects of of these three words in the English. It is finished, but we're just touching upon three tonight. But don't miss this last one Jesus finished judgment. We all know that Jesus follows Adam Indeed, he's referred to as the second Adam. Adam comes first, and then Jesus. And not only did Adam fail and refuse to keep God's law, not only did he refuse to do the work that he'd been given in the garden, Adam actually added more work to Jesus by and through his sin, didn't he? As Adam sinned in the garden against the living God, he earned his wages, he earned death As God told him, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, from the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. As Adam sinned, as he brought upon himself the eternal wrath of God. He also brought that upon you. Because you sinned in Adam. And as he earned eternal death, he earned it for you as well. And as God is a just judge, he must satisfy his judgment. He told Adam, the day that you eat of it, you shall surely That he had to bring about the eternal death of someone. Someone had to pay the price Someone needed to satisfy the eternal wrath of God for sin. Someone needed to satisfy the eternal wrath of God for saved sinners. And Adam could not do it. Indeed, no mere man can satisfy the eternal wrath of God for his own sin. For God is eternal, and each and every one of our sins offends God in an eternal way. And so for Him to be just, His punishment The death that he proscribed must be an eternal death, must be filled with eternal wrath. No mere man would ever be able to satisfy his eternal judgment and eternal wrath. But Jesus did. Until the cross, God's eternal wrath, his eternal judgment for sins committed by sinners had not been satisfied but on the cross. The obedient, the righteous, the pure, the innocent, the God man Jesus Christ, as he hung there, condemned to die by evil and wicked men, nailed to the cross by filthy Gentiles, mocked. bleeding, suffocating, the eternal wrath of God for sins that he, meaning Jesus, did not commit. Was poured out upon him. And because his human nature was connected, inseparably joined to the divine nature, Jesus could and did take and receive and suffer the eternal wrath for each and every one of the sins committed by the children of God. Each and every one. And so Jesus could say at that very moment, as the eternal wrath of God was satisfied. It is finished. That the last drop in the cup of God's wrath for those sinners who had, who were, and who would trust in Jesus was ingested as it was drunk by Jesus Christ As it was drunk by him in his human nature, as it was sustained by him in his divine nature, such that he could rightly say, it is finished. The justice of God, the eternal justice of God was satisfied at that very moment. What does that mean for you tonight? If you're outside of Christ tonight, those words are not for you. If you're outside of Christ tonight, the cup will be full for you on judgment day. The wrath of God That all consuming fire which never ends, never stops, that torment Will never cease. There will be no painkillers. There will be no anesthesiologists. There will be no relief. There will be no comfort The words, it is finished, will not apply to you. But you're here tonight. These are words of warning to you. And the call from Christ Jesus is come to me. Believe upon me Reject your sins, cast them off. Cry out to me to be washed whiter than snow. Plead with me for forgiveness, for a changed heart. He will give you those words. He will say those words are for you. Still time. Hear those words again. It is finished. But what about if you're trusting in Jesus tonight? If you come here following Christ. It's finished. That means on the day of judgment, as Jesus returns to judge every single one of us The cup of God's wrath will be empty. Jesus will stand up for you and plead on your behalf that he took it. On the cross at Calvary, in that very moment that he said it's finished, he meant it's finished for you. You will be empty, and you'll be ushered in to eternal life. That you'll enjoy the communion, the fellowship with the triune God forever. Because Jesus sat on the cross It is finished. Enter into the joy of your master. Those words are for you tonight. And so while we sorrow That our sins nailed Jesus Christ to the cross, that it cost his precious blood to wash you clean. We also rejoice. Because Jesus spoke those words. All for you. It is finished. You've been blessed tonight. Meditate upon those words. Share those words with others. And rejoice that Jesus died in your place to give you life. It is finished. Amen. Our Father and our God, I pray that you'd continue to quiet our hearts. As we think upon this very somber, this very sombre event in the history of redemption. As the sky went black, as our sins were poured out upon Jesus Christ. Father Father, we grieve over our sins, but we rejoice That you loved us so much that you would send your only eternally begotten Son to the cross to die in our place. And so as we leave this place tonight, help us. As we meditate upon the death of Christ, help us. Help us to be those who sorrow and at the same time are overjoyed, not knowing why you set your love upon us, but that you did. And so we rejoice tonight in Christ. Help us, Lord God, to remember these words, that you would apply them to our hearts. It is finished that we will be a thankful and rejoicing people We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.