You might recall the last time we were visiting Amos, the uh I made the point that Amos chapter seven starts the beginning of four visions that God gives to Amos. uh about uh the coming destruction that God is about to bring to Israel and uh and how Amos uh on on these occasions uh intercedes uh on behalf of of God uh and his people and uh pleads God's uh promises uh that that that the Lord would uh relent his uh his promised destruction The section tonight that we'll be looking at is verses four through six. of uh Amos chapter 7. But uh we we will read uh the the full verse the full chapter Then the Lord showed me, behold, he formed locust swarms at the beginning of the late crop. Indeed, it was the late crop after the king's mowings. And so it was when they had finished eating the grass of the land that I said, O Lord God, forgive, I pray, O, that Jacob may stand. For he is small. So the Lord relented concerning this. It shall not be, says the Lord. Thus the Lord showed me, behold, the Lord called, Lord God called for a conflict by fire. And it consumed the great deep and devoured the territory. Then I said, O Lord God, cease, I pray. Oh, that Jacob may stand, for he is small. So the Lord relented concerning this. This also shall not be, said the Lord. Thus he showed me, behold, the Lord stood on a wall made with a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand. And the Lord said to me, Amos, what do you see? And they said, a plumb line. And the Lord said, Behold, I am setting a plumb line in the midst of my people, Israel. I will not pass by them anymore. The high places of Isaac will be desolate. The sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste. I will rise with the sword against the house of Jeroboam. Now Amaziah the priest of Bethel said to Jeroboam, king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel The land is not able to hear all his words. For thus Amos has said, Jeroboam shall die by the sword And Israel shall surely be led away captive from their own land. And Amaziah said to Amos Go, you seer, flee to the land of Judah. There eat bread, and there prophesy But never again prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is the royal residence. And Amos answered and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, nor was I a son of a prophet, but I was a sheep breeder and a tender of sycamore fruit. Then the Lord took me as I followed the flock, and the Lord said to me, Go, prophesy to my people Israel. Now therefore hear the word of the Lord. You say, do not prophesy against Israel, and do not spout against the house of Isaac. Therefore, thus says the Lord, your wife shall be a harlot in the city, your sons and daughters shall fall by the sword, your land shall be divided by the survey line. You shall die in a defiled land, and Israel shall surely be led away captive from his own land. And thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Excuse me. Tonight we want to uh again uh look at the uh ministry of the prophet Amos. As he speaks to the people of the northern kingdom, the Hebrews, the ten tribes, ten of the twelve tribes of Israel. On the eve of imminent destruction. Destruction is still a good fifty years off for Israel, but Destruction will surely come. And at this point we see the prophet giving faithfully the vision of the Lord. And then interceding on behalf of God's people for mercy. So let's uh let's look at this vision. And I've entitled the sermon Fire that consumes water, fire that consumes water. And it's taken from the verses that here are here before us. saying that God called for a conflict of fire and it consumed the great deep. The Lord, it says in verse 4, Amos says, the Lord showed me the Again, this speaks of a vision. And literally the force of the language here is that the Lord calls me to see. He caused me to see this. And this vision that He caused Amos to see is then laid out before us. It says, the Lord is calling for a conflict of fire. Kind of a interesting language. He um He is uh uh the calling out is to cry out uh uh loudly uh to uh uh uh to the Lord is calling out for a a a a a uh great uh fire. Um and um It says of this fire that it will consume or eat up the great deep. Deep is often a a word used for a a a large body of water that has uh you know a It has some depth to it. It also says it will devour the territory. But normally speaking, fire uh eating up uh territory, we we see that all the time. You know, we we we see the the stories of the the great fires that come in the in the west where there are these forest fires and they they do great damage to the trees and to the homes, you know, that happen to be lying in their way. In this case, it's not just the land that is going to be subject to this great fire, but even the water will fall victim to this uh to this uh to this conflict of fires. And um Fire is often associated in the Bible with either a sign of purification or a sign of divine anger. and judgment. And in this case it's not purification. It's judgment. It's consistent with what Amos has been warning the people about that God is going to bring judgment. Now you recall uh part of the uh the great uh plagues that uh that uh the Lord sent to Egypt that uh fire uh was part of one of those plagues. In Exodus chapter 9 verse 23 we find it's said that Moses stretched his rod toward heaven The Lord sent thunder and hail and fire ran along upon the ground. And it said that there was hail and fire mingled with hail, very grievous, such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt. since it became a nation. Just historical record. The Lord has indeed brought judgment upon other nations with fire. He did it with Egypt. Nahum the prophet writes in Nahum chapter 1 and verse 6. Who can stand before his indignation? Who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire. And the rocks are thrown down by him. God's anger, God's fury, particularly obviously his fury at sin, is depicted as being thrown down like fire. Now, remember early on when we went through the early parts of Amos and how God was bringing judgment to all the unbelieving nations that surrounded Israel. It's interesting if you go back and you look at all of those judgments There is maybe a verse or a part of a verse that says that among these heathen nations says that God will send a wall of fire against the nations. And you see this reference. Verse 7, verse 10, verse 12, verse 14 of chapter 1, and then chapter 2, verses 2, and verse 5. What God was going to do with the nations Now, Amos is talking about a similar kind of fire coming to the people of the northern kingdom. uh the Lord bringing a fire. But this is no ordinary fire. This is no ordinary fire And God warned Israel, as we just read about in Deuteronomy chapter 32. that his anger would be like a fire against them, because and he will and it will burn and it will consume the earth. with her increase. And it will set on fire the foundations of the mountains. This is the fire of God's anger being poured out upon His unfaithful people. Now the idea of a fire though consuming the water The Great Deep is a little different. The Great Deep that is being spoken of here There could be a number of different references for that. And I don't know which one it is. Uh it it it obviously is some large body of water, um perhaps The Northern Kingdom is in pretty close proximity to the Mediterranean, which could be a great deep. It could also be the Sea of Galilee or the Dead Sea. These would be possibilities But whatever uh whichever one it is, it's uh it's a it would be an unusual thing, an amazing thing to see fire so intense that it would consume the water. And obviously, this would be a pretty severe sign of judgment. Yeah, in to to any nation. And Israel, of course, is a nation that needs water. It it needs water more than than most because it's semi-arid there, semi-desert. Now um I this I'm not sure exactly uh what um uh people today might say, well, oh this this is kind of fanciful This doesn't happen. Fires don't consume water. What is what is I mean and even allowing for Amos maybe making some exaggerations of what's being said, i it's it's obvious that what Amos is trying to depict is that God is very angry and that his wrath is going to uh is going to consume everything that's necessary for life. In the natural world in which we live Uh there are instances on record of great fires consuming water. And what I have in mind here is something that results from a severe eruption of a volcano. And maybe this is what God had in mind when he made this point. There is something called a pyroclastic cloud that is part of a volcanic eruption. It is common with a large volcanic eruption and a very devastating explosion accompanying a volcanic eruption. And when it erupts, outflows uh not only lava, but hot gas and rocks. And these hot gases and rocks can flow out of a volcano at the rate of 450 miles per hour. And when they flow out, they consume everything. Everything in their path. And it's a cloud, it's a fiery cloud. It's it's depicted as a fiery cloud. The temperature of the gas, and I again I obviously did some research at this. The temperature of the gas can reach Up to one thousand degrees centigrade, which is eighteen hundred and thirty degrees Fahrenheit. Now you can imagine if that kind of cloud is erupting from a volcano and it's traveling at 450 miles an hour and it's fire and it's gas, it's on fire, and it's coming, whatever is in his way is not going to survive And guess what happens? When it hits water, it evaporates the water. And the water turns to steam, and it's gone And perhaps, again I say perhaps, this is the kind of destruction that God has in mind for Israel. Something like this. In history, there have been a number of serious volcanic eruptions. over time. In 1902, there was one on the island of Martinique in the Caribbean. The pirate pyroclastic cloud glowed red during the darkness. Um And um it it it um it erupted with such intensity and with such speed That it overwhelmed the city of Saint Pierre on the island of Martinique in the Caribbean and killed 30,000 people in an instant Um this is a serious judgment that God is talking about. Anything like this One of the great volcanoes of all time was occurred in 1883 on the island of Java. The mount the um the the um the volcano was called Krokotoa. A pyroclastic flow That is lava flowing out of the volcano flowed across The straits to the nation of Sumatra to the land of the island nation of Sumatra flowed across the strait for 30 miles. and uh brought its devastation there. So you see what happens when one of these things occurs in nature. In nature, this is documented. This happened in history. When one of these things happens, it does have the capacity to completely dry up the water around it. In addition, with all the heat that's being generated, anything else in its way, man, beast, buildings, they're gone. They're just disintegrated. And so um what God is uh perhaps what he what he is showing Amos is a vision of this kind of destruction because of his Great anger and fury at the sin of God's people in the northern kingdom. Multiple different sins as we've discussed before, the worshiping of foreign gods the uh the treating of other people as if they were cattle, uh as if they were s their slaves, uh no concern for others getting rich off of the backs of Oppressing people, uh all of this. Uh God was about to bring judgment to Israel for, and he portrays it here in Amos's uh Prophecy here in chapter 7 as a great fire, an all-consuming fire that's going to wipe out everything Wipe out the land, wipe out the people, dr s uh evaporate all the water, uh and uh and surely uh anyone who hears this uh would uh would understand that God is talking about a great judgment. Uh and uh and so uh uh the prophet uh Amos brings forth this judgment Just like previously he brought forth the judgment about the locust coming and devouring the prosperity of Israel. And what does Amos do? He begins to act as a faithful intercessor. He says, O Lord God, cease I pray. Oh, verse 5, oh that Jacob may stand, for he is small. And that that language upon which Amos bases his plea before God is language uh speaking about Jacob, which is a very interesting use of that word here. Jacob is uh Consistently biblically associated with the remnant of God's people, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Unto those patriarchs, the promises were made. But Jacob, you see, isn't living in the Northern Kingdom. Jacob is part of I mean his he's part of the uh he's part of the faithful. He's part of the elect of God. He's part of God's covenant favor. Now, when I say that he's not living there, Ten of the tribes of Israel are living there, and there isn't a tribe of Jacob, but Jacob becomes the name of God's covenant people. And so when Amos is then pleading to God, relent, O God. For we are Jacob and we are small, he's depicting um the faithful in Israel The faithful in the northern kingdom who have not yet bowed the knee to Baal. The same group that Remember, Elijah wanted to know if he was the only one in Israel who hadn't bowed the knee to Baal. And God opened his eyes and showed him there were 7,000 yet. Well, that 7,000 is Jacob, because Jacob is faithful to the Lord. And it's the covenant promise, again, that forms the basis for why. Amos pleads to God. It's on that basis. God, you have promised to have a remnant people who will be faithful to you. And on that basis, he says, O Lord God, relent. Relent your fierce anger. Remember, Jacob, even though we are small. It's not because we're great in number, it's not because we're the most mighty, but it's because you have elected us and you have loved us. Remember us. Remember the faithful. And so we so we see um um this is uh uh this is again um The Lord, it says the Lord then relents concerning this and says, this shall not be. This this horrific judgment, which is certainly deserved. And God has promised this is what will happen. Then there will be a great fire. My judgment that will come upon the northern kingdom. But it isn't going to come through this means. And it isn't going to come right now. It may come. It will come But it'll come with from another in another form, in another way. And all along, God has an eye toward the faithful. And thank God that that um Amos, you know, understands that He understands that no matter how bad it has gotten in Israel, that God won't forget his promises. And that ought to encourage you. It ought to excite you because God has not forgotten him His promises to you in Christ. You are Jacob, you are Abraham's seed. God has made his covenant promises to you. And judgment shall not befall you this time because Christ has borne the judgment. So again Uh in Isaiah chapter one verse nine it says, Except the Lord of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we would have become as Sodom. And interestingly enough, this this theme where I think I uh Amos is interesting Introducing that idea here in chapter 7 of the smallness of the remnant. Chapter 8, Amos will refer to the remnant as the size of a dog's ear So it's a very, very small group that have remained faithful. But God will remain faithful to that small group no matter how How small it gets. His promises will be fulfilled. And so, verse 6, God relents concerning this. This shall not be. He will be merciful, he will delay justice, but justice will come. It will come to that northern kingdom and it will come approximately 40-50 years after Amos is done with his prophecy. Um, Amen