If you'd open your copy of God's Word now once again to the Gospel of Matthew We'll continue our study there in chapter nineteen. I think that's on page nine hundred and eighty of your pew Bibles. Jesus has taught about marriage. Children have been brought to him. He has laid his hands on them and now gone away. We begin at verse 16 of chapter 19. And behold, a man came up to him, saying, Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life? And he said to him, Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments. He said to him, Which ones? And Jesus said, You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness. Honor your father and mother. And you shall love your neighbor as yourself. The young man said to him, All these I have kept. What do I still lack? Jesus said to him, If you would be perfect, go sell what you possess, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. When the young man heard this, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible. That's from the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we ask For the work of the Spirit now, the Holy Spirit to fill us, to guide us, to direct us, not merely to a right understanding, Father, but that you would cut into our hearts deeply and Reveal to us our sins and convict us, Lord God, remind us of all the promises of Christ. Help us, Holy Spirit. Fix our minds now upon Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen. What are you willing to give up for an eternal relationship with Jesus Christ? We had just last Sunday touched upon marriage, the doctrine of marriage, and ultimately saw that this was pointing us to The bridegroom. And so what are you willing to give up for an eternal relationship with your groom, the Lord Jesus Christ? Earlier this morning we read that portion of Job, that last chapter. And we know that what preceded that last chapter in Job was the fact that Job had lost everything. His children, his family, except for his unwise wife, all taken. Worldly wealth. His livestock stolen, gone, his physical health under attack, suffering greatly And his friends, those who came supposedly to comfort him, actually increased his suffering with their unkind and offensive words. And through it all, Job attempted to justify himself, desiring to stand before God and provide his righteousness before the Creator of the universe, but as God speaks. Job finally repents. You see, it required the removal of all worldly pleasures, comforts and wealth, even friends, before Job was able to truly serve God. The living God, before Job understood who he was before his Creator, and before Job could come to understand and confess. That I know you can do all things. In a sense, that brings us to our text this morning. As Jesus has been teaching the disciples about the kingdom of heaven, starting with the disciples' question, who's the greatest? And leading Jesus to tell them that they must become like children. Indeed, if they were to enter into glory, they needed to remove that which causes them to sin, to cut off A hand, pull out an eye, better to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire. And so Jesus has been teaching about the kingdom of heaven. He's pointing to the need for childlike faith. And even this morning he is continuing to teach on the same topic. This is a historical encounter that we have before us as this What's been referred to as the rich young ruler coming to Jesus asking what he must do in order to earn eternal life. Not a parable, but a face-to-face encounter with the Savior, teacher, what good deed must I do? And he tells him. His goodness is immediately questioned. For the rich young ruler thinks that he's good. Keep the commandments. Which ones? And Jesus provides him with the second table of the law, summarizing it by saying, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Did you notice that he didn't deal with the first table? He actually does that when he calls him to follow him. He tells him, as the rich Shung ruler says, I've done all this, what do I still lack? Sell everything you have and come follow me. We know the end of the story, so to speak, as the rich young ruler leaves sorrowful because he knows he has great wealth and he's unwilling to give it up in order to follow Jesus. In a sense, Jesus summarizes by telling his disciples it's difficult, it's difficult for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven. Indeed, easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven. And the disciples are amazed and ask that question: who then can be saved? And Jesus tells them that it's only possible with God We might sum up the teaching of Jesus Christ in this. That Jesus Christ calls sinners to let go of the world and follow him into life. All of which requires a spirit-led new heart. Jesus Christ calls sinners to let go of the world and follow him into life, all of which requires a spirit-led new heart. We'll see three doctrines this morning in this passage. There are probably many more, but we'll touch on these three. First, eternal life is real, but men do not know how to obtain it. Secondly, eternal life requires giving up, but men grip the world. And finally, eternal life requires following Jesus, but men refuse his rule. Well, as we go through this passage this morning, again I'd like you to be asking yourself, what am I willing to give up? In order To have an eternal relationship with the bridegroom, Jesus Christ. Well, first, eternal life is real, but men do not know how to obtain it. It's interesting to see the reality of eternity, which is caught up in the rich young ruler's question to Jesus, isn't it? What good deed must I do to have eternal life Eternal life is real. It's a reality. It's spoken of throughout Scripture. The Trinity actually speaks of it as recorded by Moses. As the first man and the first woman sin against God, and God is removing them from the garden. The Lord God said to himself, to the triune God, Behold, man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now lest he reach out his hand and also take of the tree of life and eat and live forever Immediately upon the sin of Adam and Eve, eternal life is a reference. The tree of life represented or was a sign of eternal life. Moses wrote of eternal life In the last book of the Pentateuch, Deuteronomy, as he's about to leave, as he's about to be taken to God Himself, as the Israelites are about to enter into the promised land. He tells them, You shall walk in all the way that the Lord your God has commanded you, that you may live. That it may go well with you. That you may live long in the land that you shall possess. He was referring ultimately to eternal life. The prophet Isaiah writes of eternity. In chapter 57, for thus says the one who is high and lifted up, who habits who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit. God inhabits eternity and is Himself eternal The Lord spoke of a forever throne to David. He spoke of a forever land in his covenant with Abraham. Jesus preached eternity and eternal life. In Matthew chapter 25. Then the king will say to those on the right, Come you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. But those who hated Jesus, depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. Jesus admonished those not to work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. Paul wrote of eternal life. In chapter 2 of Romans, he will render to each one according to his works. To those who by patience and well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. John wrote of eternal life. And this is the testimony that God gave us eternal life. And this life is in his Son. It's throughout Scripture, brothers and sisters. It can't be denied. And men know of eternal life. The rich young ruler certainly did. Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life? The question assumes the existence and thus the possibility of eternal life. The rich young ruler comes to Jesus knowing of eternal life. He knows that it's real. He knows that it's a possibility, but he comes knowing that he doesn't have it. That's the key. Have you asked that question? What must I do to inherit eternal life? It seems that the Spirit was working on the rich young ruler's heart. So much so that he would go to Jesus and ask. God indeed has laid eternal life on the hearts of all men, women, and children, not just the rich young ruler's heart. So God created man in his own image. We'll talk about that in a minute. But Solomon wrote of it. He's made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he's put eternity into man's heart. Ecclesiastes chapter 3 Indeed, men strive after eternal life. Exactly what the rich young ruler was seeking. We see it in our day, don't we? If you just type into Google, A search about eternal life, you get all these web pages, ten simple ways to increase your life expectancy, eight healthy habits that may add 24 years to your lifespan, 15 ways to increase your life expectancy, five ways to extend your life. Even from the National Institute of Health. Want the secret to living a longer and healthier life? Eternal life has been laid on the hearts of men. The only problem is men don't know how to obtain it. There's a misunderstanding, a misperception, indeed a sin that by doing good we can attain eternal life. Isn't that the basis, the The assumption within the rich young ruler's question. Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life? What must I do? Richard and Rule said, I've done all these things. I haven't committed adultery. I I haven't stolen. I haven't borne false witness. I've honored my father and mother. I've loved my neighbor. All these I have kept. I wonder what Jesus was thinking. Not really. For you do not even know what is good. But consider this even after the rich young ruler professed his goodness He still understood that he had not attained eternal life. All these I have kept. What do I still lack? It was not enough. He knew it was not enough. Here's the recognition of this good work. It cannot be referred to as good because it wasn't enough. The rich young ruler knew it. He had tried it Something was not right within his soul. He knew that his conscience had not been cleansed, the spirit had moved him, the spirit had unsettled. the rich young ruler, so that he would ask even Jesus Christ, what do I still lack? This question is not common. It's not asked by all. But the rich young ruler knew that there was something that he did not yet have. You see, this is different than the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul knew what he lacked. As he wrote to the church at Philippi, for his sake I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ. You see, he knew he needed Christ. And he knew he needed to get rid of all these worldly things So that he could gain Christ. Not that I've already obtained this or am I already perfect, but I press on to make it my own. The rich young ruler didn't understand that He didn't know that, but that was what he lacked Brothers and sisters, eternal life has been laid upon our hearts. Indeed, we've been made in the image of God. And we know that there are certain words that describe what that means, righteousness and holiness and knowledge, all closely connected to being made in the image of God. Things that were lost or partially lost at the at the fall, and by the work of the Spirit are being regained as we trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. But in addition to these things, we should admit and confess that the image of God must include eternity. Meaning that we have been made, you and I, and all those descending from Adam by ordinary generation as eternal creatures. We know that when he appears we shall be like him. That's what the Apostle John wrote. Meaning Jesus Christ. And the scriptures tell us that Jesus Christ has died once and defeated death and will never die again. So we know that being in the image of God and being recreated in the image of Jesus Christ must mean that we are eternal beings. We have been made eternal. We certainly had a beginning And there was a time when we were not, but there will be no time when we are not. For if you're trusting in Christ this morning Your soul, which is eternal, will be with Jesus upon your physical death forever. But if you're not trusting in Jesus this morning. Your soul will still have an eternal existence, but it will not be with Jesus unless you turn and repent of your sins and trust in Him. If you remain in your sins upon your death, you'll enter into an eternal state of existence, but without life. You will not be in the presence of God. And thus, whether you believe in Jesus or not, your soul has an eternal existence made in the image of God. And so that question is rather important. What must I do to inherit eternal life? And so the rich young ruler doesn't question whether eternal life is a thing. He knows that it is. He only questions how he may have life eternal, as opposed to death eternal. In a sense, that's the question for us this morning, isn't it? Not whether you believe that your soul has an eternal existence, because the scriptures clearly tell us that it does. The only question for you this morning is will you enter eternal life or eternal death? Eternity is a given Where will you spend it? What are you willing to give up to spend it with Jesus? Brings us to our second point. Eternal life requires release, but men grip the world. Well, we see the end of the exchange between the rich young ruler and Jesus, as he is professed to be keeping the second table of the law. Jesus now goes to the first table. If you would be perfect, go sell what you possess and give to the poor. You will have treasure in heaven. Come, follow me. When the young man heard this, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Captivated. is a very appropriate word for our passage today. Webster defines captivate to take prisoner, seized by force. To subdue, to bring into bondage. See, the rich young ruler was captivated by his wealth. He was, in a sense, imprisoned by it, a captive of it, so much so that he could not come in his own strength to release his grasp. See, given the offer of eternal life, that was what he was seeking, at that point he chose the world. He chose his fading and terminal worldly wealth over life. Life with the God who had created that wealth. Are you captivated this morning by the world and by worldly things? I think the answer to that question for each one of us is at least in part yes. If we search our hearts and consider the way in which our inclinations have been corrupted in Adam, I think we must admit, each one of us, at times this world and the things of this world hold our hearts and minds. and wills captive. We tend to be captivated by the creation. Think of Eve. Eve, who walked in the garden with God Himself, and who, as Satan, through the Spirit, suggests that she will not die. She ate the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. What does she do? She looks at its goodness. And she considers what she might be missing if she did not take of it. And Eve was at that point captivated by the creation, by the world, by the created things. Not by God. See, brothers and sisters It's impossible to grasp two things at once. It's impossible to have two masters. We've already learned that lesson. Jesus has already preached it on the Sermon on the Mount. No one can serve two masters. For you will either hate the one and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other. And the truth lies behind that statement is that we as created beings will have a master. We're all created. We did not make ourselves. Seeking and submitting to a master is part of our nature as created beings. We're not autonomous. We're self-governed. Because we are created, we're all governed by another. And we will all have a master. The only question is whether your master will be the living God or the world. But you can only have one In a sense, Jesus is repeating what he's already taught and opening it up with an object lesson for us this day, the rich young ruler. The rich young ruler could not cling to his wealth, a false master, and at the very same time follow Jesus as the true master Jesus doesn't even indicate that doing it's an impossibility because we see it in the action of the rich young ruler. He clings to his wealth and he rejects the sovereignty of Jesus Christ Christ and he leaves sorrowful. He followed his wealth. He would not and could not at the same time submit himself to the rule of the true Master Jesus. It's the same with you and me. You can only serve one. And you will serve one. Brothers and sisters, you cannot serve this world, you cannot serve the creation, you cannot serve your bank account, you cannot serve Your retirement savings, you cannot serve your employer, you cannot serve your family, you cannot serve your spouse, and at the very same time, serve Jesus Christ. There will only be one master. There will only be one that you can truly follow with your whole heart, soul, mind, and strength. Who or what are you clinging to? You may be thinking, well, I'm not wealthy, no problem. Not like the rich young ruler, and Jesus only speaks of the rich here. That's not really true. For the rich young ruler was clinging to and would not let go of the world. It's a bit like Lott's wife, who so loved the world as she is on the escape route She turns back and looks that which was forbidden. She so loved her sin. That she could not take the path that was headed to eternal life. What is it that keeps you from following Jesus with your whole heart, mind, and strength this morning? What is it that keeps you from your Bible reading? What is it that keeps you from family worship? What is it that keeps you from prayer? Is it work? Is it recreation? Is it sports? Is it television? Is it relaxation? Is it a need for a nap? Is it your busy life? Is it chores at home? Is it your education? There's nothing wrong with these things. They're all good things. What keeps you from returning for evening worship? Is the drive too far? Are you too tired? I'm not speaking here of providential hindrance, but I'm speaking of personal preference. What is it that you're clinging to that it's more of a master than the Lord Jesus Christ? Brothers and sisters, we need to examine our hearts regarding this matter, for we all struggle with these things. We must ask the Spirit to reveal to us what is it that has become that master, taking the place of Jesus Christ in our hearts. Brings us to our third point, a third doctrine. Eternal life requires following Jesus, but men refuse his rule. I don't want you to miss this this morning. Sometimes we think the big words are the most important words. in scripture, but many times it's the small words. Look at verse twenty-one. If you would be perfect, go. Sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come follow me. Don't miss that small three-letter word and because it joins together these two actions. that were required and that cannot be separated. Jesus states that there must be a giving up, a release of the world, and then a following of Jesus. They go together. They cannot be separated. There's no opportunity to do one and not the other in order to enter life. But here's the root of the problem. Rich young ruler really didn't desire life, did he? He spoke the words, but he wanted nothing to do with Jesus He was unwilling to submit himself to the lordship of Jesus. The friendship that the rich young ruler had with the world was so great, so strong, that he had no desire to be with Christ. He was yet at enity with God. It's exactly what James writes in chapter 4. You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enity with God? So the rich young ruler refused to submit himself to the rule of Jesus Christ. As Jesus said, it's harder for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. And now the disciples' wonder enters in, doesn't it? They've been watching, they've been hearing, this whole exchange And now they're astonished that Jesus is talking about camels and eyes of needles and equating that with the ability of the rich man to enter into heaven. They say, Who then can be saved? You see, they thought that material blessings equaled spiritual salvation. That was their thought That was their consideration that this man is so wealthy that God blessed him so much that he must be saved. That wealth was evidence of salvation. And they wrongly assumed that. This was an indication of God's spiritual favor upon this man. See, the disciples knew of eternal life, but they just didn't know how to enter it. There was no basis for their assumption. They just needed to turn to Psalm 73. As Asaph is bemoaning the fact, he was envious of the arrogant and he saw the prosperity of the wicked. He was thinking, Why do I keep your law? Because they're the ones who are pros prospering And he finally comes to his senses as he enters the sanctuary of God, and now he finds out, he knows that all these will perish. You see, the disciples needed to go back and read the word. And now Jesus assures the disciples, doesn't he? He doesn't leave them hanging. Who then can be saved? Jesus looked at them and said, with man this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible. Again, Jesus is just repeating what we see in the Word of God. Consider the words of Job. I know you can do all things. He had to lose everything in order to be able to say that. I know you can do all things The disciples had uttered what they did not understand, just like Job. They needed to hear that it's God who saved it, it's God who can change a stony heart. He can do all things. Nothing is too hard for God. He created the world. He can and does recreate a heart, doesn't he? Only God is able to grant life. We're all dead in sin, aren't we? And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, but God can bring the dead to life. For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, so also the Son gives life to whom he will. God can do it. And God does it. Through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. But then there's the call, isn't there? Follow me. What is that? What does Jesus mean? What was he talking about to the rich young ruler when he said, follow me? What was he asking him to do? Again, kind of an important question. Because Jesus said this is the way to eternal life. If you're desiring eternal life, if you desire to be with the Lord Jesus Christ, then he calls you to follow him. What does that mean? Well to first to follow Jesus Christ is to know him, isn't it? And this is eternal life That they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent, you must know him. You must know him as the one who loves his Father. And was so obedient to him, who sought to do his will as it was his food, as the one who sought to please his father in everything he did, every thought he had, every word he spoke, every action he took. He was the one who loved the Word of God and sought to keep it perfectly and purely, for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. Jesus meditated upon the Word of God day and night. His delight is in the law of God. And he's one who loved the children of God. So much so that he became a servant. He came not to be served, but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many. He considered the lives of others above his own, didn't he? To follow Jesus is to imitate him. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. You see, that's exactly what Jesus told the rich young ruler, come after me, eternal life. Deny yourself, give up your grip on the things of this world, especially your life. Take up your cross, expect and endure suffering, that which the rich young ruler was not willing to experience as he sought out his life with his wealth. And follow me, seek the Father's will in all things. You might be thinking to yourself, well, Jesus was and is the God man, and I'm not God. Well, consider Paul. Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ. Paul suffered the loss of all things and counted them as rubbish in order that he might gain Christ. And thus to follow Jesus is to suffer with Jesus, isn't it? As the Apostle Peter writes, For what credit is it if when you sin you're beaten for it, but if you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure. This is a gracious thing in the sight of God. For to this you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example. So that you might follow in his steps. To follow Jesus is to suffer according to his example. Are these things too hard? The answer is yes. They were too hard for the rich young ruler, and they're too hard for you. Pray then for the work of the Spirit. Because it's only through the strength of the Spirit that you can follow Jesus. See, Paul said it so well, my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Brothers and sisters, we are all too weak to truly follow Jesus Christ in our own strength. Pray. Pray for the powerful work of the Spirit in your heart and your lives. That you might truly follow Christ. Yes, Jesus Christ calls sinners to let go of the world and follow him into life, all of which requires a spirit-led new heart. Job knew, after suffering, that God could do all things. And brought him to a point of contrite suffering, following heart. Brothers and sisters, let us pray that he would do the same for us. Amen. Father and our God, help us. These are hard words to to hear that you're called to follow Jesus and all that entails. Help us, Holy Spirit, to release our grip on the world, to to examine our hearts, to see what we've made a master of in this world, and that we might release it Holy Spirit, help us. And then help us to know Jesus and to imitate Jesus and to suffer with Jesus Christ. Help us. Strengthen us even now as we contemplate your supper.