Let us turn to our scripture text tonight in 1 Timothy 6. We begin our reading with verse I'm going to back up a little bit. I'm going to back up to verse 6 and read on through verse 16. Verse 6. Hear the word of the Lord. Now, godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare. and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness And pierce themselves through with many sorrows. But you, O man of God, flee these things. And pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and gentleness Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, to which you were also called, and confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses I urge you in the sight of God, who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus, who witnessed the good confession before Pilate, Pontius Pilate That you keep this commandment without spot, blameless until our Lord Jesus Christ's appearing which he will manifest in his own time, he who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords Who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see To whom be honor and everlasting power. Amen. Well you might remember that last week we looked at uh the last time we looked at this section, uh we discussed this uh to t the teaching that comes in verses six on through verse ten. And we discussed of uh that the person who is focused on uh acquiring um uh material welfare, material wealth, uh and makes that his or her goal in life is uh is being uh worn here that that is a path that leads to many kinds of evil and much destruction as well. in in a person's life. It appears that Paul brings up this subject about uh godliness because there are some who've been teaching falsehood to the people uh at Ephesus and they've been they've been teaching a falsehood which roughly uh is uh is the idea that uh that the church is to be used to uh feather the leader's nest egg uh that it's uh that it's a place where you uh can go and uh s uh um uh fleece the flock uh of uh finan for of financial and promote your own financial welfare. This is uh Paul just uh really does hammer that and he he uh clearly says that uh they're wrong to assume that uh a certain f false god a certain uh godliness can be gained by uh uh the the accumulation of material things. A true true godliness uh is content with what God provides. And uh and it's it's on the background of that and on the subsequent uh Telling uh uh Paul, telling his audience that um uh uh we didn't come into this world with anything and we won't go out with anything. Be content with what it is that you have been given by God. Don't fall into temptation with a desire to be rich. Because that can be a slow strangulation of your spiritual welfare. Or putting with another metaphor that's in the text, you will slowly drown If you continue to pursue this your true spirituality will slowly be overcome by this false pursuit of of uh of un ungodly riches. And so it's with that in mind that we come to the verse tonight, which I want to focus our attention on. You, O man of God, flee these things. and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and gentleness, or meekness. This text starts off, uh verse eleven starts off with uh with the word but And it's obvious that this is a contrast. It's a contrast with what he has just said about those who are pursuing um the false path of riches uh uh and uh and uh bringing to their own destruction But it it's a contrast between them and those who Paul says is a man of God. You, man of God, flee these things. Now, a man of God does not necessarily have to be someone who puts on a clerical robe. A man of God is someone who seeks God with his whole heart. Even as Samuel said to Saul in 1 Samuel 13, 14, he said to Saul after Saul's uh uh unwillingness to obey Samuel, he said, The kingdom shall your kingdom shall not continue. The Lord hath sought for him a man after his own heart A man after his own heart. The Lord hath commanded him to be captain over the people, because you have not kept that which the Lord commanded So we see that in that particular incident, and I think it's generally true, that the man of God is someone who follows the Lord's commands. He is someone who seeks after the Lord's own heart. Now, obviously, that was not Saul, but it was David. It was David, as the Lord would later say about David, this is a man after my own heart. He wasn't perfect in all of that, seeking of God, but uh but God saw the uh the the overarching uh desires of David's heart and pronounced it. That way, that he was a man after God's own heart. Proverbs 28, verse 26. Makes this stunning statement that he who trusts in his own heart is a fool. He who trusts in his own heart is a fool. What Paul is about to share with his listeners and with us is how to be a true man, a man after God's own heart. How to be a man or a woman who seeks God? How would you what what would that how to do that and what would that look like? What would that kind of person be like And um he starts off by uh giving uh a a a general command It's a command that has two parts to it. One, flee these things. And these things, again, referring back up to what Paul has just mentioned in verses 6. through 10, those who have the love of money, those who think that godliness is gained through riches, he says, flee these things. But it's not just running away from something, it's seeking to catch something else Follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, and patience and meekness. In many ways, this describes the heart of the man of God. Now, just a couple of words to appreciate when he says, flee these things. The word is a command and it means to flee and Fleeing is an action word. You cannot stand still and flee from something. Fleeing suggests an intense action. Running away, getting away as quickly as possible. Now, and that and that applies to fleeing these ideas that somehow godliness is next next to God or somehow uh loving money is uh is is a way to greater spirituality. Uh flee that, he says, just like as he would say, flee immorality. Flee temptation. And it's an on the it it's couched in the present tense. Which means this is an ongoing activity. You cannot flee immorality or you cannot flee these things. Only once you have to continue to flee. Because guess what? Sin doesn't take a break. Temptation doesn't go on vacation. Because the devil never rests as the one who employs those things upon us. But it's again not simply fleeing these things, but it is following after something else. Once again, we find this word follow after to be a command in the command mode. And it also is an intense word. You don't see it as much in the English when you talk about following someone. That seems to be a rather passive activity. But what if I told you that of the times that this is used This word is used approximately 50% of the times. It's used to translate to translate into English. The word comes over in English as persecute. Persecute. Now that's much more intense. That's a much more intense activity. Now, I'm not advocating here necessarily that you translate this persecute, but I do want you to see that Paul is not giving this information and saying to us Oh well, you can do this at your leisure. You can pursue God at your leisure. No, he's looking at a vigorous pursuit of these things. Now, what does he say the man of God does besides fleeing these things? These wrong things, these false ideas, these sinful ideas, and following after good ideas, What are some of these good things we should pursue? And he lists about six different words here. Righteousness. The first thing that pops up on the list of what Paul says the man of God pursues righteousness. And righteousness flows out of What God says is right, as opposed to what God uh what is right versus what is wrong. Where do we find where God says what is right and wrong? Is it not here in God's Word? Is it not, if you want to go to one place, Where you could describe a righteous person, you would go to the moral law, you would go to Exodus 20, you would go to Deuteronomy 5, where those things are put down. However, the pursuit of righteousness Is not a pursuit that we engage in on our own efforts In other words, we are not trying to be righteous in order to, as I as we understand this, in order to merit our salvation We're seeking to be righteous to be a man of God or a woman of God. It's one of the characteristics we might say we'd be like David, who said The man after God's own heart also said, Oh, how love I thy law! It is my meditation all the day. We know that Galatians 2 verse 16 says that a man is not justified or declared righteous by the works of the law, but by faith Faith in Christ Jesus. Even we have believed in Christ Jesus that we might be justified by the faith of Christ. The man the man of God pursuing righteousness Looks to Jesus' righteousness, the righteous one, the only righteous one, and trusts. That it's in his righteousness that you are justified. You become righteous, declared righteous in God's sight. Because we also take to heart what Paul said in Galatians chapter 3, verses 10 and 11. If we're under the works of the law, we're under a curse. In other words, if we're trying to be righteous by keeping God's law perfectly, we are under a curse. Why? Because we can't. We cannot. We cannot keep the law of God perfectly, continually, without fault. Cursed is every one. Galatians 3. 10 and following continues, that continueth continues not in all things that are written in the book of the law to do them. No man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident. The just live by faith. And the nature of that faith is to trust that Christ is our righteousness. So the person who is following after, the man of God who is one who is following after righteousness. He's following after, he is pursuing with vigor the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ. He rests there. He trusts in that righteousness. He trusts in that righteousness to be his righteousness before God. The second thing Paul says, follow after godliness. Godliness. Which I believe that when he is saying godliness, he is using that to describe what it would mean to be like God, not in his character, not in his being, but to be like God in his thoughts. And in his actions, in his understanding of who we are, to be like God in his attitudes, to have the same kinds of values that God has. With regard to other people and also with regard to ourself. In Matthew chapter 22, verse 37, we begin to read, we that's that familiar passage where one of the teachers comes To Jesus and said, What is the greatest commandment? And Jesus then tells him that the greatest commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, to love your neighbor as yourself. Those are those are that's godliness to have to to to believe that and to uh practice that. Ephesians chapter 5 verse 1 says, be followers of God as dear children, and walk in love See, be followers of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ hath loved us. and hath given himself as an offering and sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. How do we follow God? Paul is writing to Christians. He's writing to a church of believers. And he says, You want to be a follower of God? You want to be a man after God's own heart? Then walk in love, just like Christ loved us. Love others and love God. That's godliness. Then he adds another matter. Another thing that the man of God is to f is to is to follow after Faith. Faith. The man of God's life should be a life of faith. A life that demonstrates itself In believing that God is who he says he is, in repenting of your sins. and in believing that with the coming of Christ the kingdom of God has come. Faith is in God. It is not in yourself. Um faith in God for your very life, your very existence, your very salvation. You cannot put your faith in yourself for those things. Neither can you put them in any man. But you put your faith in God and you live a life of faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Without faith it is impossible to please God. For he that comes to God must believe that God is, and that he is a rewarder of them who diligently seek him. And then the man of God, even though I've just said this, and now he Paul goes on to say, he follows after love. He follows after love. O man of God, flee these things, the things of the world, the lusts of the flesh. And pursue righteousness. Follow after godliness. Pursue faith. Follow after love. And that of course is demonstrating that kind of uh love that is the sacrificial love, that's the word that's used, the agape, love uh God most Most of all, that you would obey him in all things and love your neighbor as yourself. Then he moves on to talk about following after patience following after patience. Patience is when we commit ourself to the Lord's ac to the Lord's action and trust in him and wait upon him for the Lord to do whatever he will do. Not do what we necessarily want him to do, but do what ultimately is best for us. We cannot always see that. We cannot always know that. Because we don't see the future. We see only right now. We see only at this moment. And we think that that's the most important thing in our life, what happens the next moment. But it may not be And if you live long enough and you see God answering prayers in your life Five, six, seven, twenty years from when you first asked for the prayer. You quite often will understand that it wouldn't have been a good thing for you to have had that prayer answered immediately. It's so much wonderful more wonderful thing to see how God answered the prayer in the way that really brought blessing to you and brought honor to his name. Patience. Wait upon the Lord. Remember the Isaiah forty passage. Those who wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings of eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. I know this is difficult because sometimes we have grievous needs. We have immediate needs. Sometimes it's a matter of whether we're going to eat that night or not. Sometimes it's a matter of whether uh we're going to be put to death for our faith. I mean we haven't even got to that point yet, but there are brothers and sisters who do. Will the Lord bring deliverance? Maybe, maybe not. But one thing's for sure: if you are a child of God, You're going to be with him, whatever happens. You're either going to be with him for the duration of the pain and suffering, or you're going to be him immediately in glory. Where there isn't any pain or suffering. Patience. And then finally, meekness Meekness or um um Or gentleness. Um I got to thinking that when it it talks about these things that the man of God pursues. Particularly when we get to love, patience, and meekness, those are three of the fruits of the Holy Spirit. The other part of that list are not fruits of the Holy Spirit, but but it seems to me to that we can suggest that Another way in which to understand being a man of God is to follow after the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives. To not resist the Holy Spirit, or the word that's used so often is the word quench the Holy Spirit's work, but to Do those things which indicate that we're listening to the Spirit, and that the Spirit is taking those areas of our life where we haven't yet quite matured enough. Um of course we We kinda always are maturing, but but we you know um the uh instead of instead of saying for example um I'm just an imperson. I'm just an impatient person. And that's who I am. And I'm not ever going to change That doesn't quite ring true. That sounds a little like quenching the spirit It doesn't sound like that person is open to letting God change the areas of a person's life where they're not really being in conformity with being in the image of God. After all, God is very patient with us. Not just with us as individuals over a long period of our life but just patient with human beings generally over the history of mankind's existence. God is long-suffering. And we ought to be thankful for that to be the case. But we seek the work of the Holy Spirit in our life, as I read earlier from Galatians. the fruit of the Holy Spirit. The person who is the man of God, who seeks after the things of God, who doesn't seek after the things of the world, is Asking for the Holy Spirit to come into His life and to bring about these fruits of the Spirit, ultimately so that God is more glorified through this person's witness than God would be if we continued to say that we are Christians and yet pursue the very things that might drown us the very lusts that might be a snare. Do you understand? The point That is, is that even with God's gifts to us, faith and righteousness and Christ and the ongoing help of the Holy Spirit We still have, as Christians, a job to do. And that job That job can be described in various ways. It can be described as it is in our text. flee the things that cause sin and pursue the things which are God's blessings and gifts to us in Christ. Go to war against the old lusts. It is a war It's not a game of trying to squirt each other with water pistols. Or squirt the old man with water pistols. This is combat. And you have to put on armor to fight. Because the devil is out there fighting all the time. The war involves fleeing from the enemy and pursuing the things that are eternal. Amen. I shouldn't have stopped there, but there there is there is one there is one thing you should link to what I just said, and that will be the sermon next week. Notice how verse 12 starts. Fight the good fight of faith. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, the Apostle Paul wrote these words to the Christian church, to those who are who are professed believers. He writes these things to us as well. And Lord, he is setting before us what it is, how it is that we should think and act as we live out this life as your servants. God grant us the grace to hear these commands embedded in verse 11 and to follow them. So that we not be drowned by our own lust, our own sinful lusts And instead, Lord, that we might be seated on high places with Christ. In His name we pray. Amen.