Amen. You turn your copies of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel. Well in chapter twenty this morning again I think you'll find that on page nine hundred and eighty one of your Pew Bibles. And we'll be again our reading here at verse sixteen. This is the very Word of God. And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them, See, We are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. And he will be raised on the third day. Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to him with her sons, and kneeling before him, she asked him for something. And he said to her, What do you want? She said to him, Say that these two sons of mine are to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left in your kingdom. Jesus answered, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink? They said to him, We are able He said to them, You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. And when the ten heard it, they were indignant at the two brothers. But Jesus called them to him and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them, it shall not be so among you But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be your slave. Even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, do we come to a passage which Read rightly will cut into our hearts deeply. So we ask, Lord God, that you would add to that Encouragement and grace. Grace from Christ. Help us, Lord. Pour out your grace upon us weak and frail sinners. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What are you striving for this morning? To be first or to be last If you remember the passage of scripture in 1 Samuel as God had anointed the first king of Israel, that was Saul. Saul seem to be striving to be first As the Lord had called him to punish Amalek for what he did to Israel, how he set himself against him on the way while Israel was coming out, meaning the Israelites coming out from Egypt. The Lord called him to strike Amalek and utterly destroy everything that he had. And as Saul goes out, he doesn't do that which the Lord had commanded. He spared some of the best of the cattle. He spared Amalek. And as Samuel comes, he asks, he asks Saul, why didn't you obey the voice of the Lord? Saul was fixed upon being first. He would not relinquish the crown to David and kept pursuing him so that he could Cling to the crown. Saul wanted to be and remain first. That's what he was striving after. Seems to be the question we need to ask ourselves this morning. It's presented to us by this passage. What are you striving for? We've been studying these few chapters in Matthew, beginning at verse, excuse me, chapter 18. And the theme since that point in time when the disciples were asking Jesus, who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom? The theme seems to be all about following Jesus and what that means. Who is the greatest? Jesus has been teaching the disciples what it means to follow him through these passages. He's told them to pluck out their eyes if their eyes cause them to sin, a way of following Jesus. He's engaged with the rich young ruler who desired eternal life but was not willing to give up his possessions, his great wealth So that he could then follow Jesus. We have looked at the vineyard parable Which was given to the disciples, as Peter said to Jesus, We've given up everything. What are we going to have? Jesus was giving them the truth that the first shall be last and the last shall be first, and then that's what constitutes in part following Jesus But the questions continue. In our passage this morning, we have the mother of James and John coming to Jesus. And asking that question once again, what about me? What about my sons? Let them sit at your right and your left. And this provides Jesus with another opportunity to teach. To show them their me inclination, another opportunity to teach them about following and what that means. But having a position in the kingdom of God is a position to serve others. And that in order to serve you must actually first deny yourself. We might sum up the teachings here in this passage this way, very simply, Jesus calls his followers to strive to be last. Jesus calls his followers to strive to be last. And we'll see three doctrines or three points. Under that, first is the pride of life overshadows Jesus. Secondly, the new birth enables a vision of the kingdom. And finally, the cross leads to self-denying service. As we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourself, what am I striving for? To be first or to be last? Well, first the pride of life overshadows Jesus. Well, I forgot to read it, but it was there, and I should have read it. And this passage in fact begins with Verse 16, so the last will be first, and the first last. It seems to be the end of the last passage, but I think it also is the beginning of this passage. And this is the second time that Jesus has used these words, so they must be important. And it must have been something which the disciples hadn't yet grasped Something in the hearts of his disciples needed amendment, changing. And so Jesus follows that statement, the last will be first and the first last with his foretold suffering. He's going up to the Jerusalem, he's taking the twelve with him, and he tells them, The Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him, deliver him over to the Gentiles, to be mocked, flogged, and crucified And he will be raised on the third day. Seems out of place. Why here? It's odd. It doesn't seem connected. But it is in exactly the right place. And it forms the basis or the foundation of this entire passage. We'll come back to it. But first we want to talk about this question. This question that the mother of James and John, they are the sons of Zebedee, by the way. Uh they sh they go to her to to Jesus with the spokesperson as their mother She asked him for something. This all comes on the heels of what Jesus has just said about his suffering. It's an interesting action or question that's asked right on the heels of Jesus saying, I'm going to suffer. And so she comes and asks him for something and he says to her, What did do you want? And that's a really important question. What do you want? And so now she pours out his heart. Indeed, as she asks this of Jesus, there are a couple of things going on in her heart as well as the heart of James and John, because they're together. They're they're together with her. And so Jesus' initial response indicates as much that there is something wrong in their hearts. A foundational misunderstanding and a deeply rooted problem. You do not know what you're asking. There's a failure. A failure to understand and grasp who Jesus was and is And it's because they fail to understand who Jesus was and is that they actually ask this question. Because if they actually did know Jesus truly as the God man, this question would not have come from their mouths. For what does this question assume? To be able to sit at the right and left of Jesus assumes that they were very near to Jesus. Not in a physical sense, but in a spiritual sense. That they could hold the seat, the seats which were right next to him. Is that not in part why Jesus responds, are you able to drink the cup that I shall drink? See, their answer indicates that they believe they could, that they were so much like Jesus that they could be second and third in line for the throne. Yes, we can drink your cup. Yeah, we we can sit right next to you. You see, they failed to understand that Jesus wasn't in the is the Son of God. The question failed to grasp that Jesus was already crowned King of Kings and Lord of Lords. The question failed to understand that Jesus already had been given all authority in heaven and on earth This question did not appreciate that they were speaking to the very Son, the only eternally begotten Son, Son of the Divine Creator, the living God. And thus God Himself. Do you see, if at this point in time they really understood and believed and grasped that truth that Jesus was the Son of God, They could never have asked this question to begin with. See, and when you don't think highly of Jesus Christ, The result is that you think highly of yourself. And that's the second problem, isn't it? As they fail to grasp, truly grasp who Jesus was and is, they raise themselves up. Their personal significance, their personal importance becomes so high. Say that these two sons of mine are to sit, one at your right, one at your left in your kingdom. And their self-confidence was off the charts. Are you able to drink the cup that I'm to drink? Yes. How important were they? How significant were James and John? Because they thought so little of Jesus. They thought so highly of themselves. You see, the disciples' pride was on display again, wasn't it? And this was becoming a constant and consistent theme Remember, Jesus had just told them all for the second time that he must suffer, be condemned by the chief priests, die a wretched death at the hands of the Gentiles. Did anyone actually hear his words? The second time? What kept them from hearing, truly hearing Jesus? What stopped up their ears, so to speak? Why were they not reacting to these incredible, surprising, and radical words of Jesus? Seemingly their pride had overshadowed. and placed a veil on the very words of Christ. There was a curtain that had been drawn, as the disciples really had no desire to consider more deeply the events to come. No, what the disciples sought to know is how they might be exalted as Jesus ushered in his kingdom. From their perspective, that was following Jesus. Isn't that what we do? Isn't that how our remaining pride seeks to move us? Not to exalt Jesus But to seek exaltation for ourselves? In Adam's fall from grace, he thought highly of himself. He allowed his pride to govern his once pure actions. And like it or not, Adam has passed this pride along to you and to me. We think highly of ourselves because we do not think highly as we ought of Jesus. And when we do, we draw ourselves away from that which Jesus is calling us to as His followers Throughout this passage and the preceding ones, Jesus has been teaching his disciples what it means to follow him. He's been setting forth this path before the disciples. So that they would know when he had ascended what it meant to follow him. But once again we see the disciples were inclined to a different path. A path that they thought led to personal gain and esteem of men. And so throughout this series, we've been asking, or at least thinking, about what is it to follow Jesus? Today the call to Christians is to set your heart and eyes solely upon Christ. to know his majesty, to know his purity, to know his love for his father, to recognize his greatness and his goodness, to be moved by his righteousness and his justice. Then your eyes will be off yourself. Then you will follow not because of what following does for you. Not because by it you will earn a particular standing or a position. Not because you're striving to be first. For you will not earn anything but following Jesus only because of who he is. And thus your desire to exalt him. Brings us to our second point. The new birth enables a vision of the kingdom. As the disciples here once again approached Jesus, they were thinking of the power and worldly rule. That would make up the kingdom. Jesus' kingdom. That was their thought. That was their mistake. And Jesus needed to explain to them. You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them, but it shall not be among you Whoever will be great among you must be your servant. That was a radical idea. But Jesus knew their hearts. He knew that they were inclined to the Gentile way, the Gentile kingdom. And so he calls attention to this great contrast between the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of men. The disciples' knowledge, their perception of the kingdom wasn't right. It wasn't even close. Our knowledge of the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven is very limited. And this passage, amongst all the others here in Matthew's gospel, demonstrates that so powerfully because Jesus continues to teach on the kingdom of heaven. He's preaching, he's revealing God, and he's ultimately revealing the kingdom of heaven. For even these disciples, maybe especially these disciples, had really no idea of the kingdom of heaven. Even Nicodemus, remember that passage in John's Gospel, John chapter 3, as Jesus responds to Nicodemus' statement, we know that you've come from God. And Jesus said, you can't even see the kingdom of God unless you've been born again. And so these disciples were neighbors. They were spiritual neighbors of Nicodemus. Because they couldn't see the kingdom at this point either. James and John and their mother were looking for a worldly kingdom. That's evident. As she asks for them to sit at his right and his left And these three, their mother and her sons, along with all the disciples, because they were just representing the entire group that day. They were considering Jesus' kingdom, the kingdom of heaven to be just like the worldly kingdoms that they were familiar with. They were not looking for a single kingdom. Inhabited and ruled by the divine one, a triune God, Father, Son, and Spirit. They were accustomed to thinking of multiple kingdoms or nations and countries ruled individually by this king or this governor or that man. Each one having its own jurisdiction and realm and authority, each one self-governed. But is the kingdom of heaven? The new heaven and the new earth are ushered in. There will only be one kingdom and one ruler. The Lord Jesus Christ. But in the disciples' context Their question was self-centered, but it was understandably so Because these disciples had been taught so long by Nicodemus and the other Pharisees and scribes who had lost the idea or the truth of the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven. Their traditions, their teachings have become man-centered, no longer fixed upon God and his Messiah, but trained to think of worldly things, not setting the heart and mind upon the things above. And so Jesus was busy redirecting the hearts of the disciples. Their hearts went astray in the Garden of Eden. As Adam and Eve took their eyes and hearts off of God and set them upon themselves, these disciples, inheriting the same heart inclination, had been trained and encouraged to take their eyes off of God and onto his creation. So they asked, who's the greatest? Can I sit at your right and your left? All man centered? Jesus was redirecting them. Back to the Lord of creation. By his simple response, to sit at my right hand and my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it's been prepared. By my Father. See, Jesus was getting them to say, no, no, no, you don't understand. You don't understand. It's God who rules. Not men. And that's what Jesus has been teaching about. He's been teaching about the God of creation. who he was seeking to train the disciples' eyes and hearts upon. And to do that, these disciples needed that new birth. They needed a new heart. They needed a heart which was not set upon themselves and upon their significance, their personal significance and their personal importance and their striving to be first. But upon God. They needed a heart to give them eyes to see the kingdom, to know the kingdom, to know the king, to know the maker. For the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God is founded and centered upon God. The kingdom of heaven exists because God is, and he inhabits it. Everything in the kingdom of heaven is fixed and focused upon the Creator, the maker of all things, the one who is life itself. It's just as Isaiah walks into the throne room. What's he see? He sees the Lord seated upon the throne. That's his first vision. And the train of his robe fills everything. And the seraphim flying about him crying, holy, holy, holy, God is at the center. And that's what Jesus was getting the disciples to see And those who inhabit the kingdom of heaven See the one who is at the center. And the kingdom is thus defined by the attributes of the Father and the Son and the Spirit, their being and their love for one another. For they fill the kingdom. The kingdom of heaven is holy because God is holy. And the kingdom of heaven is filled with mercy and grace because that is who He is. It's void of sin. It's void of transgression. The kingdom of heaven is overflowing with knowledge and wisdom because of the triune God. The kingdom of heaven is populated by those whose soul desire and thought and act is to do the will of the Father. So the kingdom of heaven is pure and beautiful and majestic and altogether beautiful and lovely because of the Father and the Son and the Spirit. That's what Jesus is trying to get his disciples to see How important are you? Seems to be the question we need to ask ourselves. The question that's presented to us in this passage, how how important are you? And you see that question can only be answered, truly answered. Once you're able to see the kingdom of heaven, once you know the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, then you can answer. Because then you see yourself as you truly are before a holy, holy, holy God. It's a critical question. And one that's ultimately connected to your salvation in Christ. How important am I? That brings us to our third point. The cross leads to self-denying service. There's a critical failure in that question that was being asked. We actually miss the serious nature of this passage if we don't grasp what's actually going on. As Christ tells them about his suffering, the suffering to come, and then as he ends this passage by saying, whoever would be first among you must be your slave, Uh we might just take this as a misunderstanding of what he was saying, and they just didn't grasp it, they didn't get it But it goes deeper. They certainly misunderstood. They certainly didn't put much thought into what he was saying, but that's not the root of their failure. As Jesus has already said, many who are first will be last, the last first, as he said, the last will be first, and the first will be last. It seems to have gone in one ear and out the other. And Jesus says it once again, whoever would be first must be your slave. It's a failure within the hearts of the disciples And this failure wasn't that which arose on that day. It was something that they inherited from Adam. It's part of Adam's corruption. And it was their unwillingness or outright rejection of the call to deny yourself. We read that in chapter 16 of Matthew's gospel. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. You see, to follow Jesus requires self-denial. And that seems to be at the foundation of Jesus' teaching, and that's what he's trying to uncover in this passage in the hearts of his disciples. The self-centered hearts of his disciples, because they had no real desire to serve in the way that Jesus was calling them to serve. It began with that question, who's the greatest? And it continued with the rich young ruler who is unwilling and not desirous of serving. He wasn't desirous of denying himself. Sell all your possessions, give to the poor, follow me. What Jesus called the rich young ruler too was self-denial before he could follow him. And the disciples responded by saying, Well, we've done that, and the question is, well, have you really? See, it's only when you deny yourself in the way that Jesus speaks of that you can begin to serve others that you can begin to follow Jesus. The rich young ruler was called to first deny himself before before he could follow Jesus. You cannot truly serve another when your primary concern is yourself. And that's the connection. That's the connection of Jesus telling his disciples he would suffer. And die a wretched death. That's the connection of that to our passage today. Jesus was taking the disciples up to Jerusalem, but before they could truly follow, they needed to deny themselves. See, how is it that Jesus could go to the cross and die for others if his concern was primarily for himself? The answer is he couldn't. And the answer is before Jesus laid down his life, he had to give it up in his heart and in his mind. You see, that's exactly what Jesus was asking for in the Garden of Gethsemane. As he prayed to his father three times, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. But not as I will, but as you will. See, Jesus needed the help of the Spirit To die to himself before he could go to the cross And once he did, he was able to follow the will of his father and headed immediately to the cross. So how are you striving? How are you striving this morning? Are you striving to be first? Or are you striving to be last? You may be asking yourself even now, how can I strive to be last? It's against my nature and Adam. And that's right, it is. But Jesus actually gives us the answer. Right in this passage Because this passage begins with Jesus' foretelling of his own suffering. See, he was first and is first In the eyes of his father. This is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. He's the only one who's beloved in this way, the only one who's ever who that has ever been said of. He's the first son. The only one whom the Father has loved so deeply, so eternally, so infinitely, which is beyond our ability to grasp. And he's also the last, isn't he? The one who was hated by all. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. We esteemed him not. Jesus would be the one who would have the crown of thorns placed upon his head, who would be mocked. who would be crucified. And by reminding the disciples of the suffering that he was about to endure, Jesus was saying, this is what it is to be first. and last. This is what it is to serve with all that you've been given And Jesus was saying, keep these words before you, always. Saying, this is how you strive to be last. Remember his suffering. Remember how Jesus served you. Remember how Jesus, the first son, the first in all things, became last. So that believing sinners, the truly last, could become first. If you're trusting in Jesus Christ this morning, that is how you strive to be last. By remembering Jesus, remembering his suffering for you. Remembering the truth, the amazing truth, that he gave up everything. He denied himself everything. To go to the cross and save you. This is how important you are In the eyes of the Father and the Son and the Spirit, as Jesus calls his followers to strive to be last. King Saul was striving to maintain his position as first. By the work of the Spirit in your hearts, even this morning, He's calling you to remember the Sun. The one who gave up everything for you. The first one who became last so that you could be first. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, we are so very thankful for Christ. We are such a wretched group. And yet, Father, because of who Jesus is, because of what Jesus has done. You've made us first. And so help us, Lord. Help us to live our lives in this place until Jesus returns as those who are striving to be last. Help us to remember Christ. Help us to keep Christ before us. Help us to set our minds upon the things above. And help us, Lord. Help us to strive