If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel once again Be in Matthew chapter 20. I think that's on page 981 of your few Bibles. We'll be at the end of this chapter this morning. Matthew twenty Beginning at verse 29, let's give attention once again to the very Word of God. And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him. And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside. When they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David! The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent. But they cried out all the more, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David! And stopping, Jesus called them and said, What do you want me to do for you? They said to him, Lord, let our eyes be opened. And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight and followed him. Let's find the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Uh our Father and our God, as we read of this historical account, help us not to get lost. Help us not to miss Jesus' teaching. Holy Spirit, we pray lead and guide us to what you would have us to learn this morning and plant it deeply within our hearts. That we might be more like Jesus, that we might be so desirous of following Christ. That we would run after him. Help us, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What is it that you want this morning? What is your heart set upon? Earlier this morning we read a a portion of that passage in Genesis regarding The destruction of Sodom. And they had interaction between Lot and the angels who were about to destroy the city, and they were told to leave, lest they be swept away in the punishment of that city, for the cry of the city had come up to the Lord, and he knew of the sin That had plagued that city, and so now he sent angels to destroy it, and before he did, he communicated to Lot And one of them said, do not look back or stop anywhere. Escape to the hills lest you be swept away. And as we read the story this morning of the account, we understand that Lot and his daughters make it to the city. In fact, they all seem to make it to the city. The city where life was, but Lot's wife turned back. She looked. She became a pillar of salt. What was it that Lot's wife wanted? Where was her heart? What was her heart set upon? What did she seek to follow? She looked back. She desired, indeed, to go back to the city of destruction. As opposed to staying in the city of life. George Marsden wrote a book recently, and he writes this, one's salvation depends not on what we do, but rather on God first opening our eyes. To see God's perfect beauty and love, so as to reorient our love and our actions. Lot's wife's eyes were not open to see the beauty of God. And so she looks back. In a sense, that's what Jesus is teaching about this morning as we get to the end of chapter 20. As we've gone through these few chapters in Matthew, we've been seeing that the underlying theme is all about following Jesus Christ. It begins in chapter 18 as the disciples come to Jesus and ask, who's the greatest in the kingdom? I don't know that they were all about following Jesus at that point. We know of the rich young ruler who comes to Jesus and asks, What can he do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus gives him the answer and at the end it's it's the call to follow him and And he had no desire to do that because his eyes were fixed not upon Jesus, but upon the world and his wealth. The mother of James and John come to Jesus. And while she speaks of the kingdom, She desires her sons to sit one on the right and one on the left. And it didn't seem at that point in time that she wanted to follow Jesus or that her sons indeed were following Jesus because they just didn't grasp why Jesus had come. And so that's the backdrop to our passage this morning. And it continues with that theme of following Jesus. Here in our passage You see, it really begins at verse 18 of Matthew's gospel in chapter 20 as Jesus tells his disciples, see, we're going up to Jerusalem. That's the context. They were now on their way up He set his sights now for the city of David, the city where the living God has placed his name, and thus he leaves Jericho, the city of destruction. And on his way, we hear this cry from these two on the roadside, two blind men. Mark's gospel records one, Luke's gospel records one as well. It doesn't mean there's a conflict in the Gospels. It just means that these men were writing from different perspectives But we know these blind men cry out to Jesus Christ here in Matthew's gospel. Two of them are recorded, sitting by the roadside. They cry out, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David, and they were rebuked. The crowds that were following Jesus tell them to be silent. And yet that causes them to cry out even more in the same way, Lord have mercy on us, son of David. And what happens? But Jesus stops. And he gives his attention, seemingly his full attention, to these two who are crying out to him, these blind men, he calls them. He doesn't listen to the crowd. And he has compassion. He has compassion on these men. The ESV records it as pity. The NASB records it as compassion. We know what that is. He stops. And he asks them, what do you want me to do for you? And we know the account. Jesus supernaturally opens their eyes. And now they can see in what happens as a result of their sight. They follow Jesus. They follow Jesus to the city of God, to the city of Jerusalem, to the place where God has set his name. We might sum up this teaching here with this, the eyes of your heart must be opened to follow Jesus to the city of life. The eyes of your heart must be opened to follow Jesus to the city of life. And as we go through this passage this morning, I want us to see at least three three doctrines or three truths. First, the blind know their need of the Son. Secondly, the Son works to satisfy the needs of his people, and then finally, the seeing follow the Son immediately. As we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question as we go through it. What do I want? What do I want even this morning? Well, first, the blind know their need of the Son. To know that you need Jesus Is first to know yourself and thus your need. And secondly, to know Jesus as the one, the only one. That can satisfy that need. Notice I don't I did not say desire. To know what you need Here it appears that these two blind men satisfy both of those criteria. They knew their need. You might say that's fairly obvious. Yes, it was. They were blind. And they knew that they were blind. And so for these two, what they needed was open, it was outward, it was obvious, and without question. They needed sight. They needed to see. Their eyesight needed to be restored. And they knew Jesus as one who could satisfy that need. You might be saying, well, how? How do they know Jesus? How do they know Jesus in that way? Consider how they address Jesus. Remember, they're blind. Now the crowd is passing by. These two blind men were sitting at the roadside They hear Jesus is passing by, and they say, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David. And as the crowd rebukes them, they cry it out once again, they really knew Jesus this way, with these titles, Lord and Son of David. The Pharisees would confess later on in Matthew's gospel, as Jesus asks them the question, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And the Pharisees said to him, the son of David. So the Pharisees equate the Messiah, the Christ, with the Son of David It seems to be exactly what the blind men are doing. This is the third instance in Matthew's Gospel where human beings use that title for Jesus, the first two Come in Matthew 9 with two blind men, another another couple of blind men, and the third is in Matthew 15 with the Canaanite women, all those who we would think would be outside of the kingdom. Confessing Jesus as the Son of God. Now you must ask the question, how do they know this? How do they recognize this? Well, it wasn't a physical recognition, they were blind. It's not that they looked on him and saw that, hey, his features look like King David. They wouldn't have known. What King David looked like, other than that he was ruddy, he had beautiful eyes, and he was handsome. And he was a warrior. No, they couldn't see the physical features of Jesus and couldn't use those to equate him to David or to make him that way in David's son. They couldn't look upon him and determine that he was of royal blood. Even if they could have looked upon him, what would they have seen? He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. Isaiah 53. Indeed, they could not have witnessed with their eyes any of the miracles or supernatural acts that Jesus had performed. So this proclamation, Lord, Son of David, comes from the heart. This confession, this belief, this trust, it comes from the eyes of the heart. It's the same thing that Jesus spoke to Peter after Peter confessed him as being the Christ. For flesh and blood is not revealed this to you, but my Father who's from heaven. These men knew and believed as their hearts had been changed. All this the work of the Spirit of God. So what is this? This confession? Son of David. What did they know? In order to understand this confession, this title that was given, we've got to go back to 2 Samuel. Where now David is on the throne, and Nathan the prophet comes to him. And Nathan shares with him what has been revealed to him by the Lord. He declares that the Lord will make David a house. Remember, David was the one who wanted to build the house of the Lord. And the Lord said, No, you're a warrior, you've shed much blood. I'm going to let your sons do that, but I'm going to build your house. And now the Lord explains to David what that means, that the Lord's going to build his house. He said, I will raise up your offspring after you. I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name. I will build establish a throne of his kingdom forever. My steadfast love will not depart from him, and your house, your kingdom, shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. And so the son of David would be the one who would sit on the eternal throne that God would establish. This is the one who's promised. Well, we know that David had sons, he had grandsons, he had great-grandsons, all sat on the physical thrones of Israel and Judah. But there came a time when there was no throne. When Israel, when Judah was overrun, that the people had rebelled against God, they were taken into exile, and so the throne is gone. Far away. Far away from God. Far away from the temple which was destroyed. Far away from a physical earthly throne. But yet God's promise remained. God covenanted that there would be an eternal throne and a son of David who would sit on that throne. And so now a thousand years or so have passed by after David is in the grave, and these two men recognize and acknowledge and confess and believe that this one, this Jesus of Nazareth Nazareth was indeed the son of David come to sit on the eternal throne. They knew him as this one. They were calling out to him as their king. They were calling out to him as the one who rules all things. The one who had already ascended, so to speak, to the throne. Isn't that what Jesus says? As John records it in his gospel, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and they had come from God, and he was going back At that very moment, he ruled and reigned over all creations, the heavens and the earth, and these men, knowing that Jesus had the power of the King of the heavens and earth, call out in their need. And they call out in submission, don't they? If they're calling out to him as their king, son of David, they're also calling out Not only to the one who could accomplish and satisfy their need, but they're calling out in submission, knowing that he would be righteous and pure and perfect and just and a loving king. Knowing that he would be the one who would pour out mercy. And so they knew him. They knew him as their benevolent and loving king, as the one who could satisfy their need. Do you know Jesus that way this morning? Do you know your need? We all have needs. I'm talking about your spiritual need. What are you struggling with? What sin? What is it that seems to capture you that you need to be freed from? Do you know it? And do you know the one who can satisfy your need to be freed from that? For you will never cry out to Jesus like these blind men did, unless you know your need. And you know him as the one who can satisfy that need. The sun works to satisfy the needs of his people Now consider these blind men as they cry out to Jesus, calling him Lord, Son of David, asking for mercy. What happens next? The crowd rebukes them, telling them to be silent. This was not just one voice, this was not just one person, but there was a crowd with Jesus, maybe surrounding him, maybe before him, maybe after him, I'm not quite sure. But the entire crowd rebukes him. With one voice. One voice of the many, all speaking, all rebuking in the same way. Stop your crying out. Stop your calls for mercy. Stop speaking to this one whom we are following. Why this rebuke? Why these strong words seeking to silence these two helpless, poor, suffering men? Why would they call for silence? Why do they do it in such strong terms? Rebuke is a strong word to use. In this context, it seems that these men were the least. among the crowds, among the peoples. At least that's how the crowd viewed them. Remember how this passage flows. Who's the greatest in the kingdom? Let my son sit on your right and left. There was a self-importance about the disciples, and we can imagine that that kind of pervades the crowd The crowd thought much of themselves, and likely they thought little of these men who were blind, thinking of them as the least. Poor beggars. That's the way Mark and Luke put it in their gospels. Bartimaeus was identified as a poor beggar who had no ability to earn a living because his eyesight wasn't with him. Indeed, there was the idea that because someone was blind, they had sinned against God in a particular way, and this was God's punishment upon them. And so not only poor, not only unable to care for themselves, but sinners, the least among us. Not deserving anything from Jesus. And so the crowd had no desire to satisfy the needs of these blind men. But Jesus did. And so once again, just like the children who he calls to himself and who Jesus rebuked those who would keep the children from him. He rebukes the rebukers in this case. You see, one way in which Jesus works to satisfy the needs of his people is to rebuke the rebukers. And he does it here. And he does it here by stopping. Do you see that in verse thirty-two? And stopping. Don't miss that. Where's Jesus going? His father has given him a call, a mission. Go! Go be crucified. Right? Save a people for me. That's what he's going to do. That's why he's headed to Jerusalem. But Jesus stops. The crowd wants him to go. We're following Jesus. We're going up to the city, right? But Jesus stops. Something that the crowd is not wanting him to do, and in doing that he rebukes the rebukers. These poor beggars, these blind, these helpless, these ones seeking mercy, these faithful, yes, these sinners. were worth stopping for. Consider that, what a picture. Jesus, the Son of God. Son David, the king stops He calls these two poor, begging, blind sinners to himself. See, Jesus was waiting upon them now because he came to serve them. Have you considered that? That Jesus didn't come for the righteous? Say, yeah, we know that. No, no, no. He came for the lame. He came for the prisoners. He came for the blind. He came for the prostitutes. He came to bind up the brokenhearted. He came for the poor. He came for the captives. He came to save The the layman gather the outcast, that's who he came for. He came for the sick, the dying. He came for those who who knew they were unable to pull themselves out of the pit, even the grave that their sin had cast them into. This is why Jesus came This is who Jesus came for. He came to satisfy with his person and his works the needs of these. And it must have been a shock to the crowd. Is it a shock to you this morning? That Jesus calls the blind, the lame, the wretched sinner to himself, that he was sent to open the prison doors, to heal, to truly heal the hearts, the broken hearts of those who would ultimately trust in him Just like these blind men who called out in faith, this is who Jesus came for, the ones who have been made willing by the work of the Spirit, willing and able to follow him. Is that surprising? And if you're thinking, no, well maybe then you're following Jesus already. Praise God. But if you are, then how are you loving the least of these? As Jesus did. The crowd wanted to place these blind men in a soundproof box far away from Jesus. It didn't understand that the ministry was to the least of these So to follow Jesus, you must have your eyes opened, your heart must be opened so that you can and will desire to minister to the blind, the sick, the helpless, the poor. Those who know they need help but just aren't sure who is going to give it to them. Will you? Will you minister to the least? That kind of ministry requires a humble and contrite heart. Have you prayed for that? So Jesus calls and asks them, what do you want? He's the satisfier, isn't he? The answer of these two blind men seems fairly obvious and natural. We want our sight. We want you, Jesus, the Son of David, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the creator of all things, to restore our sight which was lost at the fall. Now, I don't know that they were saying that. That's where it was lost, wasn't it? You see, Adam and Eve had been created very good, meaning they were pure and innocent and holy, righteous, and all their body parts worked, just as the Lord had designed them and made them to work perfectly. Their sight was perfect, no contact, no eyeglasses, no laser surgery. But then they fell. They sinned against God, and then they earned their wages. The earth was cursed. There would be pain and childbirth, there would be toil and sweat and labor, there would be illness and sickness and death and deformity and blindness. And so while these men were asking for their sight, they were really asking, in theological terms, for restoration. They were asking the curse, that the curse would be reversed as far as their sight was concerned. They were asking that the effect of their sins would no longer be the lack of sight. You see the connection between their sin and their request? They wanted to see, but in order for them to see, there had to be a reversal. There had to be this cleansing. There had to be this forgiveness such that restoration could take place. For without this washing and cleansing of sin, there can be no restoration. There can be no return to that which was before the fall, and Jesus does what they ask He restores them. And so in all of that, there's this picture of forgiveness of sins. There's this picture of bringing them back. And so he works to satisfy the needs of his people. What do you want? It's such a deep question, isn't it? What do you want to ask the king What do you want to ask the one who is able to give you all that he desires for you? What do you want? You can't miss the repetition of this important question because it's the same question that he asked of John and James's mother as she approaches. What do you want? Do you see that was what was set before these blind men? They sat just outside the city of destruction, which we'll talk about in a moment, Jericho. There was nothing for them there but death. And Jesus was headed to the city of life. The cross and the tomb, and the satisfaction of the wrath of God What do you want? What do you need? Cleansing. That's what you need. That's what I need You need forgiveness so that you can follow Jesus Christ. Brings us to our third point, the seeing follow the sun immediately. So let's talk about that path from Jericho to Jerusalem. You know that Jericho was utterly destroyed as the Israelites now cross the Jordan. They move into the promised land, the first city that they now attack and destroy is Jericho. And as we read The gospel, the truths of God's word, we read in Joshua that they utterly destroyed everything in the city Everything. Well, you know the story about marching around the walls and the walls falling in, but the details are here. They utterly destroyed everything in it And Joshua made them take an oath, saying, Cursed before the Lord is the man who rises up and builds the city Jericho. The first city of destruction in the promised land. That seems to be what Jericho was representing. Somebody did rebuild it at the cost of their sons. But it was and had that symbol, that type of being the city of destruction, a city of death. And Jesus was leaving that. Because he was on his way to grant life. He was on his way to Jerusalem, that place where God had set his name, a temple that had been built. which was his dwelling place among the people of God. He was headed there to cleanse the temple first and then to to bring about true life as he went to the cross and and defeated sin and death in the tomb. That's where he's headed. From the city of destruction to the city of life, to the city of the living God. From death to life. That's the path that he was on. And he was leading others to take it out of destruction to paradise. But they needed sight. Marsden writes, being given eyes to see the light is after all a metaphor for having one's heart open to recognize the beauty of God's love in Christ. She to follow Jesus, you need that sight, don't you? So what happened? What really happened in the fall? You'd say, well, disobedience, yes, of course. It was an act, a multiple acts of sin against the living God. It certainly was, but the real question is: what happened in Adam's heart? That he could indeed sin against God? What was it that worked in a sinless heart, a pure and innocent, a holy heart, that led Adam to break God's heart, so to speak, to break his perfect law and strive against the one who made him? What was it? We may never have a complete picture to answer that question, but we can say at this point, given this text, with confidence that the eyes of Adam's heart somehow became blind to the beauty, the holiness, the love, the righteousness of his Heavenly Father. Indeed, to his only Father. Somehow Adam became blind to the goodness, the purity, the centrality of life in in God. And he replaced that sight with a vision with eyes for the creation. In Adam's eyesight, the creation became the thing to strive after as opposed to the creator. Somehow Adam's eyes were shifted off of the living God, and he became, in a sense, blind to his father. And now his eyes were only for the creation, for the things that God had made, including his dear wife. Adam made himself blind to the God the Father, and now it opened his wide eyes only for the good things, yet the subordinate things, of creation. so that he no longer followed the will of his heavenly father. For Adam no longer saw the Father truly He needed sight after he fell. You need sight. Nicodemus needed sight. Jesus told him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And so these two blind men could not follow Jesus without this supernatural work, without his restorative work, upon their physical eyesight. They didn't know the pathway from the city of destruction to the city of life. They needed someone to lead them. And they desired to go to the city of life. And they knew that this one, Jesus, the Son of David, was able to take them in. See, just like these two men, we were born blind with regard to our spiritual direction. In Adam, our hearts are blind to that which is good and right and pure and godly. Indeed, in our corruption, we have no desire to follow Jesus, even look for Jesus. But once you're given sight Once you have your heart changed, once you have that new birth, you're given eyes to see. You're given spiritual eyes to see. You can follow. And you're able to answer that question, aren't you? That Jesus was asking, what do you want? Lot lingered. Yes, his wife looked back, but Lot lingered as he was being led. So much so that the angels had to take his hand along with his wife and his daughters and pull them out What do you want? You see, those who've been given sight can't wait to follow Jesus immediately Do you want to follow him? Have you asked? If you're here this morning and you're saying, no, that's really not my desire, and the question is, have you asked for that sight? Have you asked for that sight to see Jesus? To see him in all his beauty, as the one who is compassionate and merciful and loving. So loving that even as you cry out to him, he stops. Even though he's He's King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He's seated at his Father's right hand. He is sustaining, he's upholding this entire universe. But at the same time, he can look down upon you and stop. And listen to your cry. So if that's you this morning, if if you have no desire to follow Jesus this morning, if you're stuck in your sins, if you're Clinging to your sins, then here's the text this morning it says, Cry out to Jesus But he'll break you from that sin pattern, that love of sin, and turn it completely around that you'll have eyes for him. But you can see all of his beauty. And then follow him immediately. Yes, the eyes of your heart must be opened by Jesus to follow him to the city of life. Lot hesitated, but his wife turned back. She looked back. Her eyesight was blinded to the beauty of Christ. Brothers and sisters, what a joy we have set before us this morning. If you have eyes for Christ, that you've been given eyes to see his beauty, his loveliness, he's calling you now. Immediately to follow him. Praise be to God. Amen. Heavenly Father, we're weak, we're frail, we're sinners. We need the Spirit's work and help. Father, some of us are backsliding, some of us where God loved Jesus, but yet don't have, Father, true spiritual eyes yet. And so we ask, Father, that you'd continue to open our eyes to the loveliness of Christ. And then, Father, each of us here Couldn't wait to follow Jesus. Just like these blind men Take us, Lord God, from the city of destruction, from the city of death, and help us to follow Jesus into the city of life. Grant us this Holy Spirit. We ask this in his presence.