You turn in your copy of God's Word now. Back to Matthew. Be in chapter 19 and 20 this morning. I believe that's on page 980 of your pew Bibles. Matthew nineteen. We'll start this morning at verse twenty-three for context. Rich young ruler has just departed. And Jesus is now speaking with his disciples. And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven. Again, I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? But Jesus looked at them and said, With man this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible. And Peter said in reply, see, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have? Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, in the New World, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for my name's sake will receive a hundredfold and will inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. But the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard. And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace and said to them, You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you. So they went. Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, he did the same. And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing. And he said to them, Why do you stand here idle all day? He said to him, Because no one has hired us. He said to them, You go into the vineyard too. And when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last up to the first. And when those hired about the 11th hour came, each of them received a denarius. Now, when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more. But each of them also received a denarius. And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house, saying, These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day in the scorching heat. But he replied to one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you. Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity? So the last will be first, and the first last. A strong reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God. There are passages in Scripture, in your word, which tend to cut deeply into our hearts. This seems to be one of them. And so we ask now, Lord, that you would indeed, by and through your Holy Spirit, work powerfully in our hearts this day. That you would help me, in fact, to decrease, and that Jesus would increase We ask all this in his precious name. Amen. What is it that you deserve? Do you think about that? Do you think about that often? What do I deserve? Earlier this morning we read from Ruth And as you remember that passage, you remember that Ruth had lost her husband as well as Naomi, and she goes with Naomi back from Moab to Judah. And we find an interesting thing with regard to Ruth's mindset, her attitude. As she's going out to glean in the vineyard in the grain fields. And she enters into Boaz's field And she hears the favor that he has upon her, calling her to remain in his field to glean after the reapers and His field, not to go into any other field, but to stay in his field, she asks this question, why have I found favor in your eyes? But you should take notice of me, since I'm a foreigner. You see, Ruth had no expectation of being favored. She was an outsider. She was not from Judah She returned and went to Judah with Naomi without expecting to be received in such a way. She went as an unexpectant, humble servant, only seeking a bit of food, not expecting life It seems to be that which leads us to our passage this morning in Matthew's gospel. As the Lord Jesus Christ continues to teach about the kingdom of heaven, even as the disciples had asked, who's going to be the greatest? And Jesus continues teaching, continues probing their minds and hearts As they've asked that question. He calls them to be like children, unexpectant children. And now as we continue our study in this gospel, we've seen the rich young ruler who has come to Jesus in search of eternal life. And as Jesus gives him the plan to sell everything and follow me, we see that he goes away sorrowful because of his possessions. And even as we read earlier, Jesus stated the truth that it's only with difficulty that a rich person would enter the kingdom of God. And as the disciples ask that question, who can be saved? He tells them that it's impossible with men, but it's possible with God. And so that leads us to our text this morning. As Peter now follows Jesus' explanation. Seemingly ignoring or discounting Jesus' statements and tells him quite boldly, we've left everything and followed you. What then will we have? And then Jesus follows it with the description of eternal life, that you'll sit on twelve thrones, you'll judge the tribes of Israel, and that if you've left your house, or your brother, your sister, your mother, your father, or children, or lands, for my sake, you'll receive a hundredfold Which is, in essence, a description of eternal life with Christ. But Jesus knew that that wouldn't satisfy them. And so he continues to open their hearts with this parable. For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyards, and you've heard the parable. He hires first at 6 o'clock, then at later at 9, then at 12, and then an hour before the work day's over, he hires even more. And yet at the end of the day, each one receives the same wage And he ends it up by saying that last will be first, and the first will be last. And Jesus was using this parable to dig into their hearts. The ones who are asking, who's going to be the greatest? What is my reward? This morning, as we look at this passage, it might be summed up by saying the self-righteous expect rewards and despise the grace of God While the Lord calls people in grace to satisfaction. The self-righteous expect rewards and despise the grace of God, while the Lord calls people in grace to satisfaction. We'll see that in three doctrines this morning. First, the expectation of reward is high. Secondly, and I've changed this a little bit from your outlines, the way of entry is misjudged And finally, the joy of generosity is low As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question, what is it that I deserve? Well, let's begin. The expectation of reward is high. That question that Peter asks is telling. They've listened Along with the, he has listened along with the other disciples, he's watched this exchange with the rich young ruler and Jesus. And now the disciples enter into that conversation. The rich young ruler has left with his wealth and without eternal life. And the disciples have been silent up to this point. Now they're in shock. After they've asked who then can be saved? The disciples continue through Peter, in a sense parroting the call of Jesus to the rich young ruler. If you'd be perfect, go sell what you possess, give to the poor, and you'll have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. Leave everything. Follow me. And Peter says we've done that. All of that. Now what is our reward? How will we be compensated for that? For all that we've done, for all that we've given up, how will we be rewarded? What will we receive for following you? Once again, Peter reveals a problem that's deep within our hearts. There's an expectation of reward. It's a truth that's deeply ingrained within us. It was ingrained in the disciples. We see it. It's ingrained in us. Because we believe that we are good people. And we believe that we do good things. And as a result of our goodness and our good works, that we are entitled to rewards. What then will we have? It's actually a bit more simple than that. You see, as a result of our corruption in Adam The human race as a whole has concluded or wrongly believes at the very basic level that we deserve good things and good treatment. That's what we deserve. That belief is caught up in Peter's question. What then will we have? Consider Eve in the garden. Isn't that what Satan was getting at when he tempted Eve? You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. In essence, Satan was saying to Eve, You deserve this good fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Look at all the work you're doing in the garden. You deserve it. You deserve to have all that comes with it. You're entitled to it. Pay no attention to God. You see, it's that belief, that unfounded, unbiblical belief that I deserve a reward into the heart of this passage. Remember how the rich young ruler responded to Jesus' call to keep the law, to keep the commandments. He said, which ones? Jesus said, you shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not bear false witness, honor your father and mother. The young man said, all these I've kept. The rich young ruler had placed himself in that category of being good, as he believed from his corrupted, twisted, and defiled human thinking that he had indeed complied with everything, perfectly kept the second table of the law. He'd loved his neighbors. All these I've kept Now we know that no one is good. The Apostle Paul testified to that in Romans chapter 3. None is good, none not one, no one is righteous. No one understands, no one seeks for God. They've all turned aside, become worthless. And thus the rich young ruler was denying his sin. And deceiving himself with regard to his goodness. Indeed, there was only one who was good, and he, the Lord Jesus Christ, was standing before the rich young ruler. And now we have a parallel. Here with the disciples. As Peter is the spokesman for the disciples, he professes a similar thing. We've left everything and followed you, really? Really? The disciples left everything? Apparently not. As in a few weeks or days, they would each one abandon Jesus. for something else. Their own lives. No, none of them left everything. That's why they left Jesus alone to go to the cross by himself You see, just like the rich young ruler, Jesus was the only one in this group who was good, and Jesus was the only one who had left everything. Paul writes about that in Philippians, who, though he was in the form of God, did not account equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself. It's good for us to be reminded of what the Son of God did. He emptied himself He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. And as the Westminster Shorter Catechism asks that question, where did Christ's humiliation consist? In his being born, and that in a low condition, made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life, the wrath of God, the cursed death of the cross, and being buried and continuing under the power of death for a time, he left his eternal home. He laid down his life. He left it on the cross along with his fellowship, his communion with his father. Yes, the God man, Jesus Christ, left everything to perfectly obey his Father, demonstrating his goodness. And thus Jesus was the only one who deserved a reward. Do you see? Jesus was and is the only one who has earned a reward, that being life. Jesus was and is the only one who has earned or merited eternal life. Adam refused to pursue it. But Jesus sought it with all his heart, his mind, his soul, his strength. Such that we read again in Philippians, therefore God has highly exalted him. And bestow it upon him the name that is above every name. You see, friends, it's only in Jesus Christ that you can expect a reward. The disciples deserved hell and damnation. Just like we do. We all deserve the eternal wrath of our holy God, but in Jesus Christ If you're trusting in Jesus Christ alone, you can and do expect a reward, not for your faith, not for coming to saving faith. Not for believing upon him, not for your works. All that is a gift. No You can hope for and certainly expect a reward because Jesus Christ has earned it. And he graciously gives it to you. Brings us to our second point. The way of entry into the kingdom is misjudged. This parable brings out two misconceptions or misjudgments with regard to the way of entry. into the kingdom of God, that which the Lord Jesus continues to speak about and teach about. First, who will enter the kingdom, and secondly, the unmatched blessing of the kingdom Well first. The last will be first. Jesus seems to center his teaching here. As he bookends the parable with the same statement. But many who are first will be last and the last first. He reverses it, but it's the same idea, so that the last will be first and the first It must be significant because he said it now twice. And it frames the entire parable. So what does it mean? What does it mean that the first shall be last and the last first? Well we see the picture in the parable, that's pretty simple. The first hired are the last paid. The last hired are the first paid. But why? The last Seems to be a reference to those who would be considered great and wretched sinners. It helps to consider Jesus' statement concerning the Pharisees and their view of tax collectors and prostitutes. We haven't gotten there yet, but in Matthew 21, Jesus asks the question of the Pharisees and He asks him, What do you think? A man had two sons and went to the first and said, Son, go work in the vineyard today, and he answered, I will not, but afterward he changed his mind and went. He went to the second and said the same, and he answered, I go, but did not go. And he asked the Pharisees, which of the two did the will of his father? And they said, The first And Jesus said to them, Truly, I say to you, the tax collectors and prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you For John came to you in the way of righteousness and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. You see, as the Pharisees looked upon the tax collectors and prostitutes, they they compared themselves to them And considered them wretched sinners to be unworthy of the kingdom of heaven. They had not merited the favor of God as they had. And so Jesus' reference to the last here seems to be a reference to the worst sinners who have humbled themselves. before God by the work of the Spirit. The worst of the last sinner seems to be those who have recognized how offensive their sin is to before a holy God and have confessed and repented And pleaded with God for their salvation. These last ones, the worst sinners, are the ones who recognize that it's only by grace that we're saved and allowed entry into the kingdom. Just like those in the parable. See, they weren't hired. Just like those who no one else wanted to work in their vineyards in the parable, they waited around all day for someone to hire them. They weren't good enough, in the eyes of the other owners, to get into a vineyard to work all day, but yet humbling themselves, they they sought an employer. They waited all day, eleven hours longing for someone to take them in, these unworthy ones, just like the wretched tax collectors and prostitutes, unworthy in the minds and hearts of the self-righteous, but yet in God's eyes These will be first. And then the first will be last. Those who are most worthy in their own eyes of entering into the kingdom will not even enter. Consider the words of the master here in verse 14 as he speaks to the one who is complaining, grumbling about his wages. Take what belongs to you and go. Those are chilling words. Go. You can't stay. You're fired. Your employment is terminated. The vineyard is closed to you. You can't come back. Go That was the first one hired. The one who had worked all day through the heat. Twelve hours. This is the one who, from his perspective, provided the most to the owner. This was the one who considered himself worthy, indeed most worthy, the first of all. You see, the the last would be those who have humbled themselves. recognizing their great and wretched sinners before a holy God. And the first would be those who don't need the Lord Jesus Christ. and don't need his grace or his blood. Which brings us to that second point. The unmatched blessing of eternal life for entry into the kingdom. So we see the attitude now required for entry into the kingdom, and that's satisfaction. In this parable, there's a recognition of a great blessing, satisfaction, and there is dissatisfaction. They're set against each other, creating this significant contrast used by Jesus as he continues to teach his disciples about the kingdom of heaven. Those who were hired last At the end of the day, work for only about an hour and exit the vineyard receiving the denarius, there is satisfaction. They worked for a very short period of time and their wages, their compensation, their labor was equal to that received by those who worked all day. They're shocked and they're blessed. The joy of those who were hired late in the day and worked only a short period. And receive the full wage. Think of their surprise. Think of their happiness and joy, receiving that which was undeserved and they knew it. We don't hear from those workers. We can imagine the shock on their faces, the dropping jaws, and then the smiles and the happiness and rejoicing. They're completely satisfied And then set against that is the dissatisfaction. Those that worked the entire day exclaim, Unfair. We worked the whole day in the hot sun. We should receive more. We deserve more. Our labor was intense, more valuable. We harvested more grapes. Mr. Vineyard Owner will profit more from our labors, and we deserve a greater reward than these short timers. There was dissatisfaction, disappointment, and anger. There's a significant question of satisfaction in this parable, isn't there? In other words, the parable brings forth that question of satisfaction. And it's an underlying theme as we've gone through this passage. As the disciples ask, who's the greatest in the kingdom? The underlying issue is, will I be satisfied with the position that I receive? Because some are better than others. As the rich young ruler walks away from Jesus, he does so because he was not satisfied with the offer. You must give up everything that you hold dear and follow me. In a sense, at that moment, Jesus was not satisfying the rich young ruler. And now we come to this parable where those who labored longer were not satisfied with their reward of the denarius, as it was received in the same way by the latecomer. There are several issues that are raised by this, but let's just focus on one. This grumble, this complainer received exact which he had agreed to receive. He went into the vineyards upon the promise of receiving a denarius. And at the end of the day, when he received the promise, it did not satisfy. You see, the promise of God in Christ is eternal life for all those who trust in Jesus. Are you satisfied with Jesus? Are you pleased with the grace offered by Jesus? Are you happy with the promise of eternal life with the living God? That's really the question, isn't it? Does the promise and description of life eternal satisfy your longing? Does it make you realize This light and momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison, as we look not to the things that are seen, but to things that are unseen. You see, that's exactly what Paul was speaking of. Does eternal life satisfy you even in light of the afflictions that you are going through today? Can you see that there's a requirement for satisfaction? If you're not satisfied Now, with the promise of eternal life, what makes you think that you'll be satisfied with eternal life in glory? If you're not satisfied with Jesus now, if you're not happy with your communion with Jesus now, what makes you think you'll be satisfied with him in heaven? Brothers and sisters, we must pray that the Lord would work joy and satisfaction in our hearts in Christ today. And that indeed others may see it and want Jesus for themselves. Did the Twelve-hour laborers have on the one-hour laborers as they grumbled and complained. What witness do we have? Upon a world lost in darkness, if we don't exude satisfaction in Jesus Christ. That brings us to our third point. The joy of generosity is low. The parable ends with the master's reply to the one who was grumbling. Friend, I am doing to you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give you. Am I not allowed to do what I want I choose with what belongs to me? Or Or do you begrudge my generosity? That's a powerful and penetrating question. Do you begrudge my generosity? We don't use that word often. Webster's, as it links together a couple of definitions, finds that it means to be discontented at another's enjoyments or advantages to envy. Well, that's a problem. And I would have to say it's probably a problem that many of us encounter in our hearts Indeed, this may be the central theme or teaching of this parable: that God is generous. That the Lord Jesus Christ is a generous Savior. We see it in this parable. That's exactly why Jesus preaches it, as we consider the late-hour laborers waiting all day to be hired, and finally Finally, being so at the eleventh hour of the day, working perhaps only one hour, the vineyard owner does not get a full day's labor from these men. Indeed, only a very short time are they in the vineyard providing that which he needs. And requires, and nevertheless, the vineyard owner gives them a full day's wage. They worked one hour versus the twelve hours that the denarius was supposed to purchase. Without a doubt, this is the definition of generosity. You might see now how the expectation of a reward works. into the early morning laborers' failure to understand and appreciate the generosity of the master of the house. If one expects a reward or payment Then there can be no acknowledgement or understanding of generosity. But the reality was That the vineyard owner was generous to those who worked all day. You might be thinking, well, how is that? Merely by being hired, merely by being given the privilege of entering into the vineyard and laboring was the generous act of the owner Consider that there were men who were waiting around 11 hours to be hired. That suggests that entry to become a laborer was a privilege. and required the generosity of the owner. And so we see in this parable the generosity of a master of the house merely allowing those early morning laborers to come and and work in his vineyard. Isn't that the case with God's vineyard? Isn't that the case every time the Lord calls you to the privilege of laboring in his kingdom? Of course it is. It's a privilege to labor for the Lord. It's a privilege to reflect the light of Christ to those who are in darkness. It's a privilege and honor to have the name of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit placed upon you in such a way that you're called by his name Christian. It's a privilege to be an ambassador for Christ. Do you see the generosity of God in allowing you the privilege of serving Him Isn't that what the psalmist wrote? For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. Meaning a day to serve you is such a privilege. It's better than a thousand elsewhere. Consider even this service of worship. The Lord has not called everyone to serve him in this way today here in this place. Think of Noah and his wife and his sons and their wives, only eight, given the privilege of serving the Lord in the ark, of keeping his creation alive, so to speak, of exercising dominion over the beasts of the field. Certainly over the human race in in a way. How generous was the Lord to Noah and his family? Do you think of that as you come to worship? That the Lord is being generous to you What a blessing. What generosity. What grace. Now we have to address the other side of that coin. Which is envy. If you don't recognize the Lord's generosity to you, then you will likely despise his generosity to others. That's exactly what the parable demonstrates. Upon receiving it, they grumbled at the master of the house. These last worked only one hour, and you've made them equal to us. Those who worked all day and expected more than they were told that they would receive now despise the generosity of the master of the house. as he determines to demonstrate clearly and plainly his generosity to those eleventh hour laborers. That's the very demonstration of envy How could that be? How could anyone despise the generosity of God toward another? Brothers and sisters, that's a question that we need to ask ourselves. Because I think many of us fall into that sin. We're called to rejoice with those who rejoice and mourn with those who mourn. And while we find it maybe easy to mourn with those who mourn, we find it difficult to rejoice with those who rejoice. You wonder why they received the blessing. You wonder why they received the generosity, the favor of God, and not me. You actually regret that another's been blessed in a way that you weren't. You see the prosperity and the good favor of the Lord that He pours out on others and become dismayed because you didn't receive the same. These laborers grumbled and complained of the generosity of God toward others. That can only be attributed to hardness of heart. They should have rejoiced in the generosity of the vineyard owner, inviting these men who had not been hired to come in and work, even if they were only there for an hour. And they should have rejoiced in the liberality demonstrated and the grace and mercy poured out on these eleventh hour workers, but they grumbled You see, grumbling arises from the failure to fully grasp the blessing of eternal life. See, is not the generosity of God, his abundant grace, part of, maybe the main part, the central part of the blessing of eternal life? That all those who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ enjoy now? See, Peter failed to understand that. He failed to grasp it. He and the disciples misjudged the blessing of eternal life in Christ, so much so that they could ask, what then will we have? Remember that before Peter asked this question, Jesus had already told the rich young ruler, you will have treasure in heaven. Come follow me. They failed to appreciate the blessing, the reward, the generosity of being able to follow Jesus. You see, if we truly grasp the blessing of life with Christ, we won't grumble. We won't complain. Will rejoice at the generosity of God towards others. You see, because that knowledge that That vision, the truth of the blessing of eternal life, of being with Jesus Christ in person forever, comes only by grace. It's certainly by grace that you've been saved through faith, but embedded Within that sincere faith is a vision. It's a vision of the blessing, of the abundant blessing of life with Christ. Brothers and sisters, pray. Pray for that grace. Pray for more grace. Such that your satisfaction in Christ will only grow As the self-righteous expect rewards and despise the grace of God, while the Lord causes people in grace to satisfaction. See, Ruth had no expectation of being received. And yet, by the grace of God through Boaz, she was. Brothers and sisters, we need that grace. Because through that grace You indeed will be fully and completely satisfied with Jesus Christ, not wondering what is my reward, but knowing That you have your reward even now in Jesus Christ. Our Father, our God, we thank you. Thank you for working on our hearts this morning. Thank you for pointing us to Christ. Thank you, Lord. He is the one who deserves the reward and has received it. And so now, Father, we pray. Continue to pour out your grace on us. That we may be fully and completely And abundantly satisfied with Christ. We thank you for him. We ask for you, Lord God, to grow us in grace.