Tonight I start another series on the book of Amos, another Old Testament prophet of God Nine chapters in this book And let us uh hear God's word as I read from Amos chapter one, one through five. The word, the words of Amos, who was among the sheep breeders of Teka. Which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel. Two years before the earthquake. And he said, The Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem. The pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of Mount Carmel withers. Thus says the Lord For three transgressions of Damascus and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they have threshed Gilead with implements of iron, I will send a fire into the house of Haziel. Which shall devour the palaces of Ben-Hadad. I will also break the gate bar of Damascus and cut off the inhabitant from the valley of Avon. And the one who holds the scepter from Beth-Eden, the people of Syria shall go captive to Keir. says the Lord. And that ends the reading of God's word this evening. Well, obviously this is a Passage of God's word that is very difficult for us to relate to. At least the names of places are unfamiliar. The people are unfamiliar to us. Even the setting is not something that we can easily identify with. But obviously it is a word from God through his prophet And though it might be specifically tailored to people In what we would call the Jews at a specific time in history. The message That will ultimately come out of Amos is a message that speaks to all people. And it is that message which we will discern through our studies that I think you will see bears immense profit To you. At least I pray that that will be the case. Let me try to do as much as I can, first of all To give you the historical setting of this book. And to speak about some of the names that are mentioned here. Obviously, the main character in the book is Amos. And Amos is a prophet of God, but before he was a prophet, It appears that he was a breeder of sheep. His main job was to be a farmer and tend his animals. Uh we know uh where he comes from, the scriptures tell us He comes from a town called Tokoa. Now Tokoa is located in what is known as the southern kingdom of Israel Five miles south of Bethlehem and ten miles north of Jerusalem. So it's very close to the center of Jerusalem, which is the city of David, close to the temple and the activities that are going on there. Not only is Amos spoken of as being a breeder of sheep, but in chapter 7, verse 14, it says that He was no it says that Amos said, I am no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son. I was a herdsman. and a gatherer of fruit, of sycamore fruit. Again, he's a farmer. That's how he makes his living. He he doesn't, you know, he's struck by the fact that he's really not a prophet. He doesn't consider himself to be a prophet, but God is the one who calls him And he says to Amos, again in chapter 7, the Lord took me from following the flock, and the Lord said to me, Go and prophesy to my people, Israel. Which is um Which brings up an important matter. He is living in what is known as the Southern Kingdom Judah And yet God wants them to go to speak to the Jews in the northern kingdom. We have for us here The dates, Amos is unusual in that there's a lot of specificity about him. who he is, what he did, where he lived, and when he was active. And you find that he his his his Activity is dated during the reign, chapter 1, verse 1, of Uzziah, a great and powerful king. Of Judah, the southern kingdom. It's dated during his reign and during the reign of Jeroboam II, who was the king of the northern kingdom. And they were both very strong and very powerful kings over the Jews. The time period For uh Uzziah's reign, he reigned 52 years from 792 to 740 BC. And Jeroboam reigned 40 years. From 793 to 753 BC. So you see they overlapped. They were contemporary kings, one Of the Jews in the northern kingdom, one of the Jews in the southern kingdom. The southern kingdom becomes is called the nation of Judah, and it includes the two tribes. Judah and Benjamin. The northern kingdom becomes the name of the northern kingdom becomes Israel. That's the name that was taken for it. And it comprises the other tribes of Israel. Ephraim, Manasseh, Reuben, Gad. The tribes of Israel, and so forth. Dan and Naphtali among, they're all in the north Now it would help if you could at least remember that why there became two tribes. The two kingdoms, two nations of Jews living side by side with one another. And at first When Israel went in and conquered the land, after they came out of Exodus and wandered in the years, wandered in the wilderness for forty years, they came and conquered the land, and they were all one country. The tribes took their different allotments of land from Dan in the north to Judah in the south. They were all one country. They had no king initially, but then you know the story of how they got Saul and then David, and then after David there was Solomon When Solomon died, his son Rehoboam took over the reigns of the United Kingdom, the one kingdom However, he was not as wise as his father. In fact, he was foolish. He refused to listen to his father's counselors, and he decided that he would tax the country severely. Well, that created a lot of resentment. And sure enough Ten tribes broke off. Excuse me A number of the tribes broke off, led by Ephraim and Manasseh, and formed the northern kingdom Israel. This is about 1000 BC. After Solomon's death. They form the northern kingdom. The southern kingdom becomes Judah, as I said, comprised of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. And so it existed as two countries populated primarily by people who were Hebrews, Jewish. And it was kept that way for 300 years. Almost. Three hundred years. If you go through the reading of the various king the books of the kings And the chronicles of the Old Testament, you will find that as far as the kings in the Northern Kingdom They had some very powerful ones, but they were all bad. They were all evil. They did nothing right in the eyes of the Lord. And the most evil, generally speaking, the most evil of all were the Northern Kings And Ahab was one of them. And he was the worst. But there were others. Jeroboam the first. decided that he didn't want his people going down to Jerusalem to participate in the Passover. So he built his own temples, two of them, at Dan and Bethel. And placed a golden calf and said that here is your God. And the people began worshiping him, this golden calf. So by and large, the northern kingdom, the kings are not good. They're not kings after God's own heart. They're kings after their own glory. There are kings along the line of what Samuel had said when the people came to Samuel and wanted a king the first time. He said, you tell them what the king will do. He will take your crops, he will take your children, he will impress them into his service, he will tax you, he will take You know, all and on and on it goes. And that of course became true. However, in the southern kingdom The Southern Kingdom's first great king was David. I know Saul preceded him, but I don't Consider him to be a great king. David was a great king. He was the king of to whom all future kings in Judah would be measured. He was the man who the scripture says was a man after God's own heart. And yet we know that even David was not perfect. And the story in the southern kingdom primarily is a story of relatively good kings. If you think about any king that you know of of Israel who was halfway good in the eyes of God, it's it's a cinch he came from the southern kingdom David, Solomon for a while, Hezekiah, Asaph, Jonah, uh. Skipped me. The one with the J. Josiah. Thank you. However The Southern Kingdom lasted instead of 300 years, the Southern Kingdom lasted 400 420 some years before it too was carried away. It too was destroyed The Northern Kingdom was destroyed in 722 B. C. by the Syrians, Assyrians. The southern kingdom was destroyed in 583 BC by Nebuchadnezzar. And in the end, the reason for that destruction was that both kingdoms had To a lesser degree or not, they had refused to stop worshiping Jehovah. They were worshiping all other kinds of gods, all the false gods. And they were not living as the special people of God. And that's the setting. The kingdoms are divided. It's early in that division. Sometime between seven hundred ninety-two B C and seven hundred and forty B C. And Amos is called by God to speak to that northern kingdom where they got evil kings and where there's their spiritually apostate Where they're idolaters. It's that northern kingdom that one that that uh Elijah gets so concerned about. He ministered to the northern kingdom too, and he thought at one point that he was the only one. Who'd been faithful to God in the northern kingdom? It was so bad. The spiritual climate was so wicked During the reigns of Ahab and Jezebel when Elijah was ministering, where the famous contest with the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel He and God told him, no, there's still 7,000 that haven't bowed the knee to Baal. But nevertheless, it was a bad time spiritually in the Northern Kingdom. Full of wickedness, full of idolatry, lack of love to God, lack of love to your neighbor, and into that community, into that country comes Amos. The prophet of God, sent by God, called by God to give a message to Israel. The Northern Kingdom. And it's also a message that the Southern Kingdom needs to hear too. Because it's beginning to decline. A slow and steady spiritual decline away from Jehovah the Lord Now, we read in the first two verses that verse 2 says the Lord will roar from Zion. And utter his voice from Jerusalem. And then it goes on to say that when he does that The tents of the shepherds, the shepherds shall mourn, and the top of Carmel shall wither When the Lord speaks, it's depicted as roaring. He's coming out of Jerusalem. Why Jerusalem? Because that's the city of David. That's the temple. That's where God dwells. with his people. And he is roaring, and it's it is uh a roaring that's depicted somewhat as as if it were a withering blast. A withering war. Even the top of Mount Carmel is affected. Hundreds of miles away when the Lord roars, Mount Carmel withers. The shepherds And their habitations tremble and quake. Because you see the Lord is roaring in judgment. And this idea that the Lord wars out of Jerusalem in judgment is the note that begins the book of Amos And it's the note that periodically creeps up throughout the rest of Old Testament Israel's history. You'll hear that phrase, the Lord roaring from Jerusalem, on other occasions. And it's all about terrifying judgment that's coming to God's people. Jeremiah 25, in verse 30. Jeremiah The prophet to the southern kingdom, the prophet to Jerusalem in around 610, 620 BC. You know, Jerusalem's only God 30 more years, 35 more years, and it's gone. It will be wiped off the face of the map by Nebuchadnezzar. Jeremiah speaks of the Lord roaring. This time, though it's not to Israel in the north, it's to Jerusalem, it's to Judah. This let me just read this. Therefore, prophesy thou against them all these words, and say to them, the Lord shall roar. from on high, and utter his voice from his holy habitation, he shall mightily roar against His habitation, he shall give a shout as they that tread grapes against the inhabitants of the earth. Joel another prophet, chapter 3, verse 16, the Lord shall roar out of Zion. Where is Zion? Mountain next to Israel. na in Judah, excuse me, mountain next to Judah in Jerusalem. The Lord shall roar out of Zion, utter his voice from Jerusalem, the heavens and the earth shall shake. But in the Joel passage, Joel 3. 16, the Lord will be the hope of his people and the strength of the children of Israel. Now, a word about the structure of this book. We've talked about who the prophet is, we've talked about him, we've talked about What's the environment he's speaking to? Who are the kings at the time? What nation is he centering his remarks on? He's being sent by God as a prophet to speak to the northern kingdom. But the book has structure. Beginning at chapter three of section one And extending all the way through chapter 2 and verse 5, there's a series of six prophecies. There's a series of six prophecies in those verses, and they are prophecies against Six of the surrounding nations or peoples or tribes that surround Israel and surround Judah. And if you if you we're going to look at one of them tonight, we're going to look at the prophecy related to Syria, uh Damascus. But if you if you take time to look at these six nations, you'll see And plot them geographically on the map. If you plot them geographically on the map, you will see that God is speaking with, as it were, with Jerusalem and Judah in the center, and then the nations, all the various nations, completely surround them. These prophecies are prophecies of God's judgment falling on those Gentile nations for their wickedness. Okay, so you have a prophecy, for example, to Damascus, which is in The north in the modern-day nation of Syria. North, that's north of Israel, north of Jerusalem, north of both of the countries. Then you have a prophecy of Moab. And Moab is far south. And you have a prophecy against Tyre. Tyre is to the northwest. Then you have a prophecy to to um I don't know if I got them in the right order, but you also have a prophecy to Gaza, Ashkelon, Ashdod. That's the Philistine Empire. That's to the southwest. So you've got north, north, west, southwest, south Southeast is Ammon. There's a prophecy for Ammon. And um Hammond. I'm kind of doing this by memory, but Edom. Yes. Edom is further up. Like if Moab is down here in the southwest, Edom is kind of central. So, and the reason there's no one on the northeast, It's because there is no nation out there. The northeast, remember, on the northeast side of the Jerusalem of the Jordan River was populated by Manasseh and Gad. Half of the population was Jew to Jews, the Jewish nation. So but but the but the impression is that given geographically That God is dealing with all the nations around Israel, one at a time. And He's dealing with them on relatively the same issue. Which is their worship of other gods and their cruelty To people. In particular, cruelty to God's people in Israel or Judah. And after, okay, so after the structure goes, and you can always tell when a new nation is being introduced because this Language comes up for three transgressions and for four. It's not talking about just three transgressions, and it's not talking about just four transgressions Nor is it talking about seven transgressions that they committed. It's talking about the increasing number of transgressions that are occurring in these nations. But that's that kind of structures this section that we're that we're looking at, this early section of Amos from chapter 1 verses 3 and following to chapter 2 verses 5. After he deals with all of those six pagan nations that surround Jerusalem and Judah, guess what? The prophecy next turns to Judah and Israel The judgment that the prophecy of Amos is giving turns to No longer the pagans, but it turns now to the people of God. So let's look at this nation called or this Prophecy against Damascus. Damascus is the capital city, the primary city, even today, of the nation of Syria. Throughout this period of this divided monarchy, the north called Israel and the South called Judah, throughout this period. And the period that Amos is prophesying, the greatest enemy of Israel is Damascus. The strongest, the most powerful. She was ruled by a series of really powerful kings. The first was a man, a king named Haziel And he was placed under tribute by David. David conquered him according to 2 Samuel 8. And he paid David tribute. But when, when there was the division, Haziel saw his chance to break away. And he did. He did so successfully. And then after Haziel ruled, which was from 841 to 801 B. C. , a series of three kings, all named Ben Hadad, ruled. Ben Hadad 1, 2, and 3. From 800 B. C. to 700 BC. I don't expect you to remember the dates, but you can see how all this is contemporary to what Amos is doing when Amos is prophesying. Well, let's look at God's judgment. Verses four and five, the words that he gave Amos to speak regarding Haziel. I will send a fire into the house of Haziel, which shall devour the palaces of Ben Hadad. I will break the bar of Damascus and cut off the inhabitants from the plain of Avon. Avon is a place whose name literally means the place of wickedness. It is in, it is south of of Damascus, it is in what is uh uh a region which you probably have heard about. It's always in the news. It's in the Bacaw Valley. Between Israel and between Syria in the north. The people there worshipped the sun god. Okay, so he says, I will break the bar of Damascus. That is language. Breaking the bar or breaking the gate. You know, these big cities had these gates And they were designed for protection to keep the invader out and to keep the people safe inside. And God is saying, I'm coming and I'm going to break the bar. It's a it's a uh symbolic of complete destruction of the city. I'm going to break the bar of Damascus. I'll cut off the inhabitant from the plain of Aden And then it says, and I will and I will and him who holds the scepter from the house of Eden, Beth-Eden. This is not the Garden of Eden. This is a small country near Syria that at this particular time was a vassal state to Syria. But it's included in God's judgment. And the people of Syria shall go into captivity in the kir. Tyr is a place that is probably somewhere in Mesopotamia, says the Lord. When God says he's bringing fire, fire is the normal type of judgment that the s the that the gods bring, even the pagan gods bring against the people. And this is pretty much universally seen as a sign of divine judgment. So God is going to bring divine judgment to Syria, to Damascus, and to her vassal states. The great King Ben-Haden and all the Ben or Haziel and Ben-Haden, Ben-Hadan, excuse me. Those kings, powerful though they may be, they will be led into captivity into Kir, which may well be a captivity into the region of s of Mesopotamia. and possibly the kingdom of Assyria, as Assyria becomes powerful. Why does God bring this judgment on these pagans? What is God's reason? Verse 3. The latter section of verse 3, he says, because they have threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron. That that doesn't compute in anybody's mind what he's talking about. That's because we aren't farmers. And that's because we're not living in a time when you threshed your grain by hand They had developed these devices to thresh grain, which were kind of like wood slats on a pole. And then on the bottom, there were these pieces of metal, heavy metal, and as you drag drag them through the grain It cut them down and separated the grain from the chaff. But you see the image is It says Syria has uh has threshed Gilead. Well, Gilead is a region east of the Jordan River In the possession of the tribe of Manasseh. So in other words, God is saying I'm bringing judgment To Syria, Damascus, because they have threshed my people as they would thresh grain. It's an image of destruction. And you get an even fuller explanation of this threshing of of the of the Syrians, of the of the people in Gilead by the Syrians In 2 Kings chapter 13 verses 4 through 7, Jehoahaz, who was the king of the north at the time, besought the Lord, and the Lord hearkened unto him, for he saw the oppression of Israel, because the king of Syria oppressed them. And the Lord gave Israel a Savior. Can you imagine that? This awful kingdom. uh uh of the north that has turned its back against God has not has been worshiping God in the wrong place and and basically called him a cow Worship the golden cow. They worshiped him there, but they worshiped every other god of all their neighbors. Around the area. Some of them are worshiping the sun god, some of them are worshiping the god in the mountains. They're worshiping all these other gods. Nevertheless, God says, I am bringing judgment to the king of Syria for the way in which he has treated my people. Israel I will bring to them a Savior, which probably means a deliverer. The children of Israel dwelt in their tents. Nevertheless, and here it goes, nevertheless God says, I'm going to deliver you, but nevertheless they departed not from the sins of the house of Jeroboam What was the sin of the house of Jeroboam? The building of the two golden calves, and the worship of those golden calves. They departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, who made Israel sin, but they walked therein. And there remained in the grove or in the forests And there remained in the forest also in Samaria. Samaria becomes the leading city of the northern kingdom. It it it it becomes a it it it was a completely rebuilt city by uh Ahab and becomes the centerpiece. of the prosperity of the northern kingdom of Israel. And it goes on to say, the king of Syria did not leave to the people of Jehoahaz, who is the king of the time, But five hundred, excuse me, but fifty horsemen, ten chariots, and a thousand footmen For the king of Syria had destroyed them all and made them like the dust from threshing. You see, only fifty horsemen, only ten chariots, utter, utter cruelty in threshing the people of Israel And God here, according to what he's saying, through Amos, is pronouncing this prophecy against Syria. For you might want to say for their cruelty. Or you might want to say, because they don't love their neighbor. They wish to subject them. But they can't just subject them. They got to inflict the maximum pain, maximum suffering. Upon the people of God. And God does not take that kindly. And at some time in history God will avenge his people, even if they're his people only in name. They're still his people at this point. And I think that when we when we look at this first judgment There's multiple lessons that we need to think about here. Judgment that is coming to Syria Because they have done such cruel things, because they have worshipped other gods and done such wickedness to their neighbors. The people of Gilead, the people of Manasseh, one of the tribes of Israel. Because they have done this, it is a warning to that northern kingdom. If you're doing the same thing, you better repent. Or you can expect similar stuff coming to you. Another message this is giving to us God that sees all sin No one, not even pagan neighbors of Israel, will escape his judgment All are responsible before God to love Him and to love their neighbors. I mean, when when you're going to get five more judgments like this. I mean, you begin to see this more clearly. All the nations are involved in God's judgment. You can also see this In another light. As I've already mentioned, God does take special care of his people. And allows their judgment only to go so far. And whenever there is excessive judgment by those who are inflicting pain, they can expect difficulty. And last, and maybe this is the most telling The fact that these judgments came upon these countries, first Syria, and then one right after the other. These people, don't forget, even though they were not Israelites, there is some knowledge of one another. The Philistines have long been the enemy of the Southern Kingdom. The Syrians have long been the enemy of the Northern Kingdom. Amon, Ammon, Ammon, Moab, who are they? Where did they come from? The children of Lot. Edom, where does he come from? The son of Jacob. They became alienated from one another, they became separated from one another, they became hostile to one another. And the blame cannot just be placed upon those nations. Israel has to share some of the blame. Because very clearly, Israel herself, whether it's northern kingdom or southern kingdom, are not being special people of God. They're not really being lights in the midst of they're not being lights, nor are they being salt in the midst of this wicked world Well that's the first message. I hope you can see though this is a entirely different culture this message is speaking to a long, long time ago. It's a message that still has relevance today. It still has relevance because of two things. God doesn't change. He's the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. And the basic nature of human beings doesn't change either Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father Would it be too much to ask that your people might Desire to live consistently in accordance with your word For Lord, that is not just to bring glory. It's not just, Lord, to bring glory to your name and It's not just so that we uh would be pleasing in your sight, as important as both of those things are. And yet, nevertheless, Lord, uh it's also a means of reaching out to those who are dead spiritually in transgression and since And we pray, Lord, that you would help us as your people to live, to desire to live more faithfully for you In Jesus name we pray, Amen