Now, if you will, turn to 1 Timothy. Our studies in 1 Timothy chapter 6 And uh verses 11 through 16. 1 Timothy chapter 6, verses 11 through 16. And uh let us hear the word of the Lord. But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called. and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession that thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. Which in his times he shall show, who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords who only hath immortality, dwelling in the light, which no man can approach unto, whom no man has seen nor can see. To whom be honor and power everlasting. Amen. Tonight the uh center of our attention will be on verse 16 of this section of uh 1 Timothy. And Paul has just recently told Timothy that he must warn the people against falling victim to the lust for material things of the world. Paul has said this directly and clearly, so that there can be no mistake, and he's also said it in an indirect way. First of all, we can look at the direct way in which Paul has said, don't fall victim to the lusts of the world. And for that, we want to look at verses 6 through 12 as background. Once again, remember those verses. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Having food and raiment, let us be content therewith. They that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition, for the love of money is the root of all evil. Which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, love, patience, meekness, and fight the good fight of faith Lay hold on eternal life. And you see with those two statements or that that section how Paul is painting the picture for a believer to be content with the things that God provides. And to pursue not after the worldly things, the worldly lusts, but to pursue after such things as righteousness. as uh as um love and godliness and patience and meekness to pursue after the fruits of the Spirit, to make that their priority, and to be Accepting and satisfied whatever God provides. To be content with what you have. Do not go on the expedition the great expedition of life to find treasure in the things of this world. Because those who have tried that, those who have done that, He he warns they have fallen, they have been snared by it, and these pursuit of material things, money, etc. they uh have proven to uh drown drowned people. And again, Paul is not addressing just a a a uh a crowd in the uh uh an un uh undifferentiated crowd. He's talking to the church here And so it's a warning to the church and it's a it's a uh responsibility that Timothy must bear uh to get the people not to be consumed by materialism, by the things of the world, but instead to follow after the things of God. Then you know what could be a more direct warning than to say to the people of God, if you go down this path, You're going to be, you're going to drown. And you could very well drown into perdition Or you're going to be snared like an animal and slowly have the light blood choked out of you. That's pretty direct. Now, indirectly in the same verses, some of the same verses Paul says, uh warns uh his audience uh again that they should not follow this pursuit. For in verse seven he says, We brought nothing into this world, and it's sir for certain that we will take nothing out. Well, go ahead. Load up your coffin with all of your material things, if you can. When you're dead, it doesn't matter. They won't do you any good. They won't do you any good in hell. They won't do you any good where you're going. They won't buy you anything. They won't buy you relief. They won't buy you comfort from the distress of hell. You can't pluck down a million dollars in in hell and find an air-conditioned house You go down this route, and again, this is what's going to happen. But it's an indirect kind of warning. It's a kind of warning that is, let those who have ears to hear, let them hear. And we find a similar uh statement in verse fourteen and fifteen. Combination of two statements in verse 14 it talks about uh let me just read that that thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable, in other words, the commandment being that you live according to the to the following after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, peace, verse 11. Don't follow after materialism. And then in verse 14, you keep this commandment, unrebukable, until the appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, the Lord is going to return. And verse 15, he is going to return as the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. That whole concept of the Lord returning as the King, as the great King of Kings, is all geared toward judgment. It speaks of the Lord bringing his rule to its final conclusion here on earth. And those who are not with him will reap his judgment uh and the eternal se being the eternal separation uh from God Paul is saying, Christ is sovereign, Christ is the Lord of Lords, Christ is the King of Kings, Christ is the only blessed potentate. And he is coming again. And when he comes, everyone will have to give an accounting. And what they will have to give an accounting is what path did you go down in life? Where was your allegiance? What did you love? Did you love me? Did you love my things? Did you love my people? Did you love me with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength? Or did you love the things of the world? Or did you try to have it halfway? Did you try to love the things of the world and at the same time love me? Remember, Jesus said you can't do that. Eventually, you will love one God and hate the other. You cannot have two masters. All of us will be answering that question at one point. Either we love the world and its material lusts Or we love Christ in God's kingdom. Loving the world will surely, may surely lead to short-term gain, but it doesn't end there. It ends at eternal damnation. Loving Christ May not bring worldly pleasures into your life or worldly comforts But it has God's own guarantee that it will bring eternal blessing in his kingdom with him forever. Now when we get to verse sixteen tonight As we read that, we read about Jesus, it says, who own this this uh this King of Kings, Lord of Lords, this this blessed and only potentate It says that he only hath immortality dwelling in light which no man can approach unto, whom no man has seen, nor can see, to whom be honor and power and everlasting glory. Amen. Well, this is not so much talking about Jesus who appeared on earth Because men did see Jesus who appeared on earth. This is talking about Jesus in his fullest heavenly realm. And it says that no man can see him. It reminds you of the passage where Moses wants to see God's face In Exodus 34, and God says, you can't see my face. Nobody can see my face and live. And you remember what God does. He puts Moses in like with his face looking toward a rock in a shadow in the cleft of the rock and Moses and God passes behind him. And says the Lord, the Lord God. Gracious is the Lord God. And what did Moses do? He doesn't even see God. He hears God. What does he do? He falls on his face and worships God. Not even seeing him. Even though that's what he wanted. He wanted to see him. But just it's it says metaphorically that he saw the back of God. And that was enough to make him fall on the ground. God who This text portrays is not some weak uh um um uh weak character. He he he is not so often as he is pictured in even the churches today, a God of so much love that he could never be such a judge. He could never destroy people. He could never condemn people to hell. And that's because they don't appreciate the fullness of the attributes. of God. For while he is certainly indeed the fullness of love, he is also the fullness of divine. He's the fullness of justice, the fullness of mercy, the fullness of anger against those who are not living worshiping him. And it and he will execute justice. You know, we we don't see that often in our world, do we? And the world is being generally lulled to sleep to think, well, you know, I can I don't have to listen to this. Uh Christ was 2,000 years ago. That's a real long time. He hasn't come yet, so he ain't coming anytime soon. Don't fool yourself. He will come when we don't expect him to come. He will come If if there's you see, if that is not true, if Christ never comes, then we are fools. For believing this. And it's not just fools about his coming, it's also fools about everything the scripture says about him. If one iota is not fulfilled of Christ's promises, then the Bible is wrong. And we're worshiping the wrong God Of course, such a thought is dreadful. And we don't believe this. We believe that God will do precisely what he says he will do. And he is precisely who the scriptures reveal him to be. But now back to the text He is pictured here, the supreme, blessed, and only potentate, King of Kings and Lord of Lords He is said to be the only one who has immortality. The only one who has immortality. Now if you were to define, try to define what is immortality. When you think of immortality, what do you think? Well, you think lives forever, obviously. That's an easy way of defining it. But just also to understand more of it, I would describe immortality as one who had eternal self- Eternal self-existence. Eternal self-existence. There was never a time when he was. not. There was there will never be a time when he is not. He is always. And He says Christ, who is this blessed and only potentate, he alone, he only has immortality. And of course, we have to also understand that as referencing God, the Trinity. But the alone is uh ca is uh put in there to to remind people that no person has immortality. You know there have been many kings and conquerors over the years who thought themselves to be God. And would claim to have immortality. Indeed, the Persian king, uh it's either Xerxes or Artaxerxes, I don't know which one, had in his army uh a thousand men or so, it might have been more than that, which he called the immortals. They were supposed, what did you say? It was Xerxes. Which they they were supposed to be such great fighters that they would live forever. They they couldn't kill them. They would they would not die. Well they're all dead. Along with Xerxes. And every other human being that came before us And unless the Lord returns soon, many of us will see death. But our God has only, He's the only one with immortality And Jesus is regularly pictured that way in Scripture. He is regularly referred to as one who only enables others to live because of him. I'm going to go through a lot of verses. John 5, verse 21. As the Father raised up the dead and quickens them, even so the Son gives life to whom he will. How can you be how can you give life if you aren't immortal yourself? He gives life to whom he will. John 6. 57. As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father, so that he that eateth of me, even he shall live by me This is the bread that came down from heaven, not as your fathers did eat manna and are dead. He that eateth of this bread shall live forever. John 11, 25, Jesus said, Unto her I am the resurrection and the life. He that believes in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. It's an extravagant claim. He's claiming immortality And he's also saying, if you believe in me, you will have eternal life. Death will not be the end of your existence. Your soul will live forever with Jesus. First Corinthians fifteen twenty-two For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. 2 Corinthians 13, 4. For though he was crucified through weakness Yet he lives by the power of God. For we, though for we also are weak in him, but we shall live by him, by the power of God toward you Galatians 2. 20. I mean this just goes on and on. Galatians 2. 20. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ lives in me, and the life I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Colossians 3. 4. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. 1 John 4, 9. In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through Him. First Corinthians, uh Yeah, 1 Corinthians 15, 45. So it is written, the last man Adam was made a living soul, the last man, the last Adam was made a life-giving spirit. Verse uh 53 of 1 Corinthians 15. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. Hebrews seven twenty-five. Wherefore he is able to m to save us to the uttermost that came come to him, come unto God by him, seeing he ever lives he ever lives to make interceptions. Jesus is sovereign, eternal, immortal, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And when he appears to be on He is pictured as dwelling in light, which no man can approach unto. Unapproachable. Unapproachable light. The light is of such intensity that you can get nowhere near him. He dwells in light itself. He is the radiance of heaven. He is the effulgence of the Father's glory. Christ lives in the light. Light of Christ is so bright it repels us by nature. It repels our sinful nature. And It makes us afraid. It makes us afraid to come into his presence, but at the same time, it beckons to us. Isn't that interesting? The light of God's unapproachable glory in Christ makes us tremble, and yet for those to whom God is drawing, it makes us come. to him. It leads us to him. A good example of that is Exodus chapter three, verses two through four. The angel of the Lord appeared unto him in the flame of a fire in the midst of a bush. And he looked out and he beheld the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. You know that's Moses, seeing the burning bush. And Moses Looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, but was not consumed, and he said, I will turn aside and see this great light. Why the bush is not burnt? And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to sea, God called him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses. Moses. And he said, here I am. And that's not all God said to Moses. He said, take off your sandals. For the ground upon which you walk is hallowed ground. And Moses bowed before the Lord. The the burning bush that's not consumed, the the the the unapproach the uh the unapproachable light can only be approached if God beckons. us to come. Otherwise we will be in fear and tremble. And again, it's interesting, I think, that so often the terms light and life Are in close proximity with relationship to Jesus Christ. We've looked at some of the ones regarding Light. Now let's look at some of the texts that speak about Christ being the life. John 1, which we read earlier, 4 through 8. In him was life. And the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness did not comprehend it. And then it goes on to talk about John the Baptist, who were a witness to the light. He wasn't the light, neither was he the light. But the true life was coming into the world. In John chapter 3, verses 19 through 21, it says, this is the condemnation. The light has come into the world, and men love darkness rather than the light, because their deeds were evil. Everyone who doeth evil hates the light, neither comes to the light lest his deeds should be reproved. But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest that they are wrought in God. Listen To this uh announcement uh of uh the birth of Christ. Um I think, I think this is Zacharias speaking. I didn't check that out, but it's Luke 1, 78. Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist. Through the tender mercy of our God, whereby the dayspring from on high, dayspring. the sunrise. The day spring from on high has visited us to give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death. Luke two thirty-two A light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people, Israel. That's spoken by Simeon the day he held the eight-day old Jesus. Jesus in his arms after Christ was presented to the temple. John chapter 9, verse 5, Jesus says, As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Acts chapter 9, verse 35, famous incident of the Apostle Paul on the road to Damascus. Suddenly there shined around about him a light from heaven. And he fell to the earth. And he heard the voice calling unto him, Saul, Saul. Remember? Moses. Moses. Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? And he says, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus. Jesus, whom you persecute, it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. Why is Christ portrayed as light and immortality? Acts 28, verse 26, verse 18, Saul speaking before one of the leaders of Rome, to open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light From the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive the forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. You see the the world pictures or the Bible pictures all of the world in darkness. You know, we got a son that's gonna live for a long time unless the Lord But it's going to burn for a long time, longer than any of us will live. Whatever is going on at that particular time, suddenly there will be complete consternation and darkness will envelop this world. But that's not the darkness that Christ is talking about. He's talking about the darkness of sin. There's a darkness upon this world. It's called sin. And people are enslaved to that darkness. They are in bondage to that darkness. And the scripture says that First of all, that Christ should suffer, that he should be the first that should rise from the dead and show light unto the people. In uh that's Acts 26, 23, and then in 2 Corinthians 4 4. In whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light Of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine upon them. There's an active work going on by the evil one to keep people in darkness. to keep people in the darkness of their sins. 2 Corinthians 4. 6, following up 4. 4 For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined into our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Jesus Christ. 2 Timothy 1 ten But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and brought life and immortality to light. Through the gospel. Light and immortality to life through the gospel. Either in darkness or you're in light. You're either enslaved to the darkness in which you're drowning and slowly being destroyed Or you're in the light where you're living. And the promise is that you're living now. And you will live forever, because the light that is yours is the light that is given from the life-giving Christ, who is light and life. Unapproachable. And yet he has beckoned you to come and to receive that light and that light Come through repentance and faith. Christ, the light unapproachable. It's in connection with his role as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He is the judge. No man in sin can approach him. No man in sin hath seen him, nor can see him, but he is the one to whom be honor and power everlasting. Amen. Christ is the eternal King, full of glorious light. He is approachable, but only at the call of God, and only through the light of the gospel. If you know Christ, praise God and be thankful because God pulled you out of darkness. Because God pulled you out of the darkness of your sin and brought you into the glorious light of His God. Not to kill you, but to kill but to kill the old man in you And to kill the one who has control over that old man. He has not brought you out of the darkness into his glorious life Into his glorious life. He has brought you out of darkness into his glorious life to grant you immortal, eternal fellowship, and life. just as he did before Moses and to Paul on the road to Emmaus or Damascus. Amen. And let us pray. Oh Lord, we bow before you and embrace your sovereign will. But Lord, please bear with us when we ask you and plead with you, O Heavenly Father. To show yourself as the eternal life and the And the light to those, Lord, who we know who are in darkness. Lord, we accept that it may not be your will to do so. But Lord, see the concerns that we have, and Lord, um May it be that for the sake of your of the greatest praise to your glory, Lord, that you will bring other sinners Out of darkness and into light and into immortality through Jesus Jesus Christ. Grant the gift of repentance and the gift of faith. For those we know and pray for who don't yet have those gifts, but surely also, Lord, for the rest of the body of Christ around the world who've not yet received The release from the power of darkness, and who've not yet begun to dwell in the glorious light of your presence. These things we ask in our Savior's name, Amen