If you turn in God's word now, To Psalm thirty-two. Let's give attention now to the reading of God's Word. A mascell of David. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away Through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely, in the rush of great waters, they shall not reach him You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or mule without understanding, which must be curved with a bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you. Many are the sorrows of the wicked. But the steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. You pray with me. Father and our God, we come to a very important psalm. Lord, they're all important. But this one should speak to our hearts tonight clearly and pointedly and powerfully Holy Spirit, work powerfully now in our hearts and plant this word, your word, deeply within us. That we might shine forth the bright light of Christ having been forgiven. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Earlier this evening, we read that passage from Matthew's Gospel. At the end of chapter 11, when Jesus begins to denounce those cities which refused to repent. If you remember, Jesus said, woe to you, Corizon, woe to you, Beth Seda. And also Capernaum, naming specific cities, knowing that he had done mighty works in each of them, and telling them that they had failed to repent. Reminding them, bringing to their minds that they neglected the work that had been done, they did not see, they did not grasp, they They refused to see Jesus as the Son of God. Come. Come to save them. There was no confession, there was no repentance, and thus there would be no forgiveness for these cities. Even telling them that if the mighty works done in them in Khorizon and Betheda would have been done entire inside and that they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes But they failed to repent. They refused. It raises a question for us. Why don't we like to confess our sin? What is it We might offer some suggestions. Because to confess a sin is to profess that we are subject to another. To confess sin is to humble ourselves as we admit to wrongdoing. To confess sin is to profess that we are not our own, that we are not autonomous, we are not self-governing. To confess sin is to admit that we are subject to the rule of the Creator of the universe, and thus that He is not only sovereign, but that He, the living God, is to be obeyed. To confess sin is to affirm that we owe a duty of obedience to the one who made us To truly confess sin is a recognition, an admission, a profession of all of these truths. And this is why we don't like to confess sin. This is part of our fallen nature in Adam. Remember exactly what Adam and Eve did after they sinned. They hid themselves from the presence of the Lord. No confession. Just an attempt to cover that which they had done. Tonight, in Psalm 32, we'll see the blessing of confession. This psalm, we know it's written by David. We know that it was a maskell, and we really don't know exactly what that word means. It seems to be a musical term. As one dictionary puts it, a wisdom song put to music. That's about all we have as far as the title, as far as the context is concerned. That brings us then to this, that Christ blesses the children of God with forgiveness in his blood as they confess their sins. Christ blesses the children of God with forgiveness in his blood as they confess their sins. We'll see that tonight in three points. First, feeling unconfessed sin. Secondly, receiving divine forgiveness. And then finally, shouting for joy. Well, first, the blessing of feeling unconfessed sin David begins this psalm with a headline that just covers the whole psalm Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, in whom spirit there is no deceit. There's a sense in which we could just stop here with these first two verses and say, that's right. We believe that. We've been blessed by that. But the Spirit wants to dig a bit further in our hearts tonight. It seems that the Spirit wants to convict us of what does go on in our hearts and then bless us. And so we have a few more verses to go through. But this is the headline. This is this is the overarching theme of this psalm that blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is forgiven. Covered. And the rest of the Psalm just unfolds that truth. Well, if we're going to be speaking about being blessed, it would be good to understand what that means, how that's used in Scripture to get a very broad view. There's a sense in which blessing or being blessed is connected to God's eternal counsel and to his will. Psalm 33, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, whose the people whom he has chosen as his heritage. There's a blessing in the will of God. There's a blessing in being obviously chosen by God. There's a blessing in God's will as it's being worked out. We need to understand that's part of what it means to be blessed, to understand and and to um to know his will. There's a connection to faith and trust. Psalm 146. How blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God. There's a blessing in faith, obviously. As you come to faith, it's not because you are more smart or intelligent than others, it's because the Lord has blessed you with the ability to believe. So that's part of being blessed. There certainly is a connection to obedience. Psalm 119, indeed the first verse, how blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord. You're blessed as you seek to keep the law, not to be saved, knowing that Christ has done it all. But as you see the blessing, as you understand what the law is and and that the Spirit is moving in you to keep it, there is a blessing in that. And there's also a blessing to gaining understanding and wisdom. Psalm 94, blesses the man whom you chasten, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law. We rarely think of being chastened as a blessing, but that's exactly what it is. That's part of being blessed by God. And the teaching that we receive by and through the Spirit is also part of that gaining understanding and wisdom also a blessing. So that's a that's a broad brush view of what it is to be blessed, how Scripture speaks of being blessed. And now we have a better understanding as we drill down into this particular psalm and the way that word is used here by David. So we just think about that headline once again. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered, against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. We have to understand that that man, the man who is blessed here is passive. He's the object, he's not the subject. This description then is primarily not of what the man does, but primarily of what God does, what primarily what God does to him and for him, what is done by the divine. I think that's the best way to understand this Psalm. That's the focus. That's the that's the overarching theme as a result of God's actions. The man is blessed. As he is cleansed and thus unburdened from his sin, the man is blessed. He's acted upon by God. And so we see as David now begins to unfold this blessing, where he begins. He begins here in verse 3, for when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. Now you might think he's speaking of an unregenerate man or woman. The problem is that he uses that pronoun I, I kept. silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me and my strength was dried up. He is clearly speaking of his personal experience. The psalmist, David, a child of God, the one who loves the Lord, knows of his sin That's what he's saying. And he now is relating to the reader his estate of unconfessed sin. The inspired writer, the man after God's own heart, the one who is filled with the Spirit, such that now he knows his sin. And yet there were times in his life, at least once When he concealed it, when he hid it and kept silent. The form of this Hebrew verb sometimes carries the idea of causation. It's as if David had written, I cause myself to be silent. There's an active, a purposeful work here going on in David's heart, where he concealed, where he hid that which he knew of. and that which he remained in. Those two go together. If you know of your sin and you don't confess it, then you naturally or reasonably, logically stay in it. And so there's a sense of deceit here. Not telling God. Hiding from God, just like Adam and Eve, silent before God. Why would a child of God not confess known sin? I'm sure there are many answers to that question. Let's just think of four of them. First, one one keeps silent when he desires to remain in sin. That may be the hardest one to hear We keep silent when we desire to continue doing that which offends God. Secondly, a child of God might keep silent when he makes excuses for or justifies his sin. That what I'm doing is actually Okay, what I'm doing is actually good for me. Think of Eve as she took the forbidden fruit and looks at it and reasons in her mind that it's actually good for me to take this and eat it, even though God has said You shall not eat of this. Justification. Excuses. Third, one might keep silent when he has yet to be convicted of his sin. Think of Judas. I do not believe that he was a child of God. But Judas did not see the foundational problem of his sin as being against God. Judas didn't see his way out of his sin. And transgression as being through God's Son. Finally, the child of God may be too embarrassed, too shameful. A head held very low, so as not to remember the forgiveness that the Lord is ready to grant in Christ. I'm sure there are more. But here, David the King, the inspired psalmist condition, the one in whom the Spirit abides. is describing this time in his life when he was knowing of his sin and unwilling to confess it before God. Well where's the blessing then? Well it's in God's heavy hand, isn't it? For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my strength was dried up, as by the heat of summer. God's hand was heavy. David had allowed himself to remain at a distance. from God as he remains silent, he r as he remained in this unconfessed sin. He had placed God s seemingly in a box so that he could continue And that which was offensive to the living God. He placed God at a distance, he remained apart from God while he remained in his unconfessed sin, but now there's this change, this dramatic change which occurs. He is now feeling the effects of his sin as God lays a weight upon his child. The one who was remaining in unconfessed sin. He places a heavy hand upon David, even upon the body of him. We might even ask, how heavy was the hand of God? For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, certainly a continuous pressing day and night. There was no relief. No let up, no pause, no rest. David was feeling it. My bones Wasted away. There is this groaning that's going on throughout the day and night because of God's heavy hand upon him. His very foundation, meaning his skeleton, so to speak, his bones, are not becoming old. They're not wearing out. No, it's from the weight of God's hand pressing down upon him They're wasting away. Because he's remaining in sin without confessing it. Think of that. Unable to hold up the muscles anymore. His whole foundation is just crumbling around him. His strength, his vitality is dried up. The ESV note is my vitality was changed The dictionary points to this vitality or strength, having the sense of oil or moisture. And the idea seems to be that this this moisture, this oil is being removed from him, and that's where his strength lies. You can think of that in terms of a desert environment, needing as much moisture as you can get, and now it's being removed, it's evaporating, his strength is going, the picture of that precious, precious commodity being removed. from that which desperately needed in his body, and there's clearly a physical component to remaining in sin James notes it in chapter 5. Is anyone among you sick? It may be because you're in sin. Call the elders of the church to come and pray over you and anoint you with oil so that you may be healed. It's a physical component to our sin. Yes. It's so very spiritual. It manifests itself in David's description of this physical effects of remaining an unconfessed Sin. David is saying, this is what it's like. As God's hand is heavy upon me, my Spiritual, my soul is so affected. It's as if my bones are wasting away. It's as if I have no more strength physically. That's what's going on in my soul. This distance that David has created through his silence is now being felt. His mind, his heart, his very soul is being awakened. To allow him no rest, as he groans in the weight of the hand of the living God. Do you see the blessing there? The one who is blessed feels the effect of unconfessed sin. It's felt really powerfully, deeply. It awakens the person to whom God gives it To know and to understand that what you have done is you have offended the Holy One of Israel, and even more so by failing to confess it. You need to be awakened to your sin, the wretchedness of it, and you need to be convicted that it's God who's been offended. Consider the prodigal son. Took all his father's money and went and spent it on loose living. And then as it was gone, as the money was gone, he was forced to hire himself out to feed pigs. He was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, but no one gave him anything. And then he comes to his fences. How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, but I perish here with hunger? Notice it was not until the son felt the physical effects of his sin. He came to himself. He came to his senses that he woke up and returned home. That's exactly what David is describing here. It's a great blessing. The prodigal son would never have gone home if he had not felt the famine, if he had not felt the hunger. David would not have confessed his sin unless this weight of God's hand was placed upon him. It is a blessing. It caused David to turn. It caused the prodigal son to turn. And it's not done for the reprobate. It's not done for those who are not children of God. It's not done for those who are not trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Indeed, it's a picture of hell. This is a just a glimpse of hell. As I keep silent, my bones wasted away, my groaning all the day long. Day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. It's a it's a little bit of a picture. Of hell, a glimpse, the darkness where sin remains unconfessed in an eternal state, where the body will be in an eternal state of wasting away. An eternal state of dryness, the flaming heat of summer always burning away the moisture and the oil of life. Have you experienced this kind of conviction? This heavy weight due to unconfessed sin? If you have, are you praising God? For it's a great blessing that He's not left you in your sin. It's the work of the Spirit. As the weariness of your soul immersed in sin has spoken to your heart by and to the work of the Spirit. It's what we're being taught tonight. A great blessing of feeling the effect of unconfessed sin. Brings us to our second point, receiving divine forgiveness, the blessing of receiving divine forgiveness. Well, this man is blessed because he knows that guilt arises from sin. Wages of sin is death That's the general truth that David understands, and that's part of his blessing, but he's even more blessed because he knows personally that he is guilty before God. You can know general truths. And you can be thinking, well, that's true for everyone, and it really applies to you, but not so much to me. David is saying, no, no, this applies to me. Personally. He knows that he's guilty before God. He knows that Even though John writes this many, many years later, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He knows. David knows that forgiveness is not earned by a man That men cannot earn salvation, men cannot earn forgiveness. The blessed man knows that. The blessed man knows that because of the infinite wrath of God, he has no means of satisfying. God's judgment that bears against him for his sin. But he does know. He also knows. That Christ can and has earned forgiveness for all those who trust and believe upon Him That Jesus Christ has accomplished and secured forgiveness. He did that on the cross at Calvary as He dies, as He sheds His blood, the innocent for the guilty. He's securing forgiveness. That his person and work must be trusted in to receive that forgiven Forgiveness and that, brothers and sisters, is the centerpiece of this psalm. See if you hear nothing else tonight Hear this, I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. And I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. See, this man is blessed because of the forgiveness received. You forgave the iniquity of my sin. This man, like all others born by ordinary generation, born of a woman born in sin, born in guilt. Born with a sin nature, this one who is condemned to hell from the womb to eternal separation from God as a result of sin, but now in confession This guilt has been wiped away. This one has been pardoned because of what Jesus has done, because he's been justified now before God. This debt has been paid in full by Jesus Christ. Not because of anything he has done. You see, you must see this the love of God being worked out to the atoning, the cleansing, shed blood of his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. That that's the basis for his forgiveness and nothing else. That forgiveness is obtained and accomplished by and through the perfect, the accepted sacrificial death of Christ Jesus. We were even talking about that this morning, about the necessity of the atonement. And this man who knows this is blessed. He knows of Christ's death and resurrection. He knows that that's the basis for forgiveness. He knows that Jesus has paid the penalty, that he suffered death. He suffered the wrath of God so that the blessed man would not. He knows that forgiveness is received through true confession. I acknowledge my sin to you. I did not cover my iniquity. I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. There's an emphatic sense to this verse. The psalmist states three ways of how he has exposed or will expose the waywardness of his heart. to God Almighty. Remember, it begins with Him covering. And now He talks about the blessing of exposing. And he does it three ways. First, that his sin was acknowledged I acknowledge my sin to you. There's a sense in which this verb in the Hebrew is contains a habitual or a continuing aspect to it. I declared or made known or announced in a continuing or an often sense. We know that David, the man of God, would not have merely confessed his sins once and done. It's not that way for any of us. There's a continuing aspect to it, that we are called even tonight to acknowledge our sins constantly, day by day, as the Spirit works in us. I recognize what I've done or said or thought is breaking your law. Time and time again. Secondly. The cover removed. And I did not cover my iniquity. I acknowledged my sin first. I did not cover my iniquity. I didn't conceal it. Past tense. It was not a partial revealing. No, nothing hidden, nothing concealed, fully bearing his heart and soul to God. The once concealed, the once covered over, the once hidden has now been completely exposed to the eyes of God. Now let's be sure we understand. God can see everything. This psalm is talking about the heart of the one who's confessing. And what he's saying is, I've uncovered it, Lord. Yes, you knew. You absolutely knew before I said anything, before I uncovered anything, but but here you've worked on my heart so powerfully now I must uncover this for you to see it Fully and completely, at least from my perspective. And then finally a promise or a vow to continue. It's future tense. I will confess The psalmist is here vowing. The mercy of forgiveness having been received, now this blessed one goes to the future and vows to continue in confession of sins that will come. Acknowledging that he recognizes that there will be future sin and committing and promising and pledging to confess it before the Holy One of Israel And so as he confesses, he's forgiven. Yes. Yes, Christ died so that the children would be forgiven. Christ secured forgiveness. He accomplished forgiveness. But here the psalmist is telling us, the inspired psalmist is telling us there's a role for the blessed man to play. But there's a part. The blessed man knows that. Indeed, the psalm is specifically stressing the requirement for confession. And this is not the only place in Scripture we see it. Luke, Dr. Luke, as he records his gospel in chapter 13 records the words of Jesus, I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Isn't that what we read in Matthew's gospel? With regard to the cities, Korizon, Betheda Capernaum. Unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. There will be no application of the blood of Christ to cover over the sin of a man who does not acknowledge his own iniquity, his guilt, by confessing his sins before God. That's part of repentance. Forgiveness is received as a result of confession. There's also a warning, a time limit set forth in this psalm. The Spirit issues a call to all Combined with the warning. Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. The implication is that there will be a time when God will not be found. Peter puts it this way, but the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, the heavenly bodies will be burned and dissolved. David David is saying there will be a time when you will not be found, when you cannot hear my confession. Confession is only available so long as the one can acknowledge, uncover, and sincerely pour out his heart to God. That ends at death, or when Jesus returns. There's a warning. There's a call tonight to confess your sin sincerely before the one who was offended. And then to receive that forgiveness. Blessed is the man who knows that he has received. forgiveness and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. This is truly the basis of assurance, isn't it? Knowing not only that there can be forgiveness in Christ, but the fact that As confession is required, and as you confess your sins, that that blessing comes and that you have received it personally. It's not just a general truth, it's a particular truth that you've experienced. Your conscience is now cleansed personally. The weight, the weight which you were bearing is gone, just like Jesus has invited you to come. You who are heavy laden with sin, with the guilt of sin, and I will give you rest Take my yoke upon you and learn from me from gentle and lowly and hard, and you will find rest for your souls. Brothers and sisters, the only way you can find rest for your souls is in Christ As you confess your sins to him, as you repent of your sins, and you say, Jesus, I trust in you. Let me have your yoke. And please take mine. Knowing that you've received forgiveness, truly that which forms the basis of assurance, receiving that deliverance and peace in Christ Jesus. The forgiven man has been given a place of refuge, a place of protection, a place of shelter from the ravages of his own sin. From the wasting away of his bones, from the vitality being drained from him, a place of protection. His trouble has been replaced with songs of joy and the sounds of deliverance, a sweet deliverance from that estate. of being separated, being brought back into that estate of closeness to God. Have you experienced that Sweetness of the forgiveness of sin as you confess and turn away and repent. That brings us to our third point, shouting for joy Here as David calls, everyone who is godly offer prayer to you at a time when you may be found. That verb translated here, let everyone who is godly pray to you, is taken as an imperative, meaning a command in Hebrew. And it's only the godly. Only the godly who can who can do this. Only the godly, those who have been brought to a trusting faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, is exclusive to those who are godly, to pray, to commune verbally, to communicate with the God Almighty. Almighty and that's not where he stops. He continues, pray. And you will be instructed. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. This is the blessing. It all flows. From the fact that the psalmist is no longer silent. He has confessed his sin. He's come before God. He's opened up, he's exposed himself, and now as a result, as he's praying to God, he receives that instruction, that teaching, and the way he should go. He'd been on a different path. He'd been on a path of silence, a path of covering, a path of incommunicado. with the God of creation. And now he's saying that I've confessed sin The blessings just keep on flowing. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. See, the wicked resist and rebel against such instruction and teaching and counsel so as not to receive it. But the one who is blessed Looks for it and understands it as a blessing. Be not like a horse or mule. Why did he say that? Well, because the horse and mule needs that bit in their mouth to turn them in certain directions See, don't be like that. Receive the blessing of instruction and teaching from the Lord so that He will stay near you. Grow and increase in faith. Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord. Do you see the blessings that just keep on flowing out of his confession? They weren't there when he was silent. They weren't there when he when he created this distance between himself and God, but now that he has opened himself up, now that the Spirit has worked powerfully in him, now he knows. That the steadfast love of God surrounds him. That's the basis, isn't it? For everything. The basis for relief from that heavy yet blessed hand of God, the basis for blessed confession, the basis for forgiveness, it all comes through the unbounded and unmerited supernatural love of God. It comes about only through the pure obedience of the Lord Jesus Christ, who loves the Father and with an eternal and an unchangeable whole, heart, mind, and soul, and strength went to the cross. It's only the godly who receive these blessings. It's only the godly who have been made godly by the Lord Jesus Christ that confess their sins. Which is the result of trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thus are clothed with His righteousness. It all leads then to that last verse, that praise once again we read this morning. You see it here again. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. You see the grace of God here? You should, this psalmist is full of the grace of God. The psalmist is not pointing to himself as one who did something. He's pointing to God. He's pointing, for us, he's pointing to Christ. Who has done it all, and he continues to pour out his grace upon his children. The grace of God in bringing one to faith and and causing one to see and confess his sin and humbling the heart of this blessed man, the grace of God in pouring out his love on an undeserving, a sinful man, all because of his son, our Savior. This one is given the blessed knowledge of forgiveness in Christ. And then as he receives it, the assurance The assurance that he will be with God in glory forever. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous. There's no rejoicing as he kept silent, but as the Spirit moved in his heart, as he confesses his sin, the blessings just continue. culminating in his ability to worship with joy. Be glad in the Lord and rejoice O righteous and shout for joy. All you upright in heart. Yes, Christ does bless the children of God with forgiveness in his blood as they confess their sins Unconfessed sin is a dangerous estate. But confessed sin in Christ is a blessed estate. Praise be to God, for He is the one who brings that about. Amen. Heavenly Father You are a sinful people. And yet by your grace, you have worked on our hearts that, Father, we even desire to confess our sins. We know, Lord God, that this is not part of our being in Adam, but it's completely a part of our being in Christ. And so we thank you and praise you that you've worked so powerfully in our hearts, changing them from stone to flesh, causing us Father, as your hand laid heavy upon us in our unconfessed sin, to come before you, to open our hearts, to expose the filth within. So that you can wash it clean in the blood of Christ. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for his sacrifice. We thank you for his atonement. Help us, Lord God, by your Spirit, to continue to be convicted of sin and to continue to come before you in confession and run from our sins as we repent. We thank you for the forgiveness that we enjoy in Christ. Help us now to be those that continue to praise you.