If you turn your copies of God's Word now to Matthew's Gospel, we'll continue our study there this morning in chapter 27. I believe that's on page 992 of your Pew Bibles. And we've made it all the way to verse 45 in our study. So let's go there. This is the very word of God. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lemma, Sabhaksani. That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, this man is calling Elijah. And one of them at once ran, took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink. But the others said, wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? We come to a difficult passage this morning where we hear the voice of our Savior. As he cries out, help us, Holy Spirit. Guide our hearts this morning. Convict us of sin and Lord God we pray. Remind us. Comfort us. With the blessing of Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen. Well what is it to be forsaken of God? If you know the passage in the Old Testament or the book in the Old Testament named Jonah, You may have some idea of what it is to be forsaken of God. You know Jonah was that prophet who disobeyed God. He ran in the opposite direction from that which the Lord was directing him to go in. And as a result, as he enters the ship, and as the ship enters into the storm, you know the account, he is thrown into the sea, and the sea then becomes calm. For everyone on board the ship, but not for Jonah. Jonah is cast into the depths of the sea And it's there that he cries out. It's there when his life was fainting away. That's how the scripture puts it. He remembers the Lord, he prays to the Lord, he prays to his holy temple even from the depths of the sea. Where the flood surrounded him, where the billows passed over him, where he went down to the roots of the mountains. He seemed at that point to be forsaken of God. And yet even then He cries out to the Lord. Even from the belly of the fish. Jonah cries out to the Lord. This passage that we have before us in Matthew's Gospel seems to me to be all about being forsaken. Jesus Christ has prayed that prayer in Gethsemane. He asks, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. We know that Jesus Christ prayed and prayed earnestly. We know that he's been betrayed. We know that he's been tried, so to speak, before the chief priests who sought false testimony against him, who called him a blasphemer. We know that he's been denied. Three times by Peter. We know that he's been bound and sent to Pilate We know that Pilate knew that he was a righteous man, and yet he listens to the crowd who's calling for Jesus to be crucified. A murderer was released in his place. And Jesus was mocked. A horrendous scene of sinners surrounding Jesus Christ gives us this picture of darkness But in a sense that pales in comparison to what we have in the passage before us this morning, Three hours of darkness in the middle of the day as Jesus hung upon the cross In the midst of his suffering, Jesus cries out. As he's dying, as he's seemingly about to breathe his last, he cries out in a loud Voice saying, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? A quote from Psalm 22 comes to mind, it comes to Jesus' heart in his time of greatest need. And even as he cries out, he is misunderstood by some bystanders thinking that he's calling to Elijah. It's a simple passage with much for us this morning. We might sum up the teaching here this way, that as Jesus suffered in the darkness of the world's sins, he was plunged into silence and alienation. As Jesus suffered in the darkness of the world's sins, he was plunged into silence and alienation. We'll see that in three simple points or truths this morning. First, darkness descended upon Jesus. Secondly, silence tormented Jesus, and finally, forsakenness alienated Jesus. Well, as we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourself what it means to be forsaken of God. Well first, darkness descended upon Jesus. So what was happening at this point as Jesus hung upon the cross? The beginning of Jesus' ministry was supernatural. And the end of Jesus' ministry on earth was similarly supernatural. From the sixth hour to the ninth hour, that's from 12 noon to 3 p. m. , there was darkness over all the land. Three hours in the middle of the day, when the sun's rays should have been beaming down upon the earth, upon this area, upon the promised land, upon Jerusalem, upon the temple, upon the people of God. It was darkness. There had been darkness. We had just described it in the sense Judas had betrayed him. The disciples had left him. He had been brought before the religious leaders of the day who treated him as a criminal, a lawbreaker, calling him a blasphemer. False witnesses speaking against him, Peter denying him three times. But now there's a culmination of the darkness. Jesus, the Son of God, had been judged and crucified. We might think that the darkness culminates as a result of this, that he'd been mocked. That he had been considered a criminal, a lawbreaker, that he had been crucified. All of this was unjust. All of this was sin. All of this was an abomination before the living God. This was the darkest hour in the history of mankind that the creature would rise up against the Creator and attempt to put him to death to rid themselves from their Maker to be free. It causes us to remember Adam's rejection of God in the garden. It causes us to remember mankind's making of the tower at Babel. It causes us to remember the Israelites neglected the living God as they sought out false gods making golden calves in the desert. But this was the darkest hour. Like the tenants of the vineyard, not only killing the former messengers of the owner, but now killing the owner's son, so that they might inherit the vineyard. This was the culmination, the logical conclusion of sin, the killing of the anointed one. But if that's why the sun was darkened, it would have stopped shining long before this moment. No, it seems to be that the culmination of darkness happens as the sins of the world were laid upon Jesus Christ. The Son of God, the sinless one, the pure Christ, the holy Jesus. The only one now immersed, embedded in, overlaid with your sins. That's exactly what was happening. And it's throughout Scripture, Isaiah 53, the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He shall bear their or your iniquities. In John's Gospel As John the Baptist sees Jesus Christ, he exclaims, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Or the writer to the Hebrews. In chapter 9, Christ having been offered once to bear the sins, to bear the sins of many. And Peter, he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. I want you to see the picture that this is why the sun stopped shining, so to speak. Because the sin was so thick, so dark, no one could see. Because the light of man, Jesus Christ, was fading. No longer to be seen. You see? In a sense, his righteousness covered over With your wretched sins. Think of it this way. As the Son of God came and took on a human nature, he veiled his glory. That's what Paul speaks of in Philippians. He didn't think it a matter to be grasped the glory of God. And so as he takes on a human nature, he veils his divine nature. And now As Jesus Christ is on the cross and your sins are laid upon him, his righteousness is veiled. Covering it over. Your sins covered over his righteousness, and so the sun stops shining Do you think of your sins that way? You might think that the darkness represented the multiplication of sins, the sins of the world. Sins of every single child of God. But as we know, it only required one sin to plunge the entire human race into corruption. And James writes, for whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point is becoming guilty of it all. Any one of your sins could have done this to Jesus Christ. You see, we tend to think our sins aren't so bad. But that's not the case. This darkness represents each and every one of your sins. That's how abominable your sins are to a holy God. They are dark. They are wretched and filthy, each and every one of them. And that's how this passage begins. Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land. It begins with the darkness descending upon Jesus Christ as your sins The sins of each and every child of God, the dark, the lightless sins fell upon him. That's where we begin. And that moves us to our second point. The silence tormented Jesus. Well what does this darkness do? Think of the night. What happens at night? What happens in the darkness? Things tend to get quiet. Birds stop chirping. It's quiet. Darkness brings along with it silence, generally. And that's what Jesus was experiencing. Silence from his father. No longer hearing. His voice, that two-way communion that he was accustomed to, that fellowship, the voice of his father. It was gone. It was silent. He was in torment. Remember, Luke gives us that account of the rich man and Lazarus Both died. And the rich man uh is buried and he's now in Hades being in torment. I'm in anguish in this flame. See, this is as close as Jesus would get to hell And it brings him to silence. And it's a torment. And what does it do? This silence, this torment brings him to prayer. That's what this is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It would be a mistake to understand this verse and conclude that the father-son relationship was completely severed. That the God of creation didn't even hear His only eternally begotten Son as He suffered the pains of the crucifixion and the filth of the sins of the world So I want us to notice and see that Jesus is yet crying out to God, My God, my God. Like Jonah in the depths of the sea from the darkness of the belly of the great fish, he's crying out to a hearing Father, why else would Jesus speak these words unless he was confident that his voice, his words, his pleas would be heard? You see that? Jesus cries out, knowing that his father will hear him. Consider the words recorded by Luke. Jesus calls out with a loud voice, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Even now, even as he's covered, so to speak, in wretched filth and sins of the children. adulteries and thefts and lies and deceptions and hateful words and self-centeredness and envy and bitterness and discontentment and lusts and filth upon filth abomination upon abomination offence upon offence Layer upon layer. The cries of Jesus yet reach up to his Father. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me Do you do that? Your Savior did. He knew that even as the sins of the world were laid upon him, that the Father Had turned his face away, and yet he would still be heard. Do you know that? Even in your sins, as you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, that this is part of your faith, this is part of your trust. That even as you sin against the living God, as you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who cried out to his Father on the cross, that as your sins were laid upon him, you will be heard. As you cry out for strength to repent, as you cry out for a change that you may not sin against your Father this way again, as you cry out for forgiveness, you will be heard Even in your deepest and darkest sin, as you continue to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Now I'm not saying that if you're intent on remaining in your sin, I'm not saying that if you're cavalier about your sin and not intending to repent, I'm not saying that if you relish your sin, that you'll be heard. For in that condition, you really have no voice before God in Christ. For in that condition, you have forsaken Christ. No, this truth, that God hears you even in your deepest and darkest sin is for everyone who trusts, truly trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ. Your deepest and darkest sins cannot separate you from the love of God in Christ. And so Jesus cried out. He prayed in agony as he felt the weight of your sin upon him, as he felt the turning away of God's face, and yet he cries out. Consider the words he used. My God, my God. There's significance in these words. First consider the use of that personal pronoun my. He's in excruciating pain, physical, but more so spiritual. And at that very moment he cries out, My God Even as he suffers, even as he experiences affliction beyond all afflictions, he knows that the living God is his God. that he is yet in an eternal relationship with with him such that he can claim possession, so to speak, of the living God. How incredible Is it even in times when you're not experiencing the abandonment or forsakenness to say, my God, you're mine? Not in the sense of possession, or I own you, but in the sense of I have a relationship with you that can't be broken. An eternal communion, an eternal fellowship that I enjoy, that I'm part of. That you've taken me in as your child, your eternal son or daughter. My God. But it doesn't stop there. Did you notice the repetition? Twice. My God, my God. Usually in Scripture, when we see a repetition of the same thing, what it means is it's a confirmation. It's a confirmation of the truth that's being set forth or said or written. And that's exactly what this is. It's Jesus Christ as if he were saying, God You are in truth my God. There's no doubt. Even as I cry out to you in wonder, asking this question, why? Asking why it seems to me that you've left me here alone, even as I plead with you, I know this truth. That you are my God. I trust you. And then finally, the use of the word Elohim, the title. Notice that Jesus did not say Father. He used that title in the Garden of Gethsemane, but not here on the cross. It's a recognition that this one, this God of the Bible, this God of creation, the only true God, the God who knit Jesus together in his mother's womb, the living God, the Almighty God, the one who knows Jesus, the one who knows his heart, the one who knows his innocence. The one who knows his desire to serve even to death. The one who knows his love and devotion. This one, this only one who is able to bring life out of death. This is the one he calls to. The only one who can bring the dead to life. The only one that can use his sacrifice to give life to sinners. This is the one that Jesus cries out to. This is the one that Jesus prays to and pleads with. Even in this torment of silence. He prays intimately, knowing that his fellowship with the living God was not so severed that he would not be heard. But did you notice this? That as Jesus suffered in silence, he not only goes to prayer, but he actually goes to the Word of God. Psalm twenty-two. This is actually quite amazing. Because Jesus did in reality actually hear his father through the word. Jesus quotes Psalm 22, he must have remembered it. In his condition as he dies, As he's dying, his heart and mind must have been flooded with the Word of God. We have just the first verse. But you have to think that he was bringing everything in Psalm 22 into that prayer. But you, O Lord, be not far off. Deliver my soul. Save me from the lion's mouth. I will tell of your name to my brethren, for the kingdom is the Lord's, and he rules over the nations. You see that. I may be going out on a limb, but I think that's what Jesus was hearing as he's praying. Where do you go when you feel forsaken? When you're experiencing silence. When you feel that God is far off. You see, Jesus went to the Word. Even as he was about to take his last breath. He went to the Word of God that he could hear his father's voice. That brings us to our third point. Forsakenness alienated Jesus. Listen to that prayer again. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Now we come to that plea, that question, why? You have forsaken me. It's certainly a statement of truth, isn't it? The Holy God had to turn his face away from his son, now who is covered over in your sins. God himself had laid your sins upon his son, and he could no longer look upon him, so to speak. And so now this statement of how Jesus felt And how Jesus was forsaken. And he asks why In a sense, a question that wasn't answered, at least in Matthew's gospel, it didn't seem to be answered But before we even get to trying to answer that question, we need to first look and see what it is to be forsaken of God, because that is a significant question, isn't it? What is it to be forsaken of God? Well, you might substitute the word forgotten. It's not an exact equivalent. But there certainly is a great sense of being forgotten if one is forsaken by God. We know that God never forgets anything or anyone. But there is that sense, if you're forsaken of God, you are forgotten by God, meaning that God will not visit you, God will not think upon you, the Lord will not be your help You know if you uh if you like to work in wood, you may have a an old hammer maybe your father gave you that you used But uh one day you decide that that old hammer just doesn't do the work anymore and you need to get a new one and you do so And so that old hammer doesn't get thrown away, it just gets put in the back or maybe in an old toolbox, and it just doesn't get used. It's forgotten. Because the new one does it much better. That's a sense. Being forsaken, it's being cast off into a corner and never thought of again. Not merely neglected to be picked up at some later point in time. No, it's forgotten. Not even a passing thought in God's mind will be directed toward you if you are forsaken Forsaken of God really means to lack communion completely. Not only forgotten, but But to lack communion. Now we each and every one of us are made for communion. We are communicative beings. We're made in the image of God. We're made to commune with one another. And this forsakenness means that communion is gone completely. But it doesn't just stop with God. It includes everyone else and along with God, friends, family, neighbors, even casual acquaintances. To be forsaken of God means that you lose all contacts, all relations with everyone and have nothing. There will be no one for you to enjoy No one. That's what it is to be forsaken of God. Think of that account again in Luke's gospel As the rich man and Lazarus are both dead, one in Hades and one in glory. And Abraham tells The rich man, this, besides this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed. There's no communion for those who've been forsaken of God. Never be able to take comfort in any person or anything and especially not in God. And all that reduces to suffering, doesn't it? To be forsaken is to suffer. As one enters into the depth of hell and damnation, as the eternal wrath of God will be laid upon you, as you're forsaken eternally. There will be no relief. No point in time when the wrath of God stops. No mercy, no end, no pause. Only consistent, persistent suffering, that is the forsakenness of God And that is what Jesus was experiencing forsakenness. Do you realize that Jesus was forsaken so that you would not be? See, we usually think of Jesus' suffering, the spiritual pain, the physical agony on the cross for our sins. That's what we usually comes to our minds, the punishment for sins, the eternal wrath of God being poured up upon him. And we certainly should. But we probably don't consider this, that Jesus was forsaken in your place. The face of God, your creator, as well as the maker of the human nature of Jesus, turned away from his son so that he would never turn away from you. We might think that this is a light thing. Please don't I think of the sins of the world being laid upon him, the eternal wrath being suffered. But the face of God being turned away is a significant event. We don't appreciate what it means Don't grasp it, but hopefully we'll be meditating upon it. It is the pinnacle of the wrath of God. To have his face turned away from you Think of it this way. Life itself comes from the voice of God. John five, he He writes this to us. Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming, and it is now here when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. See the connection between hearing the voice of God and living. And Jesus could not hear the voice of his father. He was cut off. He was walking through the valley of the shadow of death alone. That's what it is for Jesus to be forsaken. And so He did it. So that you wouldn't be, so that you'd never walk through the valley of the shadow of death alone. So that you'd never be forsaken of God. And so as Jesus asked that question, why? We have the answer, don't we? It's so that you would not be forsaken yourselves. As you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. As your faith increases, as you long to be with the Lord Jesus Christ, brothers and sisters, know what it means. That you will never be forsaken. That you'll always be in communion and union with the triune God through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. But even your deepest and darkest sins will never separate you because Jesus was forsaken in your place. Yes, as Jesus suffered the darkness of the world's sins. He was plunged into silence and alienation so that you wouldn't be Oh, Jonah. Jonah experienced just a slight bit of what it was to be forsaken of God. Jesus Christ experienced the full weight of the forsakenness of God. So that none of the children of God would ever have to. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, what a joy, what a what an unspeakable Joy to hear and to read this verse, to know the sufferings of our Savior, and to know, Lord God, that He did it, that you did it You did this supernatural, this loving, this eternally loving thing. So that we could always be in communion with you. We thank you. We praise you. Oh Lord Jesus, we don't have the words to speak. You are forsaken in our place. And we praise you. Help us to exalt your name before others even this day. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.