If you turn in your copy of God's word now to Galatians, you can't do that. Read tonight from Galatians chapter 4, beginning of verse 21, and read through verse 6 of chapter 5. I believe that's on page 1157 of your Pew Bibles. Our preaching of the Word tonight will be focused upon really a single verse. That's verse 1 of chapter 5. Let's give attention now to the very word of God. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman, one by a free woman But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But The Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written, Rejoice, O barren one, who does not bear, break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor. For the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Now, you, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. But just as that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does the scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, but the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look, I, Paul, say to you, that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ. You who would be justified by the law, you have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything But only faith working through love. That's far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we ask that you would add your blessing now to the reading of your word and that you'd guide our hearts tonight. And this very short but critical passage, Father, open this to us by your Spirit. Lead and guide us. That Christ would be exalted. Help us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What are you doing with your freedom? It's a question that could have been asked of the Israelites as the spies were sent out. To look at the promised land and came back with that bad report, which we read earlier this evening. And as they listened to the bad report, even in their freedom that had been granted to them by the living God, they refused to enter. They refused to enter that promised land, which in a sense represented the culmination of their freedom. Freedom to worship the living God, freedom to dwell, freedom to commune with Him, the Lord Almighty, freedom to enjoy His presence. And certainly freedom from the bondage of sin that so easily entangled them. Instead of choosing freedom, they sought to choose a new leader And go back. Go back to Egypt. Go back to bondage. Go back to slavery. Instead of entering the land that they had promised that they they had been promised, that they had been called to. They chose to listen to that sinful report. They chose to seek another leader. They determined to return to the bondage of captivity in Egypt where God did not dwell and death was certain. They sought so little, they thought so little of their freedom, which they had enjoyed since their deliverance from slavery, that they were willing to and certainly chose. To return to bondage in lieu of living in freedom. That brings us to Paul's letter tonight to those at Galatia. Here in this letter, the people of the churches of Galatia had heard the good news. That's who Paul was writing to. And he's writing because he was astonished that they were quickly deserting the one who had called them to grace in Christ Jesus. meaning at least in part himself. They were turning to a false gospel, a different gospel. There were false brothers that had been brought in who were seeking to bring them into slavery. Paul's apostleship had been called into question. And he was befuddled. You were running well. And he was asking the question: who has hindered you from obeying the truth? Their freedom was being cast off, freedom that they had been granted, or at least supposedly granted, was being cast off and the people were turning back. How can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles? of the world. They had begun observing the Jewish rituals, the ceremonial rituals and rites. Which brings us then to this particular verse at the beginning of chapter 5. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. In this passage, in this single verse, Paul writes plainly and positively. The people of God were in bondage, like the Hebrews. They were slaves to sin, captive in their graves, dead in their trespasses and sins. And they had no ability to set themselves free, but were held under a curse. For Paul writes, For all who rely on works of the law are under a curse. But Jesus Christ had come to set the children of God free. And that was the call. Stand firm then in this freedom. Freedom from sin, freedom from death. Freedom from the curse of the law, freedom to love the law and keep it because they had been delivered from its curse. Freedom to live righteously And Paul also writes negatively, do not submit again to a yoke of slavery, providing a clear warning. Don't go back, don't submit yourselves again to the curse of the law which cannot save. will not save, but will only enslave you. Tonight, as we consider this A single verse, I want us to see that Jesus Christ has released bound sinners from the curse of the law to live with him in freedom. Jesus Christ has released bound sinners from the curse of the law to live with him in freedom. We'll see. At least, at least we'll speak tonight about three doctrines, three points First the law imprisons sinners. Secondly, the Savior frees captives, and thirdly, the righteous rejects release. And then we'll consider some uses or applications of this single verse to our lives. Well, first, the law imprisons sinners This is the unspoken backdrop to this single verse at the beginning of this fifth chapter for freedom Christ has set us. So as we begin, we need to recall or refresh our memories to rehearse the truth that every single man, woman, and child descended by ordinary generation from Adam is not. free. Why else would Paul speak of being set free? That as a result of Adam's sin, as a result of Adam's breaking the covenant of works, as a result of Adam's federal headship in disobeying the law of God as a result of Adam's rebellion against God, and each of us has inherited Adam's guilt. as well as Adam's sin nature. And that sin nature is described throughout Scripture, and we can just quote a few of those areas in which we see it. In Genesis chapter six, the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually Later on in Genesis, even after the flood, the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth, and from Psalm 14, there is none who does good. And then from the New Testament. Romans chapter 1, they are filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness, slaves of sin. That's the idea. And as Paul is writing to the saints in Rome, he notes that there's this bondage. To the law. Slaves of sin, and then bondage to the law. Like the master of a slave who keeps beating and beating his slave, pushing his slave to do more and more hard labor With severe punishments, when the work is not complete, the law would constantly demand more and more strict obedience, which the sinner is unable to provide So Paul tells us in chapter 8 of his letter to those in Rome for the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. In bondage. In bondage to sin, in bondage to the law. Indeed, even believing that one can keep the law to earn salvation, to earn the favor of God, to merit entrance into eternal life is the greatest wickedness. It is an outright rejection of the Son of God and thus of God Himself. Thus Paul refers to any attempt to keep the law for salvation as being in bondage. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke. Of slavery. That's exactly what Paul speaks of. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? That's when Paul gives us that allegory of the two women, Hagar and Sarah. Hagar. Being the woman of the law, Sarah, being the one who bore the child of the promise. And so Paul refers here to circumcision. Look at verse 2 for a moment. Look, I, Paul, say to you, if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to To you. You are severed from Christ. You who would be justified by the law. Yes, the law is a tutor to lead us to Christ, but until we get to Christ, the law can become and does become a means of bondage. And that's what Paul is writing of here. It's a means of bondage in this sense. In our sin nature, no one can keep the law perfectly for their salvation. In other words, no one can step into Adam's shoes as if he or she were in a covenant of works and fully and completely with all of his or her heart Mind, soul, and strength keep the law or even love God without sin. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Every single thing that you or I do is bound up in sin because of our inheritance from Adam. And so the law can and does become a prison, binding you, imprisoning you if you seek to keep it for your salvation. It is a ball and chain. For all who rely on the works of the law are under a curse. Think of the Israelites as slaves in Egypt. Impossible burdens were set upon them. Making the same number of bricks, even when the straw needed to make those bricks were removed and they were forced to gather it themselves. So the people were scattered throughout the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. The taskmasters were urgent, saying, Complete your work, your daily task each day. An impossible task. Unable to accomplish that which had been laid upon them. And as a result, they were beaten. Called lazy and questioned as to why they failed to accomplish their work. It's the same with the law. It's a picture of the law. You see, for there to be a setting free, there must first be that imprisonment, and that's what Paul speaks of. This slavery to the law. To be set free, there must be first this realization that you're not free, that you're in bondage, and that that bondage involves these two aspects. First, all are in bondage to sin. But this only becomes real and personal and experiential when there's a recognition of the law and an attempt to keep the law. Jesus, now what Paul figured out as he's writing his letter to those in Rome. Yet, if it had not been for the law, I would have not known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. See, the natural person is enslaved to the law, kept locked up in an attempt to keep it. But cannot, for his inclination is to keep on breaking it. That's the first aspect. You're enslaved to sin And the second aspect is that love of sin, isn't it? We can sum up these two on the truth that without Christ, whether admitted or not, all are in bondage to the law. Brings us to our second point. The Savior frees captives. And this is the promise of the covenant of grace, isn't it? It's the promise of the covenant which has freed you if you're trusting in Christ tonight from the law. Our Lord and God promised to be God to you and your offspring after you. That was the covenant that he entered into with Abraham. And the only way for the living God, the God of the offspring of Abraham To be your God is to set you free. And so that's what Isaiah the prophet proclaims, doesn't he? The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He set me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison. To those who are bound. The anointed one needed to open the prison and proclaim liberty to the captives, and this is exactly what Jesus Christ has done. To free sinners. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh. Jesus Christ has done that which no mere man could do under the law, weakened by the flesh. He kept the law perfectly. And then he condemned sin in the flesh as he died, his body broken, his blood shed for your punishment. Granting to all those who trust in him freedom from the need to keep the law for salvation, freedom from bondage to that which imprisons, imprisons to death, for the end of the law is death to those who seek to keep it. as a way to enter life. Christ did what you cannot do He redeemed you from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for you. He satisfied the law and thus fulfilled the covenant of works. for all the children of God by perfectly keeping the law and has pleased his father. This requirement has been satisfied in his law-keeping, sometimes referred to as his righteousness. Which has been imputed to each child of God. And thus he's opened the prison door. He's given you freedom from keeping the law for salvation. Not freedom to act as a lawbreaker, not freedom to think or speak or act contrary to the law Not freedom to ignore the moral law or set it aside as irrelevant or insignificant. No, freedom to keep the law, not for salvation, but to please the Father. Jesus Christ has set the prisoner free. Brings us to our third point. The righteous rejects relief. That's exactly what Paul is, excuse me, yes, Paul is saying here in this passage. Look, I Paul say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. The truth here is straightforward. There is only one with the key to the prison doors. There is only one who has the power to set the prisoners free. If Christ is not your only help, you're your only Savior, if one declines Christ's help and seeks self-help, self-righteousness, then Paul is clearly saying Jesus will be of no advantage to you. In other words, he will be of no help. How is this possible? How could one actually take this position? Indeed, what is it about keeping the law? What's the attractiveness about keeping the law? Why would new Christians even be inclined to listen to one who suggested that you need to keep the law? Well let me suggest that there are a few. First. First is the thought that I'm really not in prison. Isn't that the teaching? That's the foundational problem. In fact, I'm really not in prison. I'm not in bondage. I never was. This is the real problem that Jesus speaks of. To know Christ truly is to first understand that you're in prison, that you that you've been captured by your own sin, by the Prince of this world, and because of your sin nature, you're in bondage to the law as well. And thus to know Jesus is to know that you are hopelessly confined and wasting away in the darkest of dungeons called salvific law keeping. But the self-righteous deny their need. The self-righteous cannot see the prison walls. The self-righteous are are blind to the bars. Which have closed in upon them, and this is the first reason for rejecting release by the Lord Jesus Christ, to seeing the attractiveness of the law. The second It's the thought that I'll let myself out. If the righteous man would admit to his imprisonment, then he will Contend that he has the power to let himself out. It's as if the righteous man says to Christ as he's opening the prison doors for the children of God, No, no, no, I'll let myself out. I'll do it myself. My righteousness is sufficient. My law-keeping will open these doors. I'm not like these weak, helpless sinners. He's like the brother of the Pharisee, standing and praying. God, I thank you that I'm not like other men. I have and I will continue to keep the law. I will earn the favor of God. I am and will continue to be a good person. I'm not like others. Third, third would be the argument that there's no need for total dependency. But those who were leading the Galatians astray were convincing them that they really did not need all of Christ, just some. The rest would be fulfilled by their own works. That's the effect of calling them to keep the law, to be circumcised. These persuaders were seeking to move the Galatians away from Christ, away from the only way of salvation. They advised, they encouraged the immature, the believers to jump into what they understood as the shallow end of the law-keeping pool. Just a simple little law-keeping. Just enough. So that we're not completely dependent upon another upon Christ. And so they called for the release to be rejected. That was their advice. This was the counsel that the Galatians were receiving, the key that had been handed to these infants in Christ by Paul. They were told to set aside. These disturbers, these troublers, were telling the little ones to reject that key and use their own. You see, all of those who would seek who would call you to work to be circumcised in a sense are opposed to Christ. They would not say it that way. They would certainly not suggest that to you. Suggesting that you must be circumcised or that you must perform some aspect of work in order to be accepted into glory, in order to earn the favor of God. But that's exactly what they were doing. They were opposed to the freedom that Christ had purchased. They were opposed to the rock, the singular rock of the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are telling you to stand off of the rock, to jump down from the rock, to step aside from the rock, to move away from the rock, and stand on your own foundation. The foundation of your works. It sounds good. In fact, it's exactly what the Roman Catholic Church teaches. Yes, you need Christ, but you also need your own foundation. You also need your own works. This is their teaching. But do not be misled. This teaching leads you only into a locked prison. This teaching leads you only to being severed from the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a frightening reality This call to the those in the church at Galatia was an empty, it was a vain call, it was a call to an eternal grave. That you if if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. Indeed, this is a prison which only gets worse. It is a prison where you walk without Christ Jesus. It is a prison that ends in eternal torment. Are you rejecting Jesus Christ tonight? Are you trusting tonight in your own good works? Are you adding to the perfect and pure works of the Lord Jesus Christ? If that describes you tonight, Listen to Christ. Why do you spend your money for what is not bread and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Incline your ear and come to me. Hear that you may live, that your soul may live. Listen to Christ. Come to Christ. Cast off your good works and depend upon him alone. This brings us then to how we might apply this particular passage tonight. And there are two ways in which the Apostle Paul clearly tells us to apply it. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. We're given two faces, or two sides to the same coin, actually. Stand firm, and secondly, do not submit. I want us to take a look at what it means then, how we can apply this idea of standing firm. What does Paul mean? Stand firm on what? Or stay put in the freedom that Christ has given you in your freedom? A person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ has placed these infants, so these Galatians, in this estate, in this house, in this ground, this freedom. And Paul is calling them not merely to recognize that truth, to acknowledge that truth, but then to live in that truth. That's indeed what application is, is to live in or out of the truth that you've been presented with. And He's calling them now. He's calling us tonight to stand firm the freedom that you've been placed in. So The question, how do you? How do you stand firm? Standing firm cannot mean to defend yourself and your own Strength against the unrelenting attacks of those who would seek to lead you astray. To say you really don't need Jesus, or you certainly don't need all of Jesus, you just need to be a good person. How do you stand firm? Standing firm cannot mean to stand firm in your weakness, because that describes each of us. He has pity on the weak and the needy. That's describing us, Psalm 72. We are the weak. We are the frail. Our faith is little. So the call to stand firm must be to stand firm in the one who has set you free. Stand firm must be to do so in Christ. So let's look first at the works of Christ and then at the person of Christ. Let's consider that. Standing firm first in the works. of Jesus Christ. This freedom has been purchased by Christ, so to stand firm in this freedom, you're actually standing firm in in his work. And we have that simple truth set before us. And we can boil it down to that one simple fact. Jesus Christ has set free the children of God. It is Christ who has done all things to secure your freedom. It is Jesus who has accomplished every aspect, every detail, every piece, every portion, every component, every task. Every assignment for you personally and individually to be set free. And so you're called to stand firm. It is a call to remember each aspect of the work required to gain your freedom. It's a call to stand upon that work, the pure, undefiled, unstained, untainted, uncorrupted, unblemished, sinless. work of Jesus, the God man. So let's consider a few of those aspects. Consider how the sun came and took to himself a human nature, lowering himself, condescending from heaven above, the heaven above heavens. To be born under the law, in a poor estate, being born in the stable, submitting himself to the misery of this life the curse of the creation, surrounded by the wicked, the evil, the wretched, the God haters, remembering his work of humility as the one, the Son of God. who submitted himself to the wretched, blasphemous, evil words of the chief priests, the scribes, the Pharisees, the religious leaders of the day, as they unrighteously accused him, convicted him of sin against his father. And yet he responded not, remaining silent as a lamb led to slaughter, a sheep before its shears. Consider his work in suffering as the Roman cohort mocked him, dressing him in a purple robe and bedding a crown of piercing thorns. on his truly royal head, and mercilessly beating him even before your sins nailed him to the cross. And then meditate on that work, that work of the cross. Submitting himself to the wretched death, the cursed death of hanging on a tree before the world which mocked him. Working your salvation out as he hung on the cross and as his heart melted like wax. As Jesus cried out, Abba Father, why have you forsaken me? This is the work of Christ that you're to stand firm in. This is his work of reconciliation. As he hung on the cross, as he took your sins to himself and suffered his father's eternal wrath for each and every one of them, you were being healed and set free. And consider the tomb. As he submitted himself to the tomb, to the power of death and certainly to burial. And then as he rolled up the burial cloths and laid them down on the third day as he exited the tomb as a victor over your sin and death, Jesus was working your freedom. He worked to defeat your ultimate enemies, even sin and death. You see, this is what you're to stand firm on. For standing firm requires you to be on that which is the firmest foundation, and there is none other. Your freedom rests on the foundation of the work of Jesus Christ, not in your strength. Not even in your faith, but only on the work of Jesus Christ. Having considered his works, now let us consider his person. But that freedom that you stand firm in is is actually defined by Jesus. Meaning the freedom is not only purchased by Christ, and thus as a result it's valued by Christ, but this freedom is directly connected to Christ. This estate of freedom is defined by the nature of Christ. How could it not be? How could Christ give himself for that which was not completely aligned with his very being How could he pay with his very blood for that which did not mirror his very nature? See, the Judaizers were pushing an external, a sterile, a mechanical, and unfruitful, Christ-excluding type of law keeping They were calling their followers to negate the pure righteous works of Jesus and pursue their own works of corrupt righteousness. The Judaizers were advising those who would listen to deny the love of God in the covenant of grace. But the freedom which Christ purchased was and is heartfelt keeping of the law. while recognizing the inability to keep any aspect of it perfectly for salvation. And on the other hand, this freedom was an appreciation and an acknowledgement of the love and benevolence of God and the righteous work of the Son of God. Performed in fulfillment of the covenant of grace. These aspects of the freedom purchased by Christ flow out of his nature, out of his person. So think about the person of Jesus Christ just for a moment. He was the one chosen by God. Consider that. He was selected, parsed out, set aside, ordained and anointed as the one God Himself had selected because of who he was and is. Scripture is replete with that testimony. Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my chosen, in whom my soul delights. This is my beloved son, with whom I'm well pleased. This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. The Father did not say, watch his works. He might have, he could have. That would have been powerful. But he said, listen to him. Why? Because he was the chosen one because of this person. You see, Jesus was the only one who could and did love the Father so much that he would not let anything keep him from doing his Father's will. We might call that righteousness. We might think of the person of Jesus Christ as being pure, undefiled, unaltered, unmixed, unblemished righteousness. In fact, it's difficult to describe the person of Jesus Christ more succinctly than that. For that is what defines the person of Jesus. For if you define his purpose as being pure and undefiled righteousness, you're also including with that large umbrella his loving kindness. His compassion, his gentleness, his joy, his goodness, his faithfulness, his mercy, his grace, his beauty, his patience, his peace, and certainly his self-control. You might ask, how does this all fall under his righteousness? It's because his righteousness points to his Father, in whom all of these attributes exist. And if Jesus is righteous, and Jesus is righteous, he's righteous because he is like his father and so desires to do his father's will such that nothing else matters. This is the person of Jesus Christ. And this again is the foundation upon which you're called to stand. You're called to stand firm upon the works of Christ, and those works of Christ are based upon the person of Christ. They can't be separated. They must and do go together, and they're described And called the rock. And that's how you can stand firm. Christ is the rock. Christ is the one who has the stamina. He's the one who has all knowledge and wisdom. He's the one who has the purity. He is the one who has the singleness of mind. He's the one who has the zeal. And there's no other one to stand on. Only Christ. And if you stand on Christ, you will be firm in your freedom. And you will reject All other suggestions to return to a yoke of slavery. For the yoke of Christ is easy, and his burden is light. And in your freedom, you're with Christ. And you will want nothing else than to be with Christ. Just as Paul said, for for me to live is Christ, to die is gain. My desire is to depart and be with Christ. That is far better. Yes. Christ is the only rock. And it's only in Christ that you can stand firm. Jesus Christ has indeed released bound sinners from the curse of the law to live with him in freedom. The Israelites desired to return to a yoke of slavery, even as they have been given freedom. Brothers and sisters, if you're trusting in Christ tonight, you have been set free for freedom. What are you doing with it? Are you staying in it? Are you standing firm in Christ? We all struggle. Christ is the only foundation. Let us pray. The Holy Spirit would keep us fixed, firmly fixed. Upon the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen Father and our God, we need help We are just like those sheep that stray quite often that are led astray by those who might call us to another way, another gospel. We ask, Lord God, that you'd help us put in stoppers in our ears and run to Christ. Run to our firm foundation. Remember that he has worked to set us free, that indeed his person and his attributes define our freedom. So we ask Holy Spirit help us. Keep us connected to Christ in union and communion with only Him. Guide and direct our steps even this week, all for your glory