Amen. If you turn your copy of God's word now back to Matthew's gospel. We'll be in chapter seventeen once again. I believe that's on page nine hundred and seventy-eight of your pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the holy, inspired, and infallible Word of God. When they came to Capernaum, the collectors of the two drachma tax went up to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the tax? He said, yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying, What do you think, Simon? From whom do kings of the earth take toll or tax? From their sons or from others? And when he had said from others, Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free. However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth, you will find a shekel Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself. That's part of the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we thank you for your word. We come to a passage this morning which may be a bit difficult to understand. And certainly to apply. Help us, Lord. Guide and direct us by your Holy Spirit. Illumine our hearts. Illumine our minds. Father, convict us of sin and certainly, Father, remind us. Encourage us with all the promises of Christ. We ask this in His precious name. Amen. How are you using your freedom? In our corruption in Adam, we were in bondage to sin. We had no freedom. But in Christ, you've been set free. So how are you using it? The Israelites, as we read earlier this morning, were in bondage. As we read this morning, they were oppressed by the Egyptians. The Egyptians were in dread of them, and they ruthlessly Meaning the Egyptians ruthlessly made the people of Israel labor with hard and bitter service. They were enslaved. They were not free. But if you continue reading in Exodus, you see that they were set free by God through the ten plagues and finally through the Red Sea. The people were enabled to walk on solid ground through the Red Sea with the walls of the sea on the right and the left built up and able to go through safely, delivered. The Egyptians were not. But how did the Israelites use their freedom? Nearly immediately after we read of their deliverance through the Red Sea, we read of their grumbling and complaining time after time. They grumbled and complained against Moses and Aaron. They quarreled with Moses. They asked, why did you bring us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? They continued to test the Lord. They did not use their freedom in such a way that was pleasing to the Lord. How are you using yours? This morning, as we come to this portion of the Gospel of Matthew, we've Just come off of the high mountain with Jesus as he's been transfigured Peter and James and John have witnessed the transfiguration of Jesus. They've heard the Father calling out, telling them that this is my son. Listen to him. And coming down off the mountain. We have heard of the little boy who was demon-possessed, who the disciples could not heal because of their little faith. And now we come to this passage, this passage about this tax. This morning I want us to see very simply that Jesus Christ sets the sons free to become living sacrifices. Jesus Christ sets the sons free to become living sacrifices. We'll see that in three points. Jesus was sent to keep the law, secondly, Jesus was sent to make the payment, and finally, Jesus was sent to set the sons free. Again, as we go through this, I'd like you to be asking yourselves that question, what am I doing with my freedom? Well first Jesus was sent to keep the law. So we have this scene which uh appears somewhat out of place as they come now to Capernaum, uh the collectors of the two drachma tax Go up to Peter and ask this question, does your teacher not pay the tax? It's possible, as one commentator notes, that as Jesus and the disciples were traveling, that the time to pay this tax had come, and it's possible that this tax had not yet been paid. And so the collectors come. But listen to that question again. Does your teacher not pay the tax? Did you notice that Peter wasn't asked? He's the one that the collectors go to, but Peter's not asked. He's asked, is your teacher not going to pay the tax? Jesus Christ, Peter's master, his rabbi, his leader, is now the focus of this question. Would Jesus pay the tax? Would Jesus obey the law? Would Jesus contribute to the maintenance of the temple? That's apparently what this tax was being used for. Peter was the messenger, and yet Peter himself uh had this same tact staring him in the face and yet he wasn't asked. He was only asked of Jesus Possibly to trap him, possibly to bring shame upon his name, possibly to draw his followers away from him if he didn't pay the tax in calling that to their attention. So why is this passage here? It seems like a part of worldly life, and we may not really need to get into these details But it should cause us, as Matthew Henry notes, to remember that Jesus was made under the law. He's born under the law. That's what we read in Galatians 4. Our Westminster Confession of Faith notes that he was made under the law. And we know that Adam was called to keep the law, wasn't he? As we studied the covenant of works recently. Adam was called to work, to to keep the covenant of works, to you may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil You shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Adam was called to keep the law perfectly and personally. But we know that he didn't. And so now Jesus was sent to do that which Adam refused to do, to keep the law, to obey perfectly. You might think that that requirement has gone away because Adam failed That the covenant of works was done. But that's not the case. Consider throughout Scripture what we read about keeping the law. Leviticus 18, you shall therefore keep my statutes and my rules. If a person does them, he shall live by them. Ezekiel 18. If a man is righteous and does what is just and right and walks in my statutes and keeps my rules, acting faithfully, he's righteous, he shall surely live. Even Jesus In response to the lawyer who asks him, who puts him to the test, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus asks him, well, what's written in the law? And he goes through the Ten Commandments, that summary of the Ten Commandments, and Jesus said, You've answered correctly. Do this and you will live. Paul As he's going through his own gospel. Right, do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those who've been brought from death to life and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. So the requirement to keep the law To be perfectly innocent and righteous before God had not gone away with Adam Indeed, the psalmist in Psalm 24 states that only one with clean hands and a pure heart is able to ascend the holy hill of God. And so we know those born of Adam, like Peter, are corrupt and unable to keep the law. Again, Paul writes in Romans, for the mind set on the flesh is death. It does not subject itself to the law, for it is not even able to do so. So we have that problem, the call to keep the law, and yet the inability to do so as we are born of Adam, and so Jesus came to fulfill it. Isn't that what he told his disciples on the Sermon on the Mount? Do you not think that I've come to abolish the law or the prophets? I've not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. And so we're reminded of that truth, even as this question is asked of Peter. Does your teacher not pay the tax? We're reminded that Jesus was sent to fulfill the law. So that those who trust in him would be able to enter the kingdom of heaven. That actually brings us then to Peter's answer, doesn't it? Does your teacher not pay the tax? He said yes. It's a bit confusing. What Peter was actually saying was, yes, he pays the tax. Indicating that he still didn't know Jesus. Even though he'd been at the Transfiguration, even though he'd seen The brightness, the whiteness of Jesus Christ, his divinity shining through his humanity, even though he heard the Father saying, This is my Son. They didn't really know Jesus as the one who did not need to pay the ceremonial tax. He didn't know Jesus as the one who was the the true keeper of the law. And so that causes us to ask the question of ourselves today. Is Jesus your teacher? Is he your master? And if so, has he come to satisfy the law for you? Or are you still carrying that burden Are you still seeking to pay the tax, so to speak? Are you seeking to earn God's favor? with your keeping the law or doing good works. Do you still feel that you need to keep the law to be saved? To be a good person, to earn the favor of God, to be admitted into heaven. If your answer to that this morning is yes, if you're searching your heart this morning and you're feeling that, yes, I I still feel that way, I still think that way. This passage is critical. This passage is going to show you And first of all, you can't even satisfy the law. Can't even pay this particular temple tax rightly. And that Jesus actually has done it all. That brings us to our second point that Jesus provides the payment. Jesus was sent to provide the payment. We have to really understand this picture that's being presented to us in this question. Does your teacher pay or not pay the tax. Well what was this tax? And that's where some of this confusion comes into play. It's referred to earlier in this passage as the collectors of the two drachma tax. That's the way the New American Standard puts it, the two drachma. And that's the word in the Greek It refers to this two drachma piece. It's equivalent, according to the Greek dictionary, equivalent to a half shekel And that's why Jesus says in its mouth, as this fish are going to find a shekel. The two drachma tax was equal to half of a shekel. And so if the Tax was going to be paid for Peter and for Jesus. They would need a full shekel to do that, and that's what's referred to here. Two drachma tax. The New King James refers to this as the temple tax. Now why is that? Well, it's a reference back to Exodus chapter thirty, wherein the Lord says to Moses, When you take a census of the people of Israel, then each shall give a ransom for his life When you number them, that there be no plague among them, when you number them. So the idea is when you take a census, when you count the people that each one counted then is to bring this tax, so to speak, this ransom money into the sanctuary as the Lord's offering. To make atonement for your lives, to give it for the service of the tent of meeting. So we see in Exodus 30 that when a ransom, that a ransom was paid, when a census was taken. So that there be no plague amongst the people when they were numbered. They'd say, what what's going on? What's happening? The commentators are not in lockstep with what was happening here. Certainly we're not in lockstep with what was going on in Jesus' day. But it seems to be this idea. That it was important that a census be taken of the people to know how many there were. But in taking a census, there could be sin that pops up. That pride comes to play. This is exactly what was happening as David calls for a census to be taken in 2 Samuel. He calls for a census of the people of the Israelites. And Joab, his commander of the army, tries to get him, no, no, don't do that. Because he knew that it would be sin. He knew that David was sinning. In taking the senses. Because David wanted to know how great the people were to know how great he was. That's the sense of it. There's pride involved in David taking the senses. And so God punishes that. But David admits that it was sin. Now, it's not sin merely to take a census, it's sin to what comes as a result of one's taking the census. Pride. Look at what I've done. Look at what we've done as a nation, as a people. It's a neglect of God. It's a possible neglecting of God. And so the tax or the Lord's offering was commanded that the people remember who it was that caused them to be so numerous Who it was that they were serving? Who was it that was the king that they were submitting themselves to? That seems to be the idea. So that there would be no plague among you when you take the census Hendrickson writes that the tax had nothing to do with taxes exacted by Rome. It seems to be the case that this wasn't a a governmental tax. This was a tax for the temple now. That was sought out by the Lord to keep their eyes focused on Him. Not on themselves, take it off their pride, and then use it for the temple itself. Initially, it seems to be used for the building of the temple, but now here in Jesus' day, most likely for the maintenance of the temple, for the temple worship. Seems to be the idea behind this tax. And so now we have to ask that question: was there a reason for Jesus to pay it? Again, there was a twofold purpose. First, it represented a ransom or an atonement for the people. And second, it was to be used to maintain and sustain the tabernacle, or now the temple. As we think of that ransom to make atonement for your lives, we think of Jesus Christ, who needed no ransom, the sinless one. What did he need a ransom for? What did he need an atonement for? He wasn't thinking thoughts of pride. He wasn't thinking of how great he was How great this nation was. There was no temptation in his heart. He did not forget or neglect his God. There's no reason for him to pay the tax, and certainly as we think of the temple. As we think of its maintenance, we have to ask the question, well, who possessed the temple? Who called for the temple to be built? Who designed the temple? Why does the temple exist? And the answer to that is God, God, God, God, isn't it? God called for the temple to be built. God built the temple by providing the plans for it and all the materials for it. God was the reason the temple existed. God was the center of the temple. Think of Isaiah as he's walking into the throne room as the train of the Lord filled the temple. He's the center of the temple. Jesus is the God man. So there's no reason, no basis for Jesus to pay the temple tax. In short, the answer from Peter should have been no. My teacher has no reason to pay the temple tax. He's the reason the temple exists. In one sense that was Jesus' response, wasn't it? What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take toll or tax, from their sons or from others? It's a fairly simple concept. Jesus was using an analogy to get Peter to open his eyes, to consider the way in which the kings of the day The rulers of the day would raise taxes. Would they raise it from those that they favored or those that they didn't favor? It seems to be what Jesus was getting at. Kings favor their sons. And kings would not tax their sons or require their sons to pay a tax because they favor them. There's a special privilege given to the sons of kings which are not given to anyone outside of their family. So everyone else who's not a son was required to pay the tax to support the ruler, but the sons of the king were exempt. They were tax-free Seems to be the point that Jesus was making. He was making that analogy to tell Peter about the kingdom of God. Remember what had just transpired, what Peter had just witnessed, the transfiguration. The whiteness of Jesus' face, his clothing, those that appeared with him, Elijah and Moses and the voice from above. This is my beloved son. God the Father had through the transfiguration just presented the kingdom of God to Peter And so the kingdom of God of Kev of heaven stands before or behind this entire event. As Jesus refers to earthly kingdoms, now his point is that the true sons of God are exempt, they're free from this ransom, from this atonement, from this tax, because they're sons. Because they're favored by the true King, the King of Kings. And so Jesus said, well, so as not to give offense to them, go. Go and pay the tax. Pay the tax through a supernatural event. Cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up and when you open its mouth you'll find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself. What what was the purpose of that? Was it a mere circus trick designed to amaze? No, never First, it was an acknowledgement that neither Jesus nor Peter, Peter is a follower of Christ. and a son of the Most High God, neither were obligated to pay the temple tax. So the payment, such that there would be no offense, does not come out of either one of their pockets, but from a fish Who had likely picked up the shekel that was dropped into the sea? Secondly, it was a type. It was a supernatural event. Supernatural knowledge that Jesus had, pointing to the supernatural event of the cross. on which Jesus truly kept and satisfied the law. That was the true atonement, the paid ransom, but not for himself. Jesus Christ paid the price for the sins of the world on the cross. You must see this, and the fact that Peter, Peter was covered. by this tax, by this shekel, didn't come out of his pocket. Consider the relief that Peter must have felt. Consider as he goes and hooks the fish and removes the shekel and pays the tax, how he had now received the credit. supernatural credit for this ransom, this debt, paid in full. Consider the awe that Peter must have experienced as he finds that Jesus was right. He throws the hook into the water. The first fish that snatches the hook he pulls out and in its mouth was exactly That shekel, exactly the right price. Exactly what was needed. Have you experienced that relief? Have you experienced that payment for your debt? The dead of your sin, supernaturally, as Jesus Christ hung on the cross at Calvary. Your sins were paid for. Each and every one of them. Supernaturally. Credited to you. Just the right amount. Perfectly. So that on the day of judgment there will be no wrath of God for you to pay. Nothing. Jesus has done it all. Do you know that? Do you recognize that? Have you experienced that? Do you know that you need to be atoned for? Do you know that you have a debt that needed payment and needs payment? And that Jesus was willing to and has planned and purposed to make that payment supernaturally. It's all caught up here in this passage. If you're here today and you're saying, No, I haven't experienced that, no, then cry out to Jesus. Cry out to the Holy Spirit. Ask Him to convict you of the wretchedness of your sin and your need for payment. Ask for Christ to make that payment for you. So that you truly experience that weight, the weight of your sin being lifted. Yes, Jesus was sent to pay the price. That brings us to our third point. That Jesus was sent. To set the sons free. This seems to be the centerpiece of this passage. You might say, well, it's the it's the fish, it's the supernatural act of Christ. You know, y you might convince me, but I really believe it's here as he speaks to Peter. And as Peter said from others, then Jesus said to him, Then the sons are free. What does that mean? Jesus was clearly free Identified by the disciples, but more importantly by his father as the only Son of God. But did you notice that the word here is in the plural? Then the sons are free. And what was Jesus referring to? With regard to this freedom. Was he merely focused on this temple tax? If so, there wouldn't be much application for us today, would there be? But I think it's it's got broader implications. It's got much broader applications to us. Because being free in Christ Jesus as a son or a daughter of God includes so much. Consider the transfiguration. It ended in an interesting way. As As the three men hear the voice of God the Father and they tremble and their faces they fall and their faces they're they're terrified. What does Jesus say? He comes and touches them, saying, Rise and have no Fear. Why? How? Only because of j who Jesus was and what he was about to do. Have no fear. Only because he would bring them to the Father for adoption as sons and daughters. That's why And this person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ would set them free in their adoption Think of that boy who was indwelt by the evil spirit that the disciples could not set free. Jesus set him free, and that should have informed the disciples. of their freedom in Christ, and now he makes it explicit. Then the sons are free You have to be asking yourself that question, what does it mean then to be a son or a daughter set free? Westminster Confession of Faith in chapter twelve as it describes adoption describes it this way all those that are justified, God vouchsaith in In and for his only son, Jesus Christ, to make partakers of the grace of adoption. So you get the picture, those that are justified are also adopted by grace. By which they're taken into the number and enjoy the liberties and privileges of the children of God. That word liberties is very important for us this morning because it could be translated freedoms. Those who are the children of God who've been adopted, who are partakers of the grace of adoption, who've been justified, enjoy the liberties of the children of God. So now you should be asking, well, okay, what are those? What are those freedoms? Well, first you have a freedom from the law, don't you? Certainly paying a tax was part of that. But that was a ceremonial law of the day. You're free from the moral law. Now you should be asking yourself, what does that mean? Free from the law. You're not under law, but under grace. Romans chapter 7. Now we are released from the law. What does that mean? You're free from the law. Does that mean that sons and daughters of God don't need to consider the law? Does that mean they have no obligation to keep the law? Does it mean that sons and daughters can ignore the law and behave as they want? Speak any want any way they want, think any way that they want, does it mean that they're released completely? That would certainly be the understanding of Our friends in the Church of Rome, as they consider the doctrine of justification by faith alone. They consider that doctrine to be an anathema. Meaning. Meaning excommunication with curses. Anyone who believes that justification is by faith alone, with no works, is an anathema. Let him be out of the church, let him be cursed. Many in that camp would understand the doctrine of justification by faith alone to assert that the Son has nothing to do with the law. Many would assert that those who hold to the doctrine of justification By faith alone are simultaneously taking the position that the law has nothing to do with the life of the Christian. That is completely wrong. To be released from the law means that you're not under the law, such that you need to keep it to be saved. That's what it means. Jesus has already done that. He's already kept the law for your salvation. And just as he paid the temple tax for Peter or Simon, He's paid for all those who trust in him, the keeping of the law moral law. That's what he's done. It's not that God has removed the requirement to be righteous. No, we've seen that. But Jesus has set you free by keeping the law for your salvation. You've been given blessed freedom from that weight, that unbearable weight that you had no way to carry. Come to me, all who labor. And are heavy laden, I will give you rest. Those are Jesus' words. Take my yoke upon you, learn from me. I'm gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. That's what he's speaking of. But he has relieved you of that burden of carrying the weight of the law which you're unable to carry. Freed from the law. And you're freed from sin. Prior to adoption, the children of God, the sons of daughters were slaves to sin. But as adopted children, a son or a daughter, you are freed from the bondage to sin. Again, Romans chapter 6. Our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. You're free. The chain has been broken. As one who is in bondage to sin, you were unable to ascend the holy hill of the Lord. You were unable to commune with the one who made you. You were kept out outside of the family of God. But in Christ, you've been baptized into his death, and in Christ, you've died to sin. Sin is no longer your master. Now as a son or daughter, you're free in Christ. The chains have fallen off, the doors of the prison have have burst open. You've been set free from sin and death. And so now you're free to keep the law. You may be scratching your head saying, well, I thought you just said we were free from that. I did. But you have got to understand this in the right way. Yes, you've been given freedom from keeping the law to earn salvation. But now you've been given freedom to love the law. As Jesus has changed your heart and granted you a heart. Which now sees the beauty of the law and understands the law is a picture, the moral law is a picture, a limited explanation of the nature of God Himself. In your corrupt nature in Adam, you had no desire to keep the law, you had no desire to study the law, you had no desire to pursue it or meditate upon it, but in your new nature With your new heart now, you see the beauty of the law and you want to keep it because you know that that's what makes your Heavenly Father happy, if we can speak of God that way. So now you have the freedom to diligently pursue the law. Not for salvation. But because you're free from sin. And now you're a slave to righteousness. That's freedom. That's true freedom. Not that you keep the moral law perfectly. No, no, no. Just like Paul, you see how far you fall short. But what a blessing. Have the freedom to keep the law. And you're free to believe the word of God. That's critical. You may be thinking, well, of course, how could I be following Jesus if I didn't believe the word? And that's certainly true. But don't miss this. Sons and daughters of God have been given new hearts by the Spirit and thus are able to understand the Word of God. This is unique. This is exclusive to a son or a daughter of God. Only the adopted children of God and Christ are able to understand the law. It's spiritually discerned. You have the mind of Christ. And it doesn't stop at mere understanding, does it? See, those who are outside of Christ have no freedom. They have no ability to to truly understand the revealed word of God. And as a result, they cast it off They have no desire for it. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But you as a child of God To us who are being saved, it's the power of God. You're able to understand and believe it. You have freedom to believe. And then finally, you have freedom to become a living sacrifice. And this gets back to maintaining the temple, doesn't it? That temple tax, that's what it was used for, at least Initially it was used for the construction and then possibly used for maintenance after after a time. And Jesus said the sons are free from paying the tax. But they were not free from participating in the body of Christ. See, Peter was in a way participating in the body of Christ as he paid the tax, wasn't he? But there's no more temple today. You are the temple. You are God's temple. And God's Spirit dwells in you. So how do you maintain this temple? By being a living sacrifice. I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. You see, the sons and daughters of God have that privilege, they have that freedom of being that living sacrifice, of presenting themselves that way. The freedom of living your life in such a way that you're constantly living for and in Christ. who lived sacrificially, that he was constantly seeking to do the will of the Father and thus serving the people of God, and now you've been set free to serve as a living sacrifice. To die to yourself and to live, truly live for the one who saved you. When you were in your corruption, you had no desire to pursue a life of sacrifice You had no desire to be a living sacrifice. You had no desire to live, to serve others, but only yourself, but in Christ. As a son or daughter of God. This is your desire. This is what you've been remade for. To be that living sacrifice as a part of the body of Christ, maintaining the temple You see all this freedom? Freedom from the law, freedom from sin, freedom to keep the law, freedom to believe the Word of God, freedom, it all could be summed up in the freedom to become a living sacrifice The freedom of of placing the interest of others above your own, the freedom to constantly seek how can I lift others up and encourage others The freedom to lead others to Jesus, the freedom to love the one who made you and remade you and live like you do Do you see your freedom this way? Do you use your freedom this way? Brothers and sisters, this is a a call for us to examine our lives, to be asking ourselves. How am I using the freedom that Jesus Christ has purchased for me? As Jesus Christ sets the sons free to become living sacrifices. The Israelites were in bondage and they were set free and then they failed to recognize their freedom in Christ, and they failed to use their freedom to glorify. the living God and to enjoy Him. Brothers and sisters, we have a call this morning in what may appear initially to be a strange passage. But it's filled. It's filled with the call to use your freedom in such a way that brings honor and exalts the Lord Jesus Christ. Father and our God Help us. We're weak, we're frail, we don't even consider our freedom often. Lord God, we could have gone on for another couple of hours this morning thinking upon, meditating upon the freedom that we have in Christ. We thank you for this passage. Lord God, we thank you for unfolding it for us. We thank you, Lord God, for the riches that are in it. We pray, Father, help us. Help us to be those that use our freedom in such a way that honors Christ, the one who set it.