And then we will turn back to the very pages written about the death of Christ. Luke chapter 23. And from that passage I'll be preaching this this afternoon. I know this is a familiar passage. But there's something about this passage that actually reoccurs again at the death of as Jesus is dying. Now, Jesus being filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, being tempted for forty days by the devil. And in those days he ate nothing. And afterward, when they had ended, he was hungry. And the devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become bread. But Jesus answered him, saying, It is written. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. Then the devil Taking him up on a high mountain, showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time And the devil said to him, All this authority I will give to you, and their glory. For this has been delivered to me, and I give it to whomever I wish. Therefore, if you will worship before me, all will be yours. And Jesus answered and said to him, Get behind me, Satan. For it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only you shall serve. Then he brought him to Jerusalem, set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here. For it is written, He shall give His angels charge over you to keep you. And in their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone. And Jesus answered and said, It has been said, you shall not tempt the Lord your God. Now when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him Until an opportune time. Thus for end the first reading. Please uh Be seated now and turn back to Luke chapter 23. Luke chapter 23, picking up at verse 27. The Lord Jesus has been judged guilty and is being led off to Calvary for crucifixion. And a great multitude of the people followed him, and women who also mourned and lamented him. But Jesus, turning to them, said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For indeed the days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, wombs that never bore, and breasts which never nursed. Then they will say to the mountains, fall on us and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things in the green wood, what will be done in the dry? There were also two other criminals led with him to be put to death. And when they had come to the place called Calvary, there they crucified him. And the criminals, one on the right hand and the other on the left. Then Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. They divided his garments and cast lots, and the people stood looking on. But even the rulers with them sneered, saying, He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Christ, the chosen of God. The soldiers also mocked him, coming and offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. And an inscription was also written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. This is the King of the Jews. Then one of the criminals who were hanged blasphemed him, saying, If you are the Christ, save yourself and us. But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Do you not even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due rewards of our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong. Then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said to him, Assuredly, I say to you, today you will be with thee in paradise. They add they are God add his blessing to the reading of this word Well, this is the story of the darkest time in all of human history. When men Jews and Greeks, excuse me, Jews and Romans Gentiles and Jews came together, representing all the people of the world, to put an end to Jesus Christ. This is a time, this passage, that's marked by great suffering and ultimately the death of our Lord. And for that reason, it's a very dark chapter, a very bleak story. However, it is wrong, it is very wrong to assume But that's all there that's all that happened on the cross at Calvary. Because I think there is a real victory. A real victory of the gospel that occurs at the cross as Jesus is about to die. And I want to have you think about this in terms of the suffering and the sacrifice, and then secondly, the victory. Well, we see in this text a number of uh uh situations that Jesus is finding himself in that um are perfectly aligned with prior teaching in God's Word. For example We learn that there are two criminals led with Jesus to be put to death in verse 32. And that may shape your memory. Back to the familiar passage in Isaiah 53, where it says that Christ, in verse 12, that Christ will be numbered among the transgressors. This is now being fulfilled. This text, the text that is probably in the Old Testament the clearest statement. of the redemptive work that Jesus was going to perform. Remember? He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised. For at our iniquities, and by his stripes all we were here healed. Like as a lamb led to the slaughter, so he was Imagine, in the opinion of many in Jerusalem at this moment, the Lord Jesus is nothing more than a common criminal. Deserving to be destroyed like common criminals. Imagine if you could That adding to Jesus' physical suffering, which was intense, now the mental suffering. Knowing that many whom you have come to save, many whom you have created, have such a low opinion of you As it says in verse 32, they led him to be put to death. Death of Jesus, it's almost impossible to think about it. Here he is, the Son of God, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The man The God man who is a doer of miracles. Many miracles. Not just one, but many. Cured. Every disease brought to him, healed every infirmity, cast out any demon. He even raised Lazarus from the dead It begs the question, why did this assembly hate Jesus so much? What did he do that was so worthy of death? They persisted. In pursuing Jesus, particularly the rulers of Israel, persisted in pursuing Jesus. And that persistence only witnesses To the total depravity of the human heart. It also tells us how much all men need the redemptive work of Jesus Christ. Because though we were not there, though we were not Jews or Romans that led him to death Without Christ, we all are guilty of wanting him away from us, out of our lives. How could this one man bring redemption that he promised if he's about to die? How could this one man bring salvation to those who were so wicked? And then they crucified him. Crucifixion was, as many of you probably know, one of the most horrific forms of death imaginable. It's usually preceded by scourgings, beatings with whips Excruciating pain, mockery, torture, being spat upon In Jesus' case, they especially inflicted pain by giving him a crown of thorns and impressing it upon his head. And they even forced him to carry his own cross. There was the Romans who were the aficionados of crucifixion. Not only the Jews want Christ dead, but the Roman Gentiles joyfully are willing to carry out this sentence. I thought I turned this off. I am very sorry. The Romans are W e very willing to carry out Christ's death. They in fact they could care so much. They could care less about this Jewish Messiah. All humanity is gathered at the foot of the cross in rejecting Christ. The Jews, with malice and hatred, The Romans with ignorance, indifference, and with purely political reasons. All these things come together to kill the eternal Son of God. It's in this period that we hear these words from Jesus. Father, forgive them for they know not what they do. And certainly those words are uh a statement of uh the very love and mercy that Jesus holds out to sinners. And originally I wanted to really look at that passage some more. But I went further. I went further into the text because there's something that happens in this text that really is exciting. Really thrilling. But it's not in verse the latter part of verse thirty-four. For after Jesus says, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do, we find them Dividing Christ's garments and casting lots. And that, of course, fulfills another Old Testament passage, Psalm 22. Verse 18, they divide my garments among them and left the uh and for my clothing they cast lots. I know it's impossible to do this, but if you can, imagine how you would feel if such a thing happened to you. Imagine how Jesus felt when His own creatures are gambling for his clothes. Every shred of decency in the world is stripped away from Christ. Gone is his last vestige of his outward dignity. If he is the Son of God, Why would God the Father allow his son to be treated so miserably? But that's not the end of the suffering. The rulers stood on. Excuse me. Verse 35. The people stood on. And I thought they stood looking on. And I I thought about this for a minute, and it seems that what they're doing is they're gawking at the spectacle As if they're looking for the moment when Christ died, as some form of entertainment And then the rulers, his archenemies, the leaders of the synagogue, the Pharisees, the Sanhedrin. They're looking on. And the text says they sneered. They sneered at Jesus and they coupled it with speaking. They said, he saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, the chosen one That word sneering occurs only one other time in the Bible. It occurs in Luke 14. Excuse me, Luke 16. And once again. It's the Pharisees who are sneering at Jesus because of his teaching, the rulers. And that word has a an interesting uh tense in in Greek. And uh the tense that's used is speaking of the action in the past Which is continuing to the present. So it's as if he was saying, the Pharisees, the rulers sneered at me Just like they have always done it. All the religious leaders of Israel have always scorned, rejected, mocked, and sereed at Christ. Their hatred of Christ is so great. That they must sneer at him to the very last second of his life, adding to his suffering. This incredible rejection of Christ reaches its height. Also in verse 35, when they say, save yourself if you are the Son of God. That little phrase, save yourself, if you are the Son of God, you need to appreciate that section. Because what they were Irregardless of how they view Jesus, it's a complete under misunderstanding of what God's Messiah has come to do. Jesus did not come to save himself. He came to save his people. And if Jesus listened to the Pharisees, save yourself if you are the Christ of God. And he came and he used his divine power to come off the cross. And come down and save himself, then you would have, and I would have no Savior today. Because that would be a wrong use of his godly power. To think of himself first before he thinks of the rest of God's people, before he thinks about you and your needs, your spiritual needs. That is not who Jesus is And my friends, my friends, that phrase, save yourself if you are the Son of God, that phrase comes right from the mouth of hell. That's why I read the temptation of Christ. Because the devil is the one who said that to Jesus. If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become bread. If you are the Son of God, jump down off of this high ledge, for it is written that the angels will will save you. I mean, the devil was really wicked. I mean, Jesus is quoting Scripture to him in a right fashion, and the devil comes right back at him and quotes Scripture to him in a wrong way Save yourself, Jesus. And do you remember in the Luke passage alone, at the end of the temptation, it says And the devil left him for an opportune time. Brothers and sisters, the cross was the devil's opportune time At the beginning of Jesus' ministry with the temptation, the devil was active to destroy your Savior. To disqualify him, because he would think only about himself and not about you, and also not about being obedient to God And at the last moment, through the words of the high priests, and then also through the words of the One of the one of the robbers, one of the criminals. He says the same thing. If you are the Son of God, save yourself, or something similar to it And then even the Roman soldiers get into the act. So at the very last minute, the devil was working furiously. To deter Jesus from saving you from your sins and the rest of all of God's people. There would be no gospel, there would be no gospel of grace if Jesus Had followed the devil and not been obedient to his father's commands. You and I would have no hope at all. I think it I think it's a very interesting thing to see that connection between the temptation of Christ and the death of Christ and the words that were spoken. Because they're all designed to turn Jesus away from doing what the Father had called him to do. To be the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. But when you go back and you look at the cross of Christ and you hear the way the world, the people of the world, the unbelieving world looks at the cross, whether they be Romans, whether they be Jews, whether they be common criminals, They look at the cross of Jesus Christ as a mistake at best, and they see Jesus as a fool. Everyone in their natural state looks at the cross of Jesus Christ with contempt. And the Apostle Paul Acented this point when in 1 Corinthians 1 18 he made these words. Christ, the power and the wisdom of God For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. Yes, there is sacrifice, there is suffering, excruciating physical pain. coupled with universal denial of who you are from the mouth of the very creatures you created But that is not the end of this story. You see, as black as it is, as dark With the power of sin displayed on that cross, there is victory. And it's seen in verse 40 through 43 Because you see, there is one person, one person who got the message One person who understands who Jesus is. Notice this. The criminal, the other criminal. rebuked his fellow criminal, saying, Do you not even fear God, seeing you're under the same condemnation, and we justly, for we receive the due rewards of our deeds. But this man, Jesus, has done nothing wrong. Imagine that. One man. But then he said to Jesus, Lord, notice who he calls him, Lord. This man who is a criminal. Not the best reputation in the world. Man who is worthy, even admits he's worthy of his death. He says, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus spoke those great words. Assuredly, I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise. The humiliated Christ, the one mocked, scorned, rejected hated, vilified, beaten, naked, bleeding, suffering, dying in the most crucial way imaginable. This cross this excuse me, this cross Excuse me, this Christ, this cross, this savior, is seen by everybody in the world as foolishness, except for this one criminal. This one criminal. And we see in this man's words to Jesus the coming triumph of Christ's victory over sin and death. For by this one man, a dying thief, instead of thinking about himself, thinks about Jesus and his suffering. And declares, Jesus has done nothing wrong. One man hanging on the cross next to Jesus knows who he is. And he believes who he is. He calls him Lord. He calls him my master. And he humbly petitions Christ. These l listen carefully to these words. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. There are three important things that that man said to Jesus, beside calling him Lord. He said, first, Jesus has a kingdom. Secondly, Jesus is the King. And thirdly, Jesus Lives beyond death. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. I can't tell you how he figured this all out, except it's by the grace of God. He probably had heard Jesus lady speak. And there's power in the word of God. But isn't that remarkable? When all the darkness is going on all around the cross, from the cross light shines. The light of the gospel shines. In one man, one criminal, about to die, the multitude of sins the Lord Jesus says I'm going to pay for. And today you will be with me in paradise. That is great news. That is the gospel in a nutshell. You cannot the darkness cannot suppress the light of Christ And so I encourage you Whenever you talk about Christ's death, or you remember this passage in particular Say to yourself and anybody else who's listening, I believe Christ's cross is not foolishness I believe it's not a joke. I believe he was not a failure. He brings good news. Christ saves another wicked man from his sin. And now this former sinner thief is bound for glory. How great the grace of God. Nothing sways Jesus from completing the Father's mission. Not Satan's temptation, not even Christ's imminent death pauses. Not even Christ's imminent death pauses the saving work of the cross. It goes on because there is power in the blood. There is power in the cross For by the cross and by Christ's sacrificial blood, God saves all repentant sinners. And in Christ's death, the wonder of eternal life is given to one man who apparently has a broken spirit and a contrite heart. Those are people God does not despise. There is no foolishness to the cross. It is the wisdom of God, and it is the display of the extravagant mercy of God poured out upon sinners. This man will soon enjoy the infinitely greatest blessing of all. He's about to die. And he's about to dwell with Jesus in the everlasting kingdom of God. How about you, my friend? Which criminal might you be? What do you say about Jesus? What do you believe? Why all this suffering of Christ and his cross? It's because The blood of the final Lamb of God must be spilt for the remission of sin, for all those God has appointed to eternal life. Some of you may be familiar with C. S. Lewis and his writings. In his uh story in the uh about Marnia in the book entitled The Line, the Witch and the Wardrobe. There is this scene at the end of the book, and it's called the stone table. It's meant to be an altar like the cross And the great hero of the book is Aslan, the lion. He's the Christ in the figure, in the story. And The witch in the story is the devil. And she has gathered all of her minions around this stone table. And at the appointed time, she takes a dagger and kills the lion, kills Aslam And all the minions, all the demons, and all the witches are all celebrating that Asland is finally destroyed, that he's been banished forever from Narnia. Into everlasting death. But the witch and her minions would soon learn The same lesson that Satan and his hosts have learned regarding the death of Jesus. You can party now at his death. Because in the refrain of a sermon from a preacher I once heard It's Friday now, but Sunday is a common And as Hebrews chapter 7 verse 25 puts it, therefore Jesus is able to save to the uttermost. Those who comes to come to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for us. There is the victory of the cross of Jesus Christ. He has won the victory over hell. He has won the victory over sin and death. And he has won it for you.