A new testament reading This morning comes from the last book in our Bibles, the book of Revelation. And we're going to turn to chapter 21 and read there the first eight verses. This is the passage about the new heavens and the new earth. Would you please stand in reverence for God's Word? Revelation twenty-one, verses one through eight. Let's give attention to God's Word. Now I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. Also there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city. New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, Behold! The tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them and be their God. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away. And he who sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said to me, Write, for these words are true and faithful And he said to me, It is done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the cowardly, unbelieving. Abominable murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. Amen. Turn in your scriptures to the first book of the Bible. We went in the last, and now we're headed back to the first, Genesis. Be reading there in chapter 41, finishing up chapter 41, heading a bit into chapter 42. This is the account by Moses of the life of Joseph or the generations of Jacob. We'll begin our reading this morning in chapter 41 at verse 50. This is just after the statement that Joseph has gathered very much grain in the land of Egypt. Let's give attention now to God's word. And to Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, who Ashnath, the daughter of Potapharah, priest of An, bore to him. Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh. For God has made me forget all my toil and all my father's house. And the name of the second he called Ephraim. For God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. And the seven years of plenty, which were in the land of Egypt, ended. And the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph had said. The famine was in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt, there was bread. So when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. Then Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, Go to Joseph. Whatever he says to you, do. The famine was over all the face of the earth, and Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians. And the famine became severe in the land of Egypt. So all countries came to Joseph in Egypt to buy grain, because the famine was severe in all lands. When Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, Why do you look at one another? And he said, Indeed, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt. Go down to that place and buy for us there, that we may live and not die. So Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt. But Jacob did not send Joseph's brother Benjamin with his brothers, for he said, lest some calamity befall him. And the sons of Israel went to buy grain among those who journeyed, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. That's far on the reading of God's word. Amen. Would you please be seated Let's go to the throne of grace. Our Father in Heaven We come to a very powerful passage in your word. And we confess, Father, we need your spirit. To illuminate. Open it up for us, Father. Guide each one of us. Convict us of sin. Comfort us Comfort us, Father, with the promises of Christ. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as you might know, for the last three years or so, my wife and I were serving refugees in Atlanta, in Georgia. And one of the things we learned was that there were many things to learn from refugees, those who had fled from their home countries for fear, fear for their lives, persecuted for their faith, persecuted for political opinion, those who'd fled Due to war led from governments that could not help them, would not protect them, it left everything behind. Family, friends, education, jobs, homes, wealth, and they come to a new land Free from fear, but full of challenges. New language, new customs, new laws, strange people And one thing was quite astonishing. We found that some would actually start their own businesses. In this country, overcoming so many obstacles, so many difficulties Certainly just to get to this country from their home countries, but then once here, navigating difficult waters to begin to produce fruit. fruit which arose out of affliction. In this passage this morning, I think that's what we have Fruit arising out of affliction. We know Joseph has been sold by his brothers, hated by his brothers. We know that he's now in the land of Egypt. We know that he has suffered much there, at the hands of Potiphar's wife Spending many years in prison unjustly, forgotten by the butler Even while his family continues to live their lives of sin, Joseph had been taken away from that land where God was indeed worshipped. To a land of affliction. Today, as we open up this particular text, I'd like us to see that the Lord causes his children to be fruitful, to be a fruitful blessing. even as they labor among thorns and thistles and other sinners with joy. Three simple points or heads this morning in our preaching of the word. Forgetting trouble, bearing fruit, and blessing nations. As we go through this passage today, I'd like you to be asking yourselves about how you respond in affliction. Well, first, forgetting trouble. Joseph was certainly immersed in toil and trouble. He's now called out of that dungeon of death. He's been dressed in royal garb. He's witnessed the unfolding of his second dream now as he's In that chariot riding throughout Egypt and and bow the knee is being proclaimed before him, and the people of Egypt are not merely listening to him, they are obeying Joseph. He's been given a wife, not an adulterous woman. He waited upon the righteousness of God in God's perfect timing. And was given the daughter of Potipharah in place of the wife of Potiphar. And now the Lord gives Joseph the blessing of children. And this gives Joseph the opportunity, very briefly, to reflect upon the goodness of God as he names his children. Think about that. As he's naming his children, he's reflecting upon the goodness Verse 51, Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh, for God has made me forget all of my toil and all my father's house. God was at work in Joseph's heart and mind. The text states this clearly: God, Elohim, is the subject. Of the verb. He's the one who's doing the work. He's the one who made Joseph forget. Joseph was enabled by God, caused by God to forget. What? All my toil. And all my father's house. Think of that just for a moment Even as those two clauses are separate or phrases are separated by that word and It appears that they are so closely connected that it is difficult, if not impossible, to separate Joseph's troubles, his toil, from his father's house. Consider the possibility that these are actually one and the same. Joseph's troubles began with his brother's hatred, which arose from his father's love. They hated Joseph for that special love that his father had laid upon him, and then they hated Joseph for his dreams, dreams that would suggest to them that they would be submitting to Joseph, their younger brother. That just shouldn't be And as a result of their hatred, he's cast into the pit. As a result of their hatred, he's sent off to Egypt the toil of his brother's hatred. Or generally, of his father's house, the generations of Jacob, in a human sense, had carried Joseph to Egypt, even set him in Potiphar's house. Where he would serve not willingly, but slavishly. But for the brother's hatred, Joseph would not be in Egypt. He would not have been in Potiphar's house And we know there the trouble only grows. The toil. Joseph was swimming in toil and adversity, as Potiphar's wife tries to lead him away from righteousness into unrighteousness. All of this ends up leading Joseph to that deep, dark dungeon of death. And While Joseph continues to labor well in this toilsome pit, interpreting dreams, the supernatural work of God, the butler forgets him for another two years. He needs to remain in that dark Dank placed. Thirteen years of toil and trouble for this young man who is learning about the living God and learning how to follow his commands And all this trouble, all this toil, all this affliction began within his father's house. If it were not for the hatred of his brothers, none of the other events of Toil and trouble and affliction would have befallen Joseph. They are inextricably related and connected. And some We could say Joseph was afflicted. But there's a sense in which it was greater. Everything around Joseph appears to be trouble and toil and affliction. Just jump down to the way he named Ephraim just for a moment. God has caused me to be fruitful in a land of my affliction A nickname given to the place where Joseph was dwelling. It captures the idea, doesn't it? Land of my affliction, the land in where I breathe in toil and trouble and affliction. I'm immersed in it. I'm swimming in it And yet God has made me forget it. Manasseh As the first son is born, he reflects upon what God has done Forget. You might think that for Joseph, this means that it's as if none of these things have happened to me That's what it means that that God has wiped this from his memory, not just the toil and trouble, but all of his father's house. He stopped thinking about his brothers It was as they didn't exist before. He can't even remember their names. They're dead. It's probably not what Moses meant. That Joseph completely forgot about his toil, about his brothers, about his father. No. As we continue reading this account, as the brothers do enter into Egypt, he recognizes them immediately. There's no hesitation. He remembers them. It wasn't as if God wiped them from his memory Seemingly, what Moses intends here, what the Spirit intends for us to see, what he wanted the Israelites to know, is that God, in his mercy, had enabled Joseph to focus his thoughts upon other things. Think for a moment. When you're experiencing trials, troubles, tribulation. When you're in the midst of grief or distress, when you're forced to do that which you had not planned to do, or be in a place that you had not chosen, or endure an event that you did not Think about even against your will. What do you think about? If you're like me, what is your mind preoccupied with? Usually, our minds, our hearts become fixed upon that thing, upon that person, upon that event which has brought about that trouble, that affliction. Which has brought that into our lives. Think of Joseph in Potiphar's house. Day after day spent laboring for others, serving those whom he didn't plan to serve, at the pagan's beckon call, Joseph likely spent many days in prison with his mind fixed upon his brothers. Couldn't have been that much to do in prison. A lot of idle time. Where's your mind go? My brothers, but for them, I wouldn't be here. Time to think. Time to become embittered Time to meditate in hatred But God made Joseph forget, forget his bitterness, forget his discontentment, forget his anger This becomes clear as Joseph, reflecting upon these thirteen years, doesn't even mention his brothers. All my father's house. That's it. He doesn't mention that they was they threw him into the pit. They don't he doesn't mention that they hated him. He doesn't mention them by name The mind and heart of Joseph has been transformed. It's been renewed. It's not conformed to the world God made Joseph forget. Have you forgotten? Today, have you forgotten The Lord has given you, each of you, someone else to set your thoughts upon Today you may be gripped by bitterness, by distress, even grief With all of your mind and heart and energy caught up in that prior event, that person who has caused hurt and pain or even physical affliction The quite question this morning is, have you forgotten? Some time ago After I had preached the sermon, a woman who I'd never met before came up to me after the service and was very upset. I can't even remember what I was preaching on. But it struck at her heart. She had been hurt and she was suffering, and her heart was festering in her very soul because of this pain and hurt that had been caused to her. And as I preached the word, I didn't understand the depth of her pain She hadn't forgotten. God has given you his word As a guide. If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ is. Set your mind on things above, not on the things of the earth. Brothers and sisters, to continue in bitterness and anger and And unforgetfulness or in distress or woe is me is not to die with Christ To be gripped by circumstances and disheartening events in your life, to continually make them your focus, is to miss the blessing of setting your mind on Christ. Think upon that blessing just for a moment. To think upon Christ is to think upon that one who was a foreigner. Was a stranger who was in a land of affliction, who was surrounded by toil and trouble caused and brought about by his brothers And yet he knew and knows how to set his heart and mind upon the things above, upon the Father and His will. That's why we read Westminster Comfession of Faith, chapter eight To all those for whom Christ has purchased redemption, he does certainly and effectually apply and communicate the same. As you meditate upon Christ. He is applying. He is communicating his redemption to you. He's governing your heart by his word and his spirit, causing you to believe and obey, overcoming all your enemies. By his Almighty Power. That's why we fix our minds on Christ. And that's why we read Revelation 21, because God's given you a promise. Hazeti, new heavens and a new earth. The tabernacle of God is with men, he will dwell with them And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There shall be no more pain. Brothers and sisters, this is God's promise. This is why he calls us to meditate upon the things above. And isn't that part of forgetting your bitterness and your strife and your brokenness in this land of affliction? That brings us to our second point, bearing fruit. Joseph was fruitful. And these two sons bring that to mind, don't they? God not only caused Joseph's mind and heart to change such that he was enabled to forget his toil, he caused Joseph to be fruitful. In the name of the second he called Ephraim, for God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. I think we can think of this in a couple of different ways. First God gave Joseph children, causing him to be fruitful Causing him to follow the text that we know. In Genesis 1, in creation, he told Adam and Eve, be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. After the flood was over, he told Noah and his sons, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. As he was giving his covenant to Abram. He was telling him that I will make you exceedingly fruitful. Even Jacob, as God repeats the covenant, He calls him to be fruitful and multiply. He tells Abraham that he his descendants will be as the sand which is on the seashore. So God is multiplying Joseph. He's giving him offspring, children. And certainly I think we can understand the verse that way. As he's seeing these children born to him, he's remembering the promises of God and the call of God to be fruitful, to multiply, to fill the earth. But this fruitfulness, I think, at least has a double meaning, not only in terms of having children. But also in terms of Joseph's heart. It was fruitfulness That was being brought about in Joseph's heart. Remember where he was land of affliction, immersed in the toil and and trouble that his brothers had brought about because of their hatred, because of their sin. But but but in another way it was a foreign place that he was in, a full of pagans, not a place of worshippers of God. But a place of worshippers of false gods and idols and idol worshippers. And in that sense, it's also Joseph's land of affliction. This is where he's living. hemmed in on each side by those who hated God. He's a stranger in the land. Just like Moses would would proclaim that he was a stranger in a foreign land, and just like the writer of Hebrews is as he reviews the the hall of faith in chapter 11, saying that all these had died in faith, not having received the promises that they were strangers And pilgrims on the earth, they were seeking a homeland. They desired a better, that is a heavenly country. Joseph was in a land of affliction. He wasn't in that place yet where God would dwell with his people for eternity. No. But in this place Joseph was fruitful. Even when laboring in Potiphar's house, he was fruitful when locked up tightly in the dungeon. He was fruitful And gathering grain during the seven years of plenty. Yes, all of that suggests the fruitfulness of the produce of the land of his hands. But I'm speaking about the fruitfulness of his heart. Think of Moses. As he led the Israelites during 40 years in the wilderness, as they grumbled and complained against him, what does God say about Moses, my servant Moses? He's faithful in all my house. In the land of his affliction, amongst his brothers who he was leading to the promised land, as they grumble and complain step by step Moses is faithful in the house of God. What about Paul? Think about all the suffering that he endured, all the afflictions. How did he grow? He grew in grace My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Paul was weak. And yet God caused him in that weakness to grow, to be fruitful. What about Jesus? The greatest affliction of all. Ultimate toil and trouble. Being the eternal wrath of God poured out upon him at the cross of Calvary. It was in this place, this event, as the sins of the world were laid upon the God-man Jesus, that we see the superlative fruit. Being produced. The ultimate faithful submission to the perfect will of the Father. That fruit was born, yes, in the Garden of Gethsemane, but it flourishes and ripens on the cross. Brothers and sisters, there's a census. Jove of Joseph names his two sons. If things are turned on their heads, we would expect that there would be fruitfulness in the Father's house. As he thinks about his father's house, we'd expect That Joseph, wouldn't you combine fruitfulness with your father's house? Wouldn't you see it that way? And he doesn't. No, he combines that toil and trouble with his father's house, and he combines Fruitfulness with that land of affliction, they're mixed up, they're flipped. But not really Because he's just mirroring what has happened since the fall. Remember the Garden of Eden. It was fruit in the Garden of Eden prior to the fall, wasn't there? It was full of fruit, but especially in the heart of Adam as he followed after God. But then he fell. Then Adam disobeyed And then there was toil in the Father's house. There was trouble in the Father's house. And and now instead of producing consistent fruit, the land would be full of thorns and thistles. And instead of Adam's heart producing righteousness, it was producing sins. Sin and filth. And so the Lord sent Adam out Send him out into a land of affliction. Into a cursed world. So that he would become fruitful through affliction I think that's what Joseph is telling us as he names his sons. Suffering, affliction, toil, and trouble produces the best fruit. This is now what Jesus spoke of when he referred to that pruning of a branch that's connected to the vine. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes. That it may bear more fruit. Brothers and sisters, it's usually our inclination As we are in the middle of trials and tribulations and afflictions, to sit back, to wait, to slow down, even to stop. Think of that basketball player. He just twisted his ankle on the court. He heads to the bench. To the locker room, to rest, to recover, to take time off of the court When we are spiritually wounded, we tend to do the same thing. And certainly the Lord provides time for rest and rejuvenation every first day of the week, He does that. And there are times for extended rest. Yes, absolutely. But the problem with us getting off of the court when we are spiritually wounded, when we are afflicted, when we are in trouble, is that the Bible doesn't support that. Remember what Peter wrote in his first letter, beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened. But rejoice. Peter called for action He didn't advise waiting, sitting. He didn't say, hey, remember, when those fiery trials come, just sit and wait, take a back seat, go into the locker room for a while, rest. He says, rejoice. Yet, if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God. How are you going to do that in the locker room? Rejoice. Glorify God. Produce fruit. Especially during that fiery trial. It's not unusual. It's not uncommon. It's not strange. It's God's call. Brings us to our third point, blessing the nations. Well, Egypt certainly becomes a blessing, doesn't it? It produces that bread. The ground brought forth abundantly, and Joseph gathers very much grain as the sand of the sea until he stopped counting, for it was immeasurable. And then seven years of plenty end And you think, as the people cry out to Pharaoh, he would just say, Look, there's a storehouse down the road, go down there, buy your grain. But he sends them to Joseph. Go to Joseph. Whatever he says to you, do. People are crying for bread, they need nourishment, they need to be sustained, and Joseph is the one who opens the storehouses. All countries, all countries came to Joseph. Joseph becomes the one to whom people strain The text is clear. God makes Joseph the blessing, not only to the people of Egypt, but indeed to all nations To all peoples, even his brothers The family is brought back into the narrative now. At the beginning of chapter 42, the brothers are about to be blessed by Joseph. They seek physical nourishment. They seek food. But in reality, they're about to receive a spiritual blessing by and through Joseph. He's seen as the one who provides that physical sustenance, but he is truly the one who is pressing the brothers Toward spiritual well-being, isn't he? Joseph becomes the blessing, not the curse. Remember that covenant promised to Abram? He's called out of the Ur of the Chaldeans. And God tells him, You shall be a blessing, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Did you hear that? All the families of the earth shall be blessed through Abram. Certainly saw that in Lot. And we see it unfolding here a bit with Joseph, don't we? All the countries are streaming to Joseph Israel was to be a blessing. Blessing to all the nations around it, wasn't it? They had the Word of God, they had the very Word of God. Blessing in the midst of the land, Isaiah 19, 24, or Zechariah 8, and you shall be a blessing You see, it's the church. It's the church of the Lord Jesus Christ that is to be the blessing To the world. Let your light shine before men, so they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven And we know that the church is a blessing because of her head, because of the Lord Jesus Christ. Who upholds all things by the word of his power, who purges our sins, and is sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, becoming so much better than angels. That's why the church is a blessing to all nations. Are we a blessing? Joseph was in the land of his affliction. Brothers and sisters, sometimes we may look upon this land and think that this land is beyond a blessing. It's too dark. The people are too lost. Abortion. Unrighteous killing. Murder of millions of babies. The so-called sexual revolution, the idea that one can determine his or her own sexual nature. People are lost. But it's not too dark. Think of your own heart. Think of where you used to be We all once conducted ourselves in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. No, until Jesus Christ returns, it is not too dark, it is not too late. Now is the day of salvation, brothers and sisters. The Israelites were called to be a blessing. And I think this passage was meant to be an encouragement to them to be that blessing amongst the nations. And Joseph was a blessing. And so the question for us is, are we a blessing to the community, to Lanham, to Bowie, to Maryland, to Washington, D. C. , to our missionaries? To our Presbytery, to our denomination, to the church in Bolivia, are we a blessing? Are we a blessing to the lost? Brothers and sisters, I think this passage is calling for us to pray. Pray for your session. Pray for wisdom, pray for shrewdness, pray for zeal and diligence and courage to continue and to become that blessing which we're called to be and pray for our hearts, all of our hearts. That we would be convicted by this passage of our call to be a blessing. Yes, the Lord does call his children to be a fruitful blessing, a fruitful blessing, even as they labor among thorns, thistles, and other sinners with joy. It's certainly amazing to watch refugees start businesses using affliction to produce fruit. As we ask ourselves that question, are we? Are we doing that? Let us pray that the Lord would be guiding our hearts to grow in grace in this land of affliction that this church would be a great blessing to all the families of the earth. Praise be to God. Amen. Would you pray with me? Lord our God, what an important portion of Scripture we've come across. Help us in the Lord not to take this merely as a history lesson, as an intellectual exercise. But cut us to the quick. Father, if we are not that blessing today, we pray, we plead with you Make us that blessing. Change our hearts, Father. That we would see not only your call to be a blessing But that we would so long and desire that the righteousness of Christ might be shown, displayed through us. Through our everyday activities, through the operations, the work of this particular church. As we speak with our neighbors in every single instance of our lives, Father, help us be that blessing to all the nations. Even in this land. Especially in this land. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.