Well, inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for correction, for training in righteousness. Since that is so, as we hear and as we read, let us prayerfully seek to have the Lord apply this truth to our hearts. and cause us to act upon it and do it. This is the holy word of God. The Gospel of Mark, chapter 8, verses 22 through chapter 9, verse 1. And they came to Bethsaida, and they brought a blind man to Jesus and implored him to touch him. Taking the blind man by the hand, he brought him out of the village. And after spitting on his eyes and laying his hands on him, he asked him, Do you see anything? And he looked up and said, I see men, for I see them like trees walking around. Then again he laid his hands on his eyes, and he looked intently and was restored and began to see everything clearly And he sent him to his home, saying, Do not even enter the village. Jesus went out along with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way, he questioned his disciples, saying to them, Who do people say that I am? They told him, saying, John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, but others one of the prophets. And he continued by questioning them, but who do you say that I am? Peter answered and said to him, You are the Christ. He warned them to tell no one about him. And he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and to be killed. And after three days rise again. And he was stating the matter plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him But turning around and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said, Get behind me, Satan, for you're not setting your mind on God's interests, but man's. And he summoned the crowd with his disciples and said to them, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow. me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world, but forfeit his soul? For what will a man give in exchange for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will also be ashamed of him, when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. And Jesus was saying to them, Truly, I say to you, there are some of those who are standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power. This is the true and holy word of God. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we We fall down before you in thankfulness and gratitude for what you have done for us. We who are yours know the unutterable joy of sins forgiven. But part of the only way that we came to know that was from your word. And so, Father, we thank you that you have given us your word. For in it you show us who we are and as we are, and our condition before you, the one true holy God, ourselves as sinners. And then you show us your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, the spotless Lamb, who gave his life for his people. Oh Father, we thank you for this, and we pray that you would cause us as we hear your word, as we read your word, that you would cause us to see not simply what it means to be saved in the sense of Going from darkness to light, the change of trust and belief and submission. But what that then means in the actions and attitudes and desires of our life How much of us is supposed to change? Are we getting better or are we becoming healed? And Father, we pray that as your people hear your word preached, that you would, in their hearing, but especially, Father, in their remembering, you would edit out any errors of human wisdom. They might hear, such that they would remember and act upon that which is true from your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. Can't get my notes in gear. It's wonderful to be back with you all and uh so thankful for the Lord to have the lovely weather to drive back and forth forth in. Sorry, my wife could not be here. She has some Some health issues and concerns and uh she remained back. But uh the passage we have before us talks about peop someone who is someone who was blind and You know, if we think about it, I'm sure many of us have known someone who is deaf or blind. Um I'm not sure growing up I knew someone who was almost blind, my fat my my mother's brother who basically had fine sight until he got to college and then something went wrong between in his nerves, between the eye and the the brain. And he lost about eighty five, ninety percent of his site. Um lived well, fine to his seventies, uh, but that's that was his condition. And it didn't get better, no. And I've known some people over over my life, not growing up, who were hearing impaired, deaf. Uh when I met my wife, I wound up meeting somebody who knew sign language. We had an aunt who was who was deaf and she actually studied sign language in college and used it some in work. But if you think about the people you've known who've been deaf or blind, have you ever known any of them to have their hearing or sight restored? On a rare occasion you hear of something, some kind of change or transition. Especially more in recent decades. They come up with new ways to to do things. The Lord is I I think to myself, Lord, what will you have us invent next? What will you have us discover? You know, just show us how to do something that'll bring about a change. And if you've ever spent any time on the internet There's lots of garbage there, but there's lots of nice stuff too. But one wild thing is I've seen a video of a child you know, a few years old at the most. And they get a cochlear implant. One of these things where they half implanted in your s right behind your ear and stuff. And there does something to tap into these the parts of the ear, and they restore hearing. Or not even restore, they give it when it had never been had at all And anybody else who's seen this knows what I'm talking about. I remember watching this little video, and of course you hear the voices. You see the f the vis the cameras on the child. But you're hearing voices, and you're like one of them might be the mother And then all of a sudden the child turns and a smile comes across their face. They're hearing their mother's voice for the first time. You're hearing anything for the first time. And this look of just delight Wow. Comes across I saw a video about a month ago of a man who his his his he had no color in his sight. Everything was gray. Black and white. No color whatsoever. And the man was almost in tears after about five minutes. You know, just he he you know something he'd go like this because it was something in sort of glasses that gave him color in his sight. Well, the biblical account we have here before us makes me think of such wonderful events, but of course it goes much beyond such anecdotes And we're led to look at the way that God heals his people. We see these healings again and again in Scripture. But we're looking we're led to look at the way that God heals that reaches out to people to heal them of a particular issue, a particular issue. particular time, but not simply partially, but fully. It's not just giving him a little bit better health. Whatever the issue is, it's full health But he reveals to us that this healing means more than we think it at first means. His intended hearing, what he plans to do for people, what he does do for people. is more than what you see in that in the sight itself or the hearing itself. And in fact with us as we are born again, that's like the initial healing Well what is that intended for? What is he bringing about? What are his plans? What does he want? What kind of healing does he intend in us? It often means more than we think it does It's intended to mean more than I think it does. That's what I want to look at this morning. And for anyone taking notes, of course, three points. First point is a physical healing. A spiritual healing and then full health with God. A physical healing. I mean you look at the early chapters of Mark, and you know, you you think, you know, what what's happening what's happening in this in this book? And it starts just racing out of the gate. Just one action after another. It's just boom, boom, boom. I mean, we we you know, you look at John the Baptist is is the beginning part of Mark. And he's preaching of one who was coming. He's coming. He's coming. And we learn it's Jesus. And we then see him baptized by John. And immediately goes into the wilderness for forty days. nobody catches a breath. He's then tempted by Satan, ministered to by angels. And then boom, verse 14, he comes out of the wilderness. And it says, he's preaching the king gospel of God and saying, this is Jesus, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. gospel. But that's what he said. He starts coming out. He says this. And over the course of the next seven and a half chapters, getting to today's text, Jesus calls his disciples. I mean in particular the one I mean all people who follow Christ are his disciples. As it were. All those who followed Jesus in Scripture were his disciples. But his apostles, there are only twelve of them. Sort of confusing, but I mean when you're talking about the apostles, those are the twelve guys. It actually wind up becoming 14 because Matthias took Judas' place, and then Paul was added as an extra. But He sends them out to preach repentance in the gospel, and then what else does he do in these chapters? He heals, he heals, he heals, he heals again and again and again. In just these eight chapters, and I made up a little tally with hash marks and everything here. Looking through this, he's listed as simply healing, doesn't tell you what it's for, five times. This is just before chapter 8. He exercises, casting a demon out of someone, seven times Then he gets specific. He heals somebody with leprosy. He heals somebody else with paralysis. He heals a woman with a hemorrhage And then just to show that he'll work with nature as well, he calms a storm. He also walks on water. One man doing all of these things. And then for good measure, he changes elements as well. He feeds 5,000 men, and that that story says just men. So if there are any women and children, it's obviously more people than that. And then there's another passage a couple chapters later that said he feeds another 4,000 people. He does all of these things And the thing to keep in mind about Jesus, and it's easy to forget this, is you know, we often look at these situations and circumstances of what Christ was doing and we isolate them And you think to yourself, everybody in that circumstance is meeting Jesus for the first time and knows nothing about it. Well, there was no Internet in Jerusalem in A. D. 30. Obviously. There was no radio. There was no Jerusalem Post per se. But it's not that big an area. He's doing this again and again and again. It's not like, oh he, another guy healing people. That's not like there's lots of people going around healing people. People heard about it. Word word spread. Word got out. I mean you may have even had stray people going You know, who'd remember the stories like my cousin was a shepherd in Jerusalem. He had this weird story about angels decade a few decades ago. I mean, so you have these things happening in the area. So they they heard about Jesus. And so we're looking at this chapter, and Jesus restores to a blind man, and he and his disciples are where? They're in Bethsaida, it's not Bethesda. There actually is a Bethesda in the Bible. It's a pool near Jerusalem. But this is Bethsaida. You know, you think about maps of the of of Jerusalem, I mean of of Israel, you've got the Sea of Galilee up at the top. You have the Jordan River coming down from it, and you go all the way down, and you got Jerusalem down toward toward the bottom of the whole area. Actually on the west side of the west side of the Jordan River. But he's all the way up right now up Sea of Galilee. And is a small fishing village of about 10,000 people on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. So what happens in verse 22? They, Jesus and the disciples, the apostles and maybe some others, came to Bethsaida, and they brought a blind man to Jesus and implored him to touch him. And of course it says they brought him, implored him to touch him. They'd heard about this guy, Jesus. They'd heard that he'd done these other things. Maybe he can heal our friend. This this fellow who's blind. And it's interesting of all the healings recorded in Mark, not not to compare with all the other gospels, you can look at them all. But this is the first time it's a blind man. Happens to be the first time It's a blind man. And also, I mean, obviously, the men bringing him know that all Jesus had to do was to touch him and he'd be healed. I mean presumably they'd heard about other things. I mean maybe they hadn't heard about the one with with the uh centurion or whatever, I'm not sure if he was a uh I think a Roman official, uh where Jesus heals at a distance. But but they knew that if he touched him, he could easily do that. And Jesus doesn't stop. He takes the initiative. He said, okay, fine, I'll take over from here And he he then verse 23, taking the blind man by the hand, he's not doing it in front of everybody. It says, he brought him out of the village. You know, we can have work an area where it's quiet. Took him out of the village, he spits on his on the man's eyes, lays his hands on him, asks him, Does you see anything? And he looks up and he says, I see men, for they look like trees walking around. The fascinating thing about that fact is let you know, okay, this man was not blind from birth. What would he know about a tree? What it looks like walking around. You know, for what difference it makes. But he obviously did not have his sight na before um Jesus comes along. But at some point years before he must have had some sight or else he couldn't. He wouldn't have made reference to it in something like that. But it begins to change. And but that's as far as it gets. It's not fully healed. It's better. You see something, but it's not fully healed. And then Jesus comes back. He lays his hands on his eyes, looks intently, and then was restored took a second take. And he began to see everything clearly. Jesus says, don't enter the village. In other words, you don't need to make a big deal out of what's happened, effectively. There are two things I want us to see here, which are lessons for us. First, not only is this the first specific instance of a blind person being brought to Jesus for help It's the only time in the whole New Testament when you read about Jesus and the killings he did where it happened gradually. There are no others And why? Well, no one doubts that he certainly could have. And Was he was his energy level low? I mean, or what? What was going on? And I think pastor and theologian Sinclair Ferguson speaks well to this And it's a w it's a wonderful thought that I don't know if before I'd read Dr. Ferguson's uh analysis that I necessarily realized this or not But when you say, what is the significance of this, Ferguson writes? Was it that this man was a particularly difficult case for Jesus? Hardly. I mean if he walked on water and all the various things he could do, this is no big deal. Was this miracle then like the others a sign? Well yeah, all the miracles were actually were intended as signs. They were meant as pointers to what God could do, has done, and will do for his people. Uh his love, his mercy, I mean there's many things they speak to But to whom was it a sign? I mean who's the audience for the sign? To the man? He wouldn't care if it took a week to get his sight back, probably No, it wasn't a sign to the man. It was assigned to the disciples and then us. This is confirmed by the fact that Jesus had already asked about their vision of him. If you look in verse 18 of this chapter. In seventeen he said, why do you discuss the fact there had been no bread? He had just fed four thousand. Don't you see or understand? Do you have a hardened heart? Verse 18, having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear, and do you not remember? Aren't you guys paying attention? See, now he's he'd been talking to them about their vision Their spiritual vision. He's now leading them by the hand to the point at which their sight would become much clearer, and Peter would confess, you are the Christ. He's leading them along. Their spiritual understanding did not come instantaneously, but gradually. The lesson for the disciples was this: only as Jesus keeps on opening up your eyes to him will you see clearly. They did have some spiritual vision, but it needed to be healed and sharpened. And that would be an ongoing process in their lives as Jesus continued to perfect what he had begun. I think Ferguson's on the mark here. You think about it, wh why would this be the only time that it took time to heal? And it's pointing to the whole example and lesson of what's what they're in the midst of. The disciples going from a real sense of incomprehension, or slowness as it were, to a better understanding. When you think about when they're when Christ is crucified, they're not exactly exemplars of of faithfulness and wisdom themselves. So they don't really get it until Pentecost fully But nonetheless, he opens their eyes up so much more here. So they have the physical healing. We move the spiritual healing And you remember in Mark in chapter 4, there's the parable of the sower. Well, of course, the parable of the sower is told again and again throughout the Gospels. And it's not simply because it's the same account of one time he told the story. I think it's very likely that Jesus told many of those parables again and again. He'd be he'd be in Beth Saida, some other time he was over in Capernaum Some other time he's in Bethany. Some other time he's on a mount right right outside of um uh in in Samaria or something. I mean he was all over the place often saying some of the same stories again and again and again And in the account of the parable of the sower, you know, where he talks about the sower throwing seed on good soil, where it sprouts, others other soil is rocky, and it does not grow, choked off. In Matthew 13, verse 11 says in this passage, to you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, meaning to his disciples. But to them it has not been granted, meaning to some other people who, as it were, have heart, who have bad soil. In speaking of how this fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, he says in Matthew 13 Verse 15, For the heart of this people has become dull, and with their ears they scarcely hear, and they've closed their eyes, lest they should see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their heart, and return, and I should heal them. He's talking about the people who are not following and do not believe. But he then turns and looks at them and says, But blessed are your eyes, but because they see, and your ears because they hear We love because God first loved us, and we hear and see because he gave us hearing and sight. But that's what Jesus is saying here. So this is that's what sort of leading up to what's about to happen here. What's just happened with the blind man's healing And they're changing their their improvement in sight, as it were, and their path to Citaria Philippi. Now is that near Best Saida? No. It's actually another 25 miles north Caesarea Philippi. And they're walked the whole way. It's always something when I think about they're trudging along. They're just walking everywhere to go. And he posed a very pointed and but important question to them. It says, on the way he questioned his disciples, saying to them, Who do people say that I am? After all this time, these things happening. And again, everything I just described has been happening. People are he's not just saying the people here in Caesarea fellow From place to place to place. And obviously it's building and growing as time goes by. There's more and more gossip, scuttle butt, you know, people telling their neighbors, traveling about and letting people hear about the This man named Jesus, you know, people were wondering, who is this guy? Where is he from? This is ridiculous. How can he be doing all these wonderful things? What is God doing? They say, John, John the Baptist, who they knew was dead Herody killed him, cut off his head. Others say Elijah. And why would they say Elijah? Because God had promised that Elijah would come back to herald the coming of the Messiah And others, one of the prophets. It's like here, God has brought yet another prophet. He was silent for 400 years since Malachi. No prophets of no prophecy at all. But now he's brought another prophet, Jesus, or Joseph, son of Joseph. That's who they might think it is. But Jesus then asked the obvious and ultimate question. Forget about everybody else. The people who have ears that don't hear and eyes that don't see. I said, blessed are you who can hear and who can see. Who do you say that I am? You have sight, you have ears. You supposedly understand. You should understand. Who do you say that I am? And you know the men he's talking to have been with him since the beginning. As I just said, they've seen all these things that he's been doing. They're all connected. I mean, they remember. They're stunned each time. It may have been some of the disciples even knew some of the people being healed. Wasn't that big an area Who who does that? I mean, Jesus walks on water. He calms a storm by his words. It's not going Coincidence. And what kind of answer could they come to? Who but God can do these things? He must be God in some way. And Peter answered and says to him, You are the Christ. And Matthew's account of the exact same circumstance, walking on this path, we know it's this one. Gives a little bit more words to it where he tells us that Peter says, you are the Christ, and then he says, the Son of the Living God And what does that mean? You know, like to use the modern phrase to unpack something. It's wonderfully appropriate here because people think, well, I confess Jesus is Lord, so that means I'm safe Depends. What do you mean when you say Jesus is Lord? It can mean lots of things. It can mean nothing. What do you mean mean. To say that Christ is the Son of the Living God, He is the Messiah, the promised one from Scripture. He is the one promised from the very beginning, Genesis chapter 3, verse 15 After Adam and Eve both sinned, God promised that the seed of there would be a seed of the woman who would crush the seed of the serpent, the evil one. Someday that one would come. You are that man. You are the Redeemer whom Job trusted in. I know that my Redeemer lives, and on the last day I shall see him, and not another. He is the one who redeems his people from their sins. He is the one who is the child, the son born with the government upon his shoulders, who will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. The Son of the Living God, which is what Peter just said in Matthew. The Son of the Living God And Jesus says to him in Matthew, the full response there in Matthew says, Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who was in heaven. Flesh and blood, not because you're smart, not because you thought you know you know Jewish things, but because God revealed it to you. Obviously, you wouldn't know this necessarily just on your own smarts God revealed it to you. Which is how He does it with us too. Yes, we think. It's not like we turn you you're you're some you know mind-numbed robot just somehow believing this for no particular reason. You think about things Things that you experienced, thoughts and desires and feelings and reactions, convictions of sin. But you would not truly come to that point if God didn't change you. To open up up your heart and mind to realize the truth about yourself and your sin and then who Christ is. And when Jesus says, Blessed are you, God revealed this to you, my Father in heaven. This echoes what Jesus said in Matthew 13:16, the parable of the sower that I read earlier. Where he says, Blessed are your eyes because they see, and your ears because they hear. You're among those whom God had done that for. The Spirit had softened Peter's heart. Opened his eyes, unstopped his ears. He could now see and understand truly, fully, who Christ is. We can't pour more knowledge and understanding into the disciples earlier on. They just knew that this was an amazing man. And there's something about his words that really attracted them. Something about the way who he was and how he carried himself I mean the fact that you have this man who's sinless, as I've joked with people, he mu Jesus must have been an interesting person to be near, but sort of strange too. I mean, compare them to any other sinless people you know. You don't know any sinless people. And if you think about somebody who's sinless, that would be a bit odd, wouldn't it? But they were attracted. That doesn't mean they know all that they were going to come to know God opens their minds, opens their hearts. Of course, this is obviously in what happens with Peter is what every single one of us have has to happen to every single one of us. We aren't born into faith. You may grow up in faith. You may grow up trusting. Jeremiah knew from the womb, you know, was a believer from the womb. Others are believers from the womb. John the Baptist My wife. Others, there are people here who probably grew up in faith. But What happens to us either early on or growing up later is we need to believe in and trust Christ as who he says he is. Who we are as as we are before him, sinners, deserving of God's judgment and wrath, because of our sin. And then you believe what God says about us Himself, what God says about Jesus in the Bible, his word. And then you realize, yes, I do believe he's who the word tells me he is And yes, I do trust in him. I do follow. I do want to follow him. I don't know how I'll be able to, because I know my sin. As David says that it's ever before me. But I do want to follow it. And if you have those desires and thoughts, and if that's the kind of path you're having, having seen your sin, it sounds like you're moving toward trusting in Christ. And following him, and being born again, and being changed. And then you will show that you were among those who were, as Paul says in Ephesians 1:4, chosen in him before the foundation of the world So what's left to say after that? Well I that's what you want, isn't it? That's salvation. You know, be saved, be born again. Let's go on to the next topic Well no, God wants us to have full health with Him. I'm not referring to health and wealth or anything, of course. But He wants us to have full health. And there's no catch But God wants us, any of us who would follow Jesus or think that we do, not just people coming to faith for the first time, but if you think you're the Lord's and you're following him, like fine, let's examine ourselves As it says in the New Testament, you know, examine yourself to see whether or not you're in the faith. Paul tells us at one point. God wants us to know and believe and act on two more things. And they're intertwined because as Jesus instructs Peter and the other apostles and us, both who he is as God, as the Son of God, as the Messiah, the Redeemer. And what must happen to him in his role, in other words, these things are going to happen. I'm not asking you if you like it, I'm just letting you know this is going to happen to me. Just telling you. And then what it means to Peter and any of us if we were to follow Jesus. How we're to act, what we're to think, and what we're to desire. Because if we will not do these things, If we will not do what God says we should do, if we will not have the thoughts he says we should have. And if we will not desire the things he says that we should desire, that he lays out in his word. Well then he will not have you. You will be among those who will say, Didn't I do this in your name? And he'll say, Away from me. I never knew you. You're expected, I am expected, to act, to desire, to seek, to do, to believe certain things And so verse 31, he began to teach him the Son of Man must suffer many things, be rejected by the elders, chief priests, and scribes. This is the first part where he's basically saying, you know, these things are going to happen. These things are going to happen to me. Stating the matter plainly. I love that. It's just. There's no way they could be missing this. You know, it it's very plain. This is going to happen to me. I'm not vaguely talking about some third party person. So and and again and again in the teaching ministry, Jesus tells his disciples what's going to happen. I mean you think about some veil being over their eyes or something. Of misunderstanding. But the fact that almost none of the apostles all the apostles seem to be caught up short when Jesus is crucified. And then freaked out after he's crucified, I'm thinking, why aren't any of you counting off the days Wait a minute. What how do we count it three days? By Sunday, right? You would expect that's how they'd be reacting, but no, they they they there's still there's still lots more sites they need to get really But he tells them what's going to happen. Matthew Mark nine and ten, Matthew sixteen, seventeen, twenty, Luke nine and eighteen, all tell that. And in Luke eighteen thirty-one he says, All things that are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be accomplished. All this will be accomplished. And the disciples who knew their scriptures well could not help but wonder then, and they would know in time that when Jesus is talking about fulfilling uh you know fulfilling these things that he would be fulfilling the prophet Isaiah's chapter uh prophecy in chapter 53. He's the one who bore our griefs, carried our sorrows He was smitten of God, afflicted. He was pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities. The chastening for our well-being fell on him By his scourging we're healed. The Lord had caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him. That's all Jesus. Come Friday. That good Friday, as it were. on that horrible Friday and yet that wonderful Friday. That's what happened. And it was like, wow, the Lord brought it to pass. It all happened. And this is what Peter did not then understand, even though he came to understand. And because of this, here it is, he's thinking, God is telling me what is true. Effectively, what would be our re- our reaction to God's word I mean this is happening at the time and it's now part of God's word. So you have a word from God and and somebody who's one of God's followers saying, No, God, I disagree with you. That shouldn't be the way it is. Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope. That's like if we're saying, Nope, no God, you're wrong here. And Peter rebukes Jesus. I mean you want to say that with a chuckle or a shudder. And it's like you've got to use the wonderful Yiddish word, Peter had putzha. And he had nerve. Um and it's interesting. You remember how at the end of Luke's account on Jesus' temptation in the wilderness by Satan, that Luke tells us, quote When the devil had finished every temptation, he, Satan, left him until an opportune time. Now's the time. Satan is speaking through Peter. And Jesus is rebuking Satan every bit as much as Peter. And Jesus is saying, you who know me well enough to say what is true and what I just praised you for saying, which is that I am the Messiah, the Son of God. Now and you only know that because flesh and blood didn't reveal it to you, but my father in heaven. You know, you must accept and embrace God's plan. As he says, get behind me, Satan, you're not setting your mind on God's interests but man's. No, we have to do God's work, God's way. We have to believe and trust in how he does things, how he works things, how he describes things What he says is good, we have to go along with, even if we're wondering why did he say that was good? If he what he says is bad, we have to go along with and believe and agree. Without just fussing and arguing, why does he say that? Well he does. God is God. So this first point is really understanding we have to accept and embrace God's plan, His will done, His way, which involves His teachings of Scripture. The second part We read in verse 34 how he turns to all the disciples, meaning not just the 12. He turns to others in verse 34. He summons the crowd with the disciples and says to others, Now if you wish to come after me, deny yourself. Pick up your cross. Take up your cross. Now remember, Jesus has been healing, giving sight to the blind, hearing to those who are deaf, spiritually causing men to be born again. Able to recognize him, hear and obey his voice, and follow him. That had all been happening. People are being led to follow and trust in him. And so Jesus, when Jesus asked Peter, the other disciples, and us, who do you say that I am, what should be our response? And when he calls us to obey and to follow, what should be our response? When we call us to follow and do the things he says in his word, what should be our response? We say he is the Messiah, the Son of God. Wherever you lead, Lord, will follow. Because saying, I surrender all. All for Jesus. You know, all these things. But what does Jesus say to us? He says, if you wish to come after me, you must deny yourself. You must take up your cross and follow me. And he meant that really. He had not yet been crucified, but they didn't knew what the cross was. And in fact, taking up the cross condemned men and women Would pick up the crossbar and they'd haul it. You couldn't haul the whole way to the cross, but they'd haul the crossbar as far as they could. They'd been whipped, they might not be able to make it the whole way, just as Jesus passed it off to Simon of Cyrene. That's you know, take up the cross. Where are you going with that cross? Well, to be crucified. And if you wish to save your life, you'll lose it, but if you lose your life for his sake and the gospels, you'll save your sake. Well what's our reaction there? We flinch. Some of us can flinch. Maybe a time in your life that you'll Flinch. You all have second thoughts. And I'm reminded of the account told in the Gospel of John chapter 6 when he told the people of the of a food that endures fraternal life. And he gives it to those who believe in him. And after talking further, John tells us, many of the disciples withdrew and were not walking with them anymore. It's like these are hard words. I don't know if I can go along with that, Lord. I don't know. You were good up to the point, but not not what you just said And Jesus says to the twelve, you do not want to go away also, do you? And Peter's answer is one of my favorite verses. verses of scripture. Catches, it catches me. He says. When he asks you, Jesus says, Do you want to go away too, because you don't like what I just said? My command or my whatever. Peter says, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. We have believed and come to know that you're the Holy One of God. Brothers and sisters, when you hit hard times, tough times, when you hit commands and teachings That you're not altogether happy with. Jesus in fact can be saying to you, it's like, where are you when this happens, believer? disciple, are you going to leave too? Because the time will come. I mean day-to-day real life for a believer, you can have you can imagine that you or a loved one ha dies of cancer. Haz or dies of cancer. Who do you say that he is then? Who is he? You or a loved one lose your job? Who do you say that he is You or a loved one are raped. Still God? Who do you say he is? You pray about these things and they don't get better Instead of heal or whatever. Who do you say that he is? I mean Job had said, yea, though you you slay me, he's talking to God He's not talking to Satan. Yea, though you slay me, I will trust in him. Yea, though he slay me, I will trust in him. And as Paul Paul said, Paul had a thorn in his side and asked the Lord to take it away. And the Lord tells him, My grace is sufficient for you. It's like, effectively, no, I'm not taking that away, but you'll be able to bear up under it. This really sounds like what he's saying. And my that's one of my go-to verses Because the times he will not he does not he has not yet taken away whatever the issue is. And it may be that he won't. So I need to recognize his grace is sufficient for me See, when we know who he is, Jesus says, Who do you say that I am? When we know who he is, we know that we cannot go away. Because there is no will no other place to go. Because he's the only God there actually is. The other one's made up And he has, and he's the only source of the words of eternal life. As Peter says, you have the words of eternal life. They're not available elsewhere. See, this is the God we serve. He wants us to follow him. As the passage in Ezekiel says, he will cause us to follow in his ordinances. Not just we will because we know we should, but he will cause us to And you're you know the thing and part of the way he causes you to do it is he enables us to. And if we're his we know I want to obey and follow. I'm having trouble obeying and follow. But Lord, please change my heart. Convict me of my my sinfulness. Convict me of what I'm holding back from in doing whatever that I know you want me to do I am the one holding back. I am the one doing wrong, Father. Break me. By any means necessary. That I might glorify you and follow you in the way you would. If you are his, you want him to work on you to follow him better See, this is the God we serve. The one who has saved us, the one who has forgiven our sins, whose yoke is easy, and whose burden is light. See, as Jesus has said many times, I say to you now, in his name, he who has ears to hear. Let him hear. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we may all hear well right now And with eyes open we may see well. But Father, many of us, as your people, are yet sinful, are yet quite sinful And in some ways we are we have held back from following things that we know, teachings that we know you have told us to do, actions we've told us to take. Desire things that we should seek after, teachings you would have us believe, and yet we think we are within our rights to say, No, Father, we know better than you. I will not do that, even though I clearly see it. Oh Father, break us of our prideful selfishness and myopia Cause us to see if we are yours, we've been bought with a price, we are not our own. We are yours, Lord Jesus. And cause us to know that if you have saved us from damnation with that we deserve. Then anything you ask us to do is it can't be enough Oh Father, cause our hearts to be filled with a desire to serve you and love you in all that we do, not just in the gusto with which we sing a piece of music. But in the way we seek after your will, and then do it. Oh Father, care for us, bless us, and use us to glorify us. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.