If you turn in your New Testament now, To John's Gospel. We'll be in chapter one this evening. I think that's on page one thousand and fifty-three of your few Bibles. And I'll be reading the first 14 verses of John's Gospel. We'll be focusing on verse 14 this evening. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life. And the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness was not, has not overcome it. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light that all might believe through him. He was not the light. but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own. And his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Let's follow in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. But you pray with him. Heavenly Father. We thank you for your word. We thank you for this word that we read tonight. We ask, Lord God, that you would make it fresh. Within us. Guide our hearts now, Lord God, that we would see all that you have for us tonight by your Spirit. Help us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you seen Jesus? It's a rather appropriate question for us tonight, as we're thinking about the birth of Jesus Christ, even as we have read this particular passage. Earlier this evening, I actually read the wrong passage from Isaiah. He was wrong from my perspective. It wasn't wrong from God's. You see, I was going to read from chapter 7. But for some reason, the Lord pointed us to chapter 6. And in chapter 6, as we read tonight, Isaiah enters into the throne room and he sees the Lord Jesus Christ in all of his splendor, in all of his glory, this pre-incarnate appearance. of the Lord, so much so that the temple is filled only with the train, this robe, and the seraphim flying about, crying out, holy, holy. Holy. That's what Isaiah saw. But it's followed By that passage wherein he is called to go out and proclaim the very word of God, and he is told that people will not hear, people will not see. And so the question tonight is, have you seen Jesus? This evening, as we take this look, this very brief look at John's Gospel, at the first portion of John's Gospel. He is actually setting forth an answer to that question, who is Jesus? And he begins with that very powerful passage. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. He follows it by referring to John the Baptist, who was a witness who saw the Lord Jesus Christ. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light. You're getting the impression that this passage is all about sight, all about seeing Jesus. The true light which gives light to everyone is coming into the world. He was in the world and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. The world was unable to see this Jesus. And so then we get to this transition as John continues to identify Jesus. In verse 14. And the word became flesh. This evening I think we could sum up this one verse And everything that precedes it in this way, the glory of Jesus shines in fullness to the unveiled eyes of believers. The glory of Jesus shines in fullness to the unveiled eyes of believers. We'll see that in three points or three heads tonight. First, the Son of God took on human nature. Secondly, the Son of God dwelt among us, and finally, the Son of God was seen to be full of grace and truth. Three very simple points coming straight out of verse 14 tonight. As we go through this preaching of this word tonight, I'd be asking you to ask yourselves that question, have I seen Jesus? Well, let's begin then. The Son of God took on a human nature. This passage begins with reference to the Word, and the Word became flesh. This is The second time, generally speaking, that John is referring to the Word, he begins his gospel with the Word, as we've already referred to. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was God, and the Word was with God. It seems to be very clear here that John is saying that the word is God, is divine. Indeed, as as uh we were listening to a sermon last Sunday, since we weren't here in worship uh from Pastor Van Dudeward. He preached a sermon on this passage. And he was making it so clear that this is an astounding verse that we have before us. Uh and it begins with the identification of Jesus As being the word, having personhood. The word was God, became flesh. And in him, referring back to the word was life. We read in Revelation that This one, this Jesus, is referred to is called by the name the Word of God. Revelation 19, I saw Heaven opened, and behold a white horse, the one sitting on it, is called faithful and true in righteousness. He judges and makes war. A reference to Jesus Christ. The name by which he is called is the Word of God. And so the word here in John 14, verse 14, is referencing back to the Son of God, the person, the second person of the Trinity. God Himself. It's crystal clear. It couldn't be clearer. The Lagos, the Word, is described as God, the one who made all things, the one who was in the beginning. So that causes a bit of a problem, doesn't it? As we read the word, meaning God, the second person of the Trinity, Word became flesh. Again, as as we heard last week, as we were listening to that sermon, this may be one of the most astounding passages in all of Scripture. What does John mean in our English versions that the word became? Does he mean that somehow God was transformed into a human being? Is that what this means? The word became flesh? We know that God doesn't change. That's clear. But we see that in Malachi chapter 3, for I the Lord do not change. It couldn't be clearer. We see it in James. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. God doesn't change. We see that so clearly in other portions of Scripture, and so we cannot take this passage and say, well, he he changed. So what does it mean? The word became flesh. It's obviously a reference to the incarnation. But how do we understand that? How do we understand became? Does it mean that God somehow inhabited or is reduced or compressed into a human being? Is that what John means, the creator of the universe somehow becomes that which is not God, but one of his created beings? Well just think about that for a minute. Becoming not God. Is that possible? Is it possible that God became not God as he transforms himself into human. And the truth is that that's impossible. Because we couldn't be here. We wouldn't be here. We wouldn't be living, breathing, walking, and talking if God were no longer God. Because God not only creates life, he sustains life. And without God, we would all cease to exist. The writer to the Hebrews tells us that he, meaning Jesus, is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. He upholds the universe. By the word of his power. If he were not God any longer, he would not be upholding the universe, we would not be existing. There would be no one to cause our molecules, the atoms that make up our bodies to stay together. There would no longer be the ability for our blood to move throughout our body, keeping us alive. Our lungs would not function because we would no longer be sustained by Jesus Christ. See, he's on the throne tonight, just as we studied this morning. And he's the one who is sustaining all things and holding all things together without him Without the God man, we don't exist. And so the word became flesh does not mean that God transformed himself into being not God. So what does it mean? If we were to open up Philippians, Paul gives us probably the best explanation that we have in Scripture of what happened as the second person of the Trinity takes on a human nature. Consider this, as Paul writes, have this mind among yourselves which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, Did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. It's probably the best description we have in Scripture of what happened here as the Son of God takes on a human nature. We read it tonight in the Westminster Confession of Faith, and this is one reason why we have a confession, because it takes verses like this in Philippians and others brings them together so that we can understand a little bit more of what was happening as God takes a human nature to himself. He read it. So the two whole, perfect, and distinct natures, the Godhead and the manhood, were inseparably joined together in one person. without conversion, composition, or confusion. You see what the writers of the confession are saying? That in Jesus Christ there are two natures, fully God and fully man, but they're not mixed. There's not this third kind of being that's been created. They remain fully God and fully man in one person. No composition, no new thing, no changing, all in all. A mystery. And yet we know it to be true. That's what it means when John writes the word became flesh. Now, we're not just studying doctrine tonight. Why was it important that this happened. Why was it important that this came about? Why was it important for God to do this? Well, the larger catechism answers that question for us in a sense it was requisite. It was it was necessary that the mediator, meaning Jesus, should be man. That he might advance our nature, perform obedience to the law, suffer, make intercession for us in our nature Have fellow feeling of our infirmities that we might receive the adoption of sons and have comfort and access with boldness unto the throne of grace. See, without this, we have none of that. Without the human nature of the God-man, we have none of this. We have no salvation. So I think we start tonight by praising God that he did become flesh in this way, in the best way we can understand it. That brings us to our second point. The Son of God dwelt among us. Well We have touched upon becoming flesh. We've understood it, I think, as best we can, knowing that the rest of it is a mystery, impossible for the finite to completely understand what the infinite has done. And so we come to the second, maybe even more astonishing clause and dwelt among us. Have you really considered what that means? The word became flesh and dwelt among us. Now it doesn't take a dictionary for us to understand what it means to dwell. But it's good for us to understand a bit about what this Greek word means. In some lexicons it means to be one's tent mate mate, meaning You tabernacling with God dwelt among us. Tabernacle, being in the same tent together John in Revelation puts it this way, therefore they are before the throne of God, they serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. That's the same word in Greek, translated their shelter. He is sheltering We read in Revelation again in in almost the final chapter, chapter twenty-one, I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. This is a powerful verse here in John, and it foretells Our end in Christ, that we will dwell with God forever Well, let's dig a little bit deeper into what this means. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. In order to understand this, I think we have to be reminded of two things. First, that that the ones to whom this was written, including us, were sinners. And secondly Secondly, that John is writing of the creator of the universe dwelling with his creatures. Well first. First, the folks who received this gospel were sinners just like we are sinners separated from God because of sin. We see that in the garden, don't we? The garden was that dwelling place of God with man, that first dwelling place of God with man. The Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put the man whom he had Formed. There was an intimate communion between Adam and God. Now we don't have a lot of information, but we do have this event where God brings the beast of the field to Adam. everything that he had formed to Adam to see if there was a helpmate suitable for Adam. Let's read that intimacy between God and Adam. This is what was happening as man dwelt with God in the garden. Up until the time that they sinned against God, and they were removed from the garden, removed from the tree of life, but most importantly They were cut off from the intimate relation, that dwelling that they had with God. Their sin had separated them from the living God. The flaming sword, the cherubim, stood at the entryway back into the place where they had been dwelling with God. They were separated. And these things guarded the way back. If we continue on in the history of redemption, we go to the tabernacle. If you remember, the tabernacle was that tent that God called the Israelites to make in the wilderness So they could meet with God. Now, it wasn't Garden of Eden, but it it was a glimpse back to the Garden of Eden. It was a glimpse forward to that point in time when God would truly dwell with man. And when we think of the tabernacle, we're thinking of all those protections that were placed around the tabernacle, the dwelling place of God amongst his people. Remember, 600,000 men, something similar to the city of Washington, D. C. And the White House, right? The the Israelites dwelling around the tabernacle, God dwelling inside the tabernacle, so to speak, at least represented by it in the Holy of Holies. And everything separating the people from him, and yet having some sense of that intimate relation once a year as the high priest would go into the Holy of Holies. But even the tabernacle covering. You shall make the tabernacle with ten curtains, fine twisted linen, blue of purple, scarlet, yarn. You shall also make curtains of goats hair for a tent over the tabernacle, two coverings over the tabernacle, sheltering the people from that intimate Communion and union with God from His presence. And yet He is with them. Then we move to the temple. The first temple in Jerusalem, which was a wonderful structure, more permanent than the tabernacle. with brick and mortar, so to speak, and yet this image was still one of a distant dwelling with God nonetheless. Think of everything that had to take place for the priest to enter into the Holy of Holies in the temple. They had to have garments. They had to be ordained. They had to be consecrated. They had to be covered, linen undergarments, and then all kinds of things going over them on their heads And they had to be cleaned before they would enter into the Holy of Holies and bring blood with them. Sinners unable to dwell in the very presence of God Until Jesus. You see that? Until Jesus comes. And then men were able to dwell with him Because he's the mediator. Because he's the intercessor. Even at that point in time, that intimate communion was being re-established through Jesus' dwelling. on earth with men. Now consider that second point The one who made all things. The one who dwells in the heavens above the heavens. The one who is divine. The one who is God, that one who is infinite in being, glory, blessedness, perfection, sufficient, all-sufficient within himself, he's eternal, unchangeable, incomprehensible. everywhere present, Almighty, knowing all things, most wise, most holy, most just, most merciful and gracious, long suffering, abundant in goodness and truth. This is the one. Who dwelt among us? That was the Westminster larger catechism. The one who has all life, glory, goodness, and blessedness in and of himself. This is the one. God dwelling by his son. In the presence of his people, intimately and personally, coming down, condescending from heaven Is that amazing to you? Is that what you think of when you think of the birth of Jesus Christ? Do you get up in the mornings praising God that He dwells with you? That's what this passage is saying. It's not just saying that, well, there was a point in time of 30 years when he dwelt with us and that's it. No, he's dwelling now by and through his spirit. Yes, this is praiseworthy. But you may be saying, Oh, I can't see him. I can't see him. John could That's why we started with that question. Can you see Jesus? Well that brings us to our third head then. The Son of God was seen to be full of grace and truth. Did you notice John's testimony? And that's exactly what it is. John is testifying. He wants you to know as he begins his gospel, and this is just kind of a headline for John's gospel. I want you to know who Jesus Christ is, and I can tell you about this Jesus because I have seen him. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Did you notice that testimony of John? We have seen his glory. John speaks of men like himself. Himself in particular, and those who were with him, of seeing the glory as of the only Son of the Father. And now we have to ask ourselves: what does that mean What did these men see? What did John see? And what does it mean? What does it mean for us? It's kind of significant for us to understand this. So first, what can we say? We can say that they walked with Jesus. We can say as they ministered with Jesus, they were seeing him. They sat under the teaching of Jesus. They were seeing Jesus. As they received the ministry of Jesus, they were seeing Jesus. As they saw the miracles, the wonders that he was doing, they were seeing Jesus. As they heard the gospel truth, the good news From the very mouth of Jesus Christ, they were seeing Jesus. Other portions of Scripture tell us that they saw a man. And the man they saw in physical form was not extraordinary. At least the limited information that we have about the physicality of Jesus tells us that. We do have accounts of extraordinary men in Scripture. Think of Saul, the first king of Israel. When he stood among the people, he was taller than any of the people from his shoulder upward. That's Saul. That's the description. of Saul. Think of David and his description. Now he was ruddy and beautiful and had beautiful eyes and was handsome. We don't have anything like that in this referring to Jesus Christ. We have a description of the Anakim or the Nephilim, who were strong. They were great height men, seemed to be uh uh looking down upon the people like they were grasshoppers, greater and taller than all of the Israelites, creating fear in their hearts. But we have no such physical description of the baby Jesus. Even Moses, as he was born, a baby described this way, the woman conceived and bore a son, and when she saw that he was beautiful She hid him for three months. Baby Jesus isn't described that way. Jesus himself is described in Psalm 22, I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind and despised. By the people, rejected by man, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. The transfiguration is the only place where we have a physical description of Jesus. As he goes up on the mountain and is transfigured before Peter and James and John, he shone, his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. That's the most we have. And it seems to have been a temporary transfiguration So what were these men seeing as they walked with Jesus, as they sat under his ministry, as they listened to him teaching, as they heard the gospel, as they saw the wonders and signs? What were they seeing? Well they were seeing his glory. We have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of Grace and truth. That's what they saw. Now I think we need to dig a little bit deeper into that to understand it. What was it that they saw? And the glory is described as the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. I'd like to start with that truth part. What was the truth that they saw in Jesus? And I think what we could do is turn back to the Sermon on the Mount and listen to Jesus' description of those who will be in glory. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are the poor. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the pure in heart. He's describing the hearts of each and every one who will be in glory. In essence He was describing his own heart. And that's what the disciples, that's what John was seeing as they saw the fullness of truth in Jesus Christ. Let's just break that down for a minute. Poor in spirit. Jesus was and is the ultimate in humility. For you know from 2 Corinthians chapter 8. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. So that you by his poverty might become rich. Now, Paul's not speaking of his material wealth. Paul's speaking of his humility. Remember, we read from Philippians. But though he was in the form of God, he did not count a quality with God, a thing to be grasped, that's exactly what Paul's writing about here. Though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. Humble. That's the truth that's pouring forth out of Jesus' heart that that John was able to see. He was one of those who mourned. In fact, he he mourned so much that as he comes to Jerusalem, he's weeping over the city. Would that you even you had known on this day the things that make for peace, but now they're hidden from your eyes. Jesus mourned over the sins of the people. He mourned over the way that they had offended his father. He mourned that they didn't have eyes to see. Jesus wept. And Jesus was meek and gentle, wasn't he? Just consider that event where after the Mount of Transfiguration he comes down, the disciples were unable to to remove a spirit from this boy who who was apparently had had a had a evil spirit within him and was convulsing him and he was foaming at the mouth. And Jesus asked the father, How long has he been has this been happening to him? And he says, From childhood And the father said to him, If you can do anything, have compassion on us. And Jesus said to him, if you can, all things are possible for one who believes. You see the meekness and gentleness of Jesus? He didn't send the Father away. What? You disbelieve I'm able? Go away. I've got other things to do. No. No, he's teaching him. He's actually drawing him closer to himself. All things are possible for one who believes. Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, I believe, help my unbelief. And that's exactly what Jesus did. It was gentle. And he is one who was constantly hungering and thirsting after righteousness, wasn't he? He still is. Remember this Samaritan woman and the disciples who went away and he had that discussion with the Samaritan woman at the well and they come back with food and they want to give them the food and he said, Look at I've got food that you don't know of And they said, What what's he talking about? My food is to do the will of him who sent me to accomplish his work. Hungering and thirsting after righteousness, constantly seeking the will of his Father. Nothing else. So much so that he refers to it as his food, hungering and thirsting for righteousness and then merciful. In that same account with the Samaritan woman, as he knows her sins. As he's describing to her her sins, how she's had five husbands, six husbands, and the one she has right now isn't that one. And her seventh husband, as one has described it to me, was standing right before her, Jesus Christ. You see his mercy? As he sends her away, but not without first telling her who he was. The Christ. I who speak to you am He. And pure in heart. We know that Jesus was sinless and he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin and the peacemaker. How many times does Jesus speak about peace to his disciples? Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you? Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. He wanted peace for his disciples, and he came to bring peace. And he accomplished peace on the cross at Calvary. And he was persecuted. As we speak about the cross, we know that he was that lamb that's led to the slaughter. And he opened not his mouth. Nailed to the cross. Persecution of Christ doesn't get any greater than that Each of these described the fullness of the truth which poured out of Christ's heart that John was able to see in all of these instances. You see, it wasn't his physicality, it wasn't his face, it wasn't his stature. It was his heart that John was seeing. And from his heart truth was pouring forth. But that's not the only thing. John was able to see the grace. Jesus was full of grace. And you might be saying, well, where's that? Well just remember and set your mind once again upon that dwelling. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. Think of that The God Himself desired and desires to dwell with you. That's absolutely part of what John writes and dwells among us, the creator of the universe who had the ability and power and has the ability and power to do whatever he desires desired to dwell among and with his people. He desired to come and dwell in the midst of his creation. Think of just for a moment who you want to be with. Think of whom you enjoy spending time with. Create a picture in your minds of one you've decided to and do dwell with. Some of us have spouses that the Lord has graciously given to us. And we've determined and decided and made a choice to dwell with our spouse, to to be with this one, to love and cherish, and to spend more time with this one than with any other. Some of us have children. We've been given the gift of of children to dwell with, to care for, to love, to cherish, to raise up in loving and loving and and the admonition of the Lord. That's our desire. That's our choice. That's the blessing that we have. Think of those with whom you have fellowship here in this body of the Lord Jesus Christ You've made a decision, the choice to be in this body with this group of believers, not another. And you dwell with your brothers and sisters here in the fellowship of Christ. In each of these circumstances, there's a quality, there's a characteristic, there's a pleasantness about the individuals with whom you have chosen to dwell, to live with, to fellowship with. And that causes you to desire that fellowship and that communion. Something draws you to each one. Now think of Jesus. He dwelt with those who hated him. He dwelt with those who thought they knew him, but really had not yet come to really understand who he was. His communion in all of these instances was dwelling with those who sinned against him. He dwelt with those who were ungodly. There wasn't a godly one among them. He condescended to those who were not just believed beneath him, but so far beneath him, it was hard to say that the fellowship he enjoyed was sweet. At the time that he walked upon this earth. And yet that was his desire. Can you imagine that? Dwelling with enemies, living in and dwelling in fellowship and communion with those who first didn't know you, and then those who hated you. You know, we usually run from our enemies. I imagine that most of us don't even like to think much about our enemies, those who hate us. Much less would we desire to be in their presence and spend time, precious time with them. What would you say? How would you enter into conversation with them? Even those who really don't know you, how could you fellowship with them? Do you desire to spend time with them? But Jesus, the Godman, the Son of God, the Word, lowered himself by taking on that human nature that he would commune and fellowship and dwell with such as the likes of you. And me. Do you see the love of God in that dwelling, in this tabernacling with you? None of us can sit here this evening and say we're worthy we had that discussion this morning during Sunday school. None of us can say we're worthy of dwelling with Jesus. But that's the truth, isn't it? That's the reality. That's the fullness of the love of Christ. And that's the fullness of his grace. And that really is grace, isn't it? Is that significant for you tonight? Does it help you to see Jesus? Because he loves you so much That if you're trusting in him tonight that he would lower himself to your level and spend time with you, to commune with you, to fellowship with you, even when you were in your sin? To bring you into fellowship with him, with the triune God, your creator. See, that is the significance of the birth, of the incarnation of Jesus Christ, isn't it? And that's how you can see Him tonight. As He does dwell with you and in you by His Spirit. As you're trusting in him. That's the significance of what theologians call that hypostatic union, as he took on human flesh to commune and dwell With you even when you were ungodly, even when you hated him. That should cause you tonight to see that eternal and everlasting love of God for you in Christ. Yes, the birth of Jesus has more doctrine to it, but it's significantly about the love of God for you, a sinner whom he saves by grace. The birth of Christ is full of grace, and you must see that tonight, and you can see that tonight with eyes of faith. It's all grace. It's the immeasurable grace of God that he would send his eternal son to take on a human nature to dwell with you. The glory of Jesus shines in fullness to the unveiled eyes of believers. Well, what did John see? Each one saw the glory of God in Christ. And you do as well, as he dwells in you by his spirit tonight. Praise be to God. Amen. Father, not God What a joy it is to meditate upon even one verse, one passage of Scripture tonight. We thank you. We praise you. We praise you for Jesus. We thank you for allowing us even tonight, even for a few moments, to meditate upon his incarnation, upon the word, becoming flesh. And dwelling among us. Father, we thank you for opening up your word tonight. We thank you for the fullness of the grace and truth of Jesus Christ. And we pray, Lord God, that you would continue to open up his grace and truth to us. For this is the only way we can see Jesus until he returns. And so we thank you for that sight that you've given us. Make it even broader and wider in the days to come until he returns. We ask all this in his precious name. Amen.