It brings us to our New Testament reading this morning. It will be from That letter to the Romans, in fact, we'll be reading it again this evening. Romans chapter 8, beginning at verse 25. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. Likewise, the Spirit also helps in our weaknesses, for we do not know what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Now, he who searches the hearts and knows the mind of the Spirit is because he makes intercession for the saints according to the will of God, and we know that all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover, whom he predestined, these he also called. Whom he called, these he also justified, and whom he justified, these he also Glorified. As far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Hym was a lament in and of itself, appropriate for us as we return to the Book of Lamentations Preaching the word this morning will be from the second chapter of Lamentations, the first ten verses. Let's turn there now and read God's Lamentations two, beginning at verse one How the Lord has covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger. He cast down from heaven to the earth the beauty of Israel and did not remember his footstool in the day of his anger. The Lord has swallowed up and has not pitied all the dwelling places of Jacob. He has thrown down in his wrath the strongholds of the daughter of Judah. He has brought them down to the ground. He has profane the kingdom and its princes. He has cut off in fierce anger every horn of Israel. He's drawn back his right hand from before the enemy. He has blazed against Jacob like a flaming fire, devouring all around, standing like an enemy. He has bent his bow. With his right hand, like an adversary, he has slain all who were pleasing to his eye. On the tent of the daughter of Zion he has poured out his fury like fire. The Lord was like an enemy. He has swallowed up Israel. He has swallowed up all her palaces. He has destroyed her strongholds. He has increased mourning and lamentation. and the daughter of Judah. He has done violence to his tabernacle. As if it were a garden, he has destroyed his place of assembly. The Lord has caused the appointed feasts and The Sabbaths to be forgotten in Zion. In his burning indignation, he has spurned the king and the priest. The Lord has spurned his altar, he has abandoned his sanctuary, he has given up the walls of her palaces into the hand of the enemy. They have made a noise in the house of the Lord as on the day of a set feast. The Lord has purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion. He has stretched out a line, he has not withdrawn his hand from destroying, therefore he has caused the rampart and wall to lum. Lament, they languish together. Her gates have sunk into the ground. He has destroyed and broken her bars, her king, and her princes are among the nations. The law is no more, and her prophets find no vision from the Lord. The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground and keep silent. They throw dust on their heads and gird themselves with sack cloth. The virgins of Jerusalem bow their heads to the ground. As far in reading God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Well Lord God, it is hard to read your word this morning. We know that your word tells us that you are a consuming fire, but here, Father, we see just how consuming. Your wrath is. Open this word to us by your Spirit. Apply it powerfully to our hearts And help us not to leave here in the same way that we entered, but changed, to be more like Christ. We pray these things in his name. Amen. What does it mean to die? What did the Lord mean? When he told Adam in the garden, of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. What did he mean? Obviously, you'd say, well, the punishment for disobedience was death, that Adam would suffer death as a result of not obeying. But he didn't. Not immediately. Adam lived 930 years. We don't get the impression that the majority of that time was in the garden. We get the impression that the majority of that time was outside of the garden. He Bore Seth when he was 130 years old outside of the garden. So what did God mean? You shall surely die. We can reasonably conclude that Within that clause, the Lord wasn't speaking of physical death that day, but that he was speaking of spiritual death. That Adam would be cast out of the garden, out of God's presence, that that communion and fellowship that he had with God would be severed. That he would be placed in the wilderness, away from God. What does that look like? We can use other words for it, spiritual death, to be outside of his special presence, to exist in a place where God is not intimately present. But what happens? The first chapter of Lamentations gave us an initial view or glimpse, really, of hell. The second chapter provides much more detail on what it means to die. Spiritually, to be cast off into hell or exist outside of God's presence, we begin to understand the meaning of existing in opposition to God. Or more accurately, to be placed on the side of the battle line which is opposite of God. To be on the side which is receiving the just wrath flowing forth from a pure God. The first chapter of Lamentations gave us an overview primarily from the perspective of the city, as the city speaks. As a city was personified. We learned the reason for the destruction, and that was the transgression or the sin of those in Judah. Their continual, their unrepentant transgression and rebellion. Now, as we begin looking at chapter 2, we're about to dig into some of the gruesome details. This morning I want us to see that the wrath of God brings his people to awe, to silence, and to Purity. The wrath of God brings his people to awe, silence, and purity Three simple points this morning. God's wrath poured out. Secondly, God's holiness kept it pure. And then finally, God's people silenced. Well, our first point, God's wrath poured out. Here in these ten verses, we have a graphic description of spiritual warfare. The first five verses are just chock full of verbs. It's unusual for Scripture to have this many verbs, action words Contained in so few verses. When we do, that's a pointer to us that the writer is telling us to not only consider the action, but consider the one who is acting Focus your mind certainly on the actions, but even more so on the one who was doing the action. In these first five verses, we have the word Lord or His or He referring to God 24 times. Clearly the focus The focus here is upon the Creator God, the Lord Almighty. He was at work powerfully, working in the lives of his people. Let's just take a few moments to consider these verbs. this description of God's wrath, for that's what it is. Look at verse one. How the Lord has covered the daughter of Zion, and did not remember his footstool in the day of His anger. The righteous anger of the Lord against sin was so great that it overshadowed like a cloud God's ability, so to speak, to even remember who he was punishing. That's the picture. God's wrath was so severe that it was a covering over Zion that his eyes couldn't even penetrate to see because the fury was so thick That's the idea. God didn't remember his footstool. God couldn't even remember Zion. Well, we know that's just a figure of speech. Clearly God remembers. But his fury was so great it was as if it was thick and he couldn't see or remember those below who were Being punished. Verse 2. The Lord has swallowed up and has not pitied all the dwelling places of Jacob. God did not merely become angry. He threw down all of the protections that That Judah had built up, that he had given to Judah. Remember, he is a good father who had provided and pitied and protected his people. And now that was removed. It's all gone. In his furious wrath, he's broken down all of those things. There was nothing to shield the people of Jerusalem from his fire. Verse three, he's cut off in fierce anger every horn of Israel Israel like a flaming fire devouring all around. God is a consuming fire, but there are very few places in Scripture where we actually read. Of the way his fire consumes. And here the consumption was complete So much so, the flames so hot that it sucked the strength out of his people, cut off in fierce anger every horn of Israel. That horn is referred to is used to refer to strength Strength was gone. His fire had sucked it out of each and every one. Look at verse 5. God has increased mourning and lamentation. Look at the way Jesus preached in the Sermon on the Mount. As he gave assurance to those listening to his preaching, to the truths that he was saying. Do not worry about your life. What shall we eat, or what shall we drink? For your heavenly Father knows you need these things He preached to them assurance. He preached to them comfort. And now in God's wrath, that was all gone. Comfort wasn't flowing. Assurance wasn't flowing. No, he increased mourning and lamentation in place of comfort and assurance. But the worst words may be contained in verses four and five. Standing like an enemy, he has bent his bow Scripture, I think I can say with confidence, nowhere else refers to God in this way. Like an enemy. As we think of enemies, we think of battle, we think of the Lord Jesus Christ. We think of the Psalms as kings who are victorious are called to bring out the enemy kings and lay them on the ground, prostrate before them, and put their foot on their neck. Symbolizing complete triumph, complete victory Their enemy has been vanquished. And here God is is pictured as an enemy. He bent his bow. He's standing. Standing over his people. It's as if he's placed his foot on their neck. He swallowed up Israel. The one, the God of creation, who has been described as a divine husband, a caretaker, a protector, a friend, now as a result of their sin, has become the like. Their worst enemy. The imagery here is a picture of hopelessness. In these few verses of Lamentations chapter 2, there's not even a glimmer of hope yet Because we have the entirety of God's revealed word. We know there is hope in Christ. It comes later on The devastation and destruction here was real, just as our sin is real. And there is no hope in this limited picture of God's wrath being poured out As our attention is fixed upon the powerful and righteous anger of God flowing out because of sin and disobedience and transgression and idolatry The fury of God is incited by our sin Only Jesus was and is able to quench the righteous fury, the fire of God. And how did he do that Simply by being an obedient, loving, submissive son. That's it. That's what was missing in Israel and Judah. That's the contrast. That's the solution. It's the Son who enabled the rebuilding of that which was torn down in this period. Sure. Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The truth was as Jesus spoke those words The temple had already been destroyed by the continued disobedience and idolatry and rebellion of the Israelites. But nevertheless, Jesus was and is the rebuilder. In his purity. Because of his purity, he was able and did truly rebuild that which the Father had torn down in the days of Jeremiah. He himself became and is that temple. There's a danger here as we read these verses, that we consider this book of Lamentations. For you who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, there is a great danger that you might think I'm a Christian. I've been saved. God's wrath is not for me. On the day of judgment, there will not be a single drop of his wrath for me. That's true. The danger comes when we begin to think that this book, that even this chapter, has no application for us in our lives. Three thoughts. First, we're given a picture of God's wrath. Here, and if we don't have this picture, we have absolutely no concept of the love of God, nor do we grasp the atonement of Christ. We need this picture For those things to burn in our hearts. Secondly, this is what your sin deserves. How offensive are your sins? Sins. Take a look and see. This book describes how offensive our sins This book describes what we have earned, what we have merited, what we deserve. This is why Isaiah said, Woe to me, I am ruined, I am undone, I'm a man of unclean lips. And this is what God meant. When he said that in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. This is what you've been saved from. Brothers and sisters, the day that we forget what we deserve is the day that we forget to praise our God. But that's our tendency to negate, to forget, to discount the wrath of God. So we must be reminded The follower of Jesus must be taken back to sea, to remember where he was headed and to recall what he has been saved from. Salvation is sweet only as it is seen in the backdrop of the holy and just wrath of God. Well, thirdly, this is a picture of God's response to our filth and the offense of our sin. And if we cast this passage off and others like it, we miss one of the substantial points of Scripture. We must understand this passage in part as a description of the offensive nature of our sin and the just and righteous response of a holy God. The removal of this true picture and terror of God's wrath destroys the gospel. Why do I say that? Without the wrath of God, there is no justice. God overlooks and does not punish sin. There's no vengeance. Sin, transgression on righteousness becomes the ruler. It's the victor, as justice has left the field. And God's word becomes empty and void. Mere threats. Words spoken to Adam have lost their meaning Truth becomes untruth, and the holiness of God becomes bankrupt. It's ruined. God cannot be holy and at the same time allow sin to stand in his presence. The two cannot be together. Without the wrath of God, the gospel is emptied. Brings us to our second point, God's holiness kept pure. Usually, when we hear of a disaster Hurricane or tornado, earthquake, plane crash. Immediately we rush to see the extent of the physical destruction. That's what we think tells the story. That's the extent. Brothers and sisters, that only tells part of the story In fact, the majority, the significance really lies in the before and in the after. Here, the destruction of the city was complete. But now the writer turns to the destruction of the temple, the description of its ruins. Of how God tore it down. Of how he laid waste to his house. Verse 6: He's done violence to his tabernacle As if it were a garden, he has destroyed his place of assembly. These words should shock our heart. The Lord our God has done violence to the very place where he met with his people, the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, the place where God would meet with Moses, which became the temple, his house. The very place where God placed his name and called his people to pray and to worship him. A place of communion. Now itself was the object of God's fury, so much so that it could no longer be used for its appointed purpose. The Lord has caused the appointed feast and Sabbaths to be forgotten in Zion. The destruction was so complete. It was that is as if the people could not even remember what was that thing there for What did we used to do? I it doesn't resemble anything. I can't remember why it was there. The Lord's hand was so severe that not only could the feast and the Sabbath no longer be held, it was so ruined that the memory of the feasts had vanished, gone. It would be difficult to imagine how this scene could get worse. But it did Look at verse 7. The Lord has spurned his altar, he has abandoned his sanctuary, he has given up the walls of our palaces into the hand of the enemy. See, not only was the physical place destroyed, not only were the people removed from the ability to come in and worship God, no, no, the enemies were brought in. They replaced God's people. It got worse And not only are they standing in the place where the people used to worship, they've made a noise in the house of the Lord. As on the day of a set feast, the enemies are now singing. They are chanting victory. They have crushed Their enemy, the people of God, and they are filling, so to speak, the temple with their cries of victory. The voices of the people were silenced, and the sound that they used to make was replaced Now with the pagan cries of victory over God Well, I said that most times when we focus on a disaster, we're looking at the thing that happened But our focus really should be on the result, the aftermath. And here we see that That worship couldn't happen any longer, that one must be in the presence of God in order to worship him, to serve him. And if we think of the garden, if we think of Adam As we think of his sin, he could no longer be in the presence of God because of his sin. He could no longer truly worship. He was cast off. And that's the same picture we have. Here in Lamentations 2, the way to approach God had been destroyed The garden was closed for Adam. The temple was completely ruined. Remember, God had made a way for his people to worship him. It was the tabernacle, it was the temple, it was the sacrificial works, the sacrificing of bulls and sheep and Animals. It was the priests in their garments and entering into the Holy of Holies. It was the blood sprinkled. God had made a way, a single and exclusive way for his people to enter into his presence And to worship him, but now that way had been broken down, dismantled, crushed. There was no way for the people to come into his presence to approach him. Like a bridge between two worlds. It had been removed. So there was no way to get from one to the other. All means of worship, the tabernacle, the temple, the altar, the priests, the utensils, the implements destroyed or taken away such that worship could not happen. What was God doing? To look beyond the physical. And we have to see that God was preserving His holiness. Those of Judah, God's people, who had continued their worship, but it was false worship. They were worshiping idols and they were bringing that with them into God's house. They were defiling his house. They were profaning the temple. And by destroying the temple, God was keeping his worship pure. He was cleansing his house from the defilement of the people. The Lord was about the work of keeping his worship pure and undefiled. And he did it by shutting it down. He was keeping out those who had and would continue to defile his worship. Isn't that the work of Jesus? Not to defile, but to re-establish the holiness of God Worship. Isn't that why his father sent him? You would say, well, no, he was sent to save people, to bring salvation, to save me. Well that would be right. But ultimately, Jesus was sent to restore worship. To ensure that it would be holy, that it would remain holy. It had been defiled by the people of God, and now the new man. The new Adam was coming to restore that which the first Adam had ruined. Remember what Jesus said as he entered into the temple. As he went throughout it and drove out those who had brought and sold in the temple, he overturned the tables of the money changers. and the seats of those who sold dogs, and he said to them, My house shall be called a house of prayer. Even then, Jesus was showing what he was sent to do: to restore God's house. Let me ask, how do you feel when you can't come to worship COVID-19 shut the doors. How did you feel? What were you thinking? How did it affect you? It should have. I'm sure it did. But this picture that we're given today of the complete destruction of the place where the people would worship God that way, that mode, that means of their approaching God completely destroyed. Bit of the picture we had when COVID was ravaging even the churches, shutting the doors Praise be to God that He has opened them. Our hearts should be leaping with joy that we're here this morning. There are others throughout the world who cannot be together. This passage should just be that great reminder to us. Of the blessings that the Lord has given us to enable us to gather together for His worship. That brings us to our third point: God's people silenced. What kind of a response would we expect from those who were experiencing the fiery wrath of God? What what kind of words would we expect them to respond with What could we expect to hear from them? This passage indicates that there was only one possible response. And that silence. God not only had destroyed the physical elements of worship, that means of communion with Him. He'd also destroyed other things, other ways to commune with him. Look at verse nine. The law is no more. It's an interesting way to put it We might be scratching our heads and asking, what it what does that mean? Does that mean all the scriptures were just burned up in God's consuming wrath, that they were just gone, that the revelation that God's word had banished? Been consumed. I don't think that's what it means We have to ask ourselves, how did God reveal himself to his people? You might say he's revealed through creation, that's true, but that's only part of the answer. God is revealed primarily through His Word. And I think we need to take that word law and Construe it to mean all of God's word, not just the Ten Commandments And so if the law, if the word is no more, what does that mean? It means that God was silent That he was no longer speaking to his people. The temple was gone. That place where he would meet with his people had been consumed, and now he was not even speaking. Speaking to his people, his revealed word was as if it had been erased. God was silent. The law is no more. He had stopped speaking to his people. He had stopped communing with him. No longer were the people receiving the word of God, no longer was the will of God being communicated to his people. They had no way to know how to live now. How significant is that? It's just a book. How significant was it? And God was silent. If we turn to the Psalms, we might get some idea. Psalm 119, verse 49 reads this way: remember the word to your servant. The psalmist was asking the Lord, please cause me to remember what's in your very word. This is my comfort in my affliction. It's hard to imagine a greater affliction. And that which we read of in Lamentations 2 and the Psalmist, in Psalm 119, says, Your word is my comfort as I'm being afflicted. God had taken away his word. There was no comfort in the affliction and lamentations, too. For your word has given me life. Without God's word, there's no life. Without God's word, there's only death. We see the elders remain silent, don't we? Verse 10. The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground and keep silent And God was not speaking. They had nothing that they could say. Their mouths were shut. Communion was broken, severed, cut off, and the only thing the elders, the leaders of the church could do was sit and be silent. No, I'm sorry, there was one thing that they could do. Their very posture spoke Their physical posture spoke of what was going on in their hearts. The elders sit on the ground, they throw dust on their heads and gird themselves with sackcloth. You see, they were prostrating themselves now. Finally! Finally! Because of the wrath poured out, they were prostrating themselves before a holy God. They were physically repenting. And what about the virgins? Virgins of Jerusalem bow their heads to the ground. There was no joy, there was no rejoicing, there was no speaking. Just their posture spoke of what was happening in their hearts. The description here of the destruction of the temple of the breaking of worship It's unspeakably bad. It would appear beyond fixing, irreparably broken. But the truth is that was the condition, the day, the moment that Adam sinned against God. And that was the same day that God said there would be one to come. The seed of the woman, who would be brought forth, who would be sent, not merely to repair, but to reconcile. To rebuild, yes, a stronger and a better and an ultimate way of approaching God. But reconciling what was broken, you think the temple was broken. No, it was that relationship With God that was broken. And that's what Jesus fixed He ushered union and communion back in between God and his people. Brothers and sisters, we would miss a substantial aspect of the application of this passage this morning if we did not think About evangelism, about how this passage drives our evangelism. You think, really? We're going to go out and tell people about God's wrath, his fire. We can't. It's certainly a one way. But I think it drives us to tell others certainly of the coming wrath of God. But of the power and love of the Lord Jesus Christ Think of the Son. The Son of the Father. The Father has been offended by our sins. And Jesus Christ is his son. He loves the Father. He knows he's been offended. And yet he still comes for us. He still comes to rescue us. That's part of the message, isn't it? If you don't turn to Christ, this is what you will experience, the wrath of God. But if you do turn to Christ You'll experience the everlasting love of the triune God. Yes, this passage Drives our evangelism. The wrath of God does bring his people to awe, to silence, and to purity Brothers and sisters, let's not miss that last one. Indeed, the wrath of God brings us to purity. Through the Lord Jesus Christ. As we look upon his holiness, as we know it through his wrath We're washed clean in the blood of Christ, that we might worship Him in holiness. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, while these are hard words to read, Father, they are blessed words. And they lead us, they always lead us, and these words in particular lead us to the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, we praise you. We ask that you would continue to purify us, Lord God, in our worship. Prepare us, Lord God, to enter into your glory. Use this passage. This day to do so. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.