Reading this morning, we'll be reading again from the Gospel of Matthew. Please don't get tired of turning to Matthew. It's a wonderful Gospel. Going to twenty-seven, verse uh excuse me, chapter twenty-seven. And we'll begin reading there at verse thirty-seven. If you would stand for the reading of God's Word, Matthew 27, beginning at verse 37. And they put over his head the accusation written against him. This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and the other on the left. Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, and saying, You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. Likewise, the chief priests also mocking with the scribes and elders said, He saved others Himself, he cannot say. If he is the king of Israel, let him now come down from the cross and we will believe him. He trusted in God Let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. Even the robbers who were crucified with him reviled him. with the same thing. Starting the reading of God's Word. Amen. Reading this morning, the last portion, the last half The second chapter of Lamentation. And this book is all about lamenting, focused upon the destruction of Jerusalem. It's focused on the upon exile God lamenting over the wrath of God and for the sins of people. Our attention to Lamentations 2, beginning at verse eleven. My eyes fail with tears. My heart is troubled. My bile is poured on the ground because of the destruction of the daughter of my Because the children and the infants faint in the streets of the city. They say to their mothers, Where is grain and wine? As they swoon like the wounded In the streets of the city, as their life is poured out in their mother's bosom. How shall I console you? To what shall I liken you, O daughter of Jerusalem What shall I compare with you that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your ruin is spread. Wide is deceit. Who can The prophets have seen for you false and deceptive visions. They have not uncovered your iniquity to bring your back to To bring back your captives, but have envisioned for you false prophecies and delusions. All who pass by clap their hands at you. They hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem. Is this a city that is called the perfection of beauty, the joy of the whole earth? All your enemies have opened their mouth against you. They hiss and gnash their teeth. They say, We have swallowed her up. Surely this is the day we have waited for. We have found it. We have seen it. The Lord has done what he does. He has fulfilled his word which he commanded in days of old. He has thrown down and not pity. He has caught Caused an enemy to rejoice over you. He has exalted the horn of your adversaries. Their heart cried out to the Lord, O wall of the daughter of Zion. Let Tears run down like a river day and night. Give yourself no relief, give your eyes no rest. Rise, cry out in the night, at the beginning of the night Of the watches, pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift your hands toward Him for the life of your young children who faint from hunger Priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord. Young and old lie on the ground in the streets, my virgins and my young men have fallen by the sword. Blame them in the day of your anger. You have slaughtered and not pitied. You have invited as to a feast day the terrors that surround me. In the day of the Lord anger. There was no refugee or survivor. Those whom I have borne and brought up, my enemies have destroyed. A strong reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be civil. Let's pray. Our Lord and our God, we come to a passage once again It is very difficult for us to hear, as your word has been read, Lord God. These words have pierced our heart our hearts, the complete destruction of Jerusalem, the the sins of the people which have been brought upon this place and upon themselves and the fact that they have been removed from your worship. Father, this does break our hearts too Here to read of. And now we pray, Lord God, that you would use this within our walk, that we might learn much Much about lamenting, that we might learn much about how holy you are, that we might learn much about how filthy our sin And that you would guide and direct our hearts this day and be exalted. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm sure you've heard it said that a picture Is worth a thousand words, maybe. Maybe a good picture Maybe a picture taken with a really good camera is worth a thousand words. Usually, to make a really good photograph, a really good picture the photographer needs to adjust the light. Natural light is is good. It's the best when it cooperates Usually the photographer needs to make some adjustment in the lighting, using artificial lights, flashes, reflectors, sometimes even filters Filters over the camera lens. Filters will change what is seen by the naked Camera lens. As a photographer looks through the lens without a filter and then places a filter over it, it changes the scene The scene he's taking a picture of looks very different. Photograph the photograph will turn out much differently when He or she uses that filter. Depending upon what kind of filter is used, the same scene can look very different As we continue to open up this book of Lamentations, there's a bit of filtering going on through it This book is one big lament throughout all of it. It's only five chapters long. The whole thing is a lament, and yet it's divided up into five chapters. And we know that the chapter numbers of verses they were added later They're not inspired, but but here in this book, there are really five separate Separate poems combined into this one book. And so the division, the chapter divisions, are actually very good. Show us a bit about how this was written And so as this is one big lament, we can also see it as Five separate laments, all connected, all focused upon the same thing, really the sin of God's people. And yet from a different perspective, each one using a different filter, so to speak. Different speakers. Different voices are presented, each one giving not only a different perspective of a scene of the damage, the destruction of the city The exile of the people that they look upon. But the reader is also giving, more importantly, a Different lament. In the first chapter, we were given the lament of the city herself, how she lamented her son How she was in anguish. And as we began last week in the first portion of Lamination The first half. The reader was given insight as to the Lord's perspective as he poured out his wrath on the city. And that perspective of the Lord now flows into this last half of Lamentations 2, 11 through 20. The narrator seems to use that for his perspective now, his view, his looking upon the damage and destruction of Jerusalem. Jerusalem. Here in this last half of Lamentations 2, we have a new speaker, so to speak. One who presents three different Views as he looks upon the damage, the destruction of Jerusalem. even say that his view, the the way in which he he looks at Jerusalem in its destruction becomes filtered as he goes through his description Ultimately, it changes the way he laments. His view seems to go from looking at the destruction through mere human eyes And then to looking upon Jerusalem in its current ruins through the lens of God's word, and then finally seeing the destruction To the promise of God. Today I'd like us to see that the Christian lament is a response to looking upon Christ's suffering, as well as a plea that God would remember his son as we seek forgiveness Let me just say that again. The Christian's Lament is a response to looking upon Christ's suffering as well as a plea That God would remember his son as we seek forgiveness. I've broken this up into three points for us this morning. All focused upon the narrator and what he's seeing, first through his eyes, secondly, through the word, and then finally through the promise. Brothers and sisters, we really don't know how to lament. It's not something we've been taught It's not something that we as Christians in twenty twenty-one practice, but we need to It is to be part of the life of the follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And today, as we move through this passage, I would ask you to think upon how do I lament? How does this passage guide and direct me to lament? What kind of filters should I be using as I lament? How can I use Use this passage in the future to to lament over sin. Well our first point then, our first head is through the eyes. Remember that there is a shift here and beginning in verse eleven. In verses one through ten, God was the focus, he was the center He was a subject. And now, in verse 11, the narrator picks up and he begins to speak. He begins to write as from his first person perspective. He's a man at least that's my thinking. I think this is Jeremiah. He doesn't identify him as Jeremiah. But it was a person, and I believe a man who was very familiar with the city, with Jerusalem, probably one who lived in the city, who was part of the city. And now he's looking upon the city and in this ruinous state. And he's ref informing the reader of of what he knows. His intimate knowledge of the city. And now as he looks upon her, being destroyed, completely wiped out, he's pouring out his heart, and he's bringing us into his heart. In these verses. It's a new perspective. It's a new lament, so to speak, from this one who has this intimate Connection with the city, obviously with her people. And if this is Jeremiah Loved the people. He preached to the people. He went and gave them God's word time and again. Even as he was suffering, even as they were throwing insults at him, he kept on coming back. loved them that much. He has an intimate connection. And now he's opening up to his heart. He looks upon the city and he's saying, This is what's happened to my heart as I look upon what God has done. He's recording what he saw, yes, what he heard, but especially what he felt, with nothing other than the bare eyes of humanity, of his humanity. humanity initially. Initially he looks on with his worldly eyes. He looks and recorded what he saw without any kind of spiritual filter. Look at verse eleven My eyes fail with tears. My heart is troubled. My bile is poured on the ground. The description of what his eyes saw and how that affected his heart. Becomes very specific because the children and the infants faint in the streets of the city Think about it. He's not looking upon those who used to enter into the house of worship. He's looking at those who are the innocent, so to speak, from a worldly perspective. He's looking upon the children, the infants, those who weren't, again from a worldly perspective, sinning Those who weren't the cause of God's wrath being poured out upon the city. Children, the infants, they're fainting in the street They're affected by God's wrath as it's being poured out. It's as if they say to their mothers, as if he's in each and every home, listening to the children as they come to their mothers and say, Where's the where's the Food. The Lord's wrath has consumed not only the city, but everything and its affection The children, they don't have food, they're coming to their mothers, they're asking, what's happening? I'm hungry. Where's the grain? And he equates them to the soldiers on the street fighting battles, and these children are swooning like that Fainting, life is poured out into their mother's bosom. He's weeping as he looks upon this, as he considers He's seeing the wrath of God affecting these seemingly innocent children, and his heart is torn. It may have been that as the narrator's bare eyes look upon all that has happened as he sees the children suffering as he weeps, he's not Not weeping for the parents, but for the destruction of the daughter of my people. Not for the mothers, not for the fathers, for the children. He may have been noting that from his perception the children were not the sinners, their parents were to blame, and yet the fierce anger of God was yet affecting him being poured out in a Away upon them. Sin affects more than the sinners. And he may have been concerned that this looks like the end. Even the children, the future of the nation are being destroyed. Such that there would no longer be a nation, no longer a people of God. No provisions. Where's the grain? Where's the wine? To the extent that things were helpless. Look at verse 13. How shall I console you? What shall I liken you, daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare with you, that I may comfort you? What he's saying is In your estate, in your condition, there is no comfort possible. I can't give it And I don't know anywhere where it could come from because your destruction is complete. Healing is impossible. Who can heal you? With his bare unfiltered eyes, as he looked upon the destruction, his conclusion was there was absolutely no No way to comfort. What a heal. Christians are called to comfort one another. Christians are called to love our neighbors. Think upon that. But as the narrator looks upon this scene, comes to the conclusion that what I am called to do, what I long to do, is comfort you and come alongside you and heal your wounds, and I can't. It's not possible. And he weeps because of it. He weeps because the people still are in their sins. Verse 14: Your prophets have seen for you false and deceptive They have not uncovered your iniquity. The people remain in their sins because those who were sent To help them see how they had offended a holy God, gave them lies and deception. It led them not closer to God, but away from God. And his heart is torn because it appears to him that they Remain in their sins. They have not uncovered your iniquity. They still remain captives. They've not been brought back. They're immersed in false prophecies and delusions Even seemingly on that day as he pours out his heart. What was his conclusion? He doesn't say But I think we can take from this his conclusion was that there's no hope. The result for the narrator, as he looked upon the scene, was that hope was lost, it was crushed. Because he was only seeing with his bare eyes, his unfiltered eyes. He was unable to see through the debris Because of his tears. He's only able to see those pastors by, those ones clapping hands, hissing, mocking, mocking the one who was once beautiful, now lay in ruins. He couldn't see hope. It wasn't there. Not for him, not not with his bare eyes. He lamented as if there was no tomorrow for the people of God. They had been distinguished forever At least he couldn't see it yet. Brings us to our second point. Through the word. Look at Verse 17 For it seems to be that this is a turning point in his lament. It seems that there is a change in his lament. Up to this point, he's been viewing, he's been seeing the destruction of the City, the aftermath of God's wrath, through his bare eyes, no filter. The narrator only saw the false prophets and their deceptive divisions and the result sins which brought God's wrath upon the city. The city lay in ruins. And so as he looked, the scene spoke to him as of of One of hopelessness. But here in verse seventeen, the filter of the very word of God is introduced It's a turning point in the lament, the change in the basis in the ground of his lament. The Lord has done what he purposed He has fulfilled his word, which he commanded in the days of old. The narrator is now remembering God's word and that it contained warnings Commanded in the days of old, foretelling of a future. That was true, Jeremiah. Jeremiah prophet Remember that prophecy where the Lord told him to go get that linen sash, put it around his waist, don't put it in water And then the Lord told him to take that sash which you have and now, hide it in the hole in the rock. And so he does so. Lord told them after a time to go get it. And the word of the Lord came to me, meaning Jeremiah, saying, Thus says the Lord Lord, in this manner I will ruin the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem. As he now picks up the linen sash, it is Ruined. This evil people who refuse to hear my words, who follow the dictates of their hearts and walk after other gods to serve them and worship them, shall be just like this sash, which is profitable for none. Nothing. God's word, which He had commanded, had come to pass And now the narrator in lamentation is remembering that his lament now is filtered by God's word. And he remembers that God is faithful to his word. The narrator here is not merely remembering that God spoke. No, as he remembers God's word, he knows that God was true And faithful and just. Now his word would never fail. That God speaks, everything that God speaks does come to pass and is good and perfect. perfect timing and that all that comes to pass was for the good of his people. The word has done what he purposed. He has fulfilled his word, which he commanded In days of old. Do you see now how the lament changed? The word of God, God's purpose, God's intent Is now entered in to the narrator's lament. As the city was destroyed and the wrath of God was poured out. Now his plan is is unfolded before the eyes of the narrator. Now that comes into the lament. This was God's plan. As his people would turn away from him. This is what God foretold, and now it has come to pass. As you lament As you cheerfully consider how your sins have offended a holy God Include within that God's word. Allow your lamentful meditation To be not only driven by the Word of God, but filtered through the Word of God. He is purposeful, He is intentional. And even as you sin against him, the Lord has purpose in your sin. Consider the fact that your sin brings you to lament, which is drawing you closer. To God. It's drawing you closer to Jesus Christ. It's drawing you closer to the one you have offended. And as you are brought closer, and as you To seek forgiveness and cleansing. You see the purpose of God? Yes, we should. We must. Lament must bring God's word into our lamenting. It must filter our lamenting. Brings us to our third Now this might be the culmination of this particular Portion of Lamentations, the narrator now calls upon the people to cry out to the Lord Look at verse nineteen. Arise, cry out in the night At the beginning of the watches, pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift your hands toward him for the life of your young children who faint from hunger at the head of every street. Remember, as he laments originally, he's just thinking about the children as they swoon, as they're seeking food from their mothers, as they're basically dying in their mother's bosom. Now he's calling the people, the people who have been exiled, people of God, to cry out, to play Plead with God. As they even remember the lives of their children, as that has been a focus for the narrator, saying, Pour out Your heart like water before God. Let tears run down your face Like a river, day and night. Give yourself no relief, no rest. So the idea is he calls upon the people, he's calling for them to plead with God, a pleading that just doesn't stop So much so that it's like tears running down their faces, pouring out their hearts like water. The lament has taken a final turn. It now not only includes God's word, it's focused upon his promise How could the narrator, how could the one who wrote this, call upon the people to plead With God, unless he knew that God would hear, unless he was convinced And believed that God would hear their pleas. He was fixed upon the promise. That God would turn, that God would hear them 2 Chronicles 7: If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal. The narrator is now fixed Upon the promise of God that his ears would would turn and and hear the cries of the the people that he would not have his ears fully and finally shut to their pleas, that he would open them up, and as the people poured out their hearts like water before the face of the Lord, that he would hear. This is part of lamenting. Not only reminding yourself of what your sins have done. But calling others to return to the Lord, pleading, calling them to plead to him for forgiveness And looky, the narrator himself now issues a direct plea, a direct plea to God, verse twenty See, O Lord, and consider, to whom have you done this? Should the woman eat their offspring, the children they have cuddled, should the priest and prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord? He's pleading with God and saying, Your destruction of your people has been complete, but Lord, would you not Raise them from the dead? Would you not heal them? It's a direct plea to God. Based on his promise to save a people for himself Lament is rightly filtered by the Word of God and ultimately filtered by the promise of God. As you lament, brothers and sisters, meditate. On the promises of God, your laments must be filtered by his promises. This is the actual basis for your lament. For God has promised to save in Christ Jesus. And as we think of Jesus on the cross, and I really believe verses 15 and 16 point us directly to Christ, all who passed by clapped their hands at you. Ultimately meaning Christ. They hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem, ultimately meaning Christ The one who was the perfection of beauty, but as he hung upon the cross, was not that as our sin Sin brought about Jerusalem's downfall and destruction, and as we look upon Jesus Jesus Christ dying on the cross, he was being destroyed like the city by our sin. Which was being laid upon him as he hung on the cross. It might have looked like his destruction was already complete, just like the city. But in actuality It was not. The destructive work of our sin continued to ravage and consume his body, unlike the city which sat in quiet, unfeeling ruins Jesus suffered even more greatly after he was nailed to the cross. For it was only after he was nailed to the cross that the Satan Sins of the world, your sins, my sins, were laid upon him. So think about How Jesus looked as he hung on the cross with your sins. That's the foundation of your lament A complete transformation had taken place from the sinless one to now the one covered with our sin. The city was beautiful, it was flowing with milk and honey, and then as the sins of the people were laid upon it, it was transformed into a desert, a wasteland, an ugly slavery Now Jesus, as he went like the city, was transformed to the beautiful one To the wretched and filthy one in the eyes of God, as our sins were laid upon him And yet for the sake of Jesus, God has promised to hear your pleas. You see You see how as you filter your lament with the promises of God, as you look upon the Lord Jesus Christ, how that all forms the base 'Tis of your lament. Christ on the cross is the basis of the promise, isn't it? Christ on the cross is the one who takes your sins and washes you clean, and then who restores you to the beauty As Christ or as a Christian Christian laments, it is a response to looking upon Christ on the cross as well as a plea for God to remember This is a hard book. There's difficult language in it Brothers and sisters, the Lord has given this to us for our joy, as we look upon Christ, as we remember the promises He calls us to lament, but to lament in accordance with his word and his promises. Give praise for the Lord Jesus Christ. Father in heaven, we are so thankful. So thankful for Christ Father, as we read this book, this book full of laments draws our minds our heart hearts to Christ, to his suffering in our place, to his cleansing blood, to the power of his resurrection. Father, as we are given a picture of a destroyed city, we are also reminded of the power of the resurrection of Christ. That you are able to take those dead in their trespasses and sins and raise them up to life in Christ. We praise you and thank you. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.