Please remain standing and turn to our text for this morning's service, a sermon. Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 through 25. Let us now hear the word of the Lord. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. After his mother was betrothed to Joseph, they came, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary. Your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit, and she will bring forth a son. You shall call his name Jesus For he will save his people from their sin. So all this was done that it might be fulfilled. Which was spoken by the Lord through the prophets, saying, Behold, the virgin shall be with child. and bear a son, they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is translated, God with us. Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took to him his wife. And he did not know her till she had brought forth her firstborn son. And he called his name Jesus. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word, and please now be seated. Last week I preached on the other name that uh the Lord Jesus has given uh in the birth of Christ, namely Emmanuel. And today I wanted to follow up with the name Jesus. We know the uh a lot of the story of the birth of Jesus and the months that preceded that birth. Luke chapter 1 and verse 26, we hear the news that the angel Gabriel had appeared to Mary first. And even before Mary was with child, he shared with her that she will have a son. And she will be the first human mother to ever, and only human mother to ever experience a divinely conceived birth. Just the very thought, those very thoughts are astounding. They're difficult, impossible to get your mind around. But that's what God does. He does impossible things, right? And we hear, furthermore, that after visiting Mary, an angel appeared to Joseph. Probably Gabriel as well. And that's what we read about here in Matthew chapter 1 And in verse 21, Gabriel tells Joseph that his betrothed wife will give birth to a child. still unborn at this point, and that Joseph was to name his name Jesus. Last week we found that the name Emmanuel brings forth the thought of God being with us. And you notice that Gabriel, when he spoke to Joseph, told him first that you'll name the child Jesus, and then he said, This fulfills the scripture. He didn't exactly identify it, but you can cross-reference and you know that it comes from Isaiah 7, verse 14. 700 some years before the actual birth of Jesus. The sign was given that a virgin would conceive and bear a child, and his name would be called Jesus, would be called Emmanuel, which means God. with us. Today I want to talk about the words, you shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sin. While Emmanuel means God with us, Jesus means the one who saves his people from their sin. God has demonstrated that he's in the business of saving his people from sin. And throughout the scriptures, even in the Old Testament, you find other names that are used. Nouns that are used that are descriptive of God saving his people. You do find Savior, for example, and that you would might expect. But you occasionally find deliverer, you find helper, you find redeemer. And uh and in the early part in uh of the ministry, in the earthly ministry of Jesus Christ, These words also come to bear, but most often we think of Jesus as the Savior, as the one who saves his people from their sins. Now there's other connotations with those other words. But I want to focus pretty narrowly today on just the idea of Savior and the Savior who saves his people. The word that's used here for to save, he will save his people, is uh A word that is frequently used in the New Testament to mean to save from sin, as we see it here definitely in verse 121 of Matthew. It can also, however, be used to mean to save or rescue from physical danger or suffering. You have both uses of one word for physically saving people and spiritually saving people. And this idea of physical and spiritually saving can and does create some Ambiguity in interpretation, especially whenever Jesus heals someone who comes to him with a disease. Because quite often we hear Jesus say, after healing someone with a physical disease For example, the woman who had a flow of blood that she couldn't get cured from the doctors. In Matthew chapter 9, verse 22, we read these words. Jesus turned around him because she had touched him. Remember? She touched the hem of his garment. And when he saw her, he said, Daughter, be of good comfort. Thy faith has made thee whole And that word whole is translated elsewhere, sometimes well. And it is the same Greek word here that we have in Matthew 121. For saved. Thy faith has made thee whole. And the woman was made whole from that hour. She was saved. She was the Greek word sozo was saved. And the question that it poses to us is, does that mean she was delivered from the blood flow that she's been experiencing? Or does it mean that she's been delivered from sin? Or maybe it means both. I, of course, tend to believe it means both. But that does create a bit of ambiguity. You see it again show up in other situations, particularly where somebody comes to Jesus for healing of various different things. You see it come up with The one who's known as blind Bartimaeus, who sat by the road during Jesus' procession into Jerusalem. He sat by the road, and you remember his story. He cried out. He cried out to Jesus, Son of David, have mercy upon me. He was blind. He couldn't, you know, he was a blind then, but he But in a sense, he understood some things about Jesus that he heard about him. Because faith does come by hearing Right? And hearing by the word of God. So he called him by two names that are very important. One name that's very important, Son of David, and then he asked the son of David to have mercy upon him. um to to to to to and uh ostensibly to heal him from his affliction And Jesus said to him in verse 52 of Matthew 10, he says, or excuse me, Mark 10, he said, Go thy way, thy faith has made thee whole. So zo. Same word, Mark chapter 1, 21. Thy faith hast made thee well or whole. And immediately he saved he received his sight, so we know that he was healed physically. And then we know, and it says he followed Jesus in the way. So it looks like when Jesus used that word there, again, it's both. He physically healed him and he saved him from his sins. Sometimes though it's not that it's not always that clear, and sometimes it's a physical healing without the spiritual healing that goes on with this word. But here in Matthew 1. 21, it is definitely spiritual. And that doesn't mean that Jesus didn't heal people from their illnesses. But here the the the the uh the work of Christ is depicted as saving people from their sins Whatever spiritual pain and suffering anyone is experiencing in their life, it is caused by your sin. It is caused by sin. And the question is, how do you define sin? The confession gives the answer, sin is any want of conformity unto or transgression of the law of God. That's one way to find it. Catechism does But I also think that you can define sin as love of yourself more than God. You can define sin as choosing to disobey God And love yourself. And God lets us all go our way loving ourselves Our love for ourselves is then inflamed by the deception of the evil one. He lies to us. He tells us that our sin is fun. And he says, God wants to deprive you from fun. He's mean. But the problem with what Satan tells us is he never tells the whole story The bitter consequences of sin that occur, he never shares that with you while you're having your quote-unquote fun Long time ago, some of you may know I was a parole officer before I became a minister. And I'll never forget, I'm talking now 46 years ago, forty-seven years no, forty-four years ago. I'll never forget this one man who I was working with came to me And he was out having fun one night. What made it even worse, he was a local sheriff. And he lost control of his car and killed a woman. And she was sprawling on his hood Looking at him. And I asked him, what do you think would be a sufficient payment for what you have done. I was interested in what he would say. And his comment was, I have to get up every day and see that face. For as long as I live. Brothers and sisters, that's a consequence of our sin. And it may not be, of course, that way it's it's very graphic and it's very vivid to think about. But there are other consequences of your sin. Maybe not so graphic. Maybe not so vivid. Maybe, maybe, maybe you get by all of your life without any consequences, or would appear to be any consequences. When David sinned, he thought he had gotten away with it, but not in the eyes of God. And God took his secret sins and laid them open to the public. There were consequences with regard to the succession of the throne in his family. Bitter consequences. Adam, when he sinned. Satan didn't tell him that there would be consequences for the whole human race. He simply said to Eve, God knows the day you eat of it you'll be like God. And God doesn't, God's mean. He doesn't want you to be like that. So again, the point is The consequences are deadly. The consequences are eternal. And even if you go through life not experiencing any consequences, there is judgment. And there you will reap the full measure of the consequences of your sin. And the full measure of the consequences of your sin Will be eternal separation and damnation from God. Even though you don't appear to uh involve have any consequences in this life. You may, for whatever reason, experience the consequence of wasting away in booze, drugs, alcohol. Or maybe in prison. But those are not the worst things that can happen to you. Judgment without Jesus is. And it becomes even more of an evil thing when you realize that God has shown to the world. His answer to our sins. He has told us face up, right up, that Jesus will save his people from their sin. The scriptures, over and over again, echo that point. We cannot claim that we missed it. We cannot claim we uh misunderstood it because it's there on the pages of God's Word, not just in one place, not just here in Matthew 1, but it's everywhere. It's everywhere. Maybe not as clearly as it is in Matthew 1, but it's there. And one only has to look and read and hear. And have and be and and by hearing have the the grace of saving faith. Now the next issue about this passage, not only does Jesus save his people of his sins, that's what the angel told Joseph, and that's what they named He named his name Jesus because Jesus means to save his people from their sins. The verb form is is the noun, the noun becomes the verb form, takes the form of savior. The verb form is to save. Now, there's something else in that passage that we should point direct our attention to. And that's the question of who are his people? Who are his people? Who are the people that Jesus saves from their sin? I'm at times, so I'm going to be inter uh changing pronouns to make it uh clear. And of course, even in Christendom, we have a lot of different answers to that question. And those different answers come, first of all, this way Whom will Jesus say? Everybody God loves everybody, right? And he has a wonderful plan for their lives Or the answer that many people believed when Jesus was on the earth and said these words, the Hebrews, after all, they're God's chosen people. Right? Who are his people? I mean that's pretty important. If God is going to I mean it's uh not pretty important, it's it's as important as it can possibly be Who are the people who are saved from his sins? The more we read in the gospel and the more we read in the rest of God's word, we see That the the the answer Hebrews the Hebrews is not the salvation is not exclusively, and that's the important word, not exclusively for them God, you see, made a promise to their forefather Abraham, that in his seed all the nations Would be blessed. The Jews of Jesus' day were confident in the thought Only we are the descendants of Abraham, and therefore we are God's people, and therefore We are the ones Jesus will save. Of course, as things worked out, their concept of salvation was an error also. Not only did they have the wrong people in mind whom Jesus saves, but the salvation that he brought, according to them, was wrong. Was not they didn't want the salvation he brought. They didn't want to be saved from their sins as much as they wanted to be saved from the domination of the Romans. They wanted a political solution to their being under that bondage They did not at all care that they were in bondage to sin. And neither do we, truth be told, in our natural nature. The scriptures flatly contradict the assertion of the Jews that they are the ones, the exclusive ones, that will be saved. by God. As we read, well we didn't read, but a little bit before in Romans 9 Which is dealing with this issue, by the way. Well, that's one of the issues. Who are the people of God that Jesus saves? We read in Romans 9 verse 7 Neither because they are the seed of Abraham are they all children. For in Isaac shall thou seed be called We read in Galatians 3 verse 7. Know ye therefore that they which are of faith They which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. You've got a definition there in Galatians that you have to deal with. Those who are of faith, faith in Jesus, are the children of Abraham. Anyone who Jesus said in John 6 does not rejoice to see my day like Father Abraham rejoiced. Is not a child of Abraham. Is not a child of God. Faith brings a person to understand. Who Jesus is and what He does for His people brings an understanding of what kind of salvation he brings. And it's the salvation of being saved from our sins. In a long passage in First Peter chapter t two Peter goes and deals with this question also. Now remember, if you go back to 1 Peter 1, verse 1 and 2, you find out who Peter is writing to. And he's writing to a collection of various churches in what is today modern-day Turkey. And they would be probably composed of believing Jews and Gentiles. And he writes these words 1 Peter 2, verse 7. Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious. Once again, faith. Unto you who believe he is precious. But unto them which are disobedient, the stone which the builders disallow, the same is made the head of the corner A stone of stumbling and a rock of a fence. You go back, you research that out. Who's the stone of stumbling? Jesus Christ. Who are the builders who Who stumble at his word and are disobedient? Well, it's primarily the Jews, the Hebrews. Go back and look at Psalm 118. A stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient thereunto, they were appointed. But you, people he's writing to, are a chosen generation of royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. That should show forth the praises of him that called you out of darkness into marvelous light. In time past, you were not a people. But now you are the people of God. Who does Jesus save? The people of God. Who is Jesus precious to? The people who believe. The people who believe in his name and in his saving message. That Jesus has come to save his people from their sins. He called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. In time past you were not a people. Now you are the people of God. Which had not obtained mercy, but now you have obtained mercy. Romans chapter 2, I mean this goes on and on. Romans chapter making this differentiation of who are the people of God. Romans 2, verse 28 and 29. He is not a Jew, which is one outwardly. Neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh. But he who is a Jew Is one inwardly, and circumcision is of the heart and the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God. That tells you right there that unless you have the circumcision of the heart, the cutting away of sin and replaced with the praise of Jesus inwardly, in your heart, by the work of the Holy Spirit. Unless you have that, you're not a true Jew. And really you could say, if you want to, you could say, if you believe who Jesus is truly, you are a true Jew. You're the chosen child of God. The seed of Abraham. People who have the faith that Abraham had. Who does Jesus die for? He desire dies for his people. He desire dies for us. The Bible variously calls his people as the elect Christ's sheep and Christ's church. The people Jesus dies for are the ones who are chosen to bear fruits in his kingdom. They are the ones who believe in Christ, the hope and consolation of Israel, like Simeon in Luke chapter 2, verse 25. Those who are the people of God, or those who believe in him as the true Israel of God. As Galatians chapter 6, verse 15 and 16 put it, Jesus, for in Jesus is neither circumcision, availeth nothing, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature. As many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy and upon the Israel. of jihad. The Bible gets at this subject from a number of different reasons. It talks about true Jew, it talks about child of Abraham, it talks about true Israel. And in each case, it talks about believers in Jesus' person and ministry as those who are the ones Jesus dies for. Jesus Emmanuel will save his people. Jesus God with us will save. Notice it doesn't say might save. It says will save. As one who may be seeking to be a true child of God, what are you to do to have Jesus save you? It's to plead for the grace of God to give you saving faith and repentance. The Lord Jesus said that. Matthew Mark chapter 1, verse 15. As he begins his ministry, the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. Jesus, you see, is going to save his people, who, Matthew 11, 28, will come unto him All who are heavy laden, and he will give you rest. Jesus will save his people, who take Christ's yoke upon them and learn from him. For he is meek and lowly of heart. And you shall find rest for your souls. Jesus will save his people According to Luke chapter 9, verse 23. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. Jesus will save his people who are called blessed. Blessed because they are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of God. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are they, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall be mercy. Blessed are the poor pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Brothers and sisters, rejoice in the saving grace in Jesus Christ Because he has saved you from your sins. Amen. Let us pray Most kind and merciful Heavenly Father, we thank thee, Lord, because of your most generous and blessed mercy and grace which you have showered upon us in the name of Christ. Lord, we are so unworthy Of his great sacrifice for us. And Father, we ask you to continue To make us understand evermore how merciful and great your gift of eternal life is in Jesus Christ. Truly, Lord, humble us. Humble our pride. Humble all of our old man characteristics Keep us, Lord, safe in you and seeking, Lord, your glory to be manifested In us as we lay test bear testimony for your son's salvation of our lives and the lives of all of his people. Father, we pray that the message of the gospel will go forward at Christmas time, a time when we celebrate the birth of your son. Emmanuel, who saves us from our sins. Jesus, Lord and Savior, King of kings, Lord of Lords. Amen.