If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Daniel, we'll continue our study there tonight in chapter 10. We're on page 888, I think, of the Pew Bible This is the beginning of the third and final vision. Daniel has. Let's give our attention to God's very word In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Beltashazzar. And the word was true, and it was a great conflict. And he understood the word and had understanding of the vision. In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks. I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all for the full three weeks On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, I was standing on the bank of the great river, that is the Tigris. I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen with a belt of fine gold from Ufaz around his waist. His body was like beryl, his face like the appearance of lightning. His eyes like flaming torches, his arms and legs like the gleam of burnished bronze, and the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great trembling fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves. So I was left alone and saw this great vision, and no strength was left in me. My radiant appearance was fearfully changed, and I retained no strength Then I heard the sound of his words, and as I heard the sound of his words, I fell on my face in a deep sleep with my face to the ground. And behold, a hand touched me and set me trembling on my hands and knees. And he said to me, O Daniel, man greatly loved. Understand the words that I speak to you, and stand upright. For now I have been sent to you. And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood up trembling. Then he said to me, Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that you set your heart to understand and humbled yourself before God, your words have been heard. And I have come because of your words. The Prince of the Kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty-one days, but Michael, one of the chief priests, came to help me, for I was there with the king of kings of Persia, and came to make you understand what is to happen to your people. In the latter days, for the vision is for days yet to come. When he had spoken to me according to these words, I turned my face toward the ground and was mute. And behold, one in the likeness of the children of man touched my lips. Then I opened my mouth and spoke. And I said to him who stood before me, O my Lord, by reason of the vision pains have come upon me, and I retain no strength. How can my Lord's servant talk with my Lord? For now no strength remains in me and no breath is left in me. Again, one having the appearance of a man touched me and strengthened me. And he said, O man, greatly loved, fear not. Peace be with you. Be strong and of good courage. And as he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, Let my Lord speak, for you have strengthened me. And he said, Do you know why I have come to you? But now I will return to fight against the Prince of Persia, and when I go out, behold the Prince of Greece will come. But I will tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth. There is none who contends by my side except By my side against these, except Michael, your prince. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we ask that you would add your blessing now to the reading of your word. That by your Spirit you would give us understanding tonight, that you would lead and guide us. That you would not only edify us, Father, you would convict us of sin. And then, Father, you'd help us to gaze upon the majesty of Christ and all his promises, which in him are yes and amen. Guide us tonight, Father. I pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a passage in Exodus Well the people of God have sinned against him. They have made the golden calf, and now Moses ascends back up to Mount Sinai to intercede for the people. He's seeking God's mercy. And in Exodus chapter 33, we have that recordation of Moses' request. to God himself and he says, Please show me your glory It's an interesting request that Moses makes of God. And we have to remember the context, the people of God have Have sinned against him, and Moses is there to intercede for the people, and he's asking to see God's glory. Moses was in a battle. Seemingly with the people of God. And sin was seemingly winning as they had made the golden calf. And we might think at that point in time, Moses needed to be reassured that God would forgive. That indeed that God would have the victory over sin. And so Moses asks to see the glory of God, to see his majesty. And as he does, you might think that Moses was saying, oh now, I can rest assured that your words are true. I have a bit of that tonight in this first chapter of the last vision of Daniel. We've been in this theme of apocalyptic literature since chapter 7 of Daniel, and that theme has been clear throughout Chapter 7 and 8 and 9, and that theme has been that there is a spiritual battle going on. We saw it in the four beasts in chapter seven, those beasts representing the battle, and then in chapter eight, the ram and the goat battling one another, showing that that battle had not come to an end. Unveiling certain things to Daniel, but he didn't understand yet. And then in chapter nine we heard Daniel's prayer, and then as one as Gabriel comes to speak to Daniel as a result of his prayer, we learn of those seventy weeks that have been decreed about the people in the holy city, to finish transgression, to put an end to sin. Indeed, sin the root cause of the battle between God and men. Tonight Tonight we come to this beginning of that last vision, that last revelation to Daniel, which lasts three chapters. And I want us to see tonight that the majesty of Christ confirms the truth of his word and makes the people of God hungry to know more of him. The Majesty of Christ confirms the truth of his word and makes the people of God hungry. To know more of him. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, hungering for divine understanding. Secondly, gazing upon the majesty, and finally fighting the spiritual battle. As we go through this chapter tonight, I want you to remember that Daniel was in the midst of the exile, that he was in the midst of the battle against sin and Satan. And he sought the Lord. Brothers and sisters, as we go through this chapter 10 of Daniel, I want us to be asking ourselves tonight, are we? Am I? Seeking the Lord. That brings us to our first point, hungry for divine understanding. Daniel gives us the backdrop really. All of chapter 10 is that backdrop to this vision, this revelation. This final recorded vision, this final revelation to Daniel. In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a word was revealed to Daniel, who was named Belteshazzar. These are important words. They give us a foothold on what was going on, certainly in history, but also in Daniel's heart. Cyrus, the king of Persia, his third year. Now, we know that this is obviously after Delius, the Mead, who was king. The Babylonians are now and have been defeated. Cyrus is king. And in Cyrus' first year as king, as it's recorded in Ezra, he makes this proclamation. He says, the God of heaven has given me all kingdoms of the earth and has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. He calls the people of God now to go up to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple. That was the first year of Cyrus, and now we're in the third year of Cyrus. People have gone up. Presumably, the rebuilding of the temple has begun, or at least it's being thought about. And Daniel is yet in exile. Do you see the issue for Daniel? This promise that there would be this restoration, and this restoration had been decreed by the king that he was serving, and yet Daniel was still in exile. We see Daniel's heart, as now he records his name, Belteshazzar. That was the Babylonian name given to Daniel upon his entrance into Babylon. The green light have been given to rebuild, and yet Daniel is still in exile, and he's telling us, I know that very well, because he refers to himself by that Babylonian name. He's not referred to himself in this way since chapter 5. And we're now in chapter 10. No other account of his vision is Daniel referred to by this name given to him by his captors. This is the only one. So now that idea, that presence of Daniel under the thumb still, of those who keep him in exile. And the rebuilding of the temple underway or b beginning shortly. And so we have that headline. The word was true. And it was a great conflict And he understood the word and had an understanding of the vision. This is a headline to the entire vision, to these three chapters. Daniel The exile, knowing that the rebuilding of the temple had been decreed, it had been proclaimed, and now he receives a word, and the word is one of great conflict. It's given understanding. But that understanding, the revelation, is difficult for Daniel to receive. He hadn't received understanding previously. We read that at the end of chapter 8. And so it's safe to say that Daniel had not yet grasped The entirety of the visions that he'd received to date, even though they all seemed to be very similar and about the same events But now Daniel's given understanding. He sought it out, and it was given to him. We might consider tonight, as we begin, the way in which Daniel sought this understanding. Look at verse 2. In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks. I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine enters my mouth, nor did I anoint myself at all. For the full three weeks. Clearly, Daniel had a desire, a longing to know more of God To know the meaning of these visions that he had already received. And remember, this is quite some time after the visions had begun. He longs to know the meanings. We might think that he just wants to know what's going to happen in the future. What's the future going to hold? But I think it's reasonable for us to consider, given Daniel's love for God His intimacy with God, that Daniel wanted to know more of God It's as if God stood behind an opaque sheet of glass. And Daniel can make out his figure. But his particular features are shadowy and hidden. Daniel seeks to know more. He wants to know more deeply and more personally of this living God. And so what does he do? He fasts. For an extended period of time, three full weeks, he mourns and sorrows and fixes his body and soul upon seeking the true and living God. Nothing else seems to matter. We read nothing of Daniel being engaged in his service to the king. Nothing of anything other than his fasting, or at a minimum, removing tasty foods from his diet and subsisting not on the pleasures of this life being anointed, but on the necessities, that he might keep breathing and walking while earnestly seeking to know more of this living God. Let me ask that question. Do you seek God this earnestly? You might be thinking to yourself, well, Daniel had received these visions and yet had to receive a full explanation And so he had something before him which was unexplained and he's seeking to know, and that's not the case for us today The Lord is no longer providing visions such as Daniel's which need divine explanation. We have the complete special revelation of God in our hands. There are no missing parts. There's no unexplained revelation. Certainly, there are things that are more difficult to understand, but the book is closed. Special revelation is complete. Daniel has revealed as much, or God has revealed as much as he's going to until the Lord Jesus returns. She might think, well, we're different than Daniel. Admittedly, that's true. But yet there's still the call to know God. And Jesus goes as far to say that eternal life is knowing God and his Son, the Lord Jesus, whom you have sent, John 17, 3. And Scripture calls us to be good students, good Bereans, studying and meditating upon His word. So the question tonight that this passage raises for us is a particular one, are you earnestly and diligently seeking to know this triune God? Are you seeking more knowledge, more wisdom, more of his attributes, a deeper appreciation of his eternal love? Are you seeking to know more of his righteousness and his kingdom? Are you seeking to understand his love for his son? Are you seeking to understand the power of the resurrection? Are you seeking to grasp more completely the intercession of the Lord Jesus Christ and his mediatorial reign right now? A common response to that question is well, I could be reading more. We can all say that without hesitation. I could be engaged in pursuing the knowledge of the living God more consistently. That's true for everyone, without exception. But the real question tonight, given Daniel's example, three weeks, he sets aside tasty food, delicacies, he doesn't anoint himself, he's got one Fixed focus upon his heart and mind, and that is seeking the living God. How desirous are you? Do you long for it? Does it burn within your soul to know more, just like those on the road to Emmaus as they're listening to Jesus Christ? opening up the scriptures, talking to them about himself, and they say to one another, as Jesus now vanishes from their sight, did not our hearts burn within us? Is it happening with you? Is your heart burning within you to know more of Christ? Remember, in the Beatitudes, Jesus tells us: Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Daniel was. Are you hungering in that way? Brothers and sisters, this is not just an offhand question. We need to struggle with this tonight. We have to ask ourselves honestly, this is part of examining your faith in Christ. How much do you want to know Him? Can you say with Paul, who is a mere man, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord? Everything. Do you want him to know him so much that you're willing to return to the evening service? Do you want to know Christ so much that instead of turning on the television tonight, you say to yourself, No, I'm going to open the Word of God? We pursue so many things as privileged Americans. Many of them do not involve the pursuit of knowing God and His Son. That should cause us to even reread verse 20 of this chapter. Then he said, this is Jesus, the pre-incarnate Jesus, speaking to Daniel, do you know why I have come to you? What a question. What a question for this one to ask Daniel. Do you know why I've come? Do you know why Jesus came? Do you know why the Son of God came? He tells those who were looking for him, as Mark records it in his gospel. Let us go somewhere else to the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also, for that is what I came for. Jesus came to reveal his Father. Jesus came to reveal himself to us. Jesus came for our good. To glorify his Father. Indeed, he tells Daniel, I've come because of your words. Because Daniel set his heart to understand and humbled himself before his God. Brothers and sisters, we have to ask ourselves that question tonight. How desirous are we to know more of Christ? That brings us to our second point. Gazing upon the majesty Again, this is Daniel's third vision. He's had two prior visions. The first vision was about those four beasts. And in that one we have no description of the one who interprets for him. Verse 16 of chapter 7 tells us I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. No description of the one who gave him the truth. In the second vision, that ram and that goat. Daniel now has the vision explained to him, and he says this I heard a man's voice between the banks of the Eli. And it called Gabriel, make this man understand the vision. That's the only description we have of the man. Man's voice. But this vision, this third and final revelation, which is to come, seems to be the culmination of all visions. Let me read this. On the twenty fourth day of the first month, I was standing on the bank of the river, that is the Tigris. I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen. And now Daniel gives us A detailed, a detailed description of that which he saw. It's a unique vision. It's unique, but not singular. We read something very similar tonight in Revelation, didn't we, in chapter 1? A parallel Almost the same. John sees it, but Daniel saw it first. And it's a vision of a man, isn't it? I lifted up my eyes and looked, and behold, a man clothed in linen. Think about all the Aspects in this description that are of a human nature. A man clothed in linen linen. A belt around his waist. His body, his face, his eyes, his arms and legs, his words, all human But then these human features, they're divine attributes. How do we know? Well, we just need to turn to Revelation chapter 1, and we see the divine nature that's paralleled here in Daniel. But then look at the words here in Daniel, clothed in linen, likely picturing purity, perfect righteousness, blamelessness, undefiled, a complete covering over the entire body of this one. A belt of gold. Revelation chapter 1, verse 13 Clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest, a body like a barrel. Ezekiel chapter 1. As for the appearance of the wheels and their construction, their appearance is like the gleaming of barrel. In Ezekiel, we have a picture of a divine vision. And Daniel is equating it in a sense to that. A face like lightning. Remember, as Jesus Christ was transformed, his appearance was like lightning's clothes, white as snow. Well, excuse me. That's a reference to the angel that appeared at the tomb of Christ Jesus. But also at the Transfiguration, Christ's clothes were whiter than any launderer could have made them. Eyes like a flaming torch, the hairs of his head, Revelation 1. 14, were white like white wool like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire. Arms and legs like gleam of bronze. Again, in Revelation 1, his feet were like burnished bronze refined in a furnace. Consider that description. Face, eyes, arms, legs, waist, a man, but all appearing with divine attributes, two natures in one person. This is not the description of a mere man. Indeed, this is a majestic vision. Think of the Washington Monument just for a minute. It's majestic. Think of the Lincoln Memorial, the Capitol building. All are pretty majestic. Or the Rocky Mountains. Majestic. But does one tremble before them? How majestic was this vision that Daniel had Look at verse 7. I Daniel alone saw the vision. For the men who were with me did not see the vision. Daniel trembles. Look at verse 10. Behold, a hand touched me and set me trembling on my hands and knees. There's a physical change to Daniel, to his appearance, to his being. Verse 8, I was left alone and saw this great vision, and no strength was left in me. My radiant appearance was fearfully changed, and I retained no strength. Something has happened to Daniel as a result of this vision. Indeed, it's not just a facial expression that changes. It's throughout his entire body. No strength was left in me Indeed, his appearance, everything about him, was not the same any longer. And that's just as a result of seeing Being in the presence of this divine man. Even those who didn't see the vision. Look at verse 7. For the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great trembling fell upon them. The presence of this one who they couldn't even see caused them to tremble. Daniel has lost his strength, his rating appearance has changed. Consider those that came to arrest Jesus. As they approach Jesus and they ask And Jesus asks, Whom do you seek? And they answered, Jesus of Nazareth. And he said to them, I am he. And those who are with Judas, draw back and fall to the ground. Effect of being close to Jesus The Majesty, the Son of God. Think of that time of Jesus' death. What happens? Even the earth shakes. As he yields up his spirit, the earth shakes, rocks were split. Not only do men tremble, But the earth shakes at the presence of Christ upon his death. And that's just the vision. What about hearing his words? There's an emphasis upon that. In verse 9, then I heard the sound of his words, and as I heard the sound of his words, it set forth twice for us. I fell on my face in a deep sleep with my face to the ground. Indeed, as as this one, this divine man speaks to Daniel, it takes away his breath. I opened my mouth and spoke, and I said to him who stood before me, O my Lord, my by reason of the vision pains have come upon me, I retain no strength. How can my Lord's servant talk with my Lord? For now no strength remains in me and no breath is left in me. All because of the majesty of Christ. This is seemingly a pre-incarnate appearance. Of the Son of God, of the Lord Jesus Christ. And as a result, as a result of the vision, as a result of the words that come before Daniel, there is this trembling. There is this Absence of strength, and he can't even speak True majesty is fearful. Isn't that part of the majesty of God? Isn't that part of the majesty of Christ? His majesty is fearful. It's awesome. But the very sight of Christ, the very sight of God, the voice of Jesus, the voice of God is majestic and fearful. Consider those at the base of Mount Sinai as God Himself descends upon the mountain. They saw thunder, they saw flashes of lightning, the sound of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled, and they stood far off. And they said to Moses, don't let him speak to us any longer. How do you gaze upon the majesty of Christ? Well, Daniel actually saw him. Moses was in the presence of God. Even the people at the base of the mountain saw the lightning, the thunder. They heard the thunder, the sound of the trumpet. But how do you gaze upon the majesty of Christ tonight? Is it not through his word? Certainly you can gaze upon it in this passage in Daniel, can't you, with this wonderful description. But where else can you gaze upon the majesty of Christ? We might think about other passages. We might think about the passage in Philippians as as Paul describes the exaltation of Jesus by his Father. Exalted him and bestowed upon him the name that is above every name. At the name of Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven and on earth. But what about the cross? Do we see the majesty of Christ at the cross? Think about those moments before the cross, his disciples, and they all left him and fled. Do you see the majesty of Christ there? He remains. His disciples leave him. He's left alone. To suffer the eternal wrath of his Father. Jesus didn't run. There's majesty in that. As he's accused by the chief priests and the elders, he gives no answer, and Pilate is astounded. Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? But he gave no answer. Not even to a single charge. That's majestic. If they strip him and put a scarlet robe upon him and twist together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and put a reed in his hand and kneel before him and mock him Jesus could have called down myriads upon myriads to defend his name. And yet, he suffers. For the people of God, for the children of God, to glorify his Father. And even on the cross, the criminals mock him, initially despising him And they cast lots for his garments. But what does Jesus say? Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. You see, the majesty of the sun was was shining well before his exaltation. So tonight the question for us all is, does the majesty of Christ take your breath away? It did for Daniel. And as we meditate upon his scriptures and we we see his majesty within them, the question is for us As we gaze upon the majesty of Christ, does it take our strength away? Does it take our breath away? As we stand in awe of Him It should. Brings us to our final point, fighting the spiritual battle. There's one more aspect of Christ here before we get into the revelation. One more aspect to this vision that is revealed by Daniel. Before we get to the unfolding of what is to come, indeed the understanding of the visions that have been given to Daniel thus far. One more thing to learn about the Son of God, one more thing about our Savior. Look at verse 13 The prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me twenty one days, but Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I was left there with the kings of Persia and came to make you understand This certain man, this divine man, this one who will unravel Daniel's vision was in a battle. And he's left the battle, specifically to provide Daniel with understanding. This is this is quite amazing. The Prince of Persia withstood me. And he leaves to put Daniel at ease, to explain the difficult, to provide the prophet with the very word of God. But this one was busy. He was engaged with the Prince of Persia, who was withstanding him. So the Lord Jesus wants us to know tonight that there was a battle going on, and Daniel was given the image of this certain man leaving the battle. Now we might think, well, this was an actual physical battle. I don't think that's the case. Ian Dugod writes this: the prince of the Persian kingdom is an angelic figure who is associated with the Persian Empire who resists God's Purposes. I think Dugod is onto something. I think the idea here is that this is a spiritual battle going on. And the Son of God is engaged in that battle. Because there are those forces of evil that are withstanding, seeking to withstand the purposes of God, and He is one who is putting down that resistance. And so he leaves that battle to come to Daniel to give him understanding. I don't know much about the battlefield, but it's my understanding when a general is engaged in battle, we would assume that it would consume his time, his entire being. All of his attention would be fixed and focused upon the enemy, defeating the enemy. But with this one, this one, this certain man, this divine man, is able to give his attention to another He's able to leave the battlefield, so to speak, and come and give understanding to the children of God. He can conduct the battle at the same time he's caring for the people of God This one is all-present, he's all powerful, and more so all-loving. The battle's been going on for some time since the garden. And yet this one engages in the battle against your enemies for your soul and continues to engage you tonight personally. This truth should take us back to the beginning. How fervent are you in receiving this understanding? Knowing that Christ, Christ is engaged in the battle, and yet He comes to give you understanding by and through His Spirit. This revelation that Jesus brings and freely gives, He's much to do, and yet this Christ cares so much for you that he leaves the battle to care for your soul. Isn't that the idea? And then look at verse twenty. Then he said, Do you know why I have come to you? There's that question again. But now I will return to the fight against the Prince of Persia, and when I go out, behold the Prince of Greece will come. Isn't that what Daniel was told would happen. At these kings we'd have these battles, and now we hear of this one, this divine man. Likely a pre-incarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he's saying, I've got to go back to the battle. He's going to give him the revelation first. They're saying the battle's still going on, and I've got to get back to it. It's quite amazing. Tonight the battle rages on, doesn't it? Paul writes to those in Ephesus, For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil and the heaven. Heavenly places, Jesus is about that battle. Tonight. Right now But it's also caring for your soul. And those two aren't different. Isn't that the case? The spiritual battle is raging in the heavenly realms for your soul. And Jesus is waging the war. And at the same time By and through his spirit, he's engaging with you personally, intimately to give you understanding That you may put on the spiritual armor that's been given to you as as Paul sets it forth in Ephesians and and put it on and fight that battle that you're engaged in here with that indwelling sin that remains. Christ gives you all of this. He's fighting the battle of Brothers and sisters, we first need to know that. We need to meditate upon that. And we need to give thanks to God that our Savior is doing that for us even tonight. It's the majesty of Christ confirms the truth of his word and makes the people of God hungry for more brothers and sisters. I'm guessing that this passage tonight has made you hungry for more of Christ, just like Moses. was hungry to see the glory of God, to see his majesty, to be reassured that God was about achieving the victory. And now we've seen even tonight. That Jesus Christ, his Son, his only eternally begotten Son, is about the same goal, the same victory, the same battle. He is engaged in and will ensure that your soul tonight, if you're trusting in him, is kept secure. To eternity. Praise be to the Lord. Amen. Our Father in heaven, help us, Lord. At times we are so ignorant of what is happening, and yet, Father, tonight you've given us such insight. into what our Savior is doing, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, about the battle that is raging, that is going on, and we know that he will be victorious We know that he's defeated sin and death. And we ask, Lord God, that you would help us remind us of these things and that we would have the confidence that only comes through knowing Jesus Christ and we would be hungry for more. Work in us, Lord God, that hunger to know more of Christ. To know his majesty, to see it, to gaze upon it, to be in awe of him. We ask this all in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen