Continue standing and turn to First Corinthians chapter one. First Corinthians chapter one And we will be reading verses four through nine today, as we have just started this study on the book of Corinthians, 1 Corinthians. Let's now hear the word of the Lord. I thank my God always concerning you For the grace of God which was given to you by Christ Jesus, that you were enriched in everything by Him in all utterance and all knowledge. even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you. So that you come short in no gift. eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will also conform you to the end. That you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son. Jesus Christ our Lord. Please be seated Well, the Apostle Paul has uh written this letter to the church at Corinth. to the Christians there, and he's, verse 2 has identified them as saints who are being sanctified. Verse 3, he says about these Christians being sanctified, that they are the ones upon whom God's grace and his peace rest. And when we come to verse 4, the Apostle Paul shares with the Corinthians how grateful he is to God for their salvation. Surely salvation in Jesus Christ is something every believer thanks God for But to see that salvation working through faith in Christ and other people's lives. And then, like Paul, give thanks to God for seeing that work is something we just don't normally do. We may thank God for the impact that Christ's gospel has made in our lives. And perhaps in others. But take a moment now. Look To the one in front of you, to the one next to you, to the one behind you And then personally thank God and rejoice for His grace that you see in them. This is rare when we even think about these things. Maybe we should be more thankful more often. It is important that the Apostle Paul expresses His thankfulness for God's mercy in the lives of the believers at Corinth. It's important that he does this up front in this letter. Since we know that Paul is soon going to have to deliver some rather sharp rebukes To people in the church. Because they have not lived according, not lived a life worthy of the Lord Jesus Christ who has called them to salvation. So let's journey through the verses today that are before us and appreciate again The gifts of God's grace that Paul says he has showered upon the believers at Corinth And while we see these gifts coming forward in the lives of the people, let us realize that the gifts of grace that God has showered on the Corinthians are ours as well by faith in Christ Jesus He starts off in verse 4 saying, I thank my God always concerning you. For the grace of God which was given you by Christ Jesus. The Apostle Paul up front declares that he is thankful. He is thankful. There are many things that people are thankful for. We could look in our own lives and enumerate many things. And certainly as Christians, we would all say, or we should all say, we are so thankful that you rescued me. From sin and death and destruction and hell through Jesus Christ Paul here is thankful to my God. Thankful to my God. And surely God is the appropriate one that we must thank. We acknowledge that all the little things and all the big things of life come from God. But it's not just God as a philosophical concept that Paul is thankful to. It is my God. That he mentions as the one he is thankful for. And the minute he says my, that little word my, the minute that word is said comes the, along with it, the thought that God is personal, knowable, and relational He is the God in covenant with his people. He is the God who promises To be their God and they be his people. And his promises are yes and amen. They are fulfilled. They are fulfilled and they can never be retracted. In Christ Jesus, God has come To be your God. And he lives not somewhere in the atmosphere, but he lives in you. With you and for you, you can't do it. He is thankful to the one true and living God, the Creator and the Redeemer for life in Christ, and all the blessings that flow from that life. As we are protected under God's wings. But notice also, Paul says he is thankful always. Always Paul is thankful. There is not a time that goes by, not a moment, when Paul is not thankful to God. And what is he thankful for? That's the stunner. There are many things he could say There are many things he could say I'm thankful for, but what does he say? I'm thankful to my God always for you You Corinthians, the subject of my letter, you Christians at Corinth, I am thankful for you. I am thankful for you. This, you see, brothers and sisters, is a clear recognition Of the Apostle Paul's shepherd's heart for the flock of the Lord Jesus Christ. The people of God are not an adjunct to his life or his ministry. He loves them. He loves them because they are God's people. They have experienced the same grace that he has experienced. They're not simply his neighbors, but they are God's people They are the people that Paul, according to Acts chapter 18, verse 11 and following, these are people that Paul had ministered to for up to 18 months. And during that time of his being there, some became believers. Christmas and Sosthenes. We mentioned last week. A church was founded there, and a church has endured even while Paul has been away. He is thankful specifically for them, verse 4, and for the grace of God which was given to them. Corinthian Christians have received God's grace. God's unmerited favor has fallen upon them just as it has fallen upon Paul. This must be juxtaposed with what Paul teaches in other passages about our natural condition. Romans 6 verse 23 All have sinned and fallen short of the grace of God or of the glory of God. Why has God graced people who have fallen into sin? Many would say, well, it must have been that they were extra special. It must be something that they had done, that God really liked. Or they must have been so radically pure that they distinguished themselves from all the rest of humanity. Or they found the light. They found the way to light the spark of divine within them and come and believe in Christ. No, no, no. The grace of God was given to them. Just as God gives grace to the Corinthians, he gives grace to all sinners. And it's not just grace that they have a nice life, they have a nice family. Then everything goes well in their lives. That may be the case. But it's predomin preeminently grace that is a spiritual grace. A saving grace. Notice also, he links the grace that he gives, the grace of God. He links that grace to that which was given to you by Christ. Jesus. You see, if it's human movement Toward God, if we're responsible to make the steps to secure our own salvation, it can never be grace. It will always be us. I did it. I made myself appealing to God. How can sinners dead in transgressions of sin be appealing to God who is alive in righteousness? He can't God must give grace that it is all of his glory and it's all of his praise There is nothing about any of us in our natural condition that merits our salvation. Nothing. Nothing we are, nothing we think, nothing we do as a sinner will save you. But God gives grace. Same grace that he gave to Paul Same grace that he gave to the Corinthian Christians, same grace that he's been giving to people throughout history. Corinthians, Ephesians, Philippians. Christians of Trinity. It's the same. We are not better We didn't do something to earn or to make ourselves distinguished in God's eyes. He simply gave us his saving grace in Christ. While we were yet sinners, as the Bible teaches, we have all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, but the gift of eternal life. Is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And for this And for this gift of grace that is in the Corinthian church, in the lives of God's people, Paul says, I am thankful four I see it working in you. Our hearts should rejoice Along with Paul, that the Corinthians are saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ. That every Christian alive Or every Christian long in the grave will one day join the congregation in the new heavens and the new earth and sing the praises of Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, whose blood was shed. That all may be clean of their sins through his son's saving work. As you all know, Ephesians 2. It is by grace you've been saved through faith. That not of yourself, it is the gift of God, not of works lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Paul's thanksgiving is not only for God's saving grace to the Corinthians, given by faith in Christ Jesus, but more, but even more. He is also thankful to God for the Christ Corinthian Christians' lives. He's thankful for the enriching grace he writes about in verse 5. He says that you were enriched in everything in him, in all utterance and all knowledge. The Corinthians, Paul says, are rich. The Corinthians, Paul says, are rich. The form of the verb there is passive. They have been made rich. They did not make themselves. Rich. They are not self-made millionaires. I just heard this week that uh Jeff Bezos uh is the second richest man in the world, according to the world's standards. He has everything Everything. All of the riches of the world. He has a big portion of those riches. And I don't know the man's heart. But it isn't those kinds of riches that matter It isn't those kinds of riches that Paul says here, the Corinthians are enriched They are enriched in everything by him, in all utterance and knowledge. The Corinthians are made rich by God in Christ. They are given riches, better riches, spiritual riches, riches in heaven, treasures. Of knowing that they belong to Christ, and that nothing can take them away from his presence. They are Plutidzo. That's the Greek word for riches. They've been rich or enriched. They are Plutidzo. People. They are rich in the gifts before God, the gifts of a pure heart, the gifts of having an alien righteousness Applied to their account. The gifts of the Holy Spirit working in their lives that they might produce the fruits of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control, against such there is no law. They are enriched by him in all utterance, utterance, and all knowledge. The word utterance there is the Greek word lagas I think it's a connection, utterance, lagas. I think it's a connection to the Word of God. And in all knowledge, They go together. The Word of God brings knowledge, true knowledge. They are given riches, and as they avail themselves of the Word of God, They receive more knowledge, more riches, more understanding. This enrichment goes on in a believer's life. And it extends to what God says to us as we read His Word. That because you see the Corinthian fellowship is not just one individual, but it's a group of individuals, and the Holy Spirit is working in each individual. And there be made rich, there's an abundance of riches, spiritual riches, supposedly in the Corinthian church And Paul thanks God for them. Because you see, those riches spill out They spill out from the one sitting behind you or the one sitting in front of you. As your brothers or the ones sitting to the sides, as your brothers and sisters are studying God's Word They have knowledge. They have understanding. Understanding maybe that you don't have. Understanding that maybe you need. Understanding that perhaps a casual discussion In the church will expose. You begin to see why Paul is thankful for the church at Corinth, thankful for the people there. He thanks God always for them. Because you see They too know Jesus. And they too speak from time to time in such a way that edifies others. Just as Paul conducts his ministry, so they conduct ministry unto him. 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 10 through 11 speaks this, and I would commend this verse to your thought. Who died for us, of course that would be Jesus, that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him Wherefore, comfort yourself together and edify one another, even as also you do. Utterance, speaking the Word of God, knowledge to live for and by. Our God has gifted us with never with a never-ending word of God And the pursuit of that word leads to knowledge. As Paul exhorted and prayed for the Ephesians. which we read earlier, that you may dwell and that and may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, May be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width, length, depth, and height. We got a lot of studying to do. We got a lot of reading of God's Word. We got a lot of growth in God's love to do, to comprehend. What is an enormous treasure in God's Word, in His utterance These are some of the gifts he has given. He has given, of course, salvation to us in Christ He's given to us an opening into truth, eternal and heavenly. Ever knowing, ever-growing, an understanding that yields knowledge and eternal life. Christ has given to you the words of eternal life. They are here. How valuable is that? How great a rich is how great of a rich, whatever the word is. How great is that riches? What would you pay for it? What would you give for it? You can't. It's free. It's a gift. And God and Paul says, I'm thankful for you, brothers and sisters at Corinth. Thankful for what God has done. I'm thankful for the Word. I'm thankful for the progress that I've seen in your lives. I'm thankful that you're helping to build the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ with the way in which you interact with each other. It's a precious thing. As the psalmist wrote this morning, how good it is for the brethren to dwell together in unity. It is like the oil that runs down on Aaron's bed, beard, to his garments all the way down. God's gifts of grace never grow old, they never wear out, they never get less, ever knowing, ever growing, and understanding. Days spent with God in His Word, knowing Christ, the Holy Spirit applying Christ to us We live each day is a new day full of wonder Full of new learning. Never grows old, does it? You never exhaust the truth. You never get tired of it. Always a treasure. We come to God's gracious gifts in Christ. New life, new knowledge, new truth, new discovery about ourselves. New discovery about God's Word, about God's world. We are thankful for God's grace displayed in other brothers and sisters in Christ. For they also have been given the same gifts by God to glorify Him, enjoy Him forever, and in God's mysterious way. edify you. Be thankful to God that He has set you among them on this way, this truth, and this life Gifts of grace. Be thankful that every Christian here today is on the same path of life-affirming discovery that never ends. And continues even in glory. And along the way You are privileged to rub shoulders with other brothers and sisters. Amen. Let us pray. Most merciful God, our Heavenly Father, help us, Lord. Help us, Lord, to appreciate Love one another and minister to one another and be ministered unto one another Edify us, O Lord God, in all the ways in which your word and your fellowship uh encourage. These things we pray in Jesus' name, Amen