If you turn your copies of God's word now, once again to Matthew's gospel, you can use the Continue our study there in chapter 28. I believe that's on page 993 of your Pew Bibles. And we are at the end of this gospel. For context, I'll begin reading in verse 16 of chapter 28. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him. But some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore, and make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always. to the end of the age. As far in the Word of God, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we ask now that you'd add your blessing to the reading of your word. And that you would superintend, oversee, control, direct the preaching of your word, such that the words that I speak would be your words. Help us, Lord. Guide and direct us by your Spirit this morning to understand more of who you are and who your Son is and what you have done. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you blessed by the authority of Jesus? Are you blessed by his authority? The Israelites would have been Had they recognized and submitted to the authority of God? As Moses writes his last book, Deuteronomy to the Israelites as they're about to enter into the promised land, he writes this About the words of God, about the law of God, about the commands of God, about the fear of the Lord. Hear therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them, meaning the commands of God, the one who has all authority, that it may go well with you. And that you may multiply greatly in a land flowing with milk and honey. You see the promises of God Based upon his authority to give them the laws, give them the commands, and call them to live in accordance with them, so that it may go well with you. Are you blessed by the authority of Jesus? In a sense, that brings us to our text this morning. Jesus has suffered on the cross. He's been buried. He's been guarded. The Marys have come to observe his dead body, to anoint his dead body. The earth has quaked, the angel has descended. He's terrified the guards. The stone has been rolled away. The tomb is empty. The women are told not to be afraid. And they greet the risen Lord Jesus Christ and told to go and tell. We come to then this passage at the end of Matthew's Gospel, in a sense the culmination of all that Matthew has recorded. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. And as a result of that truth, Jesus tells his disciples to go and make disciples. It's a fairly simple passage. That's a deep passage. And I'd like to sum it up this way. This is part one of a two-part sermon. That the dominion given to Jesus for his obedient righteousness moves his followers to go. The dominion given to Jesus for his obedient righteousness moves his followers to go. And we'll see that this morning in two simple heads or truths. First, Jesus Christ has been given all authority, and secondly, Jesus Christ has commissioned the church to go. So we go through this passage. Again, this is a part one of a two-part sermon. So go through this. I want you to be asking yourself: Am I blessed by the authority of Jesus? Well, first, Jesus Christ has been given all authority. Consider those words recorded by Matthew that Jesus speaks to. His disciples. The first words, as Matthew records it, that he speaks to his disciples after his resurrection. Now he's spoken to the Marys, but these seem to be the first words spoken to the disciples. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. It's an astounding claim. What has happened This is the same man who was mocked and blasphemed by the most powerful religious leaders in Jerusalem of that day. Is it the same man whom the crowds cried out to Pilate, crucify him, crucify him? It's the same man who was sentenced to death. As an innocent man by the Roman ruler, the Roman governor, the Roman authority of Jerusalem, it was the same man who was crucified by Roman soldiers. This was the same man who three days ago was hanging on a cross by the command and judgment of Pilate at the call of the crowd. This was the same man who was stripped of his very clothes, his garments, such that they were distributed amongst the soldiers. This was the same man who was mocked by those who passed as he hung on the cross suffering. This was the same man who died. Who was buried in a tomb of rock. In short The same man who from all external appearances and events completely lacked authority over men. How is it that he now, this Jesus Christ, can at this point, given all that's happened to him, claim that he has been given all authority in heaven and on earth? To answer that question, I think we need to first understand what Jesus meant by all authority. Didn't the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders, the Pharisees have authority? Didn't Pilate have authority? Didn't the Roman cohort, the centurion, the soldiers, didn't they have authority over Jesus? The answer is really no. Not really. The only authority that all these had was the authority that was given to them by the one who had. All authority, the triune God. And that's how Jesus can respond to Pilate as he's sitting on the judgment seat. Will you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus responded by saying, You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. God had placed these men, each of them, in their particular positions to act and make decisions at that very time, at that very moment in time, Pilate Sat on the judgment seat because God Himself had set him there. The only authority that Pilate had was that which was given to him by God. The only authority which the chief priests had who tried, so to speak, tried Jesus, was that which was given to them for that time. The only authority that the Roman soldiers had was that which was given to them by God. So did any of them have authority in and of themselves? The answer is no The only authority that each of them had was limited, limited authority that was given to them by the living God. For his purposes, for that time, for that event, according to his predetermined plan to save a people for himself. So then as Jesus says all authority in heaven on earth has been given to him, what does he mean by that? It means complete, unlimited, unbounded, eternal sovereignty over anything and everything that exists. That's what we read in Daniel's Daniel's prophecy. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. Exactly what Daniel prophesied is what has been given to Jesus Christ, whether that be in heaven or on earth Over every single event, over all time, over all beings, in short, over everything without exception. Jesus meant that he now had the absolute, unshared, unlimited, unbounding, unending singular authority to direct, dispose, and govern. The existence and movement of the heavens and all things therein, as well as the existence and being. and the movement and disposition of everything and everyone in every event on earth. There was nothing from that point forward as Jesus spoke those words, nothing outside of his control and sovereignty. Nothing would happen without his approval and direction and power. Nothing. Jesus meant that God the Father had granted him the throne. Jesus meant that his the throne that he was given to sit upon was the throne over the kingdom of God, the physical as well as spiritual realms. In other words, all peoples, nations, languages should serve him. A dominion which is an everlasting dominion. Which shall not pass away. And his kingdom one shall not be kingdom is one that shall not be destroyed. Nothing Is outside of that kingdom that Jesus Christ is enthroned over. All authority in heaven and on earth is given to Jesus Christ. Well at this point you should be asking yourselves, why? What happened? In one sense, Jesus has been given all authority because of what he endured and suffered with grace and righteousness. Think of it. Jesus was mocked. He was blasphemed. He was spurned. He was cast off He was belittled, he was disbelieved, he was discouraged, he was pierced, he was crucified, he was laughed at and crushed under the eternal weight of his father's wrath. As your sins were laid upon him. In other words, Jesus was obedient And perfectly righteous in all and in everything in which he suffered in this world of sin and misery. He was given the crown The throne of his father's kingdom because he was and is beloved of his father, and because he was obedient to the point of death, even death on a cursed tree. You see, Jesus was given all rule, power, and authority because he chose to be righteous before his Father. And everything that his father placed before him, whether it was allowing the temptations of Satan to be laid upon him, or the denials of Peter to pierce his heart. Or the wretched, filthy sins of the world laid upon him in his innocence. Jesus responded with grace and righteousness every single time. You see, in a sense, all this authority, this kingship, this eternal rule, was a reward granted for his perfect righteousness and love. His love displayed to his heavenly Father. The Father was so pleased with his loving obedience and submission with the pure righteousness of his Son that he grants to Jesus his kingdom. He gives it to his son. Just as we see it written in Daniel. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. What does all that authority include? In a sense I've already described it, haven't I? But what I haven't touched upon is what does that mean for you? You can't see Jesus. You can't see his crown. You can't see his throne. You can't see what he's doing day by day, hour by hour, moment by moment. And some might say, out of sight, out of mind. Meaning, if you can't see Jesus and his work upon the throne of his Father, then you don't think about him, you don't understand, you don't know what he's doing, and so you come to the conclusion that it really doesn't matter to you. That would be a mistake. That would be a grave mistake for any of us to make For the kingship of Jesus Christ affects each and every moment of your day. It affects what you do and what you don't do. It affects where you live, where you work, where you go to school, who's in your family, who's not. The kingship of Jesus affects your very breath. Whether you will take the next one or not, he's the sustainer of all things. As king, as sovereign, he's the one holding together not only the heavens, Not only all things in earth, but your very body. If you were not sitting on the throne this very moment, you would not even exist. You see, the writer of the Hebrews begins his letter with that truth. He's the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. That's what he's doing, is he's exercising all authority. It's critical for you today. His kingship controls what happens to you each and every moment of the day Whether you have breakfast, lunch, and dinner or not. Jesus is controlling the functionality of your car. Is it going to start when you go out to the parking lot? I don't know. Jesus is controlling it, He's sovereign over it. Whether the sun will shine or the clouds pour down rain or snow depends on what Jesus determines. All authority. Let me speak for a moment for those who are not following Jesus this morning. See, in Adam, and each of us are born of Adam, we tend to think that we govern ourselves. In the corruption of Adam, we tend to believe that we are our own kings. That we have a throne that we sit on, and no one has the right, no one has the ability or the authority to tell us what to do, how to live, what's good and right. We see that in our culture today, don't we? As men try to redefine themselves as women As parents abort their unborn children and rationalize that it was better for the infant and them that the child was not born. Constantly redefining good as evil and evil as good as we sit on our thrones. And that's how those who reject the Lord Jesus Christ and His authority think And if you're not following Jesus Christ this morning, that is exactly the inclination of your heart. You're denying his authority because you believe you have all authority. Well, what's the result for you? Ultimately things will not go well. Ultimately, nothing will go well. We see that set forth in Psalm 2. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son. That means submit to him, because you're under His rule. Lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. You see, you are free to deny the authority of Jesus, but you cannot avoid it. Whether it be today or tomorrow, at the end of your life, Jesus' authority will be made known to you in his wrath. Eve considered that she was her own authority as she examined the forbidden fruit and determined that God had no real power or authority over her. Eve determined to exercise that which she perceived to be her authority over creation and ultimately over God. But as we read in Genesis 3, Eve never had any authority over herself. After Eve sinned against the Lord, he exercised his absolute authority by cursing Eve with pain and childbirth, with her desire to rule over her husband, and by removing her from paradise. Just as it was written in Psalm 2, you shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Again, for those of you who are not following Jesus this morning, there's absolutely nothing which you can control. Think of that just for a moment. You think you have, like Eve, control over the things around you, the people around you, the events around you, in short, the plan for your life. But in reality, you can't control a thing. You can't control your heartbeat, you can't control your lungs, you can't control the blood throwing flowing throughout your veins. What makes you think that you can control the very next hour? You see, you can't control anything because Jesus has all authority in heaven and on earth. The only question is, will you humble yourself before the one who does have all authority? But before you answer, consider this. Consider the blessing of being under the authority of Jesus Christ. See, I believe that Paul, the apostle, was actually thinking of this as he writes this verse. at the end of Romans chapter 28 or close to it. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. See the blessing in that? You see, it's only by the power of his all-authority that Jesus Christ is able to and does work together all things for good. For those who are trusting in him. See the blessing of his authority And so if you're not following Jesus this morning, just meditate upon that, the truth, that because of his all authority, He's working every single thing that happens for good if you follow and trust in him today. Brings us to our second point. That Jesus has commissioned the church to go. This passage, in fact, in the Bible that I'm looking at right now has the title above it, it's not inspired, The Great Commission. And usually what we think is that this passage is all about that commission, making disciples. And it is a wonderful passage. It's a wonderful call. But I'm trying to convince you this morning that the central teaching of this passage is the authority. Of Christ, the authority of Christ. I think that's where Matthew ends his gospel on the authority of Christ. As we think about that, let's open this up just a little bit. This command, this call, is really rather simple. But it's profound. Go. Make disciples. And there's certainly other aspects or subparts to this command. Which involved baptizing and teaching, which involved the name of the Father, Son, and the Spirit, speaks to the presence of Jesus. As we think about this this morning, think about a little bit more in depth, I want to focus on the going part. We'll touch upon the making disciples, but that will be the central focus of our second sermon. So who is called? It would be important for us to understand that passage. Who is Jesus speaking to? Go, therefore, and make disciples. Was it just for the disciples who would become the apostles? Just those eleven That can't be. The clear teaching here is that of making disciples, which is to continue to the end of the age. See that Jesus speaks of his being with them to the end of the age, and this this command to go make disciples is all caught up in Jesus being with them to the end of the age. Meaning to the end when he returns. And so disciples are to be made until Jesus returns. And so this could not be just for the apostles if it's not for them. What about those who would follow in the footsteps of the apostles, the elders, the teachers, the preachers, the professionals, so to speak? And I want to suggest to you that that's not the case either. As we consider the body of Christ, each of us in the body of Christ have different roles to play. Yes, of course Arms, legs, hands, and ears, but but all are one body. And here this task seems to be for the body of Christ. That the disciples, the apostles were representing at that point. And so it seems to be that this this call to make disciples is for the entire church. So let's talk about that for a minute. It's called to make disciples, just generally, briefly. It's a command. It's really the centerpiece of what we refer to as the Great Commission to make disciples, to make followers of Jesus. To proclaim the way of salvation, to explain the truth of the creation and the sovereignty of God, to recount the sin of Adam, the corruption of hearts, our hearts. To convict those that are spoken to of personal or individual sins and the offense that each one is to a holy God to tell of the punishment that He has proscribed Eternal death for every single sin, and then show the narrow gate, the door, which is Jesus Christ. The only good news for sinners. Show them the cross, the empty tomb, the promise of the bridegroom to return for his bride. Yes. Call lost sinners, straying sheep into the sheepfold to faith in Jesus Christ, make disciples. Seems to be the idea. Now we have that phrase, go therefore and make disciples. It might be translated this way: make disciples by going. So I want you to set your heart and mind upon that participle now. Go. It appears in our English translations as an action word, but in the Greek it's the word which actually modifies or helps us to understand At least one aspect of how to make disciples. It's a call, isn't it? To get up, to begin walking and moving, it's a call not to be passive, not to be mere recipients of the Word of God, the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but to pack it up and take it with you and go. Be active. With the good news, be active with the gospel. It is not, and it was not a call to the disciples who would become apostles to sit in the synagogues. It was not a call to the disciples to sit amongst their families. It was not a call to the apostles to sit within the four walls of their homes, their abodes, their tents, and keep the good news to themselves. No, it was very specific. Go. To take everything that Jesus had given them, which Matthew has recorded in this gospel, and take it out. The entirety. All that had been given. All that had been received was be taken out. Go with it. Go with the gospel. Go with the good news. Go out. You've received it. I've given it to you. You disciples of mine, these past three years, I've been training you up. You have the precious word of God. It's precious good news. Now go take it out. There's a helpful picture here in Jesus' command. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Go to the nations. Go make disciples in all the nations. Uh go beyond your street. They probably didn't have streets at that time. Go beyond your neighborhood Alright, go beyond your local towns and villages and cities. Go across the globe. Go to all nations. Their going was not to stop at any geographical boundary. Jesus didn't put any limitations on this modifying word as to how they were to make disciples, and they were to do it by going to the nations. No limit. No boundaries. This would have been a radical command. Radical As far as the Jews were concerned, as far as the disciples were concerned, wrongfully, the gospel, the good news, the word of God was for them. That's it. They had circumscribed it. Right? When the lawyer asked Jesus, Who are my neighbors? That he was supposed to be loving to, he was expecting Jesus to say, Well, Jews are your neighbors. Because he was gonna say, Yeah, you're right, I'm I love them. And then Jesus gives him the picture of the Samaritan. As far as the Jews were concerned, the Word of God was not for the Gentiles. It was only for the people of God, the descendants of Abraham. That's it. It was confined, it was limited. See, the words of the Old Testament really didn't sink deeply within their hearts yet. Prophet Isaiah Said this to the Israelites, I will make you as a light for the nations. That my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. That was Isaiah, 700 years before Jesus was born. The Israelites, the Jews, were to be a light for the nations, that their gospel would reach the end of the earth. It doesn't seem to have gotten much traction within the Jews, as their light was dim at best. Their care was internal, which is powerfully shown forth by the Pharisees and the chief priests who were always looking to themselves. So from the disciples' perspective, this would have been a radical command and call by Jesus to go. Go beyond your borders. Go to an unreached people. Go to the Gentiles, to the dogs. Go to those whom you think are filthy and unclean. Go beyond your comfort zone. Go and tell them and share with them about the good news of salvation in me. I said that this comming this commission was fairly simple and it is, go, make disciples. I think the question for us this morning is, is are we? Are we going? Are you going? Or are we keeping the Word of God to ourselves? Going can look like a lot of different things, but one thing it doesn't look like, it doesn't look like sitting at home on your couch, opening up the Word of God, and then keeping it to yourself. It doesn't look like loving the Word of God, cherishing the Word of God, and then keeping it within your four walls. It doesn't look like coming to worship on Sunday morning, Sunday after Sunday after Sunday. and then going directly home and keeping what you heard and learned within the four walls of your house, such that the word of God, the grace of God, the glory of God never leaves your home or your heart. It doesn't look like keeping it to yourself. That's not what it looks like. That's not what going looks like. It's not within the command of the Lord Jesus Christ to his disciples. And so here's the question: are you going or are you keeping the word hidden? You might be asking yourselves this morning, well, what's my role? You referred to the body of Christ. There are different things going on in the body. What does it mean for me? This great commission, this call to go and make disciples of all nations, this command. This decisive and determined way that the king has given to his church to build her up, so to speak. What does it mean for you? You may not be called the pastoral ministry. You may not be called to teach and preach the Word of God. You may not be called to be a missionary, to go to foreign lands, foreign countries. You may not be called to spread the good news about the Lord Jesus Christ and then to teach those who have little to no knowledge of this Jesus. That may not be your calling. But does this mean that you have absolutely no role in the Great Commission of going? The answer is absolutely not. So what? You're part of the church. You're a member of the church. You're part of the body. And this call, this command is a current call. It's a command to the church. What's your role? If you're not the pastor, if you're not a teacher, if you're not a missionary, what's your role? Are you called to send others? Of course. Every single member of the church is at a minimum called to send others, whether it be to foreign mission field or to the home mission field. The call is if you're not going yourself then send others. And how do you do that? First and foremost, you do it by prayer. Constant, consistent, earnest, sincere, pleading, supplicating prayer before the Father, asking, recognizing the fields are white for harvest. Would you please raise up more to go? We should be in prayer for those in the field now. Whether it be in the foreign mission field or here in the U. S. planting churches, but we should also be asking that more be raised up to go. The fields are white. Send them with prayer. You can certainly send them with your financial giving, through your offerings, through your tithes, through your additional votive gifts to support missionaries and to support home missions, even here, to support your pastor in this church. Well it doesn't stop there, does it? Parents. If you're a mother and father, what what about your children? Are you not called to make them disciples? Yes, of course. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and talk of them when you sit in your house. Yes. Who better to minister to your children than their mother and father? Of course. You say don't have children. And what about your neighbors? Do they know Christ savingly? Have they been made disciples? You see, you don't need to go to a foreign land in order to Strive to make disciples. You're called to be a light of Christ, not only to your children, but to your neighbors as well. You shall write them on the doorpost of your house and on your gates. Why was that? Why did Moses call them to write the words of God, binding them certainly on your hand, the frontlets between your eyes, but then also on the doorposts of your house and on your gates? Isn't it so that others can see? So that you can actually minister to your neighbors? Yes, of course. Have you thought about hosting a series on Christianity explored in your house? Have you considered inviting your neighbors, asking your pastor to come and put on that series for your neighbors? Have you considered that's one way to love your neighbors and participate in the Great Commission by hosting Christianity Explored in your house. Have you even thought about that? What a blessing it would be for this church for the next twelve months for four members. who are willing to have Christianity explored put on for their neighbors throughout the year. Oh, that we would participate in the Great Commission here in Lanham, here in Bowie, Maryland, that way. A call of the Lord Jesus Christ to make disciples. How could you not go? How could you not tell others about this oneness Jesus? This one who is so obedient, so perfectly obedient to the desires, to the will of his heavenly father that he was given all authority. How could you not tell us about the perfect righteousness that flowed out of and does flow out of the heart of this one Jesus? It's such a wonderful thing. It's such beautiful, magnificent, awe-inspiring righteousness. It's like the most beautiful, perfect cut diamond, isn't it? You can look at it from various angles and perspectives. And yet you'll never capture its beauty and perfection as light is reflected and refracted in and through it. That's the wonder of Jesus. That's the righteousness of Jesus who's been given all authority because of his purity How is it that you cannot tell others? How is it that you cannot go and share this Jesus with others? Isn't that the point of this passage? He's been given all authority because of his purity, because of his righteousness, because of his love for his father. And that's the foundation of the Great Commission. It should make you want to go. It's that which moves evangelists and proclaimers of the gospel to go. It's the centerpiece, it's the foundation of the Great Commission. It's the foundation of all Christian. Life. Oh, help us, Lord. Work powerfully in our hearts, Holy Spirit. That we would join, that we would truly join this wonderful, this privilege, this powerful commission that you've been given as the church. Yes, the dominion given to Jesus for his obedient righteousness moves his followers to go. This Great Commission actually wasn't new, is it? Moses wrote of it. Even before the Israelites entered into the promised land, he wrote of it. And in a sense, Jesus is merely repeating it and reassuring you that it will have success. Because he has been given all authority. Amen Father and our God, what a joy it is to end this gospel of Matthew in this way. To realize, oh God, that Jesus Christ, the perfect, the righteous, the innocent, the pure, the loving Jesus Christ has been given all authority, he sits and is enthroned. Over the kingdom of God. We praise you. We are a blessed people. Help us, Lord Help us each and every one of us to submit to his authority, to be blessed by his authority, and then to go Move us, Lord God, to go. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.