Amen. If you turn in your copy of God's word now to the letter to the Romans Reading there tonight from chapter fourteen. It's on page one thousand one hundred twenty-eight of your pew Bibles. Tonight I'll read the first twelve verses of Chapter 14, and I want us to know that this portion of Scripture is really connected to a good portion of chapter 15. These words of Scripture go together. And so, in a sense, this is part one of what will be at least a two-part sermon. Let's give attention now to Romans chapter 14, beginning at verse 1. God's Holy Word. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes that he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats. For God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day is better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord Since he gives thanks to God. Well, the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself. And none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord both of the dead and the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then, each of us will give an account of himself to God. That's far in the reading of God's Word tonight. Amen. Please be seated. Could you pray with me? Father, now we ask that as you brought us to this passage tonight, that you would open it by your Spirit. That you would use your servant, Father, for all of your most holy and perfect purposes. That you'd give us ears to hear, that you'd give us attentive hearts tonight. That you would pierce our hearts with your word, Father. Allow it to take root, deep root within each of us. Father, work your will in us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What is it to give an account Some of us do it every year with regard to the Internal Revenue Service. US government takes account every year of what we've earned. Every year taxpayers are to give an account, a review. Of their financial history for the year. Look back, and then provide that as an account. To the IRS, a full disclosure, so to speak, of what's happened to us financially throughout the year. An account, an accounting reported. Sometimes with good results, sometimes with not so good results. Tonight, in this passage, We are reminded that each of us will give an account of ourselves to God. Before we get to that portion of scripture, we've been through much with Paul. He has declared the truth. Of salvation to us, that sinners are saved, sinners are justified by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ alone He's answered all the questions, all the objections having to do with that truth. And now Paul begins, has begun to apply that Truth in what we refer to as practical theology. How are we to live knowing what Jesus has done for us? How are we to live knowing that God has loved us in Christ Jesus? How are we to live knowing that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus? How are we to live before we get to glory? Paul has been answering that question for us in various ways. He's told us that we are to be living sacrifices. Holy and acceptable to God, that our minds are to be transformed by renewal, that we are one body in Christ Jesus with different gifts And we're to live that way, coming together, functioning in unity. He's given us a condensed presentation of application and In chapter 12, how a Christian should live in this life. Let us behave properly Not carousing and in drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and sensuality, not in strife and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ. That was from chapter 13. There's a sense in which now Paul is telling us what it means to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. He's told us to put off much. And now he's told us in that blanket verse, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Tonight I want us to see that one lives sacrificially by bowing before his master Jesus and praising God. One lives sacrificially by bowing before Jesus and praising God. Three points tonight. Living for the Lord, secondly bowing before Jesus, and then finally confessing to God. Well, tonight, as we're going through this passage, I would like you to be thinking about what it means to give that account. To give an account of yourself, not just your financial situation. What does it mean to give an account of yourself? Knowing that there are no exceptions, there are no exclusions, and there are no waivers. Tonight Tonight, let's dig deeply in this passage and see what that means. Tonight, the first point, then, living for the Lord. Paul is now getting fairly specific or pointed as he describes the way in which a Christian is to live, having been justified by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's been very general. He's told us that we are to live or present our bodies as living sacrifices. We have read that. We have covered that. Not that we've covered it completely. But that was a very general statement. Present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Love one another with brotherly affection. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty. And then finally, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. All good, good passages directly from God's mouth, but very general Tonight, Paul continues to apply the general in ways that truly penetrate our heart and speak directly to spiritual issues that each of us face Day in and day out. Paul is asking again, what does it look like for a believer to live for Jesus? In his letter to those at Philippi, Paul wrote that Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death, for to me to live as Christ. That was a curious statement, but we we get a sense of what he meant by that To live for Christ is to live in Christ And so now he begins to unpack that a bit for us. Here in this letter to those at Rome. He writes, For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord. If we die, we die to the Lord. So whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. So Paul seems to be answering that question for us tonight. What is it to live to the Lord or for the Lord? First, we know that that's got to be connected with the fact that we are Jesus' possession, so to speak. That every single believer belongs to the Lord Jesus Christ, that every single believer has been purchased by Jesus with his precious blood. 1 Corinthians 6 at verse 19 reads this way: Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own. For you were bought with a price, so glorify God in your body. See, Jesus Christ has paid the price. Jesus Christ has redeemed you. Jesus Christ has brought you out of Satan's stronghold. He was sent to deliver the captives, to remove them from Satan's house. And he's done that by binding Satan, hasn't he? He's restrained Satan. This morning we talked about what is it for Christ to be our King? Restrains and conquers all our enemies and his enemies. He's bound Satan He's restraining Satan as we speak tonight and and as a result he has set us free. He's ransomed us and and as he is the one who's ransomed us with his blood, now we belong to him. And that's why Paul writes, We are the Lords And then to live for the Lord or to live for the Lord must take that as our first precept that we belong to Him. And if we belong to him, then our life is caught up with him. He is definitely, he is certainly our master And so Paul is answering that question as he opens up this passage tonight. To live for the Lord means first To welcome the one who is weak in faith. That's verse 1 of chapter 14. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him. For God has welcomed him. To use this phrase, one who is weak in the faith must necessarily mean that there are those who are Strong in the faith, and Lord willing, next week we'll get to that in chapter 15. We who are strong, meaning strong in the faith. Have an obligation to bear with the failings of the week. Now, he's not speaking of failings here in chapter 14, but he's setting for us this differential. Those who are weak in the faith and those who are strong in the faith, and he's noting for us without saying it, there's a possibility for division within the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those who are weak versus those who are strong. Maybe it would be better to say this. Paul notes the opportunity for some in the church to look down. On others within the church. There's an opportunity to justify treating some Christians with dishonor or disdain I think that's what he's noting here for us. And remember, what he's getting at is what it means to live for Christ, or what it means to live to Christ. To create such a division, to even think that there is such a division. Would lead to a non-church-like society. To live for Christ then is first to recognize his potential within us, within the old man. To think poorly of others, to look down upon others, to think of others as not really worthy of being with those who are really worthy This is a significant issue or problem, especially in the Reformed Church. We think we have everything right And others who are not in the reform, the church, have some portion of their doctrine wrong. We can become or be arrogant that we're superior, that we're just better Christians. Brothers and sisters, we need to recognize this potential and then crush it To live for Christ or to live with Christ is to break down this feeling, this thought of superiority. I think that's what Paul means in part by calling the brothers to welcome those who are weak in the faith. I don't think we can read through the gospel accounts of the Lord Jesus Christ, of his earthly ministry, and ever come away with evidence that he thought of himself as being superior. As being above the disciples, as being above those to whom he ministered. He was, and he is. But we never get the sense from reading the accounts of Jesus that that was on his mind If he had, Jesus would never have had disciples. He would never have eaten with tax collectors and sinners He would never have touched a leper. He certainly would not have allowed a Samaritan woman to speak with him. No, Jesus had compassion and welcomed all. So to live for Jesus in this regard then is first to cast off arrogance and all superiority Cast off all that would lead to division with weaker brothers and sisters. And welcome them with open arms. Love them unconditionally As Jesus welcomed you. God has already welcomed the one who is weak in the faith, the one who is strong in the faith. He's welcomed them. And the Lord has already justified and adopted each one. Strong in the faith, weak in the faith. Now the only question is, will you? This welcome is certainly part of living for or to the Lord Now, Paul adds something to that welcome, doesn't he? As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. The New American Standard puts it this way. Now accept the one who is weak in the faith, but not for the purpose of passing judgment on his opinions. So as Paul now extends this, uh he he certainly gives us that welcome first, but now there's a qualification to that welcome. Uh Paul is speaking of welcoming those into the church. Who agree that Jesus is Lord, who who know the path of salvation. He's not speaking of welcoming those into the church who do not agree on who Christ is and how one can be saved. He's not saying that He's writing of welcoming those who had sincere faith in Christ and therefore were justified and adopted true believers. He writes here of differences of opinions. We have to understand that first. And these differences of opinions are not for us to quarrel about, but welcoming all. For fellowship in the Lord Jesus Christ, to be united in Jesus, to live together in Christ, to serve Christ as as the body to together burn brightly for Jesus to love one another as Christ loves us. That would be the idea of welcoming all true believers, even those with different opinions Don't quarrel. Don't pass judgment on these opinions Here's the idea. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Verse two, verse three. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. Difference of opinions on food. Verse 5: One person esteems one day is better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convicted in his own mind. These examples provided by Paul, we see two things. First, they were not doctrines, they were ideas and thoughts which were not dealing with one's salvation. They were not elements of a believing faith. They seem to be connected to Jewish ceremonial law. Now remember, Paul is writing at a time when this great transition is taking place. When Jewish converts are being brought into the church, but they're bringing with them some of the ceremonial laws that they have been practicing as Unconverted Jews. So we see this issue of food. We know that the Jews had laws of cleanliness with regard to food. We know that there was an issue in the church with regard to eating meat sacrificed to idols. And we know that this is likely coming from the Jewish ceremonial laws, which are being brought in along with the conversions that are happening. One person esteems one day better than another. Again, New Moons, Feast Days, Sabbath days These were Jewish ceremonial days that they were again bringing with them, Jewish converts, apparently still keeping during this time, a transition time. So Paul writes of food. He writes of days. Again, most likely related to Jewish ceremonial rites. And in regard to these things, these are opinions. And so Paul is saying, don't pass judgment. on your brothers. Recognize what Paul was not saying. He was not saying do not exercise church discipline. These things that folks were practicing, these things which they were abstaining from, were not sins. Paul clearly teaches to cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump. 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 7. Paul is for church discipline. These issues that were before the church at this point in time were not matters of discipline. They were matters of opinion. The matters which were the doers were doing to seeking to please God. Look at verse 6. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God. Other one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord of the Lord and give thanks to God. The doers of these things were seeking to live to the Lord. In other words And we're seeking to bow before Jesus Christ. And that brings us to our second point: bowing before Jesus. Look at verse 10. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or why, or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat. Paul has gotten through this first nine verses concerning how we're to live for Christ, how we're to live to Jesus. A specific example dealing with welcoming Christians weak in the faith. But now he digs a bit deeper. He's penetrating a bit more. Into the hearts of those who would have read his gospel. And he's digging quite deeply into our hearts tonight. This particular verse is very penetrating. It's particularly convicting. You see, Paul here was not merely stating, live this way before Jesus. knowing that you've been purchased with his blood. In a sense, he was saying that, but he is actually admonishing his readers now, those who are listening to his gospel. Why do you pass judgment on your brother, or why do you despise your brother? It was an acknowledgement that this was happening. He was pressing down on the hearts of those who would hear him. Why do you do this? Why do you pass judgment? We thought maybe Paul was just merely setting forth some do's and don'ts, but now he's digging deeply to the depths of our hearts. He's accusing his readers, he's accusing us now of breaking the law of loving our neighbor. Loving your brother and sister in Christ, thinking so poorly of them, indeed, that they become despised in your heart. Do you do that? And if you answered in your mind just now, no. Think again. Of course you do. We all do. We all think too highly of ourselves. And not highly enough of others, particularly of those we think are weak in the faith. Brothers and sisters, this was given tonight to us as a warning. This was given to us tonight. as that which has just penetrated and opened our hearts. I know it's opened mine. This is the Word of God. And it has just proved itself once again to be living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirit of joints and marrow discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart, and that's exactly what Paul was doing as he wrote this, even for us tonight. Listen how he continues, for we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. He prefaced that by asking us, why are you doing this? Why are you passing judgment Why are you despising your brothers and sisters? You will stand judgment before the seat of God. That's a sobering truth. We will all stand judgment before the seat of God to give an account of ourselves before God. And this is not the only place in Scripture this appears. Joel. Chapter 2, verse 1, blow a trumpet in Zion, sound an alarm on my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming, it is near. Joel wrote that. Jesus Christ said very clearly I tell you that every careless word that people speak, they shall give an accounting for it in the day of judgment. Our words. Be called to give an account for them. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, the Apostle Paul writes here at verse 10: For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due. Hear that again, what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil Brothers and sisters, we must pay attention to this. It is written, For as I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. There are two subparts to this idea of standing before the judgment throne. Every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. Let's speak about that first one. Bowing the knee before Jesus. Well, Jesus has become the Christian's master, hasn't he? Indeed, we again thought of that this morning as we were going over Christ our King. He's brought you into submission, hasn't he? Our King, our Lord Jesus, has brought you into submission tonight. He set you free. He set you free. Our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. That's what Jesus has done. He set you free from sin. But that brought you into submission to his righteousness. Do you see? Do you see what it means to bend the knee to Jesus? He's brought you into submission to his righteousness. Having been set free from sin, you've become slaves of righteousness. Isn't that part of your testimony? As you give an account to God, isn't that part of your testimony to Him? I've been brought into the righteousness of Christ. I've been set free from sin. Will that not be part of your account before the judgment seat of God? I've been subdued by Jesus For to this end Jesus died. Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord of both the dead and of the living. That describes me. Through his death, you've been subdued to his life. Indeed, to Christ's way of life. Isn't that the case? You've become slaves of God. Eternal life is not in yourself, it's in Jesus. Paul wrote this to those at Ephesus, bondservants, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart as you would Christ. Not by the way of eye servants as people pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ. That's how you're to live. Now he's talking about slaves. But we are slaves to righteousness, we're slaves to Christ. We've been bought, we belong to Him. That's how we're to live. As being subdued by our master, rendering service with A good will as to the Lord. That's the idea. Bending the knee to Christ Brought into submission, subdued by him. There's much encouragement in this passage. You might think that, whoa, this is hard. But there's much encouragement. As Paul writes of passing judgment on the servant of another He reminds those who are reading his gospel, it is before his own master that he stands or falls. Do not pass judgment on the one who is weaker in the faith. Because he will stand before his master, and he'll stand or fall before him who's Jesus Christ, and guess what? He will be upheld. For the Lord is able to make him stand. You see what he's saying? He's saying that the one who is weaker in the faith is going to be upheld by Jesus Christ. And as you apply that then to yourselves tonight, whether you're weak or whether you're strong, you say, that's my savior, that's my master. As I bend the knee before him, he is going to allow me, enable me, cause me to stand before him. How is that possible? Because Jesus has already stood before the judgment seat of his Father. Jesus has already confessed your sin before God, and Jesus has suffered God's wrath in your place. And then because of his perfect righteousness, because he was and is the God-man, he rose from the dead, he suffered judgment and yet lives. And now he's enabling you to stand. And so as he applies this to those who are weak in the faith, brothers and sisters, it applies to you tonight as well. If you love and serve Jesus tonight, it's Jesus who is going to enable you to stand because he stood in your place. first. And because he has all authority and power and dominion, he's able to make you stand in the judgment. Praise be to God. That brings us to our third point, confessing. Confessing to God. This is the second part of that standing before the judgment seat. First was bowing before Christ. Now it's confessing to God. Verse 10 again, for we will all stand before the judgment seat of God, for it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. The New American Standard reads this way: As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, every tongue shall give praise to God. It helps us to go back to the Old Testament to try to understand what Paul is writing here because he is alluding to that passage we read in Isaiah 45. Every tongue shall confess to God. Remember in Isaiah forty-five, as we read there We see similar words in verse 23. By myself I have sworn, and from my mouth has gone out in righteousness, a word that shall not return to me. Every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. Every tongue shall swear allegiance. Here in chapter 45, Isaiah is clearly speaking of salvation. Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other To me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear allegiance. And he ends it up in verse 25 with this: In the Lord all the offspring of Israel shall be justified. Swearing allegiance is confessing God is not making a confession of your sins before God. That's not what Paul is writing of he's speaking of confessing God as the one you swear allegiance to, as the one you believe in, as the one that you have not neglected, is the one that you worship. The only living and true God. You see that even more as we go to Deuteronomy 6, which has similar language in it. Verse thirteen, it says, The Lord your God you shall fear him, you shall serve, and by his name you shall swear. You shall not go to any other gods or after other gods, the gods of the peoples who are around you God is jealous for his worship. He wants you to swear allegiance to him and to him alone. That was the problem of the Israelites, wasn't it? Instead of confession, instead of offering him praise, instead of swearing allegiance to him, they gave allegiance to idols. They worshiped the gods of the other nations that they had not removed from the land. And they were exiled. That's the confession. Every tongue shall give praise to God. What is your confession tonight? As you're called to give an account, as you're called before the judgment seat. To be asked about your confession. Do you confess him as the one living and true God, who saved you from your sin? Do you confess him as the only one worthy of praise and worship? Do you confess him as the Lord of the covenant of grace? Do you confess him as your God? This is part of your account. This is part of that account that you will be called to give. But you will also be called to tell the judge what you've done Now remember, Jesus will enable you to stand, but yet an account will be required, so then each of us will give an account of himself to God. And we've already discussed the primary points of that account. Did you bow the knee before Jesus? Did you confess God? What have you done in the body, whether good or evil We must see how these passages tonight are connected. We must see that we're called to live a life. As one who belongs to the Lord Jesus Christ. For if we live, we live to the Lord. If we die, we die to the Lord. So whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. Did you live your life as one who belonged to Jesus Christ? Have you lived as one who's been purchased, who's been ransomed by the precious blood of the very Son of God? What does that look like? Paul continues to tell us, doesn't he? Welcome the one who's weak in the faith. Don't be haughty. Humble yourself before God and others Build up the church in unity, live to the Lord Brothers and sisters, one lives sacrificially by bowing before his master Jesus and praising God. We will be called to give an account But we will stand in that judgment, in that time of judgment, because of Christ, because of who he is. And because of how he holds us up before his Father. Praise be to God. Amen. Oh Lord God, we thank you for this passage. We thank you for this reminder, Father. And we thank you for Christ, the one who has truly stood in our place, the one who has received the wrath that was due to us. The one who has sat before the judgment seat and taken the entire cup of your wrath for us. And so tonight our hearts are full of praise and thanksgiving for the one who stood in our place. For the one who suffered for our sins, for the one who defeated sin and death in the tomb, for the one who has risen. For the one who has ascended and now gives us the strength to stand on Judgment Day. We praise you for Christ. We praise you for your covenant. And we ask, Lord God, now help us to live in such a way. It shows others that we belong to Jesus. We ask this in his name. Amen.