If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Psalms, tonight we'll be in Psalm fifty-seven. And I believe that's on page five hundred and sixty-three of your pew Bibles, Psalm fifty-seven. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. To the choir master. According to Do Not Destroy, a Mittem of David, when he fled from Saul in the cave. Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me. For in you my soul takes refuge. In the shadow of your wings I will take refuge till the storms of destruction pass by. I cry out to God most high, to God who fulfills his purpose for me. He will send from heaven and save me. He will put to shame him who tramples on me. God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness. My soul is in the midst of lions. I lie down amid fiery beasts, the children of man whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. They set a net for my steps. My soul was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way, but they have fallen into it themselves. My heart is steadfast, O God. My heart is steadfast I will sing and make melody. Awake, my glory. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations, for your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the the above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. Amen. Please be seated Father and our God, we thank you for this psalm. We thank you for this your special revelation. We thank you that you tell us much about yourself, much about your son, much about our hearts. And so we ask, Lord God, teach us tonight. Lead us, Holy Spirit. Guide us to exalt Christ and to give you even more praise and thanksgiving. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Is your praise or thanksgiving on the increase? Seems to be in part that's what this psalm is about tonight, is your praise increasing Earlier this evening we read from John's Gospel And in chapter fifteen, John writes of that analogy, that metaphor, I am the true vine, my father is the vine dresser, every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he takes away in every branch that does bear fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit I'm not good at gardening, but it's my understanding that if you prune something back, it will actually increase in its growth. If you cut and clip and Remove portions of the plant. It is to make the plant grow even more luscious I think that's what John was getting at when he spoke of people being Branches in the vine which need pruning. And in a sense, that brings us to our psalm tonight, Psalm 57. David wrote this psalm, and it's clear by its title that David was in trouble. When he fled from Saul in the cave. Now it's helpful for us to remember what was happening at that point in time, what this was a reference to. As you remember, David was anointed king. And yet Saul was still on the throne. Saul still had the crown, even though David had been anointed, and Saul knew that David would be coming to take the throne at some point. But Saul was trying to do whatever he could to keep David from doing just that And so at this point in time when David pens this psalm, Saul was pursuing him. Saul was bringing his army, looking for David, trying to kill David so that Saul obviously would Keep the throne, keep the crown. In this particular event, uh Saul is pursuing David, and David and his men are in a cave hiding from Saul And yet Saul goes into the cave to relieve himself. And if you remember that passage in Samuel David's men see Saul and they say, now is the time that God has given you Saul into your hands, go and slay him. And David initially cuts off a corner of Saul's robe. But at that point in time his heart smites him, it strikes him. And he remembers that he is not to strike the Lord's anointed. And so as a result, David flees from Saul. Saul recognizes and even calls out to David as David called out to Saul and yet the two separate and David runs again. And so this psalm is written with that as the backdrop when he fled from Saul in the cave. Tonight, as we go through this particular passage of Scripture, I'd like us to see that the hard providences of God result In an escalation of praise, as long as the believer's confidence is grounded in the Lord Jesus Christ. The hard providences of God result in an escalation of praise as long as the believer's confidence Is grounded in Christ. We'll see three points tonight. First a cry of confidence. Secondly, a providence of hardship or suffering. And finally, an increase in thanksgiving. Again, as we go through this psalm, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question. Is my praise increasing? Well, first a a cry of confidence. David tells us of his estate. As he begins writing this psalm, the inspired words of David are these, Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes refuge. I will take refuge till the storms of destruction pass by. There's this sense that David knows that he will continue in this estate day to day, hour to hour. This is his condition. He needs refuge and he's taken refuge. And he knows it. He knows there's a storm brewing. And the storm right now is Saul, who's on the war path. to kill him. And David had literally taken refuge in a cave from Saul, from his army, with all his power and might as leader of what was the most powerful nation in the world at that point in time, pursuing David as a dog, seeking to kill him, uncovering every stone, using every advantage, seeking to turn everyone against David such that Paul excuse me, Saul might remain on the throne. And so David's on the run. He flees. He's taking refuge wherever he can. In this particular point in time he's hiding in a cave, in the darkness, in its security, so to speak. One way in, one way out, hidden by a rock, hidden within a rock But in reality, knowing that his own security was not in the things of the earth, not in the things of creation, but in God Himself. In the shadow of your wings I will take refuge. That's what David knows It points to the Lord Jesus Christ, doesn't it? Who never took refuge within a cave. He left himself open, always open. Always available. His trust, his confidence was in his father, is in his father. It was unblemished. It was a holy trust, a holy confidence. And as such, the Lord Jesus never sought a physical hiding place. He was always on display, open To the arrows being shot at him from the chief priest, the elders, the scribes, the Pharisees, and certainly by Satan He took all of their offenses. He was bare and open, their wicked, their verbal assaults, their wicked physical attacks, but all the while on each and every occasion relying and trusting upon his father. Unaltered, unfazed, undeterred. His refuge was in his father. He was all he needed. thinking upon the times uh noted in scripture that Jesus goes to prayer. We noted that this morning, not a few times, and for long periods of time. Usually, if not always, by himself pointing to an intimacy, a true refuge in his communion, in his union with his father. He needed no other. And here we see in David the confidence, a confidence in God who fulfills his purpose. for me. Did you see that in verse two? I cry to God most high, to God who fulfills his purpose. For me. It's an interesting statement that David makes in this condition His confidence is extreme, it's extremely high. And here he cries out to the one Elohim, the Almighty God, the only one who is most high, trusting that he will hear, knowing that he will indeed hear. As David has been in God's refuge and under his wings, he cries out to this one with whom he's in communion. He cries to the Creator of all things, who's enthroned even above the heavens. With confidence that he will hear. Think of that. He knows that God is most high, dwelling above the heavens, and he also knows at the very same time that he will hear. There's none higher. There's none more powerful. There's none more sovereign. And yet David knows that he will hear. I cry aloud to God the Most High, to God who accomplishes all things for me. Or who fulfills his purpose for me. Or, as another version puts it, who's perfecting for me. The sense here, even if the Hebrew is a little bit difficult to translate into English, is that God's plan is being worked out in David's life. In all things. He's bringing to pass that which he has purposed for David. He's fulfilling his purpose. You see, David's not complaining. He's acknowledging it. Even as he's hiding in a cave, even as he's running from Saul to just keep his life. That God is accomplishing all things for David in accordance with his perfect providential plan David has confidence in it. David has confidence in God's loving kindness and his truth. Look at verse 3. He will send from heaven and save me. He will put to shame him who tramples on me. God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness, which could also be translated his truth or his loving-kindness. Step past love encurp encompasses so much mercy, certainly grace is given in love, yes. And this is the way he thinks of God. This is the way he knows God. The one who will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness or his truth. We need both of those, don't we? We need God's mercy. We need his steadfast love. We need his faithfulness. We need his truth. We are preserved through them both. Psalm 40. As for you, O Lord, you will not restrain your mercy from me. Your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me. That's what David was praying about. That's how he knew God. And that's how he knew in his refuge, under his wings, that he was being preserved. Doesn't that also describe Jesus Christ for you tonight? The one who is loving kindness, the one who is truth for us? Didn't Jesus display both of these in full upon his earthly ministry? Yes, he proclaimed truth, even as it cost him his life. He displayed loving kindness. Even by taking a human nature to himself, in condescending and lowering himself, a great display of his love for the people of God. It should cause you to ask yourself tonight, is that my confidence? Is my confidence in God as being our only true refuge? In Jesus Christ as being your true refuge? As the one who accomplishes all things for you, the one who fulfills his purpose, who has a plan for you, who is working that plan out day by day, hour by hour, even tonight. By and through the loving kindness and truth of his son. Is that your confidence? That brings us to our second point, a providence of suffering. Now we need to see that confidence of David as the backdrop. Because what I think the psalmist really wants us to see is that confidence stands behind now his suffering. David's been anointed king and yet he's suffering. Think of that. God has anointed David to be king, and yet in that estate, as the one who's anointed, he suffers. He's proclaimed his confidence in being in God's refuge under his wings, and now he sets forth details concerning this pitiful condition. Look at verse 4 My soul is in the midst of lions. I lie down amid fiery beasts. And then verse 6. They, who I think is a different group of people, they set a net for my stabs, my soul has bow was bowed down. They dug a pit in my way. Remember the title to this psalm, A miktam of David When He Fled from Saul. The psalm is a picture of suffering. Picture of suffering of David as he flees. He's surrounded by Wicked men. That's what verse 4 tells us. My soul is in the midst of lions. I lie down amid fiery beasts. We're told in 1 Samuel chapter 22 that David was with everyone who was in distress. Everyone who is in debt, everyone who is discontented, gathered to him. He became captain over them That who surrounded David at this point in his life. In the cave, as he's hiding from Saul. Distress, in debt, discontented his captain. About 400 men were with him. Not a description of the people of God. Not a description of those who assemble to worship God. And so that's who he's surrounded by. And he refers to them in the midst of lions. I lie down amid fiery beasts, the children of man, whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. They were ready to take the life of Saul. They were ready to slay the Lord's anointed. These are the ones whom David is among. He's suffering. But even in that suffering, look at verse 5, he is able to be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let your glory be over all the earth. This appears to be the pinnacle of the psalm, the chorus, the repeat line of the song. It's the culmination of that which the psalmist desires to convey. Even as David is surrounded by these wicked men in the cave, fleeing from Saul, he's able to praise God. David is suffering not only from those who are around him at that very moment, but those who are seeking his life. Now it's a different group of people in verse 6. They Set a net for my steps. It's not the people who he's with who are setting a net. It's Saul. It's Saul's army. It's the Israelites. They set a net for my steps. My soul is bowed down to dug a pit in my way The desire that David be killed, that the anointment be removed from David, so to speak. That David would not spend another day upon the face of the earth, that this lover of God would be ensnared like a wild beast thrown into a pit of destruction. He's surrounded by suffering, by turmoil, even by the ones who are around him, who are with him, so to speak, and those who are against him. Do you see the conflict? The apparent conflict? David is under the wings of God He's in God's refuge. He's in God's house, so to speak. He's being protected by God. He's in that estate. That's his confidence. It's clear from the text. And yet, in this estate of divine protection, of shelter on the wings of the Most High, he's suffering. He's among those who breathe forth fire. David is not able to worship in the assembly of God. He's not able to be with the people of God. He's in constant danger, sought out by Saul and all those loyal to him. How can that be? How can David be in the shadow of God's wings, expecting that God would reproach all who trample upon him, that God would send forth his loving-kindness and his truth? And at the very same time be among lions. How is that possible? The king, the anointed of God, the one to shepherd and lead his people. And yet part of God's providence was that he would suffer. Was God just not sovereign enough? Was the triune God not powerful enough to stave off the constant attacks of Satan? If this was the best that God was able to offer in the way of refuge from a shelter, sheltering from a storm, what good was it? It's like a ship in a safe harbor. If you know that is, ships go into a safe harbor when a storm is coming by. And so they go to a calm water, a place where they can moor to the dock, not be tossed to and fro by the storm, taken into port. And then discovering that the hull has a big hole in it. So while it's in a safe harbor, it's sinking. That seems to be the picture we have here. David is suffering by the very plan of God. It was not that God was not strong enough. It was not that God was not sovereign enough. This was by the providential governance of God. How do we know? Proverbs sixteen, the mind of man plays plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps God's will is always coming to pass. There's never a time when his will doesn't come to pass. There's never a time when God's plan is thwarted. God's plan is perfect and it's and it's always happening. Even here in the Psalm, even as David is in Refuge. Even as his soul has taken refuge under the shadow of God's wings, he still suffers by the perfect providential hand of God. So David knows. That I will take refuge till the storms of destruction pass by It's not a conflict. They go together. It's not obvious to us. But that's the truth. The refuge for the psalmist was not that he would be brought out of the suffering, out of the tribulation. It was not a complete shelter from continued turmoil. It was a place of protection for David's soul while he waited out the storm. He was experiencing the storm. He was in it by God's design. It was pounding down upon him. David knew it. He was suffering in it, but he knew that this would not be his demise. Because he was under the shadow of the wings of God. And so he would wait He would feel all of the effects of the wicked men around him, but because he remained in the shelter of the wings of the Most High, David would come out unscathed. How do we know? Look at verse three. He will send from heaven and save me. He will put to shame him who tramples on me. God will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness. This is David's trust. He knows what will come in the future. This is prophetic. This is God's revelation to David, and he's writing it down for us so that we would know this is how he can be in the refuge of God and wait upon the passing storm and know that he will come out unscathed Because it's God who is protecting, it's God who will send and save him, it's God who will send out his steadfast love and his faithfulness. It's a picture of Christ, isn't it? David is a type of Christ. David is a picture of the one to come, the only true son of God, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And here we see David as a subject of hard providences of God coming upon the head of David. Who is called to endure, to persevere, to suffer through much hardship just as Jesus did. In an even greater way. David is a picture of the righteous one suffering the hard providences of God, the God ordained, the God planned, the God-directing and disposing providence. He's pointing to the Messiah, to Jesus, who would indeed lie down in the midst of lions. The midst of fiery beasts, who had a net set for him, whose soul was bowed down. Doesn't that describe Jesus? Can one think of a harder, more severe suffering providence than that which our Savior endured upon the cross? In his innocence he felt the fire of the insults and offenses of the Pharisees. By God's eternal plan, Jesus Christ was led to the cross by wicked men, tried and convicted of crimes that he did not commit, guilty only of seeking to do the will of his Father. And love the children of God, abandoned by faithless disciples, or those of little faith. As they feared men and neglected their oaths of loyalty, he exchanged places with the murderer, so that he could lay down his own life and suffer the ultimate hard providence of a cursed death upon a tree. All these things by the providential working of his Heavenly Father, even as He remained in the refuge Of his Father, brought about by the Father's eternal plan of salvation Are you suffering through the hard providences of God? Tonight It seems to be that the call tonight is by and through this and other Psalms is not to suffer for suffering's sake. It's not that God is a cruel God who enjoys watching his children enter into and endure hardship and pain, no. No, if you're suffering hard providences tonight, or maybe this week, or next month, you must understand why you suffer. It may be as a chastisement for sin committed, a temporal punishment. But tonight in this particular psalm, the suffering was encountered by the psalmist, by David, for doing the right thing. For seeking to uphold the perfect law of God, for seeking to be faithful to his God. Remember, he cut off the edge of Saul's robe and then he was smitten in his heart. He couldn't strike Saul physically because he was the Lord's anointed. And so he was doing the right thing. David obeyed and he suffered. And through it all David was molded and shaped into that vessel who would be able to write this psalm. And so if that describes the providential hardship that you're suffering tonight or that you might suffer this week, You're being shaped. You're being molded. Behold, I've refined you, but not as silver. I've tested you in the furnace of affliction. Isaiah forty-eight. We know that God causes all things to work together for good for those who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose. Romans eight See, the dross of your sin nature of the old man is being burned off through trials and tribulations and afflictions, being more and more conformed to Christ. And this is not done by mere human will. These changes take place within our hearts, by the work of the Spirit. Why do athletes have coaches? Think of runners or swimmers or maybe even football players. Because they need someone to push them to do the hard things that they would not likely do on their own. And the Christians' coaches are the hard providences of God the Father. Our hearts are so inclined to self and self-pleasing that in a significant way we must be forced to learn, forced to adopt the righteous way of the Lord Jesus Christ. So don't miss that you're being led through hard providences, that you're being taught again and again and again That you have nothing within yourself to lean upon. Do not lean upon your own understanding. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. That you have no ability or power either to deliver yourself from a difficult providence nor to sustain yourself while you're in it. The storm that you're going through is going to be too powerful. Providential events, circumstances must come as God has planned them for the good of the believer to purify you. And in that purification to cause you to depend more fully, more completely upon the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Knowing that through them you're being conformed more and more to the image of Jesus as you remain in the shelter and the refuge provided by the Triune God. And so you need to ask yourself, am I actually growing? As I receive these hard providences. David was Till the storms of destruction pass by. That brings us to our third point, our third head. An increase of thanksgiving. And so what's the result? David in refuge under the wings of God, waiting for the storms of destruction to pass by, but in the storm of destruction. Within the tribulation, within the within the trial. The hard providence being laid upon David. What's the result? It seems to be an increase in praise. Look at verse 7. My heart is steadfast. Oh God, my heart is steadfast. I will sing and make melody. Consider that. Consider where David is. He's fleeing from Saul. He just had the opportunity to do away with Saul, and because he chose the righteous path by the work of the Spirit. He continues to flee. And as he flees in the cave, so to speak, he's singing. My heart is steadfast. I will sing and make melody. Awake my glory. Awake, O harp and lyre. I will awake the dawn. What's David saying? My praise is going to be so significant, so loud. That I'm going to awake the morning. I'm going to cause the sun to rise. I'm going to cause the sun to beam down on the entire earth. That's how much I'm going to awake my praise. I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds. It's personal. It's an individual praise. There's a recognition of what the Lord has done for David, how God has been that true resting place, his refuge, even as difficult hardships are brought laid upon him as he's in that storm. Even as he continues to run and hide, even when he's unable and prevented from joining the congregation, the assembly, the throng to worship, and yet the psalmist David individually with much zeal praises God and worships his God. It seems as though it's increasing. Did you notice the refrain? Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, let your glory be over all the earth. That's verse five. And then we see that increase. In praise, and he says it again, he writes it again: be exalted, O God, above the heavens, let your glory be over all the earth. It's increasing. Even in the midst of the storm, I will sing praises to you among the nations. He wants all people to hear of his thanksgiving to God, the Lord Most High. He wants them to see what God has been doing in his heart through hard providences. And he wants them to see how his worship escalates. Because he sees he knows that in all these circumstances, in all things, even in these hard providences, that God is good That Jehovah is triumphing, that the Lord is bringing all things into perfection, including David the King and David the psalmist. That God is working all things for his own glory. And that results in an increase of praise for him. Did you get that? God is working all things for his glory, and that works more praise in David. Suffering then works praise for God. That's not the way we think, is it? That our suffering results in praise for God. It works glory for God. Because David was becoming the king that God desired him to be. And as David was better than for the kingdom. For the people of God, it brought more glory to God. Because he was Placed under God's hard providence It really is a description of the cross, isn't it? It really is a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ suffering. Because the suffering of Jesus Christ worked praise for God And the cross was and is the glory of God, isn't it? If Satan felt that he was achieving victory through the cross, no, no, no. It was God. Who is accomplishing the victory? Through his son. It was God who was giving up his son, who was giving over his son. Who's been demonstrating his everlasting and eternal love for his son Which worked to bring him glory. You see that in And the high priestly prayer of Jesus in John chapter 17. When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son. That the Son may glorify you. Do you see Jesus was saying the hour has come. The cross is is next for me Hour has come through the cross, through this hard providence that I must suffer Glorify your Son through it. And as you do In that hard providence of the cross, let me, the Son, glorify you. Do you think that way? Next time you're in that hard providence, ask the Spirit to bring you to that point where you can say yes, Lord. Help me. Keep me in your refuge until a storm passes by. But make sure that through this that you get all the glory. It's only as you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ that you can think that. That you can say that, that you can pray that. Yes, the hard providences of God result in an escalation of praise. As long as the believer's confidence is grounded in the Lord Jesus Christ. God does prune, doesn't he? He prunes every believer. That's exactly what we see in this Psalm tonight. David was being pruned so that more fruit Would come from David. And if we can say it this way, that more glory would be given to his Father. Amen. Father, our God, it is hard to suffer. None of us here enjoy it, and we know that Jesus did not enjoy the suffering, the hard providence of the cross. And yet he went willingly, knowing and having the joy set before him on the other side of the cross. And so help us, Lord God, as you keep us in the refuge of your hand under the shadow of your wings as the storm swirls. And thunders and flashes around us, as you place us in hard providences. Help us to remember by you the work of your Spirit, to know that you're shaping and molding us for our good. And you're making us more like Christ, who suffered hard providences on our behalf, all for your glory. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.