I would uh like to uh direct your attention now to the Word of God, to our uh ongoing uh series of sermons in 1 Timothy, and uh the subject matter last mu last uh week, last Lord's Day, and uh and tonight is um case of widows and uh how they are to be uh uh uh treated within the Church of the Lord Jesus. Um You find the words here of Paul under divine inspiration, and I especially want to emphasize that. You'll find these words to be uh very practical. And uh certainly from uh today's perspective uh uh almost antiquated. And yet all the more why I think we ought to pay careful attention to what is said here. So, 1 Timothy 5, 11 through 16. Let's go back up to verse 9. Verses 9 and 10 we looked at last time. Do not let a widow under 60 years old be taken into the number. And not unless she has been the wife of one man, well reported for good works, if she has bought up brought up children, if she has lodged strangers, if she has washed the saints' feet, if she has relieved the afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work But refuse the younger widows. For when they have begun to grow wanton against Christ, they desire to marry. having condemnation because they have cast off their first faith. Some may have it love. And besides, they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house, not only idle, but also gossips and busybodies saying things which they ought not. Therefore I desire that the younger widows marry, bear children, manage the house, Give no opportunity to the adversary to speak reproachfully. For some have already turned aside after Satan. If any believing man or woman has widows, let them relieve them, and do not let the church be burdened. that they may relieve those who are truly widows. Thus far is the reading of God's word. The whole subject matter of people who are candidates for what we call the Achinal Ministry uh may seem to be a uh a pretty easy, pretty straightforward matter. And yet, when we think about candidates to be deacons in the church, we note that there are qualifications for them written in 1 Timothy chapter 3. And among those qualifications are the general qualifications of wisdom and being full of the Spirit. This idea of just ministering to people who are in need needs a lot of wisdom. And we we have here in our text a specific question about the case of widows. And we see how the Apostle Paul is instructing Timothy about how the church is to view the matter of widows, both older widows and now younger widows. And uh and he has uh what sounds somewhat to our more modern ears uh fairly harsh words to say. And yet as you get to the full completion of this section, we understand that his reason for saying these things has to do with don't let a diaconal need presented to you by a widow in this case, or really in any other case, become A burden to the church, become a burden to the church, because it it surely can pretty easily Um because because I think by nature we're all very compassionate and by nature by renewed nature as a Christian we're we're taught to to to be even more compassionate uh to those who are needy. So uh this is a uh this is a you'll notice that the the line that Paul is drawing here in the sand is a very precise line. And he's not just arbitrarily drawing the line. He's giving what he considers to be substantial reasons for his position. When we think of a widow who would be a candidate for minute for the diaconal relief from the church, We discussed this last week and just to remind you the points that we we talked about coming out of flowing out of verse 5. She that is a widow indeed. Desolate, trusts in God, continues supplications and prayers night and day, and then uh You add to that the words in verse 10, one who is well reported of for her good works. If she has brought up children, if she has lodged strangers, if she has washed the saints' feet, if she has relieved the afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work. These are the brackets around which Paul organizes his thoughts about what constitutes a widow who would be uh the object of of diaconal help in the church. And we see that for Paul, it's important that she be at least 60 years of age, verse 9. that being that old she is destitute. Desolate. She has no money. She can't find two coins to rub together. Uh um and and that would be in and of itself a rather uh uh uh uh uh interesting um phenomenon for having lived that long you would think that she would be able to save some and that with her husband's support If she'd been a recent widow, they would have a little bit put away. But so so it's he's looking at a very specific case of a widow who may have had at some point the support of her husband, but he's gone and she's turned sixty, which by the way is an older age for that period of time. People didn't live that long. And she finds herself really in poverty. She doesn't have anywhere to turn. But even with that said, The first place Paul says she should turn to, and he says it twice, verses four and eight, is to her family. Of course, to her immediate family, and then even to her nephews and nieces. Or And then he goes on to say she is the wife of one man. And all of this, again, is to do several things. It's to prevent the church from being burdened. Number one. And it's also too designed to have others who are in the church uh take the take the lead in providing for their kin, their relatives and and and actually enables them to do a good work uh to one who is in need But now the the shift turns in Paul's thinking, and he wants us, he wants Timothy, who after all he's put in charge of the church in Ephesus. To prevent uh false doctrine, to promote sound doctrine, and to encourage uh the fellowship within the church and to see that there are elders Deacons elected in the church to assist him in the job of ministering to the church, he wants to give him some very practical advice. And I suppose Inspect this practical advice is born out of his own experience. Paul's own experience. What if a young widow comes to you. A young widow. Now he doesn't precisely give the age, uh, but I would I would suspect he's talking about someone who's had the misfortune very early in her marriage of uh of losing her husband. And and so that would argue for someone in the 20 to 40 range. He says, verse eleven, to the younger widows refuse. For when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry. You remember how Paul told Timothy previously in in Timothy that not only was he to prevent uh false teachers from getting into the church and spreading uh unbelief, but he was also to refuse and to reject old wives' tales And not uh uh uh and uh they even though they may sound like they're pious or godly phrases, but they really aren't. Um And it's the same word that's used for rejecting profane and old wise fables as is used here for refusing widows. Now he says he says why they are to be refused. And it has to do with their desires. When they begin to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry. By waxing walton, that's the old English, the King James, uh, but waxing wanton means that They are um growing more and more anxious against Christ Or their anxiety is taking them in a direction different than it is than toward Christ. In other words, they're thinking more and more about that husband to be and the desire to marry than they are about Christ. And it's it's that kind of progression that occurs And you can see it happening in a person who's desiring, even a Christian who desires very much to be married, And yet is having difficulty making that happen or finding the right person. And the progression goes something like this. They want the safety and the security of marriage, but they begin to have passion for the idea of marriage. In and of itself. And the the widow in particular may want to remarry so badly that it becomes an all-consuming activity It becomes, you know, they they profess to know to know Christ and believe in Christ. They're obviously part of the church. They're coming for help But their there's but their their focus is in the wrong place. Their focus is on the desire to be married. That when it becomes waxing wanton, it becomes nothing less than idolatry. As if marriage is the the be-all and end-all of all problems Thank you. I didn't have to say it. For God's wonderful institution and it has its blessings, but those who are married understand that it is not the be-all and end-all of all problems It just brings on another new set of problems. But I don't know if you've seen it, but I've seen it many times where Um where a person who otherwise is a sound believer, I usually see it with younger women, They will become so enamored with the idea of marrying a Christian man that that's all they can think about. That's all they can think about. That's all they'll talk about. And pretty soon all they think about and all they talk about If it doesn't result in the end desire, what they'll do is they'll begin to ignore Some of the qualifications that God talks about for godly husbands. Say the Ephesians 5 passage, beginning at verse 25. And they'll they'll cast that aside, uh. thinking that, well, you know, second best will work out if I can just find a guy who loves me. A widow, if I can just find a man who will take care of me. And and surely Surely that's a scary situation to find yourself in if you're a widow, suddenly a young widow, maybe with children, and probably not with much of a bankroll To find yourself without help, to find yourself alone But does it not, this waxing wanton, notice he says it's against Christ. Does that not display a gradual lack of trust in God's provision? For the widow? Does it not feed into our more base understanding, our base desires that, well, nobody's really going to take care of me, so I've got to take care of myself? And God doesn't single out young widows Or he doesn't ignore young widows. He doesn't single them out for no care. But that's what happens. That's that's this waxing wanton against Christ Compromising of standards in order to get what you want Refusing, excuse me, not refusing, but ignoring God's best for you in His Word and what He wants for marriage. In order to be married. And it becomes, as I said, an all-consuming support. Now, if you think that what I have said is in some way error, there's an interesting Greek phenomenon in this verse 11. that uh uh that really supports the point that I'm making. Listen again, but the young widows refuse. For when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry. And it's those two words, will marry, where the phenomenon is occurs. When you hear those phrases, you think, we'll marry, and you think, oh. In English we would call that a future tense. Something that will she will want to do in the near future. Will marry. Will occur. Will happen. In the Greek, the Greek is real precise about tenses. And it's it's when you when you have a tense, you you have the same kind of tenses that you do in English. But they're the the the base the base word becomes added to and sometimes actually modified. And that's how you know you've got a different tense going on here. Well, in this case, it isn't a future tense. It's actually two Greek words. The word for will is a Greek word, like I will that to happen. I decree or I want that to happen. And then coupled on to that is Mary. So literally translated, it's b to uh uh to uh take out the ambiguity here. Literally translated, it would say, exercise thy excuse me, not there, they began to wax wanton against Christ, they Will to marry. They will to marry. And everything, everything in their life becomes geared toward accomplishing their objective and fulfilling their will. Does make sense? And that really emphasizes it, it gives more support to the point I'm making and what Paul is making. Paul says that in addition to refusing to help young widows, verse 12. They have damnation because they have cast off their first faith Now that uh that particular Greek word is got three translations. Damnation, the King James translates it. New King James translates it, condemnation And other texts translate it judgment. And I prefer the translation judgment. The young widow will be judged because she has cast off her first faith. Or her first love. Again, if you pursue something, pursuing something other than Christ, and making that the object of your will, is idolatry. It is also it is also loving something else more than Christ So you love the idea more than Christ. So obviously what's going on here is the young woman has a spiritual, sinful problem that needs to be addressed. If she's caught up in this. And Paul says it's almost natural that some of this is going to happen in a young lady who's under that kind of pressure. The kind of pressure of losing her husband and has to suddenly provide for herself and possibly her family. She will still act in such a way that she says, you know, she loves Christ, but there's mixed messages going on here. She has lost her first love. In the language of Revelation 2, verse 4, where Paul speaks about the Ephesian church. He says, I have this against you because you've left your first love So Paul says, you know, in a sense, he doesn't finish out the idea. He just says, refuse them because they come into judgment. And they've cast off their first love. But, you know, if if you find somebody who's in that category The the pastoral instinct ought to take over and they ought to say to that woman, uh, you need to get your life right with God before you try to get your life right with a man you don't know. Get first things right first. He's the one you need to love. And remember earlier when I read uh from uh Psalm 147 There is an interesting uh connection uh to this in Psalm 147. Verse 5 and following, who executes God executes judgment for the oppressed, who gives food to the hungry. Freedom to the prisoners. He opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord raises those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous I didn't read this part, but it goes on. The Lord watches over strangers, he relieves the fatherless and the widows. The interesting connection is that we forget that the Lord does have special concern for widows. And I made that point the last time Remember how many times the scripture talks about Jesus ministering to widows. And caring for widows. The Lord has special concern. And, you know, anyone who suddenly finds themselves as Widows um i if they if they wait upon the Lord are going to find that special concern. I I do remember one lady in the church that we went to in uh in Pennsylvania when we were at seminary, who was a widow. And I I do remember her to this day saying, you know Uh I remember uh the special care that the Lord has for widows. The love that He has for widows. I've been I've been blessed to know that In a very in a very real but yet almost somewhat ethereal way. She experiences the Lord as her husband. Now of course Paul goes on to finish out this this what seems to be this this unrelenting uh downfall of the spiritual vitality of this woman. He goes on to give further reasons not to help. He says, verse 13 As they learn to be idle, they wander from house to house. And if that was not bad enough, they become tattlers and busybodies Speaking things which they ought not. The first problem is they're idle. They've got too much time on their hands. And they're not focused in the right place. Why are they wandering from house to house? Why are they becoming toddlers and busybodies? Because they want support. If not money, they want emotional support the support of others to come alongside with them. Their emotions are all whacked out of shape. And that impacts what they say. And that's why I read James earlier about the tongue. We can tame ships, we can tame horses, we can make them go in the way we wish them to go, but no man has been able to tame the tongue. The tendency is toward gossip. The tendency is toward bad kinds of speech. And when one or more kinds of persons get involved in this kind of bad kind of use of the tongue, it becomes a forest fire. A flame set on fire by hell. I used to pastor two churches In South Dakota. Fortunately, I didn't have to do that too long. But one church was set in the countryside. And by countryside in South Dakota, that means one family every ten miles. Uh but through the advancement of modern technology at that time known as the telephone. I tell you, the people there, n particularly the ladies, although the men did it too, so it can't be just the ladies They knew when the pastor of that church left his house. They knew where he went, and they knew what time he got back. And they would tell me about it. Unreal But it's just, especially if there's some kind of problem going on, busybodies get to talking, and gossip becomes the norm Paul's overall solution to the problem of young widows, church refuse. But then he says, I will, or I desire, I want, I will that younger woman marry. Bear children, guide the house, give no occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully. Verse 14. You see, it seems that if the right course of action is that she remarry. And that hopefully, even though I said that there's this unnatural progression that goes along If she marries the right person for the right reasons, it solves the problems It takes the the onus off the burden off the church and it satisfies the why the young widow's needs And it does and and you know you just you just look at Paul's prescription and uh Gee, how far we've come in my lifetime where what he has to say there sounds almost So out of date, so out of touch. But it is God's word And it does work. It does work. And it does not allow the adversary the opportunity to re to speak reproachfully. And of course the adversary is then later defined as Satan. And Satan is always out there trying to speak against Christ. We shouldn't let ourselves be either witting or unwitting messengers of his bitterness And his attempt to destroy the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. The word for reproachfully is A word we don't use, but it's mocking, speaking falsely, speaking false accusations against Christ. Paul's solution for young widows actually leads to putting her in the position she desires With a godly husband, with a home, it protects the gospel, it protects the name of Christ, it limits her opportunities to sin. And it limits Satan's ability to target her, to upset the witness of the church It's very practical. And Sentiment sentiment will inevitably get in the way of doing this. Hard thing to do. But think about the implications. So this is a a word of practicality uh but but based on you know sound principles and it's part of how Timothy is to lead the church at Ephesus as Paul's under shepherd. Or as the shepherd there for the sheep, but as uh Paul's student Amen. Let us pray. Oh Father, we um we thank you Lord for these words and um thank you Father for uh allowing them to uh continue to remain uh um the the um the blessing that they are um Help us, Lord, to, when we're faced with the difficult decisions to make, to remember these words, and may they be guides to us. As we want to help, but let us help, Lord, in the way in which you ordain, the way in which you approve. in the way in which you have spoken. For truly, that is hell. In Christ's name we pray, Amen.