Please remain standing. And I'd like you to turn to Luke chapter one and like to focus on the The news that came through the ministry of the angel Gabriel, first to Zacharias and then to Mary. And uh I'm uh going to just read, even though it says 1 through 45, I'm just going to read the the pre- the beginning of this section. And then I will be reading other parts of the passage during the message. I'm just going to focus at this moment on verses 1 through 4. Inasmuch as many have taken in hand to set in order a narrative of those things which have been fulfilled among us. Just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word delivered them to us It seemed good to me, also having had perfect understanding of all things. from the very first, to write to you an orderly account, most excellent Theophilus, that you may know the certainty of those things in which you were instructed. Thus far is the reading of God's Word. Please now be seated. I'm not sure about you, but I find myself increasingly distressed at all the bad news that I See with my eyes and hear with my ears. There's nowhere to go, hardly where you can escape it. If you turn to the weather, it's bad accidents with critical pile-ups and 55 cars uh backed up in an accident on 95 as it was yesterday Or if you hear other things, you hear that there's grave problems with our cybersecurity. And what the effects of that might mean. That there's bad news in some of our major cities with all the numerous hundreds of murders that have occurred this past year. And if that isn't enough bad news for you, in the aftermath of our recent election, we are now told That there's an undetermined amount, not just of bad news, but fake news Can you believe that? Fake news. One of the biggest Impacts and effects of this onslaught of bad news and fake news Is that it leaves some of you thinking in your minds, in your hearts, I don't know what to believe anymore. I don't know who to trust. And the connected questions along with that is a statement What am I to base my decisions on for how I live my life? Are we believers? Have we believers reached the stage? Those of us who say we have a Christian world of life view, have we reached the point Where we are like Pilate wondering, what is truth? I am not here to give you bad news or fake news. I'm not giving propaganda today or lies. That is Satan's job. And he's doing a good job of it. I am here to give you good news. I am here to give you glad tidings. I'm here to give you glad tidings straight from the only source you can trust. The Bible, God's Word, His truth Isn't it amazing that Luke felt that he wanted to give to Theophilus and others, or God in him, wanted to give to Theophilus and others Information that would make the certainty of what they believed be important to them Well, there might be some skeptics out there. Hope not here, but Could be out there on the internet. And I only ask you to do one thing. Same thing God, the Word of God, asks. Let him who has ears to hear, let him here. You don't have to turn far in the Bible to find good news, to find God's good news. And it's all focused on the imminent and then completed birth of his son Jesus Christ God does not then or now let his people hear anything but the truth from his messengers. Be they the prophets of old, or the angels we have heard on high, or even from his son. The last prophet, the incarnate word, the word in the flesh. I'd like to show you from this long passage, which I know you're all familiar with, how the angel Gabriel, who was instrumental in announcing the birth of Jesus Christ, Conforms to God's way of validating truth God's way of validating truth, and therefore his message, should not be seen as a lie, but be seen as absolute certainty And consequently, good news. What is God's way of validating the truth of any manner, of any matter? Well, you probably know because I've said it a lot times. It's Deuteronomy chapter 19, verse 15. One witness shall not rise up against the man for any iniquity or for any sin, in any sin that he sends. At the mouth of two witnesses or at the mouth of three witnesses shall the matter be established. Not just throwing news out there to see if it sticks. But at the mouth of two or three witnesses. This is eminently practical. And it's essential and it's important to understand how this impacts you. You see, God, who is all-wise and all-knowing, realizes that because of the corruption of men's sins, heart man's sinful heart He had to provide a way for his people to separate truth from lies. Good news from bad news. One man's word of alleged truth was not enough to establish the matter as true. Two or more individuals must agree before any allegation of truth could become fact. Of course, this provision can be and was routinely violated. Even as it is today. You can find examples of wicked men abusing this God-given principle to attain their own agendas. Most egregious of this wickedness. Of lacking, of finding several so-called witnesses, resides in those who falsely accuse Jesus. But I have found it astonishing to me that God Himself communicates truth to His people. regularly displaying his commitment to his own principles. The principle established for truth and good news. that he records in Deuteronomy 1915. Let's look at Luke chapter 1 and see how this plays out We see in this larger section, we see the instrumentality of the angel Gabriel. The angel being the messenger of God, speaking to men First, in verses 5 through 25 to Zacharias, who is the father of John the Baptist And secondly, to marry the mother of Jesus, in verses 26 through 38. We see here, and what Gabriel had to say, are the events in history that lead up to the birth of Jesus Christ Who is the embodiment of good news? Zecharias, the father of John the Baptist, was visited by Gabriel. God chose to show to Zecharias a lower division priest in the temple of God. whose job it was to light the altar of incense inside the temple, he chose to reveal God's good news to him. By divine providence and by divine revelation, Zecharias was about to gain knowledge of what it was that God was going to do for his people. He sent Gabriel. God sent Gabriel, verse nineteen. To meet with Zecharias alone inside the temple where only a ritually cleansed priest could go while Zecharias was doing his responsibilities. God told Zecharias that he would give him a son. He also told him that this was in fulfillment. Don't miss this point. This was in fulfillment of Zecharias' prayers. The angel said to him in verse 13, Fear not, Zecharias, for thy prayer is heard. What prayer? Thy wife, Elizabeth, shall bear a child. You shall call his name John You shall have joy and gladness. Many shall rejoice at his birth. Why shall they rejoice at his birth? Gabriel goes on to say in verse 15, he shall be great in the sight of the Lord. Furthermore, he shall not drink neither wine nor strong drink, in accordance with Nazarite vows. But that isn't the most important thing here. He shall be filled with the Holy Ghost. from his mother's womb. Many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God. I mean think about this This is an angel speaking to one man in a private setting where nobody else hears anything. And then all Zecharias has done is been regularly praying for the Lord to give him a child. And this is the fulfillment of that prayer. Rather extravagant, isn't it? Let's see. And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah. Where did you hear Elijah this morning during our service? Malachi four. Malachi four, part of the prophecy that before the righteous One of God would return. The spirit of Elijah would embody a prophet. He shall come. Let's see. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the distrobe to the wisdom of the just, to make ready, all of that, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. What Gabriel told to Zacharias is a conflation or a summary of three Old Testament promises. 2 in Isaiah, excuse me, 1 in Isaiah, Isaiah 40, verse 3 and 4, and then 2 in Malachi, Malachi 3, 1, and Malachi 4. 5. Go back, you can look them up yourself, and you can see how what Zecharias is saying is taking pieces from those three passages. and applying them to this birth of Zacharias's son. And he even gave him the name, John. So, what is Zacharias to do with this? He certainly hears him because he doubts He doubts God the message that Zechariah brings. He doesn't believe that God another way of saying he doubts, given what has been said, is He doesn't believe that his own very specific prayers for a son are being fulfilled. And, you know, we can all cut him some slack. I mean, this isn't the normal everyday thing that happens. But still. You see Zecharias' doubt in verse 18. He said to the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I'm an old man. My wife is well stricken in years. And the angel responds, more information. More information for a doubter. More information for one who has been given this great promise. More, shall I say, good news. The angel answering, saying, I am Gabriel, that stands in the presence of God, and I am sent to speak to you. To show you these glad tidings. If you take all of what Everything that Zecharias has said, excuse me, Gabriel has said to Zecharias and summed it up. It's glad tidings. Good news. Gospel, dare I say. Well now Zecharias is done And it's said furthermore he can't speak because he didn't believe this message. So he goes home to his wife. That must have been an interesting conversation of someone who can't speak trying to communicate to his wife that she's going to get pregnant. And she's old. Just imagine that. But but she does. She concedes. And they bear a son. And the son's name is known forever as John the Baptist. And his ministry follows up In the rest of Luke, the early parts of Luke, you hear about his ministry, but it is fundamentally a ministry of preparing the hearts of God's people to repent and believe. and prepare for the coming of the great King Jesus. Well let's switch gears We've seen Gabriel speak to John the Baptist. Lo and behold, Gabriel comes and speaks to Mary, the mother of Jesus, in verses 26 through 45 of our passage. He gives Mary some more good news. Not bad news, but good news. Verse 30. The angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for what thou hast found favor in the sight of the Lord. Behold, you shall conceive in your womb. And bring forth a son. And you shall call his name, Jesus. Savior. He shall be great, and he shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his Father And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and over his kingdom there shall be no end. A son is going to be born. His name is Jesus. You know, notice, notice there's no parental privilege here of naming their children They're told what to name because each of those names imply what mission they're going to perform. His name is Jesus. And furthermore, it's clear that this Jesus is going to be someone In the statue of David, a great king, who will have an eternal kingdom. The kingdom will have no end. Well naturally, you know, Mary's going to ask some questions, and Gabriel provides answers to her questions. Look at verse 34 and following. Mary said to the angel, How shall this be, since I know not a man? How can this be? How can I have a baby? How can I have a baby? I don't I haven't known a man. I haven't been with a man. How can I be pregnant? And the angel said to her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon you, and the power of the Most High shall overshadow thee. And therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. More if so. And he went on, behold, your cousin Elizabeth She also conceived a son in her old age, which by the way, God has often done in the Old Testament, in the scriptures. Abraham? Remember? It's not it's not old age previously barren. Um Hannah Another example. And then Mar and then we get Mary's reception We get the angel concluding his remarks, verse 37, for nothing, for with God nothing shall be impossible. Even birth from a virgin. Which, by the way, if you know your Bible, is fulfillment of Isaiah 7. 14 Mary responds, Behold the handmaid of the Lord, let it be to me according to thy word. When the angel departed from her, good news met with faith, belief And so a little later, Mary visits her cousin, Elizabeth. And by this time, Elizabeth is six months pregnant. And I wonder if Mary's visit isn't Remember, Gabriel had told her Elizabeth's pregnant. Maybe there's a little bit of Mary wanting to go see. Again, if Gabriel what Gabriel has said is happened to Elizabeth is really happening so that w it might be happening it is happening to me. And it says that she went, verse 39 is following, Mary rose in those days and went into the hill country with haste. So she went fairly quickly into the city of Judah and entered into the house of Zacharias and saluted Elizabeth. And it came to pass that when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the baby leapt in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit, and she spoke with a loud voice. And said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. And whence is this to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me I mean there's there's obviously a lot of work God is doing and has already done in Elizabeth's mind and her thinking And her understanding. Blessed art thou among women, blessed is the fruit of thy womb, and whence is this to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me. For lo, as soon as the voice of thy salvation sounded in my ears, the baby leapt in my womb. Not because he wanted to exercise, but it says he left for joy. Blessed is she that believed. That's Elizabeth's commentary on Mary. Blessed is she that believed. For there shall be a performance of those things which recold her from the Lord. Don't you see? Gabriel speaks to two witnesses. Zacharias and Mary And what he says are connected. And you just have to connect the dots. But the dots are all around the birth of the Son of God. The good news: John will be the forerunner. He will prepare the way of the Lord. And Mary will bear the son who will be the king and the savior. And it's good news. And it's glad tidings. With God and His Word There is good news. Well, you might say, well, how is it so good that we, you know, Israel slaughtered so many people on a particular day. Or how is it so good that God decimated his own people for sin? That doesn't sound like much good news. It's all set in a context It's all pointing to Christ and our need for Christ. There are there is bad news when when God's people don't repent of their sin. God's going to bring judgment. But the good news is that the judgment will fall first on his son And those who believe in him, no matter what they have done, can be saved through faith that God will give them. We have the good news, the Word of God. The world has bad news and fake news. We have God's way. The world has the way of sinful men and the evil one. We have two witnesses to the truth. That Theophilus might know with certainty. And the rest of us might know with certainty. It's incredible to me that God follows his own word here. His own and and and because we have God's God's witness to the truth by two. The messenger, Gabriel, to to Zecharias, and then to Mary, and then even Elizabeth gets in on the picture. So you've got maybe two or three witnesses now. Not maybe, you do. You've got two or three witnesses. They've all had this news delivered. Now how do we know it's certain? How do we know it's true? Go back to Deuteronomy 19, 15. It's there. God's doing it. According to his own plan, according to his own ways, that he has instructed his people. In the world In man's ever-increasing world of sin, there is a profound aversion to the truth. God's truth, and even to truth among men. When it doesn't suit anyone's agenda Truth can be twisted into the lie. And will be. In God's truth, you can live Because God's truth can be verified, not just two or three witnesses, all throughout here, all throughout the Word. You can absolutely count on God's word. You can live by it. You can set your clock by it. You can have peace by it. You can have hope. In the world's words, you live in a lie It's fake news. It's bad news. And the danger is for God's people that it creates disorientation spiritually. There's always the danger that we get caught up in the lie. And we get our mind and our hearts focused on the lie and get our eyes and our hearts focused. Get our eyes and our hearts taken away from that which is truth. We get disoriented, we get discouraged, we despair It may not be a bad thing to throw that TV away And spend some time on the word. It may be a good thing for your spiritual sanity. The world in which we live is dominated by men who are so mad. And I mean mad crazy. That they're under the influence of fake news and they propagate fake news And it's all bad. And in the end, they end up with no hope Only despair and ruin and everlasting death. They become so consumed by fake news They have no time for the truth or the good news. I do implore you, live by God's word Live by the words of Gabriel, the rest of Scripture. Put your confidence in God and His truth and His way of revealing truth. God's word brings life, not death. God's word brought John, and God's word brought Jesus And no amount of the world's twisting of those two men's ministry will ever obscure the facts. He brought good news. The good news of John preaching the baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sin. And the good news of Jesus Christ, so that his words are life. Eternal life. What is the glad tidings Gabriel was sent by God to give to Zecharias. It is the same glad tidings that Gabriel gave to Mary. And the Lord later gave to Joseph in a dream. In Matthew 1, verses 20 and 21. Joseph is thinking about the angel's communication to him. It says, while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph. Thou, son of David, fear not to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She shall bring forth a son And you shall call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. That's the best news you're ever gonna hear. If you're a seeker Of the truth today. Stop tuning into the world of fake news. Ignore it. You need much more in your life than what's going to happen in the stock market tomorrow. Or who the next president is going to be. Seek the goodness where it is found. Seek Jesus where he can be found. Not in a rock somewhere in the pall. Seek him in the word. Read. I challenge you. Read Matthew 1 and Matthew 2. And as you read, check out every cross-reference. listed in the margins of these two chapters of the Bible. You'll spend as much time On that, if you do it right, you'll spend as much time as you would watch the T watch the Redskins. And this will be much more profitable to your spiritual welfare. Seek God's truth from those Old Testament promises that are fulfilled in Matthew 1 and 2. Wonder and ask yourself, can this be true? If you truly want to know the answer to your own question, read Matthew 3. Check out the cross references. Then Matthew 4. Then Matthew 5. And then all the way to Matthew 28. Read the entire gospel. Of Matthew. And I pray that God will confirm you in the truth that Jesus is the good news born to save you from your sin. And again, that's the greatest Good news you're ever going to hear. And the good thing about the good news, as long as you keep nourishing it, it doesn't fade away. And for those who are believers, rejoice. God has delivered you from the lie of Satan. That's where the bad news comes from. He has delivered you from the lies of Satan and placed you into the kingdom of God. The good news, the king has come. And he has saved his people from their sins. And he has brought them into the kingdom of life and not kept them chained into the kingdom of darkness. And the light you have is the life of eternity. And it is the truth. Amen. And let us pray. O God, to us show mercy Forgive us, O Lord, for the countless many times that you have revealed to us so many things and truth in your word, and Lord, we have just ignored it. Or we have not taken time to think about it, pray about it, meditate upon it, chew on it Allow it to penetrate into our hearts, but we have been too busy. Oh Lord, help work in all of our hearts That we'd never be too busy to hear good news. Amen