And then you turn in your copy of God's Word now once again to Matthew's gospel. We'll be in chapter 28 this morning. Be reading the same verses that we read earlier this morning. But our focus in the preaching of God's Word will be on verse seven. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Matthew chapter 28. Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen. As he said, Come, see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. And behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings! And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. As far as the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we now come back to this passage we read earlier today, help none of us to think that we've already squeezed out all the learning possible. Help us to see more of you, more of Christ. Lead us, Holy Spirit. That Christ would be exalted. Work powerfully now in our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well who have you told? Who have you told that Jesus is risen? Throughout Scripture, men have been sent out to proclaim God's word. Moses was called by God at the bush that was on fire yet not consumed. And the Lord told him that he was going to send him to Pharaoh. And Moses' response was, Who am I that I should go? When Isaiah was called, as he was viewing the throne room of the Lord, as he was speaking with the Lord himself. And as the Lord said, Whom shall I send who will go for us? Isaiah raises his hand and said, Here I am, send me. And the Lord said, Go and say to this people, Keep on hearing, but do not understand, keep on seeing. But do not perceive. That was the message Isaiah was sent to proclaim. Earlier we read from Jeremiah In his call by the Lord. The Lord who said, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. Before you were born, I consecrated you, I appointed you. A prophet to the nations. And Jeremiah's response was, Behold, I do not know how to speak. And then if you remember the Apostle Paul, before he was an apostle, he was the one persecuting the church. And as the Lord reveals himself to Paul, he sends him out. I think you can count up the three missionary journeys that Paul went on in the book of Acts of the Apostles. And then we read in Second Corinthians, five times I received at the hands of Jews forty lashes, less one. Three times I was beaten with rod, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, and night and day I was adrift at sea on frequent journeys in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from my own people These men were called to go and tell In the text we have before us this morning, we have two women who were called to go quickly and tell. It seems to be the focal point of the verse we're going to be studying this morning. As we know, Jesus has been betrayed. He has been condemned by Pilate. He's been scourged. He's been delivered over. He's been crucified. He's died. He was buried in the tomb. Guards posted. An angel descends. And now the women come. That's our text. That's where we are in the life of Jesus Christ. And as we know, they brought spices to anoint him. They were expecting to find his body. And the angel has now told them that he is not here, for he has risen. And then he gives them that command, that imperative. Go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. This morning as we look at this passage, I want us to break it up into two parts. Two doctrines, so to speak. First, that followers are called to go quickly. And secondly, the followers are called to tell his disciples. As we go through this important passage, I'd like you to be asking yourselves this morning that question, who have I told about Jesus? Well, first, followers are called to go quickly, and when I say followers, I mean followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 7. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. Two women, both named Mary. Receive this command, this imperative from the angel, the angel that is descended from heaven, a messenger of God. Earlier this morning, we learned of the first imperative. Come. Come and see the place where he lay. Angel calling them, inviting them to come into the tomb and and inspect the tomb and and see that it was empty, that Jesus' body was not there. That he had defeated death, that the linen claws had been rolled up, folded up, set aside, that they might even experience victory over death. And now they're called not merely to observe, but they're called to go, they're called to leave. They're called to be active. They're not called to stay, but they're called to action. They're called to participate See, many times as Christians we think that we're mere observers. We think that Christianity is a gathering of observers. Consider all the megachurches throughout this country where worship has become entertainment. Worldly entertainment, a place of observers. But even in Reformed Presbyterian churches. At times we become not participants, but hearers and observers, and we come to sit and listen and hear and observe and leave Sometimes we think that's where our religion starts and stops. Sometimes we believe that that's what Christianity is all about. Maybe placing your tithe or your offering, your gift into the offering plate, but that's where it ends sometimes. Is that where your participation stops? Once the service is over, and you're on with the rest of your life, does that describe you today? For that does describe many who refer to themselves as Christian But yet here in this passage, these two women who were just coming with spices to anoint the body, the dead body of Jesus. They're called to be active. Indeed, throughout Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, there was a call to his disciples to be active. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Love your enemies. Give to the needy. Call to be active in proclaiming your Christianity. The call is to tell others why you live the way you do as a follower of Jesus. The call is to be active in following Jesus. I think that's why he used those words, follow me. For Jesus didn't stay at home. And think good thoughts, and pray good prayers about the sinners on earth who were perishing. No, he went. He left. He left home. He left his place of, if we can put it in human terms, comfort and joy and peace and pure unity and love with the Triune God. He went. And here in this passage Followers of Christ are not only called to go, but they're called to go quickly. Did you notice that? The angel said, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He's not here, for he is risen, as he said, come to the place where he lay. Then Notice that. Go in, see where he lay. Then the next step. Go. Go quickly. Why? What's the rush? Maybe they wanted to sit down in the tomb for a while. Maybe they just wanted to meditate upon that victory over Jes uh Jesus' victory over death. Maybe they just wanted to pray and and rejoice What was the rush? Why was that adverb added by the angel quickly? I'd like us to consider this morning at least five reasons that that word was added As the imperative, the command to those two Marys. First, possibly the most obvious urgency was the fact that others needed to see. Others needed to see the emptiness of the tomb. See that emptiness would only last so long. As word gets out, people come and disturb this and that. It needed to be seen by others in the condition that it was in as Jesus left it. The linen cloths folded, lying, empty of their power. There needed to be other witnesses before the evidence was destroyed. And so it seems as though the the angel stays there guarding the tomb and and he says, Go quickly and tell them so that they can be witnesses as well. But the tomb won't stay this way for long. Secondly, they needed to go quickly to relieve sorrow and grief Think of the disciples. That's who they were sent to. That's who they were told to go quickly to. They were in distress. Go quickly and tell them. Can you imagine their sorrow, the grief of the disciples? Each one of them had deserted Jesus, every one to a man. They were so concerned about their own lives, about their own breath, their own continued existence on the earth that they refused to stay with their master, their teacher, their rabbi, their king, who had come to die for them. They were so concerned about not being associated with Jesus. No, I don't know him. The one who had been put on trial, convicted, the one who had been sentenced to death So concerned that they ran. They fled. When their friend was in need, they left him. The parable of the Good Samaritan had not yet sunk into their hearts. And so they needed forgiveness. They needed restoration. The disciples needed to hear that the one who restores was alive. That Jesus lives. Can you see the urgency? How could they continue to live and breathe in that condition of having forsaken Jesus? How could they continue to take another step forward in that estate of leaving him, of forsaking him? They needed urgently to receive this word, Jesus lives. They needed to be cleansed. They needed to hear from Jesus himself, your sins have been forgiven. Go in peace. They needed to hear the voice of their Savior telling them that yet while they were in their sins, they were still loved by Him. The one who saves, the one who shed his blood for them. Third, they needed to hear the fulfillment of the covenant It was urgent. Clearly their doubts had had become to the surface Well, he said he was going to rise in three days. Isn't that what the two on the road to Emmaus were saying as Jesus walked with them? But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened. He said the third day. Doubts were creeping up now, fully in view of others. These disciples needed to know the truth, the fulfillment of Jesus' words. And he will be raised on the third day. They needed to hear that. They were the very ones who had been told that three times at least. They'd been preached to, they'd been taught, they'd learned at the feet of Jesus, and now it was urgent that they learn of the fulfillment of Jesus' words. These are the men who were to take out that good news. That Jesus lives, that he's the resurrection, so all doubts needed to be purged. And the covenant, the fulfillment of the covenant, needed to rise up and be sealed in their hearts. Fourth It was time to rejoice. My math is not all that good. But I think there had been about 4,000 years of sin and death. Up to that point in time of the history of redemption. But now there was life, a new birth, the first fruits had arrived. How could there be any delay? Go quickly. For now is not the time for sorrow or grieving, but for rejoicing. Jesus had completed his work. All that he had been sent for had been accomplished. It was done on the cross. He said it's finished. And now with the resurrection, confirming his identity as the Son of God. That's what Paul writes to the church at Rome, declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of Holies by His resurrection. The disciples needed to rejoice and celebrate. The days of sin ruling and reigning, the days of death being an ever-present terror were over For the one who has died has been set free from sin. Sin will no longer have dominion over you since you are not under law but under grace. Jesus had ushered in life, a new life, into the world filled with sinful men that disciples needed to heal. here that very moment to wipe away their tears and begin the eternal celebration. Time had come. There could be no more, no more waiting. But this was God's perfect timing, that men would truly begin the celebration of their new lives in Christ. And fifth, fifth, it was urgent because Jesus needed to be exalted. The days, the weeks, the months, the years of humiliation for our Savior had come to an end. And now was the time to exalt Christ. He had done his father's very will. He had aligned his own perfect will with that of his father's. Remember the Garden of Gethsemane when he prayed. Father, take this cup from me, but not my will. Your will be done. He'd done all that the Father had sent him to do. Being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed upon him the name that is above every name. And so it was time to exalt Jesus. The disciples needed to be told now. Go quickly. You may be thinking, well enough, I see the urgency for the women to go to the disciples. That makes sense. I'm persuaded. But what does that have to do with me? See, that's a typical response for us, isn't it? For many many passages in the scripture as we read of historical events Things that have occurred in the history of redemption often our responses, very well, but what does it have to do with me? And if you're asking that question this morning, One might conclude that you don't really understand the text. For this directive, this command, this call was not a once-in-time call to these two women and that's it. No, it's a typical call. It was a typical call that applies to every single believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, especially on this day. When we celebrate once again the resurrection of our Savior, the call is to go quickly. If you're trusting in Jesus this morning, you've been given a gift. Just as these two Marys were given the gift of seeing the empty tomb and ultimately seeing Jesus, the living Jesus, you've been given a gift of truly knowing this one who's shed his blood for you and defeated sin and death for you and has risen for you. So you can live and have life in abundance Also that you will not be sent to a place of eternal suffering. We refer to that as hell, where God is not and life is not, but consuming fire is You've been spared the eternal wrath of God, for Jesus took that upon himself in your place, suffering what was due you for your sins. Like the two Marys, who saw the crucifixion, who saw the burial, who saw the empty tomb, who saw the resurrected Christ. You've been given eyes to see. Your eyes of your heart have seen all that Jesus has done for you. How can you not go quickly? How can you keep that to yourself? How can you say that's somebody else's work No, it's it's a call to every single believer on the Lord Jesus Christ. Go quickly. It's urgent. People are dying in their sins Your neighbors, your friends, they're dying without Christ. And the call is to go quickly. A second point. Followers are called to tell his disciples. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. There's two imperatives here, two commands. The first is a go, and the second is a tell. These women are commanded to go to the disciples. They're not directed to go and find Jesus They've been following Jesus. They were looking for Jesus. The angel knew that they were looking for Jesus. But now he directs them to go. Go tell what you've seen. Be a witness to the disciples. Tell what you have heard. He is risen from the dead. You see the power of God's word here? Tell what you have heard. He's risen from the dead. Do you see the power of God? You should see the power of God's word. Again, these women were not told to go to Jesus, but Go upon the word of God given through the messenger, he is risen from the dead. That's what they were to take. Without even seeing him. Now they did. But this call, this command was given to them before they saw Christ. So you must know that the command to go and tell was based not upon their sight, but upon the word of God. He's risen. Now go tell. You can imagine what the women might have been wondering, no, what basis? How are we going to tell them that? Go and tell upon the foundation, the basis of the Word of God, a messenger from God, an angel from God had come and given them this word, given them this truth, and that's what they're to bring. Well, why these women, you might think? Why did these women receive the call, the command to go? Well they'd seen the empty tomb. They'd seen the the linen claws lying. They didn't see Jesus' body in a prone position. And they heard the word of God from his messenger. They had experienced, as we learned this morning, the victory of Christ over death. And now, in addition, they've been given this word of God, this call, this command to go and tell, but here's what they have been given to take. He is risen from the dead. That's it. Yes, experientially they had been witnesses, but they had also received the very word of God. What about you? What about you? What can you take? What are you able to take? What have you been given? Yes. You've experienced the victory of Christ over death, and you've received the Word of God. See the Marys didn't have this the second half, so to speak. They didn't have the New Testament yet. But you do. You're the beneficiary, the recipient, the privileged one who has received the entire revelation. Of the divine creator of all things This gift has been given to you. This privilege has been placed in your lap. And you have a spirit to help you understand it There seems to be a relationship between the gift you've been given The word of God and the call to go and tell you. Well, you might be asking yourselves the question, well, who? Who am I to tell? Well, this passage says, go tell his disciples. And that would be a good practice. Go tell his disciples. Well you might be scratching your head. Well who are his disciples? You say, well, we don't have name tags. The Lord hasn't given us name tags. And so the practice would be go tell everyone. Go tell everyone you know he's risen from the dead. The Sermon on the Mountain, Jesus calls his disciples to be salt and light. To whom? To the world in darkness and the world without taste, to be the light of Christ, to those who do not have the light of Christ, to be salt. To be the salty taste, the godly salt, the righteous salt, the loving salt, of which the world doesn't know Isn't that the testimony of what you've been given in the Word of God? Isn't that what you can take? To be light, to be salt? Yes, you can certainly take this. But not everyone is a minister of the gospel. And so you take what you've been given, yes, the Word of God, yes, the light of Christ. Yes, the salt that He's made you to be. You take that everywhere you go, to everyone you see. That's the message, isn't it? By the way I live, by the way I live today, by the light that I'm radiating. By the salty taste that I am to you, Jesus is risen. You see, that's in everything we do. That's in everything we say. That's how we live. That's how we can live the way we do. Because he's risen. You see, without that, there's only fear. But with that, you can live in such a way that you will be this radiant light of Christ. This beautiful picture, this image of the risen one to all those who are suffering in blackness. That's the call. Go quickly and tell through the way That you live to the light that you exude, to the salty taste that you are as a follower of Christ. Yes, followers are certainly called to go quickly and to tell his disciples all that he's given you. Moses, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Paul, they all had obstacles, things to deal with. I can't speak, I'm not a good speaker. There are all kinds of obstacles pitfalls, shipwrecks in front of me. And yet, God was using each of those men, each of those circumstances to ensure That those that they were to tell would hear everything that they were bringing to them. That God would be glorified, that Jesus, the risen one, would be exalted. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we're weak, we're weary. And yet we're excited. We're overwhelmed. We stand in awe of what the things that we are remembering this day. And the things that you've taught us even now. Help us, Lord. Remove the obstacles that we place in front of ourselves. to go quickly and tell, even through the way we live, Father, help us to be those that radiate Christ, to be that bright light of Christ, that salty taste to this world that has no taste. Help us, Lord. Help us to follow Jesus closely. We thank you, Lord Jesus, for loving us so much. That even as we hated you, you died for us, and you rose again, that we might be able to tell others. He is risen.