Well this morning here we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 3, the second half of Ecclesiastes chapter 3. We're continuing our way through this book of Ecclesiastes as Solomon continues his meditations. on the meaning of life in many ways and the meaninglessness of life under the sun. We saw, you know, in chapter three, it seems like Solomon's perspective takes a turn. Like he has a new perspective in chapter three. You know, in the beginning of the book, you know, he sees everything as vanity. Well, in chapter three, he begins to see that there is a time for everything. And also that in the plan of God, in the sovereign working of God, there is something beautiful about everything in its own time. He alluded to that in verse eleven of chapter three. So again, there's there's a time for all these things. Everything has a a season. Every purpose under heaven has its time That's a bit of a change of perspective for Solomon. He sees things a little differently. Well, here in our section for today, we're in verses 14 to the end of the chapter. So at the beginning of that section, Solomon continues in that perspective where he has found comfort and peace in the fact that God has a sovereign plan. And yet he'll also deal with a question. A question will also arise. Well, how can he have comfort and peace in God's sovereign plan when he looks around and sees injustice everywhere? And when he also looks at the way that man's life passes to death everywhere on the earth, and the way in which death comes upon men. Mankind seems to die just the same as the animals. Does that throw into question the peace and comfort that Solomon has found earlier in chapter 3? That's the question. That is answered in our text. So consider God's word. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verses 14 through 22. Listen to God's word this morning. I know that whatever God does, it shall be forever. Nothing can be added to it, and nothing taken from it. God does it that men should fear before Him That which is has already been, and what is to be has already been. And God requires an account of what is past. Moreover, I saw under the sun, in the place of judgment, wickedness was there And in the place of righteousness, iniquity was there. I said in my heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked For there is a time there for every purpose and for every work. I said in my heart, concerning the condition of the sons of men, God tests them. That they may see that they themselves are like animals. For what happens to the sons of men also happens to animals. One thing befalls them. As one dies, so dies the other. Surely they all have one breath Man has no advantage over animals, for all is vanity. All go to one place, all are from the dust, and all return to dust. Who knows the spirit of the sons of men, which goes upward, and the spirit of the animal, which goes down to the earth? So I perceive that nothing is better than that a man should rejoice in his own works for that is his heritage. For who can bring him to see what will happen after him? Thus far the reading of God's Word. May He bless it. May He bless the preaching of it in our midst today Once again, here by the time we've gotten to chapter three, I believe that Solomon's perspective has changed somewhat in chapter three, that he has come to see a time for everything that happened in the history of God's world. You know, before he bemoaned many things that happened And bemoaned the apparent meaninglessness and futility of it all, so that even the things that were good were spoiled. By vanity, because of the reality of death, because death hovers over even good things. And yet here in chapter three again he has taken a turn. He has come to find comfort and peace in the sovereignty of God's plan, that God does indeed have a plan. And it's a plan that involves all the things that happen. There is a time for everything There is a time for every purpose under heaven. He says, and he also says in verse 11, that because of what God has done, everything has a way in which it appears beautiful in its time. There's a way in which even the bad things that happen in life fit into God's plan. And in this text, he has taken comfort in that. Well again he continues to take comfort in that at the beginning of our text, verses 14 and verse 15. He continues to be at rest. And the fact that God does have a plan he is working out that does come together as beautiful in the end. And he continues that into verse 15. And yet, in verse 16 of our text, a question arises. Something comes up that might threaten to disturb The confidence Solomon has in God's plan, the sense of rest he's able to have in God's sovereignty And that question is what comes up there in verse 16 of chapter 3, something that he notices under the sun. And it's a good question. What about injustice in the sun? Life. What about when things do not go according to justice in the way that they should? Again, if God is indeed sovereign over all things, and if he is working out something that in the end is beautiful and includes all things as beautiful or fitting, each in their place. Can we really trust that when We open our eyes and see so much injustice here in this life. As he says in verse 16, in the place of judgment, wickedness was there. In the place of righteousness, iniquity was there. You know, before he said there's a time for everything, a time to be born and a time to die. But now again he's faced with a problem of something being where it shouldn't be. There's wickedness where judgment should be. There's iniquity where righteousness should be. And he highlights this in verse 16. Does injustice suffered here on the earth call into question the plan that God has A sovereign plan that is working together for good. And a sovereign plan that means that all things have their place. In a place that makes all things appear beautiful in their time What about this problem of injustice in the world? How does that fit into God's sovereign plan that he is working out? And we see this in life, don't we? You don't have to look very far to see in the place of judgment, wickedness, in the place of righteousness, iniquity People get into positions of authority, and they use those positions of authority not to serve those whom they should serve, not to defend the purposes of justice that they should defend, but they use those positions of authority sometimes to prey upon those who are defenseless instead of coming to their defense. They defend the cause of those who are on the side of unrighteousness instead of those who are on the side of righteousness. Does this call into question the things that Solomon had come to, that there is indeed a time for every purpose and everything under heaven and every season. There's a season for everything under heaven. Well, here, what's the answer to Solomon's question? Because again, he poses it as a problem. It is a problem that would threaten to undo the assurance that he had found. But the answer is what he says in verse 17. How can it be that God has a sovereign plan that is working together something beautiful? And yet we open our eyes. And we see injustice all around. What's the answer? The answer is also there in verse 17. I said in my heart, here's the answer. God shall judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work. So again, at the end of verse 17, he's basically reaffirming what he'd already said. He's basically repeating, there is a time for every purpose. There is a time for everything that happens. There is a time and a place in which all things fit, and all things fit together in a plan that does come together as beautiful. He's saying that. He's continuing to affirm his faith in God's plan. And yet, how can he affirm his faith in God's plan? Well, it's based on the beginning of verse 17, then. It's the fact that God will judge. And this is important for us to understand. Does everything have its season and its time in God's plan? Yes, it does How can we maintain that when there's so much injustice, so much that's ugly and wrong with this world? We can maintain that because part of God's good plan is He's going to make it right one day. He's going to call it all to account. God will judge the righteous and the wicked. And this is the important point he makes here. So again, um how can we maintain that God's plan is good when we know it includes so much that is so ugly and so much that is wrong with what happens in this world? Well the reason is because God himself promises that at the end of this world's history, he will set all things right. He will set righteousness and wickedness in their place. He will set the righteous and the wicked in their place on the last day. God shall judge. God shall make all things right one day This is part of why his plan is indeed a beautiful plan, something where everything has its place and its time. Because he will make it all work out in the end according to his justice. Which out exceeds human justice. So it is important for us to recognize this. An important aspect of confessing the sovereignty of God is recognizing that God also is driving all things toward the day when he will judge that which has been wrongly done. or that injustice that has been done against his people, and in fact all the injustices that are done in this life. Now, this is a great comfort to us who belong to Christ, isn't it? It's a great comfort to us to know that when we experience injustice on the parts of those who should carry through justice for us. It's good to know that God will set that right one day. And that is an encouragement to us, isn't it? It's also a comfort to us as well, though, the fact that All of us, perhaps, have things that we have done. Possibly things that we have done to other people. Possibly we have been the ones. Who have executed injustice against others. Well, it's also a comfort that God will set those things right one day. There may be things that we have done against other people, ways that we have failed to deal justly with other people, and things that we regret, things that we are even repentant over before God. But sometimes things that we still can't change and can't fix. We can trust that God will fix these things. God in his justice, God in his judgment, is the one who fixes all things. Now, for those who are in Christ, of course, their judgment is taken care of by the Lord Jesus Christ, and that's good news to us. That's also good news to other people who trust in Him. And believe in him. But for all who don't trust in Christ, there is this reality that God will set right what has gone wrong, God knows the hearts of men, and God will judge those who have sinned against him. God will set right the injustices that are done. Every way that uh that judgment stands in the or wickedness stands in the place of judgment, every way that iniquity stands in the place of righteousness God will set it right. And this is the answer. How can we maintain a good confession of God's sovereign plan for His world? Well, only if we recognize that he as the judge will come and will set all things right one day And this is one thing that Solomon comes to here in our text. Now, there's another piece of this in verses 18 through 21, another piece of Solomon's confession of God's sovereignty. As Solomon uh again finds comfort in God's sovereign plan that he is working out something. There's another piece of this in addition to the injustice that happens um on the face of this earth that will be set right one day. We also have um reason to think in these verses. We are shown that God has a purpose in Much of what happens on this earth. So the fact that men live and die, and in their life and in their death, look just like the animals. So often, life and death seem so very random in this life. The reason why one man dies and another lives seems to be very random. It seems to be just as random as the life and death of the animals. Well, here in these verses, Solomon is showing us that God actually has a purpose in that. Did you know that? God has a purpose, even in life and death appearing to be random and just as random as the animals. Now what is God's purpose in the life and death of mankind? Well in verse 18, he states that purpose. Concerning the condition of the sons of man, God tests them that they may see that they themselves are like animals. So when mankind experiences death, and when life is called into question just as easily and just as quickly as it is for the animals, God has a purpose. God is showing mankind that he really is just like the animals in some sense God is teaching mankind that apart from fellowship with him, he has become like an animal. His life has become just as purposelessness. As that of the animals. Notice verse 20 refers to that curse. All go to one place, all are from the dust, and all return to dust. There you see an allusion to Genesis 3:19. The curse of death that came upon mankind in answer to Adam's sin. When man's life passes just as easily as the animals God is teaching us. God is teaching all who witness that we are just like the animals, apart from communion with God. What separates us from the animals? It's only the fact that we've been made in the image of God. And being made in the image of God means that we are made for life in communion with God. But the moment that Adam walked away from that, he chose to make himself, in essence, just like the animals. And that's what Solomon is telling us here. So again, that's uh an important thing for us to recognize. Yes, um death comes upon us too quickly, too readily. Even those who believe in Christ, death comes upon us in ways that seem surprising or seems in ways that you might not expect. Um and it seems like sometimes our death is just as random and purposelessness as that of the deer that got hit on the side of the road. And it's easy to feel that way and it's easy to think that way. And yet, as you realize that our lives truly are fragile in that sense, how important it is for us to remember that perhaps even in our death, God is teaching mankind a lesson It's a warning shot sent to all of mankind when somebody close to us, when their life is called into question and endangered. It's a warning shot to all of us to remember what we are apart from God and what we are apart from fellowship with God. That apart from living in fellowship with the true God, we have indeed become much like the animals. So again, let's remember that. Let's not let's not always just ask the question, why is this happening to me? We have part of an answer here. God is showing mankind that we are just like the animals. Apart from fellowship with him. God is reminding all people of the consequences of Adam's sin. And this is a gracious call that they should come to him and seek him out and turn to him. And furthermore, receive the life that comes only through Jesus Christ. So let us remember that. Again, some of the apparent meaninglessness of life on this earth, when it feels meaningless. This is a reminder of the curse. Things wouldn't be this way if it wasn't for the curse. But in every way that we are reminded of the curse, we are pointed to the remedy for that curse. And we ought to point others to the remedy for that curse. Jesus Christ. Christ saves us from this. So there is there is some purpose. There is some redeeming, redeemable purpose that Solomon finds Even in the life that is still under the effects of that curse. Here in this text, Solomon finds redeeming purpose, even in things that seem utterly futile in and of themselves But again, it's only this way because he has such hope and such trust in the plan of God that in God's sovereign plan there is a time for every purpose. under heaven. It's only because he has that trust that he's able to find such redeeming purpose in things such as death and It all points to the one who who is the creator, but also the savior to those who come to him. And notice then as Solomon works his way um through those verses, when he gets to verse 22, he gets back to a mindset Of a creature who is able to trust in his Creator. So in verse 22, we see him trusting in the Lord in the way that he works works out his life. He says So I perceive that nothing is better than that a man should rejoice in his own works, for that is his heritage. For who can bring him to see what will happen after him? Now one thing to notice in verse 22 is how very different this is from what Solomon was saying, again, back in chapter 2. Back in chapter 2, he was saying, well, the works of man's hands are meaningless because he has to pass it on to someone after him who may not be worthy of it. And yet here he says, the works of a man's hand is his heritage. Who knows what's going to happen after he passes? Notice how that's a very different mindset. Again, um Solomon's mindset here is now, well, it might get passed on to someone, um, but that's okay. Just take it for what it is, take it for what it is as it comes from God, receive it as God's blessing, and thank God for it. And it and rejoice in it. Enjoy it just for what it is. Again, if you expect your works to undo what the curse has done to this world, then you will be disappointed and you will be frustrated. But if you expect your works only to do a little bit of a good that you can enjoy for a time, then it's okay. And it's okay for us to have this perspective. We should have this perspective. As we know the one who has fixed creation by his work, we know Jesus Christ. And because of that, we ought to be able to enjoy the fruits of our labors just for what they are. Take them for what they are, and thank God for what they are, and recognize it coming to us from God. So indeed, uh clearly what we see in these uh sections Is God's purpose for those who trust in Him, how we are able to sort out some of these things as we see them in our lives As we see injustice, as we see justice not carried out for us, as we see death come before us, as we see that man appears just like the animals in his death. Things that would seem like futility. As we see that the works of our hands do not seem to make a difference and do not seem to be meaningful. We're able to look at all these things in light of God's great plan, especially his plan in Christ, and we are able to see, and we should be able to see that God does have his purpose for these things So, because of that, let's be quick to recognize our Lord. Let's be quick to look to Him. Let's be quick to trust in Him, especially in view of the fact that Christ has paid for our sins. Christ having come and paid for our sins, God promises that He has given the most beloved son of His, His only beloved Son, for our sins. And so we can also trust that he has a good purpose in everything that he is doing. So we ought to trust that. But because of that, let's be careful to look at this life the way Solomon looks at it here. Let's look to the day of God's judgment as the day when all things will be set right. Let's also look to his purpose in death here and now, understanding that it does have a purpose. And let's also then take our time to enjoy that which God gives us, to receive it as his gift to us, to enjoy his blessing in it, and to thank him for it. This should be the way of our lives um for the rest of our lives until that great day when he comes to take us home. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, we do uh give praise to you and we share in what Solomon says here in this text. Um, thank you that you have opened our eyes in Christ to see. That everything does have its place and does have its fit in your great plan. Yes, birth, but also death. Yes, peace, but also war. Yes. Even the things that seem random and meaningless in our lives, even the fact that we die just the same way the animals die, at least that's the way it looks on the outside. Even the fact that there is injustice that is done against us, even the fact that we have done injustice against others Lord, we thank you that you have given this perspective to us in Christ to see that you do have a purpose and that you are working out that purpose. Lord, give to us eyes of faith that are able to trust in your purpose. Yes. We confess um so much of our lives does at so many times feel Like futility, yet we praise you. That in Christ you have redeemed us from futility. And you have even redeemed the things that appear as futility. Lord, give us the mindset that Solomon has here in our text, so that we should be able to rejoice in the works that you give us to do. And we should be able to enjoy them simply for what they are, knowing that our works do not save the world, but knowing that we are able to do things that are good. Only because we know the one who has saved the world and who has saved us. Lord, enable us to take this perspective with us in our work, in our labor, so that truly our our labor is not in vain And so that we're able to know that our labor is not in vain. Use us, we pray, use the works of our hands to bring glory and honor to yourself, and give us the hearts that are able to see things in the right way We pray all these things that your Spirit work this in us. We ask all these things in the name of Christ. Amen