Now let's turn to the book of Amos and to our continuing uh examination of this Word of God. And we come tonight to Amos chapter 4 and verses 6 through I'm going to read through verse 13. But my focus will be on the first verses 6 through 11. Follow along as I read God's Word. Also I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and lack of bread in all your places. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord I also withheld rain from you, where there were still three months to the harvest. I made it rain on one city, I withheld rain from another city One part was rained upon, and where it did not rain the part withered. So two or three cities wandered to another city to drink water. They were not satisfied Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. I blasted you with blight and mildew. When your gardens increased, your vineyards, your fig trees, and your olive trees, the locusts devoured them. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. I sent you among you a plague, after the manner of Egypt. Your young men I killed with a sword, along with your captive horses I made the stench of your camps come up to your nostrils, yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. I overthrew some of you, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. You were like a firebrand, plucked from the burning, yet you've not returned to me says the Lord. Thus therefore, thus will I do to you, O house of Israel, because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel. For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind, who declares to man what his thought is, and makes the morning darkness who treads the high places of the earth. The Lord, God of hosts, is his name Well clearly the theme of this section of God's Word is again judgment upon Israel. And in our previous discussions We have understood why God is bringing judgment upon the northern kingdom. They have routinely violated God's law, They have worshipped other gods. They bow down to every god there is, including making a false god and claiming that it was God himself, a false god in the form of a calf. a cow. They have uh treated others with great disrespect. They uh have placed people into slavery They've gotten rich off of their work. They have used people to further their own interests, their own selfish material interests. Now, when we come to our verses tonight, it is as as I was reading, I hope that you heard here numerous echoes of Deuteronomy 28. Not just echoes, but almost some places where it's almost word for word. Um and uh I think we need to uh take account of that fact and and understand that The people of Israel during the time of Amos's prophecy were number one clearly not left with No understanding of what would happen to them should they abandon God when they're in the promised land I mean uh the whole uh list of uh the uh the judgments of the Lord, the book the curses that he pronounces on them are quite severe, quite profound, and they're really uh a uh a uh uh a a total a total judgment and and you would think You know, you would think that people would hear that and they would wake up. And especially when Deuteronomy 28, which was uttered to the people of God before they enter into the promised land, now to have it come back again. to them. It would automatically, it should automatically key in their minds, you know, we are really in trouble here We're really in a bad shape because there's no doubt that they had violated God's word And I want to just take a few of these statements here as we look through them and see what it is that uh that that God is promising to do uh to the nation of Israel, the northern kingdom, and which indeed he did do. um in in in in the judgment that was brought upon them and that the Assyrians evaded and took them captive in the 722 year 722 BC. The we see these temporal curses that God promises Verse 6, cleanness of teeth in all your cities and want of bread in all your places. In the first place you hear cleanness of teeth and you automatically think God's going to give them a lot of toothpaste But no, the cleanness of teeth is coupled with the idea of want of bread. It's a different way of saying you're going to have clean teeth because there's nothing to eat. There's no food. It's an idiom for hunger. There will be great hunger. There will be want of bread We find that verses 7 and 8 describe also a reason why there won't be any bread. I'll withhold the rain from you when there is yet three months to the harvest. Now Again, we don't live in an agrarian community, and for the most part, we don't realize how significant the timing of getting moisture and rain is to a harvest. You need rain when you start the harvest And you need rain at various different intervals, of course, to make the harvest of the grain to make that harvest plentiful and abundant And God is promising to withhold that rain, to withhold the rain so that there won't be any harvest, there won't be any grain, there won't be any food to eat. Now, it's also interesting that he says that he will bring a selective A selective amount of rain. He says, I'll cause it to rain upon one city and cause it not to rain upon another. One peace is rained upon, and the place whereupon it rained not withers. So that some are going to prosper at God's providential hand, while many others are going to suffer. And when you think about it, again, you don't have any food, you don't have any water. When you think about it to see one city prospering And many other cities suffering, there's no there's no natural phenomenon that accounts for that Especially when the drought continues, and then all of a sudden, in the midst of the drought, one area or one city is abundantly blessed And people will come to that city to drink water, but it won't be enough. They won't be satisfied, as verse 8 puts it. One or two cities will be able to testify to the fact that God was merciful, that God gave some water. But apparently that isn't enough to get people to start thinking about maybe the the wickedness of their heart, but at the same time, the provision of God in some situations. And wondering, what is it do we have to do To re to receive blessings from the Lord. And if they were at all interested in abandoning their sinful practices And returning back to the Lord, they could easily go back to Deuteronomy 28, and they could see why they're in the situation they're in. Over and over again, God says, because you've abandoned me, you've disobeyed me. And I didn't read the first 14 verses of Deuteronomy 28, but they all speak of the blessings for obedience. It wouldn't be a large step to realize that if they were serious about turning to the Lord, that they uh if they if they uh if they really wanted to be his people again and to be delivered from the judgment that they're already involved in that uh that they could easily repent of their sins and turn unto him, even as I read earlier tonight A different situation, again, with some of these same northern people who were taken into captivity and then were ministered to Elijah. He basically says, the Lord talks to them and he says, Turn from your wickedness and live. Turn ye, turn ye, O house of Israel, why will you die? What is the sense of you dying? It and and and in and of itself, of course, that's a testimony to how Totally depraved, we are. That when truth is held right up before us When we can see with our own eyes the effect of our ungodliness and yet still not revealing. Still be hard of heart. Now, the text in uh our text in Amos is not done God says, I have smitten you with, in the old test in the old King James, I have smitten you with blasting and millbill. Both of which are terms blasting the New King James translate as blight, translates as blight. Mildew, both of which are diseases for plants. In other words, any of the plants will be infected by bacteria, funguses and viruses, even those plants which manage to make it up out of the ground and look as though they're going to produce a harvest They will experience disease and pestilence and mildew and make them unedible. So close, and yet so far Now look at what it also talks about the judgment in verse nine. And by the way, you know Blight and mildew occur also as part of the curse in Deuteronomy 28, verse 22. It's there as well. Then we read about verse 9, when your gardens and your vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increase. Well, it looks like maybe at least there there's going to be some benefit because you can, you know, olive oils and you can eat figs. You know, they're they're very good to eat. Uh uh gardens and you can drink wine, uh that's that's great. Uh or grapes you can eat those. Uh olive trees, uh you can eat the olives. Um but um you can also get the oil from them. If you get the oil from them, it's a it's it's a fairly precious commodity And you can always buy food that way. But just as they begin to flower, just as they begin to yield their produce, the worms get them. Worms destroyed them. A bumper crop, you see, is moving, but disaster is around the corner. Then verse ten I have sent among you pestilence or locusts. And the amazing thing is he says here, after the manner of Eden. Egypt, the course for Israel, represents the seminal moment of God's redeeming his people from captivity. He did so by sending plagues, of which locusts was one Moils was another, which is later on mentioned, that will come upon Israel. But he brought it upon Egypt because of Pharaoh's stubborn refusal to let the people go. And just as God Brought that judgment upon Pharaoh. Now he is saying, I will do what I did in Egypt to you, you my covenant people. You those who I have provided you with this land upon which you live, the land of milk and honey, the blessings which you have enjoyed, all because you have not been faithful to me. me. You've disobeyed my law. You have worshipped other gods. You have loved everything else but me. And you have become to me like Egypt and Pharaoh. I will send the pestilence, locusts, just as he promised in Deuteronomy 28, verse 27, to Egypt. It's an unmistakable reference there to the plagues of Egypt. It's an unmistakable reference to Israel that she needs to repent. And God will be merciful if she does. Now we get in verse eleven, we get the re reference to the historical Dealing of God with Sodom and Gomorrah. I have overthrown some of you as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah with a terrible judgment and a terrible consuming fire. Apparently some of the people and the nation of Israel at the time have experienced some destruction that is likened to Sodom and Gomorrah. Once again, Sodom and Gomorrah, places of ungodly practices Disobedience to God, offending God, and he brought the judgment of fire. And then he adds, however, and yet ye As a firebrand, we're plucked out of the burning. You get the image? There's a lot of destruction going on, but some God has taken out. And even that display of his mercy in the midst of a Holocaust It's not enough. It's not enough to turn the people's hearts back unto God. Probably some of the marauding Assyrian bands of soldiers are responsible for some sort of devastation on the frontier towns. Well that's what I think he means by you know the burning and plucking some. God has plucked some out of there, even though there has been great destruction, some have survived If you noticed, as we read through this, four times after God talks about his great judgment that he is bringing, he says, yet you have not returned to me. Four times, verse six, eight, ten, and eleven. And when it says, you have not returned to me, that's language that is equivalent to saying, you have not repented of your sin. And really, God is, you know, God is by what he is doing, he is forewarning the people the judgment is near. And the only way that judgment can in any way be averted or minimized would be if they Return to him. If they repent of their sin, otherwise judgment is certain. And though this is a message that was deliberately set for the people of Israel in the northern kingdom for their rebellion, This cannot just be applicable to them. It has to be applicable to the world too, the day in which we live. Because God has promised there is grace during this period, but he has promised he will judge the world with fire. And with the plagues, the plagues that Revelation speak about. Great judgment, which will be unparalleled to anything that came before it. And that seems kind of hard to imagine after what we've just read from Deuteronomy 28. These verses, verses 6 through 11, witness to the absolute hardness of hearts that are enslaved to sin. If you ever want to talk to someone who doesn't believe in total depravity, it would be a good exercise to refer them to these verses. In light of Deuteronomy 28, God is interacting with his people with multiple displays of his providence. What happens in their world, the judgment that he threatens to bring, the locusts that come, the worms that eat the crops. you know, are not some sort of accidents. They are not blind uh Forces of mother nature combining to make life miserable for people. They are warning signs that God is graciously extending to his rebellious people As if they will not listen to the word, maybe, maybe they will listen to the acts of the world that's now marshaled against them Even nature obeys the commands of God. Maybe they will turn and live. And not die in their sin. They still, however, will not acknowledge God, and they don't seem to feel any regret or shame for their sin. Although today many refuse to acknowledge God, sometimes amazing things good or terrible happen. The response of many is all is to those kind of things is, well, it's just luck. Or well, Mother Nature did it. No, in the ultimate, these again, even those things we see today. are designed to get people to believe in the one who is the creator and who is in control of all things and does all things according to his plan. And that includes the salvation of his people. He marshals all things for the salvation of his of his people and for the judgment upon the wicked. So that whether it is from the teaching of God's Word, or whether it is from the the activities of creation, Man has no excuse. On that day of judgment, he will be left with speechless. Because he knows with his heart, in his heart, he knows who God is, and he knows that God has been merciful. He has knocked at his door And his judgment is his own fault. All the acts which we see here and all the effort that God has designed Is at the same time where there is judgment occurring, it is designed to remind his chosen people who are a part of that catastrophe That God will indeed save his elect, even out of there. He will save them, and they can rejoice in his saving grace always. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God We see these stories, we see these truths of your word as they are displayed upon the pages of history to a people who externally were the children of God, the chosen people of God. And whereas some might be tempted to say, well, that that was in the past. God is not at all involved in doing this kind of thing then. That was then, this is now. God is not a God of judgment, he's a God of mercy. A God of love. Lord, we pray that you would not allow such complacency to fall upon the hearts of men today, that you would give them no excuse. That you would cause them to soberly evaluate their standing before you, before the great and awful day. Lord, that you would make it again clear that you are God And you offer the grace of the gospel to many. The free offer of the gospel is given to many We pray, O Lord, that those who are your people will respond to it with faith and obedience. And they, Lord, will be like the firebrand plucked out of the fire as you give them life in Christ. There are still many out there yet who do not know you. We ask you, Lord God, to be merciful. And we ask you, Lord God, to comfort us. As we see, Lord, these temporal matters which occur are all designed to remind man of his need for you, and of his call to repent and not and to turn unto him. Will not die. God is merciful and God is just. God is a loving God, and God is a God of wrath. We thank you, O Lord, that in the work of Jesus Christ, God who is loving and God who is wrathful is fully displayed upon the cross for all to see and for all to read about in your word. May people repent of their sins. May they turn from your wrath because of disobedience. And may they live in Christ We ask it in Jesus' name, Amen