I'd like you to turn now to the to the sermon text from Amos as we've been going through the book of Amos in the afternoon and in evening sermons. Today we will look at verse Amos chapter 2 and verses 4 and 5. And follow along in your Bibles as I read God's Word. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Judah and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they have despised the law of the Lord, and have not kept his commandments, their lies lead them astray, lies which their fathers followed. But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word this this afternoon. We have uh been looking at the book of uh Amos, as I said already, and uh The first chapter, beginning at verse 3 and going on into chapter 2, verse 3. Are a series of, as I've already explained, a series of divine judgments on all the neighbors of Israel. This was written and was spoke pre uh it was was spoken, excuse me, to them in around the 750 BC mark. And Amos uh was uh a prophet that God called to give these to give this word, but his primary concern to as you'll see later in the book is to address the people of the northern kingdom, which is at this point called Israel. And there occurred a split, if you recall your Old Testament history, a split after the death of Solomon Between among the Israelites. Two kingdoms were in the south, joined together the the kingdom of Judah, or the two tribes, the kingdom of Judah and the kingdom of Benjamin. And they were called the nation of Judah. The other ten tribes uh uh of Israel were north, and they were called the kingdom of Israel. And Amos' primary mission is to that northern kingdom. And later on in other sermons, we'll get to the point of what that northern kingdom was like. But up to this point, God has been pronouncing judgments on the Gentile nations. There are six judgments. From chapter 1. 3 to chapter 2. 3, on all the surrounding Gentile nations, the neighbors of Israel. Some of them are close cousins to the Jews. Edom are the people that descended from Esau. Ammon are the people who descended from Ammon, one of Lot's children with his daughters. Moab is another of the same Not all the nations that were spoken to were cousins of Israel. They were the Philistines, the Syrians up in Damascus, the people of Tyre. But generally speaking, those judgments fit a pattern. They are judgments upon these countries because of something that they did very negatively toward either Judah or Israel. And um and you get the uh announcement, the announcements of the judgments occur with with the sentence for three transgressions and for four. That always is a key that a judgment is coming against a particular nation. Judgment from God. And we spoke the last time that all these judges excuse me, judgments of God happening to the nations around Israel, being spoken to those nations, all of those things should have been a clue to Israel and to Judah. Of several things. Should have been a clue to them that if they're doing the same thing, they can't expect to escape God's judgment. It also tells us that the God that we worship and the God that the Jews worship, namely Yahweh, is the God of all nations, whether they worship him or not. And he will hold them accountable. He will hold them accountable For their violations of the Word of God, even if they don't have that as their religion. Because Romans chapter 2 reminds us that the Word of God is written upon every man's heart. He knows the law of God. He knows God's standards. And oftentimes the nations, you also see the nations are judged, not all of them. But oftentimes it has something to do with the way in which they have treated their neighbors, Israel. They haven't shown them love or respect. Today, we mark a significant shift in the Amos's judgments The shift is not in terms of the fact that he's announcing another judgment with the familiar formula. For three transgressions and for four. That starts off, verse four. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions and for four. The shift occurs. The shift occurs in who's being judged now? Who's being held accountable? And the person, the nation being held accountable are not the Gentiles But the very people of God, the Jews. And here we have the first one is to Judah, the southern kingdom. Is being judged. And after this, verse 6 will pick up a judgment on the northern kingdom, Israel, by God And I think this very thought reminds us of the fact that God is no respecter of persons. Whether they be Jew or Gentile, all nations are subsequ are are are within God's purview to judge, because He created all things. And He created all the nations. And hi again, as I said before, his law applies to everyone. And people will be judged whether or not they uh follow that law or not. And in particular, whether they love their God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength, whether they love the God, excuse me, with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength, and whether they love their neighbors as themselves. What is it? What brings judgment to the Gentiles in chapter 1, 3 through chapter 2, 3, now also brings judgment to the Jews. Both groups have violated and or ignored God's law. Now I want you to turn in your Bibles to Jeremiah chapter 9. Verse twenty five in the following. Now remember The two nations, Israel in the north, Judah in the south. And remember also That Amos is primarily speaking to the northern kingdom. And that northern kingdom called Israel will be the topic of most of the rest of the book of Amos after we finish verse 5 tonight. That kingdom was guilty of manifold sin, which was pointing out to them over and over again, and they didn't listen. Come and consequently God brought destruction. Uh when the Assyrians came and carried the Northern Kingdom away, and it ceased to exist as it as a nation. But Here we're talking about Judah. And Judah is the southern kingdom. Now listen to Jeremiah. And Jeremiah, you see, was the last great prophet to Judah, the southern kingdom. The last before it was destroyed, before Nebuchadnezzar came and destroyed the city of Jerusalem, along with taking Cat Many of the Jews, all the way to Babylon. So in Jeremiah chapter 9 and verse 25 we read these words. Behold, the days come, says the Lord, that I will punish all them who were circumcised with the uncircumcised Now, those two words, circumcised with uncircumcised. Circumcised, remember, was the sign of the covenant. that was was administered to all those males who were of the household of the lineage of Abraham. And it was uh it became uh in uh done in Abraham's home and then it later was done to the Jews. It was uh an ordinance, uh part of God's uh God's word. And that word circumcised refers to them, the Jews, and the uncircumcised refers to the Gentiles. And on one sense, we're talking about the physical act of circumcision, which for obvious reasons I'm not going to describe. But here we read something very odd. The days come Verse 25 of Jeremiah 9 says the Lord, that I will punish all them who are circumcised with the uncircumcised. That's not necessarily odd because God punishes all rebellion against him, whether they be Jew or Gentile. But look at the lit look at the list of the nations. Egypt, that he then says he's going to punish. Egypt. Edom, the children of Ammon and Moab, and all that are in the utmost corners that dwell in the wilderness, For all these nations are uncircumcised. And all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in the heart Now I left out in listing the nations one, Judah. But you you see the issue here is that God is going to punish everyone. Circumcised and uncircumcised. And Judah is included in the list of the uncircumcised, though physically they are circumcised. You get that? So the question is, what does it mean to be uncircumcised? Or circumcised, what does it mean to be circumcised in a spiritual sense? That's the question. If you want to avoid the judgment of God as an Israelite, what is it, what do I have to do? Or, excuse me, what has to be done in order for me not to be judged as being uncircumcised in heart? What does a circumcised heart look like? Obviously, they're using a metaphor to speak to the condition of someone's heart. And the way in which you can look at and find this answer out is to look in Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy 10, 16, Deuteronomy 30, verse 6. Both places address this issue. Circumcision of the heart Circumcision of the heart is, again, it's a it's a very vivid picture of cutting away Cutting away that which surrounds the heart. Well, what is the problem with the human heart? Under every condition, the human heart since the fall is desperately wicked. Who can know it? It's sinful. When God is talking about spiritual circumcision, or God is talking about being telling that someone is uncircumcised in heart What he is saying is that their heart hasn't been radically changed, that they don't have the new heart. And they don't have the heart that is changed so much so that it affects the way a person lives, what he says, how he speaks, how he acts. That they don't have a heart that loves God. An uncircumcised heart is a heart that doesn't love God and doesn't worship him and doesn't serve him. And he's saying here in Jeremiah's day He's saying that Judah, remember we talked about Judah this morning. Isn't it amazing how this all connects together? Judah, where Mount Zion is You know, the there's a there's a earthly Mount Zion and there's a heavenly Mount Zion. And it's in Judah, the territory, near Jerusalem, where the temple was. It is acting and behaving, though. They are the descendants of Abraham. The males have been circumcised according to the covenant and the tradition. But they're all uncircumcised well, most are uncircumcised in heart. They do not love God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength. And they don't love their neighbors as themselves. At a much later time in history, you can see that being portrayed by Jesus in the parable of the Good Samaritan. Who was it who helped that Samaritan, helped that man beaten along the side of the road? It was a Samaritan. It was a half-Jew. It was a person who the Jews considered to be a dog. Who refused to help him? It was the priest and the Levite who walked by And the people of Israel. That was what the parable was about, one of the things it was about. Because it was in the question of who is my neighbor They they the people who were circumcised were behaving in an uncircumcised way toward The Samaritan. And the Samaritan, who was uncircumcised, was behaving in a circumcised way, the right way, toward This this neighbor. He was demonstrating love and compassion. So what God is saying in in Jeremiah is that Judah, even though they're circumcised, they're uncircumcised, they're uncircumcised in heart. And that can be equated to what we read here when God gives his reasons why he's going to punish Judah in Amos chapter 2 He says, they have despised the law of the Lord. They have not kept his commandments. They've despised the law of the Lord. They have not kept his commandments. Their lies lead them astray. And then he says, lies which their fathers followed. In other words, This is not a newly emerging situation for which Judah is being judged. This has been a problem. For Israel all along, or for Judah all along, the fathers were doing the same thing. They didn't love God. They didn't follow his commandments. They despised his law. And now you remember, there is one particular sin that whether it's Israel before the kingdom is divided or Israel after the kingdom is divided In the Judah and Israel. There's one particular sin that Israel clearly demonstrated that they hated God's law about or for. And if you remember what that commandment was, what is it that Israel always got in trouble for? And was judged for. What happened in the book of Judges 14 separate times? It was apostasy. But what was the triggering mechanism of that apostasy? Um start with that when I'll catch the I'm just touching myself so long and just do it. The the sin supplication the supplication repentance salvation is that's already but the the the presenting sins that were involved with Israel were Don't marry a pagan woman. Remember Fourteen times in the 400-year period of judges that happened. Fourteen times God sent oppressors In the form of these surrounding nations. Fourteen times Israel cried out, Help me, help me, help me, God. Fourteen times God sent judges, deliverers. After the deliverers lived for a period of time and then died, guess what? They went back to their foreign wives. Whether it's during the period of Judges, which is when the land has just been settled, the promised land, they just entered into the promised land, whether it's then, or whether it's during the time of the kings. When Solomon had all those foreign wives and built temples in Jerusalem to their foreign gods? Or when it's even when it's Judah taking into cap taken into captivity Taken all the way into Babylon, existing there for a period of time, and then by God's mercy Cyrus, the Persian king, conquers Babylon, and God allows the Israelites to come back into the promised land. And Ezra comes back, the scribe, and Nehemiah, the governor comes back. And what was it that Ezra tore his hair out? And put and put tour's sackcloth and sat in the dust from morning to evening. What was it that caused him to do that? They were marrying foreign wives. Same problem. The problem was that the foreign wives would bring along their gods. And their gods would then get into the home and it would start corrupting the true worship of Yahweh. That's what it says here when it says they were worshiping lies. Their fathers were worshiping lies. That's what it means. I mean, that's the big lie. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make an idol. You shall not bow down and worship it. Over and over again, Israel is destroyed. And she doesn't learn She doesn't listen. And God is saying, I'm bringing that same judgment again to Judah. And it will come when Nebuchadnezzar comes. When fire will come against the walls of Jerusalem and destroy the walls of Jerusalem as well as part of the temple. I will send a fire upon Judah and it shall devour the palaces. Judah despised that law. She refused to keep it. And it's often pictured in the Bible as the Lord saying to Moses, he told Moses, this is exactly what the people are going to do. Deuteruteronomy thirty-one, verse sixteen, and he says, The Lord said to Moses, Behold Thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, and this people will rise up and go ahooring. After the gods and break my covenant which I have made for them with them Then my anger shall be kindled against them. And on and on it goes. This is what it means here. It says, they have not kept the commandments, their lies led them astray In verse four, lies which their fathers also followed They have despised, it says. Another word for that is they rejected God's law. They rejected his instruction Later on in Amos In chapter 3, verse 2, God speaks to Israel, and he says this telling thing. He says, You only have I known of all the families. On the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. The idea is that God alone knows these people. God alone has been Blessing them. God alone has cared for them. God alone has wor uh protected them. He's fought on their side. He's delivered them. He's done everything imaginable to show them his. His love and his mercy, but you still won't Follow me. You still don't love me. And I will punish your iniquities. And the people were not helped by their leaders, whether they be spiritual leaders or kings. Isaiah chapter 9, verse 16 writes, For the leaders of the temp of the people have caused them to err. The people were erring on their own. The leaders were just giving them the wrong picture. Nobody tried to put a stop to it. Nobody tried to say you can't marry these women. This is wrong. Nobody tried to change the situation except a few prophets and Ezra. But they didn't listen to the prophets. But again, think about that. The Lord didn't let them there just wallowing around in their sin. But he gave them a voice. He gave them a word. It wasn't just one word. It was prophet after prophet after prophet. The word was always consistent. You do not love the Lord your God. You are not keeping his commandments. Israel is uncircumcised in their hearts. It causes them to lie. It causes them to err. It causes them to pursue the vain things. called idols, wherein there is no prophet. You know, once you don't worship the Lord, you know, people say I'm an atheist. in which they claim that there is no God. They don't worship any God. That's baloney. They worship themselves. Or they worship the idea that there is no God. Man is not a creature who can survive without worshiping something. Whether it's the God of the Bible or the lie, the false God, the idols. Remember how Habakkuk put it. You know. And what we read earlier, this, you know, making dumb idols say to Woods, speak. Uh, you know, um uh um in uh uh Habakkuk chapter two verse eighteen, again, what profit the graven image that the maker thereof has graven it. The molten image, a teacher of lies, a teacher of lies that the Maker in his work trusts therein To make dumb to make dumb idols. Woe unto them that saith to the word to the wood, excuse me, awake to the dumb stone. Arise, teach us. And that's uh I mean, you know, we're more sophisticated than that. I mean we don't we don't have these dumb stones and we don't We don't have wood that we bow down to, but we bow down to other things, idols that we make in our mind. And we think that those idols we say to them, make me happy. Give me what I want. You know, uh um That's that's that's what we're doing. Uh and we think that that's going to happen But the very act of worshiping such idols, in addition to it being wrong in the eyes of God, it has a profoundly negative impact upon the person doing it. Because no idol, there is no idol out there that can ever redeem you. It will succeed in only sucking all the spiritual life out of you as you give to it the glory and the worship you should have given. to God who saves you through his son. So this is the judgment that's going to fall upon Judah. because she has walked after the imagination of her own heart. She has followed the gods of her fathers instead of the God that redeemed her. And as God says, I will send a fire upon Judah, it shall devour the palaces of Israel. We talked about that. So that's the that's the the essence of this particular passage and the judgment that comes upon Judah. But it is very important to understand that they're doing the same things. The covenant people of God are doing doing the same things the rest of the nations are doing. They get the same judgment because they get they get similar judgment because they're worshiping the same different false gods. And they don't love God and they don't love their neighbors. Amen. Let's close with uh uh with prayer and then uh the singing of hymn 498. Let us pray Our Heavenly Father, thank you for this time together this afternoon, and we pray, Lord, that your spirit will work. And encourage us, Lord, to uh realize that by your grace and by your goodness you have caused us to understand the danger of worshiping other gods. Um And uh Lord that uh we pray that uh those dangers we would see as real and not uh try to minimize them. Um we thank you, Lord, that you've placed it within our hearts. To worship the living and true God, Jehovah, and His Son, and His Spirit. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.