Tonight we come to the reading of the sermon text, to the book of Amos, continuing in the study of Amos, chapter 6. And we read tonight through verses 1 through 8, though the focus will be on the first two verses. Let us now hear God's word. Woe to you who are at ease in Zion and trust in Mount Samaria. Notable persons in the chief nation to whom the house of Israel comes. Go over to Kalnah and see, and from there go to Hamath the Great. Then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are you better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory greater than your territory? Woe to you who put far off the day of doom. Who cause the sea of violence to come near, who lie on beds of ivory, stretch out on your couches, eat lambs from the flock, and calves from the midst of the stall. Who sing idly to the sound of stringed instruments, and invent for yourself musical instruments like David, who drink wine from bowls, and anoint yourself with the best ointments. But are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph. Therefore they shall go captive, as the first of the captives And those who recline at banquets shall be removed. The Lord God has sworn by himself. The Lord God of hosts says, I abhor the pride of Jacob, and hate his palaces. Therefore, I will deliver up the city and all that is in it. I'd like to just have us look at verses one and two tonight. uh and uh and see it from the perspective of God uh continuing to make appeals For the people of God, the northern kingdom, to repent of its great evil. But I'd like us also to preach, appreciate the fact that God is. has done many different ways to communicate with his people the jeopardy that they are in. And uh this is a uh God is is is very creative in trying to get the point across The problem is that his people are hard-hearted and they're not listening. But at the same time, we have to appreciate how diligent and how um how uh varied the ways are that God tries to reach these uh sinful people He pursues sinners with the desire that they would repent and avoid the judgment that is coming. A judgment which Amos just speaks about on every page of the Word of God, and we uh excuse me, the book of Amos, and we've seen how many different ways God has tried to get them to see this. And how many different ways he's encouraged them to repent. In this section, there's kind of there's a new matter that God brings to their attention. We find him in verses 1 and 2 making a direct appeal to Israel the northern kingdom. And also we find reference to Judah or Mount Zion also being appealed to. Asking them both To consider the current circumstances of their sin, and to consider that on the background of other great cities in their region. that have fallen, that have been taken over, that have been that God has brought destruction to We read beginning in verse 1, Woe to them that are at ease in Zion and trust in the mountain of Samaria. Which are named chief of the nations to whom the house of Israel came. Now, this is a little interesting here because The first uh people that Amos addresses here is Zion. And Zion is another word for Jerusalem or Judah, the southern kingdom. And so far, most of Amos has been directed at the northern kingdom. Israel or Samaria. Sometimes Samaria takes the uh the place of the name Israel, because Samaria was in the north and it was the capital city of this great northern kingdom, the ten tribes of Israel. And he depicts Zion as being at ease. Now, and he depicts Samaria as trusting in its mountains. And even though judgment will be delayed coming to Zion Jerusalem. Judgment will come approximately 140 years after it hits the northern kingdom, Samaria. But the same problems are there too. And it is the case that during this period of time Amos and other of the prophets, Hosea, Micah, all three are contemporaries Their time of prophecy overlaps. And you see all three of them sometimes speak to both nations. Of their destruction. Even though in Amos' case he is fundamentally focused on the northern kingdom, but that doesn't prevent him from time to time saying a word against the southern kingdom And that's what you have in verse 1. And if you were to put uh to see this, you could look to Hosea chapter 4, 6, excuse me, verse 4 We find the same phenomenon. There he says in verse 4, O Ephraim What shall I do to thee? Well, Ephraim, I know, I know, I hope you all understand this. That's another name for the northern kingdom. Because Ephraim was the biggest of the tribes. And Samaria, the region of Samaria and the capital city of Samaria was located in Ephraim. So when he says, O Ephraim, Hosea says in 6. 4, what shall I do to thee? He follows it up with, O Judah, southern kingdom. What shall I do unto thee? Both of them are combined in the prophet's message. Even though, in Hosea's case, he also is a prophet primarily to the northern kingdom. And the reason, of course, again for this is because what's going on in the northern kingdom is really going on in the southern kingdom, too. It's just not as bad. Because the southern kingdom had a whole lot better kings. And better, not just in a relative terms, but actually had kings that were more like David. than they were like Ahab, the the the wicked northern king. You look at um Mitah Another prophet, contemporary with Hosea, you find the same phenomenon of mixing in one one or two verses. a prophecy that includes both the northern and the southern kingdom. For the transgression of Jacob, Micah 1. 5, for the transgression of Jacob is all this. and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? What are the high places of Judah? Are they not in Jerusalem? Again, right combining a prophecy dealing with both Judah and Jerusalem in the south, Ephraim, Jacob, and Manasseh, excuse me, Jacob, and Samaria in the north. And both, you see, have problems with high places, which really is a language that says they're worshiping idols. They've erected false worship. So when we come to back to verse 1 of our text in Amos chapter 6, we find Amos speaking a word against Zion, but also a word against Samaria. And he depicts them as being at ease. Ease in Samaria, in uh in Zion, and trusting in the mountains of Samaria. Now If you were someone who lived during those days, to have some sort of geographical uh feature that was prominent would be a benefit to you. It would prevent if it was mountainous territory, like in Samaria's case, It would prevent invaders from having an easy time overcoming you. But in Samaria's case She is trusting in those barriers. She is trusting in the mountains to protect her. Not simply from invaders, but she is finding her ease and her comfort Even against whatever God is saying He's going to bring. And so Amos says to them, Woe to you Who are at ease in Zion and woe to you in Samaria who trust in the mountains We find out as we go further into chapter six, particularly at verse three and following. That as you read from verse 3 through verse 6 of Amos, chapter 6, you find the people of Samaria depicted as being living a life of luxury. Living a life of ease, of contentment. And all of this, you remember, is because they have grown rich They have grown successful monetarily, uh, materially And they've done so oftentimes at the expense of oppressing the poor. So uh The the the point is is that Samaria, surrounded by mountains, living a life of luxury, indeed, they were quite wealthy and quite powerful at this particular time in history. Trusting in their in their uh protection from the mountains from any kinds of invaders And believing that because they have been so blessed with material things But they don't really have to bother with God and his demands for them to repent. Uh they have uh uh they think that they're safe. They think that uh because of these uh these their the their situation that they're living a life at ease They do not have any misfortune. And no misfortune can come their way. They trust in the mountains of Samaria. It's a newly built city. It's a capital city of the northern region. It represents great wealth, great prosperity, great power. It's a source of national pride. So don't but God is saying don't be at ease there. Don't trust in the mountains. Don't my judgment is coming and you can't trust That the mountains are going to protect you. Then he moves on to say, don't look elsewhere for help and for deliverance from your sins. Not just to the mountains, but then you notice he talks about the chief of nations. Don't look to the surrounding nations for your help. Don't look for them to bail you out when judgment comes and whatever form it comes. Don't look to them when The armies of the North come to destroy you, that I have marshaled together against you. In other times in Israel's history, she would look at times to Egypt as one of the principal great countries of the world. She would look to them for help When she was in difficulty. Isaiah chapter 31, verse 1 records such an instance. And Isaiah speaks This time to the southern kingdom, he says, woe to them that go down to Egypt for help. Who trust in horses and trust in chariots because they're many, and in coarse men, because they are very strong. Woe to them who do such things. And then he adds, but do not look unto the Holy One of Israel, nor seek the Lord. So don't look to the geographical regions to help you, and don't look to other nations to help you. it isn't going to work. They won't help you. Uh even if they did help you. What you should do is look to the Holy One of Israel. What you should do is cast yourself at his mercy. What Israel should do is what we read from Psalm 123 just a few minutes ago Israel should lift up their eyes unto the Lord, who dwells in the heavens. Israel should ask the Lord to have mercy on us. Have mercy on us, and declare to God that they are exceedingly filled with contempt. Because that's even for him and for his ways. They should in what we would say, they should confess their sins They should look to the Lord for forgiveness They should not say in their heart that the Lord will not bring judgment, or that the Lord is slow about bringing his promises of destruction. That he will not dare do evil to those who are his people, whom he has said are his people. The phrase also in verse one, the chief of nations Could be a reference to Egypt. It could also be a reference to how Israel looked at themselves at this time. Chief in the sense of first or greatest. They were very strong at this point. They were very important. They did see themselves as maybe the most important of all people. But that importance bred contempt for God, and it bred trusting in themselves. Trusting in their power, in their ability, in their wisdom, in their might, trusting in their new cities. in their protection from uh invaders. But Israel's problem remains. She will not obey God. And her disobedience and her trust in other things than Jehovah leads to arrogance and the misguided belief that others may fail against them, that God might bring judgment against them, but he will never bring judgment against us. We won't fail. We will always succeed. Nothing bad can ever happen to us because God is on our side. So this is the mentality that God is dealing with. This is the kind of uh uh he recognizes this uh this profound trust in themselves and their own abilities to to uh to resist even God's judgment upon them This is part of the reason why they're not listening. They continue to believe they are capable Of dealing with whatever problems come their way, even when it means the judgment of God. So God says, verse 2 He starts mentioning a number of places, places that aren't familiar to us for the most part. Go over to Kalmath and see, and go from there to Hamath the great, and go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are you better than these ter kingdoms, or is your territory greater, excuse me, or is their territory greater than your territory? Chalmeh was a city in Babylon. It was one of the ancient cities of Nimrod. who was is mentioned in Genesis chapter 1010 as one of the descendants of Cush, the son of Ham. And we read in Genesis 10:10, the beginning of the kingdom of Nimrod was Babel, Eric, Akad, Akade, and Kalnah In the land of Shinar. So God is saying, okay, Israel, look, go to Kalmeth. This is an ancient city, a very powerful city. Go there and see it in ruins. You're not better than this kingdom. Then he says, go to Hamath the Great, another city. We know where this city is. It was a hundred miles roughly north of Damascus. It was recently captured. At the time, around the time, just a little before Amos writes, it was captured by the Assyrian king. It was leveled And in his leveling of that city, he refers to it later in 2 Kings 18, verse 34. He refers to it later as a city that he conquered when he is talking to Hezekiah in Judah about the greatness of the Assyrian king. 2 Kings chapter 18 verse 34. Where are the gods of Hameth? This man says. Or Arpad, where are the gods of the Severiam, Henna, and Iva? Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? Who are they among all the gods of the countries that have delivered their country out of my hand? That the Lord should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand. You might remember that incident Where the emissary of the king of Assyria comes to the walls of Jerusalem and shouts to Jerusalem. All these cities fell at my hand. Hamath the Great fell. Samaria fell. What may don't listen to Hezekiah. Don't listen to his God. We conquered all the gods. We'll conquer your God too. That's the emissary talking to the people. But the the point is that God is using both Kalmeth and he's using Hamath as cities that were great and powerful cities. That have been destroyed, that have been obliterated because of God's will. And He's saying to Israel, the northern kingdom, You think you'll escape? Look at Kalmeth. Look at Haman. Then he adds, look at Gath. Gath is the one city that most Christians would be a little bit familiar with. It was one of the five principal cities of the Philistines. At this particular time in history, this Philistine city from which Goliath hailed Had also fallen to other powers Indeed, at this particular point, it was a, it was, it had been conquered by Uzziah, the great southern king of Israel. All three of these cities, conquered, all three of them, thought to be great and powerful cities. They're not places you, Israel, can turn to for help. Look at their destruction. Ask. W why were they destroyed? Why did God bring their destruction? And then look at yourself This is the appeal that God is making. This is a little different than the other appeals God has made for Israel to repent. God then proceeds to ask the northern kingdom this question in verse 2: Are you better than these kingdoms? Is your border greater than their borders? Are you better than they are? And of course The answer is no. They may think that they're superior in terms of power and in terms of of strength. But they all all these cities have one thing in common. They're all unbelieving cities. And so too is Samaria. They're not better. They're not stronger. These other cities cannot resist the destruction that God brings, and neither will Israel. These nations and these cities that have been destroyed are designed To make Israel see their shortcomings, to see their sinfulness, to see that destruction is really coming And to point them to their greatest problem of all, sin They think that they're better than everybody else. But in reality, they're all sinful. And God has brought judgment to others and he will bring judgment to Israel. If Israel says we are better, To the question, are you greater than these kingdoms? That answer only speaks to the enormity of their sin and their pride and arrogance. Other great nations have tried to succeed in ignoring God and disobeying him. But God is saying, look at the destruction of these cities now. Israel must not think she is different. Israel must not think that they can compare themselves to others before God and believe themselves to be better. All that sinned, fallen short of the glory of God, they need to admit that nothing can save them Nothing can prevent the wrath of God from descending upon them unless they repent and believe. Amen. And let's pray We do thank thee, O Lord, that you are a good God who continues, O Lord, to Demand that your people be righteous in your sight. And Lord, though there isn't a particular nation of Israel today that is your people As a nation. Nevertheless, it behooves all people everywhere to repent Because you are going to bring judgment. And Lord, there will be no place to hide, no place to run to, no nations. All the great places where people try to hide will not be able to save them from your destructive presence. Lord, we uh grieve that people today uh hear the same message to repent Of their sins. We grieve, Lord, that people will not turn to Jesus And confess their sins. We pray, O Lord God, therefore, that You will pour out your spirit again upon this world and upon our land, this land. That people will be given by you a spirit of faith and repentance That they will not go on continuing to trust in idols, in nations And the power of their particular nations might, they will not trust in anything to save them from the wrath of God, but the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Hear this plea, we ask, O Lord, and protect us, Lord. And help us to continue to remain trusting in you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.