And now we come to the time in the service where for more reading of God's Word from Acts chapter 3 this morning, Acts chapter 3, verses 17 through 26. Here we are resuming, getting back to Acts. Here we are at Acts chapter 3. Peter continues to speak and address the people. There was a crowd who had sort of gathered to him when they saw him and John uh be used by God to heal a lame man. Um, you know, this was at the temple. And they saw Peter and John be used by God to heal this lame man, so they were drawn to him. They were amazed by what had happened. They came and listened to what Peter and John had to say, and Peter had begun to address them in in verses 11 through 15 or through 16 of the text. But then now here we are in verses 17 through 26 where Peter continues his address to this same crowd. He addresses them as men of Israel. He addresses them as they are in the temple, as in some kind of continuity with those who inherited the covenant promises given to Israel. He addresses them as men of Israel in this text. And so then we read the remainder of his address in verses 17 through 26. So that's the reading for this morning. Acts chapter 3. Verses 17 through 26, it is Peter speaking to those who are men of Israel, and it is also God's word, so therefore listen to it and give your attention to it. And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. Repent, therefore, and turn again, that your sins may be blotted out, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord And that he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus, whom heaven must receive until the time for restoring all the things. about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago. Moses said, The Lord God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. You shall listen to him in whatever he tells you. And it shall be that every soul who does not listen to that prophet shall be destroyed from the people. And all the prophets who have spoken from Samuel, and those who came after him, also proclaim these days You are the sons of the prophets, and of the covenant that God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed. God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first, to bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness. The reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it. May he add his blessing also to the preaching of it here in our midst this day Well again, think about these people whom Peter is addressing in our text, and look at how they're addressed. Again, they've been addressed as Sons of the prophets, sons of the fathers, sons of that covenant. They have some kind of covenantal continuity with those who have come before. Among the people of Israel, they were addressed in verse 12 as men of Israel. Now remember who these men are. They are those who are At the temple. They are at the temple at the hour of prayer. They are faithful, devoted Jews in a religious sense, you know, probably also ethnically as well, but But the main point is in a in a religious sense they are faithful devoted Jews, devoted to worshiping the God of Israel They have placed themselves in virtue of that in continuity with men of Israel. They are considered men of Israel. They are considered heirs of those promises and covenants made to Abraham. And in some way in our passage, in some way, they are somewhat held responsible for the death of Jesus Christ. Now the the place where you see that is back in verses 13 through 15. Back in verses 13 through 15 Peter, as he addresses these men as men of Israel, he addresses them in such a way that makes them somewhat responsible for the death of Jesus Christ. Now notice what he says in some of the language in verses thirteen through fifteen. This same crowd he's addressing, he says, You, plural, delivered over Jesus to be killed. You plural denied him. You plural asked that a murderer be released instead of him who was holy and righteous. You plural killed the author of life, and that's in verses thirteen through fifteen. It's very much you plural, men of Israel You who are in some way heirs of the covenants made and given through Abraham, those who are in this case Um devoted Jews who are religiously worshiping the God of Israel, they're at the temple for the hour of prayer. You, whoever you are, whoever he's talking about. In some way he holds them responsible for the death of Jesus Christ. Now that does kind of raise a question, how? Do we know for sure that all those who were i uh addressed in this passage were were there Now it's possible that some of this crowd is part of that same crowd back in Luke 23 who was there. Now that's a distinct possibility. It's possible that some of the same people being addressed here in Jerusalem in Acts chapter 3 were the same people who were there in Luke twenty-three, calling for the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Um Luke twenty-three, eighteen through twenty-five points us to this time when um you know the the ro those who were uh ruling on behalf of Rome, Pilate and Herod Really saw no reason to send Jesus to his death. And they were actually begging the crowd to ask that burr that Jesus be let go instead of a murderer. They had put up Someone who was clearly a murderer alongside of Jesus, hoping that the crowd would ask that Jesus be let off, knowing how um how obvious it was that the murderer was the one uh worthy of crucifixion. And so again, there was this crowd that received that. Pilate had spoken to this crowd, and this crowd still called for the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. And that was back in Luke chapter 23. Now it's possible that some of the same people in that crowd in Luke 23 were some of the same people here in this crowd in Acts chapter 3. That's a possibility. Um Acts chapter three, it wouldn't be strange to reason that maybe Acts chapter three happened not so long after Acts chapter two. Acts chapter 2 related to us the season of a feast, a feast during which Jewish people had come together to Jerusalem. Well there uh back in Luke twenty-three there was also a time when that was also a time of feast when Jewish people had also come to Jerusalem. So it's possible that you know some of the same people or maybe many of the same people are a similar crowd, same crowd. Um Those who had come together for the feast, whether they had come from far or from near, whether they actually lived in or near Jerusalem, or actually they had actually come from afar. So it is again it's very possible that some of the same people are there in the crowd. And so is that how Peter is holding them responsible in some way for the death of Jesus Christ? Or is there another possibility? Is it possible that in some way the fact that these people are devoted to God in a in a Jewish kind of sense at this point and they are have not yet come to Christ, they have not yet turned to Christ, they have not yet turned towards recognizing Christ, and yet still um worship in the in the Jewish manner without coming to Christ. Is it possible that this puts them in some kind of solidarity with those who did put to death Jesus Christ? Is it possible that this puts them in the same place as many of those religious authorities and others and rulers and leaders among the Jews who had a hand in putting to death Jesus Christ. Was it is it possible that in virtue of the fact that they um that they have not yet uh turned to Christ And yet still worship in that old manner, is it possible that this puts them in some kind of solidarity and makes them in some way participants in the death of Jesus Christ? Well It's kind of hard to explain. We don't necessarily know exactly how that is true. You know, and sometimes it's complicated a little bit as you know we want to be very careful that we're not sort of expressing an anti-Semitism view when when we're we're thinking about these issues. But at the same time, in some way, that's perhaps mysterious, Peter addresses this crowd and holds them in some way responsible, guilty, culpable of the death of Jesus Christ. Now again that that's interesting. If they are in some way culpable or guilty for the death of Jesus Christ, look at what they are guilty of. What is it that they have done? What is it that they are being held responsible for? Now we see some of those things described, for example, in verse 14 of chapter 3 before our text. They are responsible in some way for delivering and denying someone who is holy and righteous. And we don't usually think of someone holy and righteous as someone who should be delivered over to death and put to death. The men Pilate and Herod, these Roman rulers and governors, had already examined the man Jesus and found no reason why he should be put to death. They were confounded by the crowd's insistence that he should be put to death, and so they themselves confirmed the holiness And the righteousness of Jesus Christ, and yet that crowd, back in Luke 23, still at the same time asked that the holy righteous ones should be put to death. And that, um, even though there was also a murderer who himself should have been put to death. So again, what are they guilty of? What are they being held culpable for? For sending to his death somebody who had no place going to his death? Someone who was especially holy and righteous. Not just someone who was holy and righteous, the holy and righteous one. Someone uniquely holy and righteous. Someone uniquely holy and righteous in a way that no one else on this earth ever has been or ever could be. They are responsible in some way in our text for putting to death those who are the the one who is the holy and righteous one when they could have instead sent a murderer. to his death, a murderer who clearly did deserve death. Notice who else it is whom they have sent to his death, not just the holy and righteous one. That same one is also described in verse 15 as the author of life. The author of life. This is probably an old Greek way of speaking of someone who is God. Thinking of someone who is God because he is someone who possesses life-giving power. They sent to death the one who gives life They sent to death the one from whom they had received life, the very one who gave them life. They sent him to a place where his life, his human life, would be taken from him. The life they received from him They used against him. They used to take away his life, his human life. So again we see this crowd. In some way they're being held culpable as men of Israel. They're being held responsible for sending to death and denying the holy and righteous one, the one who is the author of life, the one who is the life-giving God. But in sending to his death Jesus Christ, another thing they were also doing comes from our text in verses 22 and 23. And there in verses 22 and 23, they were also sending to his death and rejecting the one who was the great prophet of God. Now again, those verses in in our text, verses twenty-two and twenty-three, they point us back to Deuteronomy eighteen. They point us back to Moses. They point us back to Moses who was you know, the first of, you know, basically the first of great prophets in Israel. They point us to a succession of prophets whom God sent to his people. Oftentimes, time after time, uh many times, those prophets ended up getting rejected because their message was not appreciated. And sometimes the response to their message was that they would be rejected to the point of death. Well here, if as much as this crowd who's gathered here is responsible for the death of Jesus Christ, they also are responsible for putting to death the very greatest prophet. whom God ever sent to his people. And in that way they stand in continuity with so much of the history of God's people in the Old Testament, where the prophets, because their word was not appreciated, They were rejected and sometimes rejected to the point of death. And and again, we see um great consequences that come with rejecting God's prophets. So rejecting any of God's prophets Brings a great consequence. Verse 23 alludes to um basically there's destruction that's threatened against the one who does not listen to a prophet. And yet, if that is true of someone who does not listen to a true prophet, how much worse is it for the one who does not listen to the great prophet of God? The one who is the word of God come in the flesh. The one who speaks God's word with the greatest truth and clarity possible because he himself is the word of God from all eternity. So again, look at what this crowd is being held responsible for, inasmuch as they are counted men of Israel Inasmuch as they are in some form of solidarity or continuity with those who have rejected the prophets in the past, they're being held responsible for this act. Of putting to death this great one, the great prophet, one who was holy and righteous, perfectly innocent and undefiled. Also the one who himself was God, the author of life, the one who had given them life. Now, that's a pretty scary situation, isn't it? Um, is there any kind of sin that you could commit? That you could be held responsible for? That it would be any worse to be held responsible for than putting to death Jesus Christ? You know, we all have our lists, we all have our categories of which sins are the best and which sins are worse. Some that are more excusable than others. Some that are more heinous than others and we all have our ways of drawing up our categories of which sins are worse and which ones are a little more you know, overlookable. We all have those ways of thinking about sin, and of course we often think about those categories and ways that tends to excuse us and tends to justify us, or at least Tends to make sure that we're not in the very worst category of sinners. And yet whatever your categories are for which sins are better and which sins are worse, the very bottom of the list has to be this one. Putting to death Jesus Christ. Having any hand in putting to death the one who is the Son of God, the one who has been God the Son from all eternity, therefore to whom you owe your very existence? But then also who came and lived in this life in perfectly upright holiness and righteousness to put him to death. And who came and was treated this way because he came speaking of the Word of God There's no sin you could commit on this earth that would compare in heinousness to this sin. No matter what categories you draw up, this one has to be the very worst And yet again, this crowd in our passage, they're in some way being held responsible for this sin. They're being held as though they are culpable for this sin in some way. Question is. How do you think God should treat such people? How should God treat such people? If they bear guilt in connection with the death of Jesus Christ, How do you expect God should treat such people? We all know that God should punish sin, right? This is our gut instinct. It's not a bad instinct. It's the way we were created. We were created to live in uprightness and righteousness, to recognize justice, and to recognize that sin should be punished And so our gut instinct may be to think God should punish these people for the most wicked sin ever committed here upon this earth. But even though we think that God should punish them in this instance, what do we see God doing for them in our passage? Notice These people, in some way, whatever the way, guilty of this great heinous sin of putting to death the Lord Jesus Christ. How does God act towards them in our text? Does he answer them according to what they are guilty for? Or does he treat them in another way? And I suggest in verse 26 that he treats them in another way. What do we see in verse 26? God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first. To bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness. The same you plural who denied him Who delivered him over to his death, held responsible for that death, in whatever way, even if we don't know exactly how, that same U plural, God sent him to U plural first To bless you, plural, in order to turn every one of you plural from your wickedness. Notice Those who did the most heinous act of sin that could ever be committed here upon this earth, God saw fit in his mysterious grace and glory. To bless them first with the announcement of Jesus Christ and the good news of what he has done. It's those who committed the worst and acted Most corruptly against him, to whom God sends the announcement of Christ in his gospel first and brings him blessing. That's what we see in verse 26. Again in verse 19, we read of the blotting out of sin. As a possibility of these who committed the very worst sin ever possible. We see them treated in verse 17 as though they acted in ignorance, as though they didn't really know what they were doing. We see in verse 20 something that comes through the forgiveness of sins. In verse 20, we see times of refreshing that come from the presence of God. This is a gift that comes through sin being forgiven. The need for the refreshing of things is a result of sin and the corruption that entered the world when Adam sinned against God. But God grants to these people times of refreshing. God offers and grants to these people the restoring of all things In verse 21, that which was spoken of in the prophets, the full restoration of all creation. All creation fully redeemed and renewed in line with God's original good purposes For it. God offers to these people, God grants to these people through the announcement of Jesus Christ this as a gift. They have committed the worst sin that you could ever imagine But the effects of that sin are covered over, and their sins are blotted out. Not just that sin, but all their sins. Sin becomes reversed. The corruption that came from due to sin becomes reversed through the death of Jesus Christ. So again, we see those who had committed that sin. They're also the first ones to hear the good news that saves them from committing that sin. Somehow this crowd was responsible for sending Jesus to his death. At the very same time, that crowd, if they were believing, they were also being saved by that same death that Christ went to, at least if they heard it and if they turned. And if they turn to God. Then they would be forgiven of that sin, then they would be forgiven of all their sins. That death that they sent him to was the death that would blot out their sins. And it was the death that purchased the restoring of all things. And whatever times of refreshing that would come from the presence of the Lord in their day and in their midst. Again, the same death they were guilty of. is the same den death that purchased and won their salvation eternally. So that's something amazing we see in our passage. In verse 26, God comes through the announcement of Jesus Christ's death and resurrection to bless those who were guilty of this very great sin. And again, in this we're seeing the reflection of God's love, God's mercy. We know that in the Old Testament, God is one who is long-suffering, merciful. Abounding in steadfast love, but we also know that he's one who will not acquit the guilty. Well, in the case of the death of Jesus Christ, the guilty are not acquitted. But instead they are paid for. They're redeemed. They're ransomed. And as they are ransomed and redeemed, this act of paying for their sins is at the same time an act of God's mercy. God's long-suffering nature, God's steadfast love. We see God willingly showing his mercy and his kindness to those who had sinned against him. in the worst possible way. Those who have sinned against God, he sent his son to bless them. He intended to bless them Of course, we remember those words from Jesus on the cross in Luke 23, 34 when he had said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Is it possible that in that moment he was already looking ahead to this moment in Acts chapter 3? He was already looking ahead to the forgiveness He was in the process of winning the forgiveness that he was about to grant to that crowd in Acts chapter 3, at least as many as heard and believed in his name. So we see that reflected here in our text. We see it reflected also back in Luke 23 as Jesus died on the cross, praying, pleading for the forgiveness of those who were doing it to him. And here we see it fulfilled in Acts chapter 3. So again, let's remember what our God is like. Let's remember the character of our God that we see reflected. In the way he shows his grace even to those who are his enemies. For that's what he's done for us. That's what he's able to do for anyone? He's able to do that. For anyone, anyone around us, even those whom we think are the very vilest of sinners? Anyone around us, no matter what sins they have committed or haven't committed? It's safe to say that they're not directly responsible for the death of Jesus Christ, at least not in the way that some, you know, in the scriptures were But at the same time, any and all who would come are freely welcomed, and they have reason to do so, for God is a God who is willing to bless. For the sake of his son, through the work of his son, even the very worst of sinners. And again, that's how fitting it is that he chooses the Apostle who names himself as the very chief of sinners, how fitting it is that throughout um sending his gospel forth Those whom he uses are often those who are struck with the deepest, most profound sense of their own sin. How fitting it is. Because these ones are in a place to declare and proclaim the greatness of the grace of what Christ has accomplished. Well here in the scriptures we see it reflected. And we see it reflected so we may all know, so we may all see that this is what our God is like, and this is what he was doing in the death of Jesus Christ. He was clearing away the guilt of the guilty, but he was doing so by paying for it. And so let's thank him for that. Let's thank him. Let's praise him. Let's come to him. Let's continue to come to him for blessing all our lives long until that time when he brings us to himself in the end Amen. Let's pray. Father, we rejoice and give thanks to you for who you are as a God faithful to us. Yes, Lord, you know, in many ways we are that crowd. In many ways it really doesn't matter who actually uh sent Christ to the cross. It in so many ways we all we all did. In so many ways, that is our great sin. that we we reject that which is holy and righteous from you and especially the person of your son, it's not like we would have done any better. And so we confess that this is who we are, that we are that crowd. And yet we thank you that we're that crowd, because we are that crowd also delivered by that same death. Yes, it's true, it was our sin that sent Christ to the cross. And that is bad news to us. But it's also good news to us because he went there to deal with our sin. So we praise you, Father. We praise you that you have loved us with such a love that you were willing to send your only Son. to bear our sins. Um Yes, Lord, who are we that you should value us so highly? And yet the one whom you have valued so highly from all eternity, your only begotten Son um was willing and did not see it as beneath him to come and purchase us for you as your treasured possession. So we do give praise to you. Father, help us to grow in our knowledge of you. Help us to grow in our faith in you. Grow us in our love for you. Grow us also in our love for one another. Grant that we would also be those who are willing to bear with those who sin against us. Grant that we would reflect your image in this way. Grant that we would be willing to be merciful even towards those who Seemingly deserve no mercy from us. Help us to be those who reflect your image. We ask these things that your spirit would conform us in this direction. Because only by his power is this possible. And so we also then ask all these things in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, our perfect Savior. Amen. And let's continue to pray for the needs of God's people at this time. Father, we do come to you as a people who are very weak in ourselves, very needy. We our greatest need is you. In you we have everything we need for this life and the next. Yet sometimes our great need is to be reminded of that and to have our hearts fixed anew upon who you are. A God who is willing to deal with us tenderly, in fact, who so often is already dealing with us patiently, even before we have recognized the need for your patience with us. Father, would you be with us? Would you hear our prayers? Would you hear the needs of your people? Lord, you know our needs. We ask that you would hear, that you would provide. Father, whatever we are going through, you know, many of us in our midst with ongoing chronic health difficulties. All of us at some level deal with the breaking up of our health in the midst of these things. We pray that you would direct our hearts towards you. We pray that you would direct us to find hope and comfort in that which you have promised to us, the resurrection body. Help us to take comfort in who you are as a God to us who will prevail in the end for the sake of us. Um Father, be with your people also in the midst of the callings you give to us in this life. Many of us have um uh many uh decisions to make and many um uh considerations about the future. Give to us hearts that are set upon being faithful to you in those in those areas. We pray that you would provide what is needed. We're all in need of some provision from you. We ask you to hear our prayer to grant to us what is best for us and best for your glory. Father, we also ask this day. Would you keep us from sin and temptation? Would you lead us in the way of righteousness and holiness? Would you continue your good work of sanctification in us? We're trusting you to accomplish these things in us, and we're looking to you in faith. Father, would you also hear our prayers for those who are in positions of authority? Um as elected officials in office in positions of government, we pray that you would use them according to your will to Bless all who are made in your image. We pray that justice would be upheld and preserved. We pray that life would be protected and preserved, that all life made in your image would be protected and preserved. We pray that wickedness would be stopped and cut short, and that it would be punished, and that foolishness and wickedness would be restrained where these things are allowed to abound But we look to you to accomplish these things and know that you're able to. Father, we also pray this day for the spread of your gospel and the growth of your church. We pray. that you would use us in whatever small way, that you would use us as individuals, that you would use us as a body. Um in the lives of one another and in the lives of other people around us. Father, we pray that you would attend to the preaching of your word, that you would grant that it would be done with boldness and clarity and fruitfulness, and these things would come as the work of your spirit. Father, we pray for the the prison ministry taking place. Um that that Ben Washington's engaged in, we pray that you would use him. And we trust that you will. We pray that you would use the word in other places, um, in missionary settings, um, whether they be here um uh in the place that we sort of consider our earthly home, but also whether it be abroad in other places. Um you are the Lord who is sovereign. Your spirit is able to use that word. Um use it in the conversations we have with people around us. Use the testimony to your word in the ways that we live our lives around others who are outsiders to the faith. Father, we pray that you would continue to be faithful to us, knowing and trusting that you are, for this you have promised in your holy word. And we know that you have purchased us at the cost of the blood of your own son. So we ask that you would give us hearts that are able to trust in you and to match the great promises you have made with faith in you And as we continue to live in this way, would you also help us to live so that our whole lives pattern after this prayer that we continue to pray when we say as our Lord Jesus taught us to say. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever.