Let's remain standing and hear the word of the Lord as we find it in Hebrews chapter 11, beginning at verse 13 and reading through verse 16. The same passage we looked at last week, and my focus today will be more on 15 and 16 of this passage. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar. Afar off were assured of them, embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth For those who say such things declare plainly that they seek a homeland. And truly If they had called to mind that country from which they had come out, they would have had opportunity to return. But now they desire a better, that is, heavenly country. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God. For he has prepared a city for them. Thus far, ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. As we pick up their study in verse uh fifteen today, uh we read again. about uh the faith of those who um believed in the promises of God before uh the coming of Christ before he actually dwelt upon this land and taking on uh human flesh and dwelling among us. And uh we come to uh uh these individuals who are named, and it would include All of those who are above verse 13, Abel, Noah, Enoch. um uh etc. Um uh Abraham, uh Sarah, all of those named before that That he says if they had been mindful of the country from where they came, they might have had opportunity to return. They are the same group of individuals as we spoke about last week who died in faith Not having received the promises, but having seen them from afar. Having seen them afar off, we're persuaded of them. Embrace them. In other words, the promises that were associated with Abraham. The promises of a land, the promises of a seed, the promises of In your seed all the nations of the world would be blessed. They saw those promises of filled from afar, would be fulfilled from afar, and they embraced them, they believe them, even though the fullest manifestation of those promises had not yet been realized. And they declare, as it were, plainly that they seek a better country. They seek a better country. They are strangers and pilgrims on the earth. A familiar theme. Even The Apostle Paul remarks in Philippians that our citizenship is in heaven. Peter writes in the opening of his first epistle to the strangers in Galatia, Poncha, Cappadocia, etc. , etc. These Old Testament saints had to be very persuaded of God's promises given to Abraham. Even though those before verse 13 lived centuries before Abraham. And maybe and obviously had never seen him They saw God's promises afar off. And they believed in them. They believed. They believed that God Would actually bring from someone's seed the very promises that God had made to Abraham. That Abraham's seed would provide eternal blessing to all who believe in the God of Abraham and believe that God would give to his people. a better land, a better country. As they lived their lives in order to do this They are living lives that God would later say are examples to men. Because you see, they live not by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. And you remember that that particular passage, though it's quoted in Deuteronomy 8, verse 3, Jesus himself Said, that is how I view things. That is how I live my life in the midst of the temptation by the devil. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Those who are looking Afar, and believing afar in God's promises, simply have their lives centered, focused on God. And nothing else. They live for God. They live, eat, drink, die for God Nothing in this world was of greater importance to him, to them, than God's word. Than God's revealed word. Then God's revealed word. Even though they could have lived in the promised land, I'm talking about people like Noah and Enoch. Even though they might have lived near that land or lived in it, the land didn't preoccupy their thoughts. Life for these individuals is lived by faith. It's lived by faith in the promises of the living God. They, in that respect, they are no different from us. We are to live our life by faith in God's Word. We do not live our life by the exercise of our own will. And that's especially true when it comes down to trying to secure a home A homeland. Oh yes. By our by our money, by our accumulation of work We can buy an earthly home. But even if we do, such attractions and treasures of this world Should not be the reason for our hope, should not be the reason for the center of our faith, and should not give us any reason to trust. That we will always have such things. For the people of this world who in the faith, saw God's promises afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and were strangers and pilgrims in this world This world to them was temporary. Was temporary. Everything about it was temporary. And as long as they had the basic necessities of life, that was all they asked for from this world. That's why verse 15 says, Truly, if they had been mindful of the country from where they came, or where they came out, they might have had opportunity to return. If their thoughts and lives were so intertwined and interconnected with their homeland With their family, they could have returned to their former homes. and enjoyed being home, enjoyed being around the family, once again relive the nostalgic days of their youth Days seemingly lost forever now lure them back to the good old days, the desire to revisit the best times of their lives. Depending on how much people have that kind of desire for a home here on earth, one can easily make going home your God. But the ones who are mentioned here are different. They desired 16A, a better country A better country. You see, they're not Lot's wife Her gaze upon Sodom continued or symbolized her longing for what was home. A longing she couldn't resist. And looking back for home, she disobeyed God. And she made the choice for that the evil in Sodom was better than the good of divine deliverance. They are not the nation of Israel on the background of Mount Sinai, when Israel in rebellion declared Numbers 11, verses 4 and following. The mixed multitude that was among them fell to lust. And the children of Israel also wept again and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat? We remember the fish. Which we ate in Egypt freely. The cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions. And the garlic. Gotta have garlic. But now our soul is dried away. There is nothing at all besides this manna before our eyes. And that remember I said that Hebrews Numbers 21. We loathe this breath Now that may I mean that's that's a very loaded word. And it's a very condemnatory word, but it's even worse when you remember that Jesus said, I am the bread. That comes down from heaven and gives life. Lot's wife and the nation of Israel during the Exodus were lovers of the things of this world. They loved this great city called Earth. That keeps trying to build for itself a kingdom. Those who desire a better country, they are strangers and pilgrims on this earth. If you desire a better country than what this earth has, if you desire God's country, consider yourself a pilgrim. Consider yourself a stranger. You're a stranger to this world, a stranger to its values, a stranger to its things that it considers treasure and wealth and value. You are a stranger. It's not your home. You don't belong here In the end analysis, millions of Arabs From war-torn Syria and the Middle East desire a better country called Europe or the United States of America. Does the very fact of their longing for a better country make them Christians? Not at all. Because you see, God has precisely defined where that better country is. He says they desire a better country that is heavenly. Heavenly. That word heavenly means more than anything we can possibly understand. But at the very least, it means that they want to be with God. They want to be with their creator and their redeemer. They want fellowship with God. They love God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength. And in the words of our catechism, they want to glorify and enjoy God forever. They surely have a godly fear of the Almighty. But that godly fear is balanced by the thought that God is their Redeemer. I know that my Redeemer lives. They know that their Redeemer is merciful. And they want to serve him who showed such redemptive mercy to them time and time and time again. The new people, living in the heavenly country, the one that God is building, or the God-given reversal of Adam. He who ran away and hid from God because of sin. They are also the God-given reversal of Babel, where men by their own efforts tried to supplant God in heaven. Or at least be on par with him, building their own world. Instead of Instead, these ones who desire a better country, that is heavenly, know their sin is paid for in Christ. Now they want to be in the presence of the Holy One. They want to take up residence there. And delight in God's glory. They want to be able to honor and praise the Trinity without their praise complicated by their own sin. Or they want to they or and or the evil of the wicked world in which we live. They long for just one opportunity To see God receiving perfect glory from their worship, from their own lives, and from the lives of others Who want to be there, with whom they will live in glory. Can you imagine? Can you imagine what it'd be like to be in a perfect worship service? Where every word, every word is Stirs your heart and your soul, where every song thrills your very existence Where you have no distractions to compete With being with God. It must be said that such a desire for God manifested in an exclusionary desire to be in the heavenly country over all the things of the earth is basically an expression of agate Which can only be wrought in the sinner's heart by the work of Christ's death given for us and applied to us by the Holy Spirit. All that's amazing enough. But here comes the last, here comes the cherry on the top. The most amazing thing Now they desire a better country that is heavily wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God. Dear brother and sister in Christ, how many times are you ashamed of yourself for just committing a sin? Before the beloved Jesus who sees you and redeems you. How many times are you ashamed? May God always prick our hearts and make us ashamed to repent us whenever we sin. But be that as it may, those who desire the better country, embrace the promises from afar, those who serve Abraham's seed, Jesus Jesus Christ in Christ God is not ashamed of you In Christ, you're not merely a redeemed sinner. In Christ, you're not merely a human being with whom God has a relationship You are the Holy One's beloved. His dear children, whom he adores. Even inviting you and encouraging you to call him Abba Father. And he makes you joint heirs of all that belongs to his beloved Son, Jesus. Jesus Christ. He has made a heavenly city for you. God doesn't need a heavenly city full of humans To make him somehow better or complete? He doesn't need a multitude of humans hanging around heaven for him to be God or to be fulfilled. But God, out of his good pleasure, builds a city for you, composed of mansions of glorious splendor. So that we might be with him forever, in the heavenly country we were predestined to live in by Christ. Christian, welcome to God's heavenly city. You're always only one second away from being there forever. Why should any of us care about making Earth our home? Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for the precious truths which are The writer of Hebrew from the inspiration of you yourself have conveyed to us in just a small way, Lord, we have Thought more about these things. And we pray, Lord, that in the in the weeks and days to come, Lord, that you will help us to think even more. about um these these things. Lord, that um it might be said of each of your people here that uh they are among those who who desire the better country. The better city, the heavenly one. But they express their love and adoration of you, Lord, by longing to be with you, to be in your presence, to experience The wonders of heaven, which are there In accord with your promises. Let us be like Abraham, who ex who eschews The promised land for the city whose builder and architect is God. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.