Okay, now let us turn to the scripture readings. First of all, Deuteronomy 4, 25 through 40. And then Amos three, nine through twelve. Deuteronomy four, twenty-five through forty And then Amos three, nine through twelve. Hear God's word. When you beget children and grandchildren and have grown old in the land and act corruptly and make a carved image in the form of anything And do evil in the sight of the Lord your God to provoke him to anger. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day. that you will soon utterly perish from the land in which you cross the land which you cross over the Jordan to possess. You will not prolong your days in it, but will be utterly destroyed. And the Lord will scatter you among the peoples. And you'll be left few in number among the nations, where the Lord will drive you. There you will serve God's the work of men's hands, wood and stone, which neither see nor hear, nor eat, nor smell. But from there you will seek the Lord your God, and you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul. When you are in distress, and all these things come upon you in the latter days, when you return to the Lord your God and obey his voice. For the Lord your God is a merciful God. He will not forsake you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which he swore to them. For asked now concerning the days that are past which were before you, since the day that God created man on earth and asked from one end of heaven to the other, whether any great thing like this has happened. Of anything like it has been heard. Did any people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire as you have heard and live? Or did God ever try to go and take for Himself a nation from the midst of other nations, of another nation? By trials, by signs, by wonders, by war, by a mighty hand and on an outstretched arm, and by great terrors according to all that the Lord your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes? To you It was shown that you might know that the Lord Himself is God, there is none other beside Him. Out of heaven, he let you hear his voice, that he might instruct you. On earth he has showed you His great fire, and you heard his words out of the midst of the fire. And because he loved your fathers, therefore he chose their descendants after them, and he brought you out of Egypt with his presence with a mighty power, driving out from before you nations, greater and mightier than you to bring you in and give you their land as an inheritance, as it is this day. Therefore, know this day, and consider it in your heart, that the Lord Himself is God, in heaven above and on the earth beneath. So that there is no other. You shall therefore keep his statutes and commandments, which I command you today. That it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which the Lord your God is giving you for all time Thus far ends the reading of God's word, and you hear in this section in Deuteronomy, you hear Moses speaking as the mouthpiece of God speaking to the people of Israel after they've been delivered out of Egypt, after they've gone through the wilderness experience And now, as they're on the brink of entering into the Promised Land, you hear recited for you God's special care for his people You hear how many different ways he has blessed them and protected them. You hear of his demands that they would honor him and love him. And worship him and him alone as they come into the promised land. Again. Now we're fast-forwarding into history. And we're dealing with the ancestors of these Moses spoke to, and God spoke to. And we're dealing with them uh uh many centuries later in history. And this and as we come to the book of Amos Now those of you who have been with us for the study on Amos know a little bit about the historical circumstance. Amos is a prophet of God, and he has addressed his words to primarily to the northern kingdom of Israel the Jews called Israel. And we have seen that they are a wicked people. And the first Two chapters of Amos, however, start off by Amos predicting judgment to fall upon the surrounding nations, the neighbors of Israel. And there are roughly seven different ones that have this prediction uh people uh nations and peoples that you would expect God would bring judgment to. And in each case of of the nations, each case the the judgment is because they have done generally tended to do something evil against Israel. It's not exactly that way, but it happens more often than not, that that's the stated reason why God is bringing judgment to the nations, why he will bring judgment to the nations. But it it's all around. The judgment is all around Israel. And you can hardly avoid the conclusion that if God is going to judge the nations How is he going to act with regard to his own people when his own people are doing the same thing? The Jews are doing the same thing, and worse in some cases, than the neighbors. And so eventually, after setting that series of seven judgments against the neighbors of the Jews in Israel, God starts zeroing in on Israel, the northern kingdom. And that's what our words today come to from Amos chapter 3 and verse 9 through 12. And you can see if you go back a little bit, back to chapter three and read about it. Uh that the the the uh from chapter three on the focus now is on Egypt. Excuse me, Israel, the northern kingdom. And we have looked at the other verses previously, and so we come to verse 9. Proclaim in the palaces at Ashdod. and in the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble on the mountains of Samaria See great tumults in her midst, and the oppressed within her. For they do not know to do right, says the Lord who store up violence and robbery in their palaces. Therefore the Lord God s says An adversary shall be all around the land. He shall sap your strength from you, and your palaces shall be plundered. Thus says the Lord. But I'm gonna read on just a little bit further. Thus says the Lord. As a shepherd takes from the mouth of a lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be taken out. Who dwell in Samaria, in the corner of a bed, and on the edge of a rock. Hear and testify against the house of Jacob, says the Lord God, the God of hosts. Then in the day I punish Israel for her transgressions, I will also visit destruction on the altars of Bethel, and the horns of the altar shall be cut off. and fall to the ground. I will destroy the winter house along with the summer house. The houses of ivory will perish, and the great houses shall have an end. Thus says the Lord And again, I want to focus our attention kind of narrowly tonight or this afternoon on verses 9 through 12. And I'd like to title this section, God's Merciful Warning. God's Merciful Warning. In uh as we start off this section, which is ultimately uh Speaking to the northern kingdom Israel, a kingdom that by this time in history has become exceedingly wealthy and prosperous. And a kingdom that has become fairly powerful militarily, able to defend itself against aggressors. But it's done so on the backs of many people. It's done so by being oppressive to slaves. Uh and uh it's gotten its wealth uh through theft and through uh conquering other nations. and subduing other peoples. It is a nation that are nominally would call themselves Jewish. Not nominally, they would call themselves Jewish. But they've abandoned God. They've completely turned their back against him. And they've erected all kinds of idols. And you remember from history, this all began when this kingdom was established after the death of Solomon. The ten tribes went north and they established the nation of Israel. And they did so under a king whose name be His name became Rehoboam. And Rehoboam, remember that the Jews always had to celebrate feasts national feast three times a year in Jerusalem. Well Rehoboam didn't want Israel to go down to Jerusalem. He didn't want his people going down there for fear that maybe they wouldn't come back. So what he did to try to accommodate them, he built two altars in the northern kingdom, two shrines, one at Dan, one at Bethel. And on those shrines he made a golden idol. And he said to the people, this is your God. And they bowed down and worshipped him. And I mentioned that point because as we read in this passage, it says The passage that I read from I um from Amos, it says, In that day I will punish verse 14, Israel for her transgressions. I will visit also destruction on the altars of Bethel. And the horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground. In other words, Their temple, their idol that was built in opposition to the temple at Jerusalem, because one king didn't want his people going down there and celebrating Passover In other words, God is going to level that altar, that idolatrous altar. And so you get the picture. This is a nation that's nominally or that that says they're Jewish, that says they worship Yahweh, but in reality They're some of the most hideous people on earth. They do not worship God at all. They worship every other God but God. They listen to his prophets. It's not only Amos that's talking to these people. At the same time, Habakkuk talks to these people. And um and other prophets are talking. This is and and they're saying the same thing. Repent or doom. Repent or doom. And you would think that as the various nations see uh around Israel are called out for destruction in the first two chapters of Amos. As their as their sins are pointed out, that that might have an impact on the on the the the Jews in the northern kingdom. But no, they just don't listen. They they they refuse to listen. They will not repent. They will not come to God. And so now we've got a situation where those who are the covenant children of God, supposed to be the examples of God's people, are about to reap God's destruction, the destruction that God has said is happening. And remember we talked about it this morning, about doom and gloom and Nathalie Guess where Nephilia is? And Zebulun. Northern Kingdom. Northern Kingdom. Far northern kingdom. And who was coming? The Assyrians are coming. By 20, roughly 25 years after Amos gives this prophecy, that whole northern kingdom will be gone. And the people, the people, even it refers to here in the text, they'll be taken off to another land. In a strange In irony of history, the Assyrians, when they would conquer a people, they would do two things. They would take some of the people out of the land and move them to other areas of their kingdom. And they would bring people from other areas of their kingdom into the land they conquered ultimately so that their their empire would all be one. These people would intermarry, they would share They would share their cultures, they would share their religions, which by it it you know it was the way in which they tried to control. And God actually refers to that That they'll be taken out of their land. But be that as it may, let me get to the the actual verses Publish in the palaces at Ashdod and in the palaces in the land of Egypt and say, verse 9, settle yourselves on the mountains of Samaria Behold the great tumult in the midst thereof, and the oppressed in the midst thereof. What God is doing when he says, publish in the palaces. The actual Greek Hebrew word is here. The hear. But it's in a f It's in a form where the uh the meaning of the word is intensified. I could say, really here, or I could say Use a megaphone to hear. The idea is that God is saying to Ashdod, and he is saying to Egypt, he is saying, I want you to hear clearly what I'm saying. What I have to say is to you. And what I want you to do, I want you to come to the mountains of Samaria. Now you need to know a little bit more about the history. What is Samaria? What's the importance of Samaria? Samaria is the capital city of the Northern Kingdom. It's the center. It's not just a city, but it's a region. It's the center of government. It's where the king makes his palace. And it's the symbol of prosperity. It's the symbol of the country's power. And blessing. It's as if, you know, in our situation, if someone, if God wanted to bring destruction, he would go out and he would call the nations to come to Washington. And see what he will do to this renegade group of people who say they are his people, who've experienced his blessings throughout history, Egypt. You know, and he talks about that before chapter nine verse nine of chapter three, and they still won't listen. And God says, you know In Deuteronomy chapter 4, be obedient, don't intermarry, don't worship me only, don't fall down to false gods, or if you do, this is going to happen And now this is happening. It's about to happen. Judgment is about to occur. And look who are the invited guests. Ashdod and Egypt. God wants Ashdod and Egypt to see what he's going to do with Samaria, the northern kingdom. And that's really ironic, because it is Egypt, as you well know, was one of Israel's earlier oppressors. Under the time of of of of of of Jacob and his sons. Ashdod Who are they? Capital City, one of the five capital cities, principal cities of the Philistines. Ancient enemies of the Jews. You guys, I want you to come and I want you to see what I'm going to do. Now if you go back and you look in verse chapters 1 and 2 of Amos, both in chapters 1 and 2, both Ashdod and Egypt. God says, I'm going to bring judgment to you. In the context of saying, I'm going to bring judgment to Amos. But now by inviting these two countries to come and to look at what he's going to do to Israel, it's like God is saying Giving them their last warning. Or you're gonna, you know, you're going to be judged as well And that's important to appreciate because it tells us that God is a God of all peoples. Number one, and just because you're Egyptian or just because you're a Philistine and you're not Israel doesn't mean you're not subject to God's word. And it's it's it's as if you know Israel is the one who's blessed because they have the Orioles of Orioles. Sorry, Russell, they have the oracles of God. They have the oracles of God, the Word of God. The the Gipsons don't have that. The uh The Philistines don't have that, but now God is giving them warning. He's warning them through what he's going to do. He's inviting them to see what their future is going to be if they don't repent. And that's, my friend, I think it's mercy. I think that's another demonstration of God being merciful. to sinners. And our God is not just a God of one particular people. He's a God of all nations. And that does and those of us who just like the Jews, those of us who are the beneficiaries of his mercy cannot play favorites with people because of their ethnicity or because of their color or because of their social standing. He's the God of all peoples. And he's basically asking the nations to come and see. Now whether they listen or not is not the issue. The issue is not God is encouraging them to come and look at what I'm going to do. Repent. Repent. It's it's it's it's you know it's like it's the same in in some ways it's the same principle as why God sent Jonah to Nineveh He sent what? A preacher to hear the word. And in Nineveh's case, we know many repented At what what Jonah had to say. So look at how look at how uh God in uh through Amos describes Amos, the people, it's not Amos, describes the people in the northern kingdom. Look at verse 10. They know not to do right, says the Lord. They store up violence and robbery in their palaces. He is not referring here to the Gentiles, the Egyptians, or the people, the Philistines from Ashdot, although it would be true of them as well But he is saying, my people are foolish. My people are sinful. My people say they know me, but according to Jeremiah 4. 22 They do not know me. They are Sodish children. Old English King James. They are Sodish children They have, this is Jeremiah 4. 22, they have no understanding. They are swift to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge. Soddish is a a Scottish word or English word that means they're drunken. They are drunken children. It's not drunken from alcoholic drink, but it's drunk from sin. Israel is guilty of not doing right. They did have the Ten Commandments. They did have God's word But they store up robbery and violence against the weak, the poor, and they're robbing God of worship. That's why he says they do not know to do right. They store up sin against themselves by their actions, by their idolatry, and by their poor treatment of others. They were actively involved in slavery. And oppression of people. You can read more about that if you go through and read Anus. And so God says Therefore, verse 11, the Lord God, an adversary, shall be even around about the land. He shall bring down thy strength from thee and all thy palaces. Will be spoiled. He warns Israel that a great adversary will destroy Israel, all while the nations witness. All while these heathen nations witness. And again, the conclusion can hardly be avoided that God is saying To those nations, what I'm doing to Israel, I will do to you if you do not repent. Because I am the God of all creation. I am the God of all redemption. My will is to be done. He is the great adversary, and he is angry at the false worship. The idolatry. He's angry at these people who are the beneficiaries of the covenant with Abraham. He's angry that they're hurting others without love. The adversary is Jehovah Himself that is against these people. And if God destroys Israel, his own special people, what will he do to the nations? nothing less. Verse twelve, Thus says the Lord this is incredible. Thus says the Lord, as a shepherd taketh out of the mouth of the lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be tak be taken out that dwell in Samaria in the corner of a bed, and in Damascus in the a couch, this whole picture of a lion with a with a leg or two legs in its mouth and an ear in its mouth Is a poetic way of God saying, uh, this is how devastating the destruction will be. There'll be so much death, so much destruction, and only pieces will be left. In another place in Enos, it compares those who are left of Israel as being a remnant the size of a dog's ear. But here the image is a little different. A lion. When you think of a lion, you think of a powerful animal. You think of a really powerful animal, and anyone who would dare to try to take a leg of lamb out of a lion's mouth is very brave or very foolish. I don't know if on a much smaller level, I know some of you have dogs and some of you may have cats. Have you ever tried to take the food of your dog or your cat out of their mouth? Uh you better be careful, because that will trigger a response and they will lunge at you and they will bite As the shepherd taketh out of the mouth of a lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be taken out. But notice it says, they shall be taken out. They shall be taken out. Some will be taken out. A remnant will be taken out. A remnant will be taken out when the shepherd comes and fights the lion to retrieve what is left of the lamb. And I just mentioned that simply to suggest. Could God, could this refer to God Himself shepherding his people and saving a remnant Maybe those seven thousand in the northern kingdom that haven't bowed the knee to Baal, maybe they're envisioned. But by God's protection, he will in essence, go into the mouth of the lion and save them from destruction. In that sense, if that's true, in that sense There's still some hope for Israel to repent, even though doom is there. Doom is predicted. Doom is coming. It's imminent. But a remnant will survive That judgment of God. And the shepherd will deliver them from annihilation because of the wrath of God. And you think of it that way? That's kind of us. The rim Those whom God has delivered from the mouth of a roaring lion who seeks to devour those he may And God is the one who's done the delivery. God Himself is the good shepherd of the sheep. And the good shepherd braves the enemy. To save his people. Yeah, you have to do that as a shepherd, as a good shepherd. Amen God's merciful warning to the nations, but to his people too. Let us pray. Almighty and most merciful God, our Heavenly Father, fill us with such wonder and with such thanksgiving, Lord, that you look upon us. As your children, and you have indeed redeemed us from the destruction of our own sinfulness, from the bondage of sin, and you have made us your people We thank you for our good shepherd, the Lord Jesus, who came, and didn't lose any of those who were given to him, except The one who was predicted such, the son of perdition by the scriptures. We thank you for him. We thank you that not only did he deliver us, But as the Good Shepherd, he continues to lead and guide us to the pathways of righteousness by his Spirit. Keep us, O Lord God, from evil, from doing that which is against you. Protect us, O Lord, from trying to go our own way and and ignore you. Deliver us from the sin of idolatry. And make us, Lord, more and more thankful, more and more Expressing her love to you with all that is within us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen