Let us remain standing, turn to Hebrews chapter 12. We'll be reading from verse 12 through verse 17. Let us hear God's word. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet. So that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed. Pursue peace. With all people, and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Looking carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God. Lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau who for one morsel of food sold his birthright. For you know that afterward when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected For he found no place for repentance, though he sought it with tears, diligently. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Now we have been uh journeying through the book of Hebrews and our morning sermons. And uh we have finished uh uh the preceding sections which talk about uh believers running a race, a long-distance race. to continue to keep running that race, even though they're are full of trials, some suffering, some pain. Then we uh focused on uh the next section, which talks about the discipline of the Lord. God's chastening is a good thing, that he chastens those whom he loves as sons and daughters. of his of his kingdom. And today we uh we turn our attention to uh verses 13 uh and the following of uh this section. We'll only get through 13 and 14 today. I think Lord willing, we will do that We have seen from our previous studies of Hebrews twelve, one through twelve, that uh God uh Says that we are running, as it were, a long-distance race, and that that race is designed to build character and to build holiness before him. We have seen that God brings trials in our lives. Trials that do cause some suffering, do cause some pain, and some tears. But God is doing this to make us holy, to conform us to the image of His Son, the Lord Jesus, who the scripture says learned obedience through the things he suffered. Holiness is essential for us as God's people. It is essentially is essential Because one day, as his people, we will see him as he truly is. And that is holy. Holy beyond our comprehension. But we will be able to live and to stand in His holy presence. Because God is at work even now in our lives through all the different journeys and trials and sufferings. He is at work developing that kind of holiness that is likened unto the Son, likened unto his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. I know I have spent a lot of time talking about this subject and about this passage. I know that saying you will receive pain and you will receive suffering because you're a Christian. I know that's dark Some of you may think it's too dark Some of you may be of the opinion that being conform to the image of Christ is something I can think about later in my life. Or you might be thinking, the Christian's life is a life about joy and peace and happiness and fun. And you might be wondering, Pastor Taylor, why are you preaching sermons that are such downers? Some of you may want me to preach something else. Some of you may want me to say something else Some of you may not want me to mention that you will suffer for being a Christian. But I that's I'm not going to do that I won't do it. I can't do it. If I did say that, I would be a liar And your spiritual interests would not be served. Because here in Hebrews chapter 12 and in other passages, our Lord is telling his disciples. That there will be trials, there will be suffering, there will be pain, simply because you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Do you not remember the words that Jesus said to his disciples before his death? John 16, verse 33. These things I have spoken unto you. That in me you might have peace. In the world, you will have peace. Right? No, in the world you will have tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. And if that isn't an indication that there's going to be difficulty In our lives, some of which comes from being in contact with an unbelieving world. If that isn't enough, listen to Jesus' more foreboding words. In John chapter 16, verse 2. They shall put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills you will think he does a service to God. No, if you are going to live as a child of God, if you're going to live your life for Jesus. You will discover very quickly that it isn't an easy life to live. And the more you live for Jesus, the harder it gets Because the world doesn't like it. And the world hated him, our Savior before it hated, hated you. Every Christian must realize that God is in control of our lives. And that God is busy making you his treasured possession And you will be holy as he is holy. How can you, as a Christian Be anything other than what your heavenly father and your heavenly brother are. How can you wish to be other So God, the divine author of Hebrews, probably realized that this message of his chastening and his suffering might not be so popular among believers. I really believe that there'll be very few places even in the church today where you will hear this. It won't be popular, even among believers, let alone the unbelieving world But our verses today suggest how we need to respond to the prospect of undergoing the Lord's chastening. Undergoing the Lord's instruction. Undergoing the Lord's discipline. What is God's prescription for you as you are being changed, conformed, transformed more and more into the image of His We focus on verses thirteen and fourteen. But 15 through 17 also gives some important help. As we focus on these two verses We see that believers will be living while being chastened, but we must not miss the critical link between verses 13 and 14. Verses 13 talks about enduring suffering. Verse 14 focuses more on renewal The impact that suffering, God's chastening, has upon our spiritual life. A renewal. A renewal. Make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way. But rather let it be healed. Strive for peace with everyone and for holiness, without which no one will see the Lord The first thing we detect as we look at verse 13. Is the encouragement, the exhortation given to God's people to make straight paths for our feet? To make straight paths for our feet. And as we look at that verse 13, don't we see there are a number of statements that have a connection to what our feet do? Making straight paths. Being lame. Being walking in the way Well, we all know that our feet are used for walking and running and other things We are here said to make straight paths for our feet. The word there that is used for straight is the word orthros. Orthros. You ever hear that word before? Ortho? You ever hear that word? Well, what does ortho mean? Well, it means that which is straight, that which is right, as opposed to that which is crooked and that which is wrong. Make straight paths for your feet. Make right paths for your feet And we find that this in the same verse, verse 13, is suddenly compared or contrasted to what is lame or crippled. What is lame or crippled, which is While one is said to make straight paths for the feet, the other is said to be turned away or to be turned aside. Remember, this comes in a broader context of running this race as a believer. If you're running the race, you've got to use your feet. If you're lame, it's not easy to run the race. You will be bypassed You will be turned aside. It's very difficult for someone who is lame to run a long-distance race that the Christian life is characterized as. In the early part of chapter 12, the focus is on the straight walker or the straight runner. As well as the lame, who the scripture says needs to be healed It's a very interesting verse. It's somewhat difficult to translate, as those of you who have other translations will find. We begin to see, though, that the author is contrasting the straight walking runner with the lame who is being turned aside. Now, lest anybody misunderstand, is this being used literally to refer to lame people or straight walking people? As if to say straight lame lame people are somehow not part of the kingdom of God Is that what it's talking literally here? So is that the conclusion we should make? That they'll be turned aside simply because they're lame? Obviously, no. When you think about it, some of the most enduring passages of Jesus' ministry were to those who were lame. We're to those who were crippled. We're to those who were physically under this under this paralysis. Both phrases, walking and being lame, should be understood More spiritually, and I don't want to spiritualize everything, but I think that's the correct way of understanding in this particular case. Your feet are to walk in a straight path before God. Your feet are not to get off the path. Walk in the narrow path that God has laid out for us in Scripture. Walk in the right path. And how do we know what that correct path is? Where can we find? Where can we locate that correct path that we are to walk in? Where is it to be found? Well, is that not to be found in the Word of God? Remind you, listen, Psalm 119, verse 105. Thy word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path What is a lamp to your feet? God's word. What is a light to your path? God's word. How are you to be are you how how can you walk the straight path? Well surely this is going to be at the heart of that walk I have more to say about that in just a second. The pathway that God has made for your walk or your race Is also said to be in Psalm 119, 105, an illuminated path. An illuminated path. If you are going to run the race and the trials that go with it, if you're going to be able to ex to survive in the trials, the suffering that come as God brings them to you or as they come to you from the world. Is not your greatest help going to be in the Word of God? I know I say that, and I know we should all we all agree with that, and I know we should we all believe that But the question I think we all have is, do I practice it? Pastor I wish I was better at reading the Word of God. Pastor, we try to have family devotions, but we don't seem to always get around to it. You don't have any trouble usually getting breakfast, dinner, and supper But somehow we do have some trouble getting the Word of God to speak to our hearts. And the Word of God is designed to help us to survive this race. Meditate on the Word of God and be enlightened. Let your path be illuminated. Let your feet walk in the Lord's path. This Psalm 119, 105, I think, is a signature verse. It teaches us that we need the Word of God and its light as the path we must walk upon. But it's not the only verse. That's just one of a multitude of verses that extol the virtues of The fact that believers must be walking on the path of faith. Must be walking the straight path. the right path, the way that pleases God, the way that leads to eternal life. Think about two other psalms in this respect. Psalm 17, verse 5. Hold up my goings in thy path. Hold up my goings in thy path, that my footsteps do not slip. But one more explicit statement about the significance of the word uses uphold me, Psalm one hundred and nineteen, verse one sixteen. Uphold me It doesn't say in my path, but it says, uphold me according to thy word. that I may live. Doesn't say I may walk, but surely if you're living, you're walking. And if you're living without paralysis, you're walking. Uphold me according to thy word that I may live, let me not be ashamed of my hope Psalm 119, verse 133, order my steps, order my steps in thy word. Let not any iniquity have dominion over me. We cannot underestimate how much we need the Word of God. Not simply to walk in straight paths, in the illuminated paths, but simply simply to survive In this world. You're walking on an illuminated path. What's the world walking on? A dark one. A dark one. It doesn't lead to life. It doesn't lead to holiness. It leads to eternal death, eternal destruction, eternal condemnation. When we regularly walk in the Word of God, this leads to something else. It not only helps us walk on this path But it leads to a moral resurgence in us. You might want to call it a renewal. You know, I I challenge you to do this. If you are not regular in reading the Word of God, I challenge you to take the Word of God Some passage. Read it. Read it consistently for 15 minutes each day. Seven days in a row Look at where you are spiritually after that time. Evaluate where you are. Be honest with yourself. Look at the difference 15 minutes for seven days makes in your spiritual makeup, in your outlook. In your ability to deal with issues before you Walk in the right path. It does As the Word gives us the help to walk in that path, it does lead us consistently to live in a way that pleases God. Love Him and love others. Which might be simply boiled down to living holy before God. As Hebrews chapter 12, 14 reminds us, strive for peace with everyone and for holiness. Without which no one will see God. Our walk is to characterize us. It's to define who we are. It defines who we are even to ourselves But it also defines who we are to others outside others we come in contact with. The focus on the Word of God influences and renews us spiritually. And such focus Occurs regularly throughout the Bible. It's especially interesting that at critical points in redemptive history The story of redemptive history, at critical points, the word influencing the walk comes forward. Romans chapter 4, verse 12 describes Abraham. Describes him in this way. The father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps Of the faith of our father Abraham, which he had yet being uncircumcised. It doesn't actually talk about the importance of the word in Abraham's life, but you can glean other proof of that from how Abraham was talked about in Hebrews chapter eleven. Where he believed, for example, by faith, that God could raise his son from the dead if he wished Where did he get that? God must have communicated it to him. God must have shared it with him and spoken to him. He believed also that his descendants would be as numerous as the stars of the sky. Did he have a Bible to read that out of? No, but he had God saying it, which is the same thing you have in the scriptures. God speaks through holy men, moved by the Spirit, to write down these things which we have before us in his word When Israel was about to enter the promised land, Moses said to the Old Testament people of God, the Israelite of God, Israel of God, In Deuteronomy 5 verse 33, he said, You shall walk in all the ways which the Lord your God hath commanded you. God wasn't commanding them by some sort of words that were being spoken at that particular point. They'd already been written down. They'd already part of the tablets upon which the Ten Commandments were written. Deuteronomy 10, verse 12. Now, Israel, what doth God require of thee but to fear the Lord and to walk in all his ways? To love him, to serve the Lord with all your heart, with all your soul. Where is all his ways? That's someplace magical? Some place we have to go to to find out? No. Again, it's the things that God had written down to us. his people, the things that he had revealed about himself to his people, by word and by deed. After Israel, God's chosen people by nation had conquered and settled the promised land Joshua says this, take heed to do all the commandments and the law, which Moses, the servant of the Lord, charged you. To love the Lord your God and to walk in his ways. To keep the commandments, to cleave to him, to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. In Solomon's dedication of the temple 1 Kings 8 verse 61, part of which sounds almost like a duplication of Joshua's words in Joshua 22, verse 5 that I just read. Let your heart therefore be perfect with the Lord our God to walk in his statutes and keep his commandments as at this day. And then we have all the exhortations for the New Testament believer, exhortations which come from the Apostle Paul. To the effect that we are to walk in God's ways. Our life is to be a walk in God's ways. I could read numerous passages like that uh that say that, but let me just uh let me just read a few Colossians 1, verse 10, walk worthy of the Lord unto pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. Ephesians 5. 2, walk in love, as Christ hath also loved us, and given himself Walk as children of light. Ephesians five, eight. First John one through seven. If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. 1 John 2, 6. He that says he uh uh he abideth in him ought himself also to walk even As he walked. All these texts make a very powerful case for your feet to walk in a straight path. according to God's word, according to God's ways, to walk in the light that God has revealed to us. When we study the Word of God, Holy Spirit-guided renewal, spiritual renewal, will occur And so if we want to be winning the race, walking the path, then we have to be meditating on God's word. If you don't, then most likely you will be characterized as among the lame. Who will be turned aside? You will be off the straightened path. The words that follow after verse 13. Where it says, lest that which is lain be turned out the way. The next words, let it rather be healed. Seems to suggest that God is pointing to anyone who is at this moment or at a certain moment spiritually laying because you're not making use of his word. Seems to be pointing to a hope. You might be healed You might go from being spiritually lame to spiritually walking in the right path We are in the midst of a struggle. We have the trials of life. We are running the race that God has placed before us. And the struggle is there. Partly because God is using it to perfect their holiness. But it is a struggle, nevertheless. We're struggling. As we undergo the affliction from evil, we find ourselves often sick of the world that we live in Enticing us to walk in morally deviant paths that God says leads to destruction and eternal damnation. We are sick of seeing our moral values in Christ being cursed at and spit upon. Sick of having to live in a fallen world where evil is good and good is evil. Where you're told many times each day to be tolerant and accept the wickedness before you. While at the same time being tempted yourself to succumb to the storm of all storms If you're in this category, the text offers you hope. It offers you his shelter through the trials. Whether they be part, I mean God is in control, right? The shelter is his word. Come to Jesus' word Be taught by the Master. He promises everyone who comes that whoever drinks Of the water of that well will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. The water that I shall give him shall be a well of water springing up into the everlasting life. The water that Christ gives that causes us never to thirst and welling up to eternal life is at the very least his word. Remember the passage of Isaiah fifty-five, verses ten and eleven. As the rain comes down and the snow from heaven and returns not thither, but waters the earth. And makes it bring forth and bud that which may give seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be. That goes forth out of my mouth, it shall not return to me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please. It shall prosper in the thing wherein to I sent it. Let us all come to Jesus' word and drink deeply of it and be nude. Be renewed while we are running the race. Of a lifetime. Amen. And let us pray. Most merciful God Help us, Lord, for we uh we don't often we don't eat if we don't really realize how much we need you And we get overwhelmed by so many things we have to do. And sometimes, Lord, we forget what we really have to do. Help us, Lord, to make priorities that are your priorities. Feed us, Lord, with your word, we pray. In Jesus' name