Amen. Please remain standing and let's look in our Bibles at Isaiah 42. We'll read verses 1 through 9. this morning, Isaiah 42, verses 1 through 9 this morning. This is a sermon entitled God's Chosen Servant. This is also found in your Pew Bible on page 715. So Isaiah 42, verses 1 through 9 is also found in your pew Bible, page 715. Beloved of the Lord Jesus, this is God's word to us this day, this morning, that He wants us to hear. From the before the foundation of the world, He has ordained that we hear this word. This day for his glory. Before we look down at the Word, let's look up and see the risen enthroned King and ask for the illumination of the Holy Spirit We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you are with us, that you will never leave us nor forsake us. We thank you that as you continue to Counsel us by your spirit as you continue to pray for us in the power of your spirit, as you continue to provide for us strength for our journey. A word from above that only you can give. We pray that we would hear your very voice this morning. We pray that we would see your beauty, your glory, your kindness, your mercy, your compassion, your strength. That we would look away from ourselves to you. That we would know your love, that unfathomable, unchangeable love for us, and that we would be changed further, more fully in your likeness. We pray for your servant that you would help him to decrease, that you might increase, so that we can behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. We pray in your name. Amen. This is God's word, beloved. The Bible says, Behold my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice Or make it heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not grow faint or be discouraged Till he has established justice in the earth, and the coastlands wait for his law. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people on it. And spirit to those who walk in it. I am the Lord, I am Yahweh, I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison, those who sit in darkness. I am the Lord, I am Yahweh, that is my name. My glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols. Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare before they spring forth, I tell you of them. Thus ends the reading of God's Most Holy Word. May He bless the reading and the preaching of God's Word. Amen. You may be seated. Beloved of Trinity Reform, today we want to gaze upon the power and the glory and the beauty Of the servant of Yahweh, the servant of the Lord. And so this is a sermon entitled simply God's Chosen Servant. And the main idea, the thing that we all want to take from this message by God's grace, and go forth out of here today when we're dismissed. Is that as God delights in his servant, so we would delight in his servant increasingly, more and more, each and every day. And so we'll look at this in three points, this passage. We'll look at first how is the servant of the Lord or the servant of Yahweh How is he described? The second thing we will ask is, who is the servant of the Lord? And the third thing we will look at is how do we grow in being servants of the Lord? And so first, we want to ask, how is this servant of the Lord described? Let's be reminded of the context of this part of Isaiah. Israel are in exile. Israel is a people in an exilic death state. As Ezekiel sees them in his prophecy, they're like dead bones. They're like going into a desert, a lifeless, waterless desert with nothing but bones everywhere. And in this exilic death state, Israel is there in this exile, away from Eden, east of Eden, far from Eden. East of the promised land, far from the promised land. We've got to remember what made Eden What made the Promised Land special was that God dwelled with his people in a very special way. And as God dwelled with his people, he gave them joy. He gave them abundance of provision. He gave him himself. He gave them the assurance that their sins were forgiven. Through the tampered, the tabernacle first, and then the more permanent structure of the temple He gave them a mediator. He gave them prophets to speak the word of God to He gave them a high priest to offer sacrifices in their behalf. So that God could dwell with them and would not come upon them as a consuming fire. God had shown Himself so faithful, so kind, so abundant in provision. But Israel had been unfaithful. Now, all of Israel as the congregation Is experiencing this exilic death state, west, or I should say east, far east from Eden, and far east from the Promised Land. Some are believers. Some are experiencing this azylic death state because they are not truly children of Abraham. They're not truly believers. But some are experiencing this as those who are true believers, but are experiencing God's chastisement, his discipline. And the message here that Isaiah gives them is a message for all of those who have ears to hear and eyes to see. As we looked at last week, it was God who speaks in this death state to Israel and says, Comfort, comfort, that for those who believe, It is as if all of your sins have forgiven because I'm the faithful God and I will continue to be faithful And here in Isaiah 42, God doesn't just want us to hear about his comfort, not only hear about his faithfulness, he wants us to gaze. upon the beauty and the glory of the servant of the Lord. That's why he begins this passage in verse 1 with, Behold! It is a way of getting Israel's attention, getting all of those who have eyes to see their attention. And he's saying, look and see. Do you see my servant? My servant. It's God's chosen anointed servant. It's the servant whom Yahweh upholds It's the one chosen specifically by Yahweh, by God, and it's the one in whom his soul delights God wants us to see this servant wherever we are. But especially in that time period, Israel was called to have their imaginations captured. That there is a servant that is anointed, a chosen one of God, who is one that God delights in. And further, that God has put his spirit upon the spirit that was in the temple, that now at this time in Israel's history lays in ruins. In rubble. This servant possesses the spirit And he will bring forth justice not just to Israel, but to the nations. To every tribe, every tongue, every people, every nation, that they would believe upon the Lord In fact, if you notice in verse 4 at the end, the coastlands will wait for this servant's law The coastlands, from Israel's perspective, are the furthest away lands that they could think of, from the farthest reaches of this globe These coastlands will be awaiting the servant's law. So, how is the servant described? He's Yahweh's beloved. He's Yahweh's delight. He's Yahweh's anointed. He's Yahweh's chosen. He's Yahweh's Spirit-filled servant. He's Yahweh's servant to bring the good news, to bring the word to the ends of the earth. What's he like? How's he described in his character? Verse 2. He's not one to draw attention to himself. He's a humble chosen anointed servant of Yahweh He won't cry around loud, he won't lift up his voice, he won't draw attention, he won't make it heard in the street, saying, Look at me, look at me. Yet he's compassionate. He's humble. He's compassionate. Look at verse 3. A bruised reed. He won't break. He knows that Bruce Reeds need care, tenderness, compassion. A faintly burning wit, he won't quench, but he will faithfully bring forth justice. We see that again. This is the second time. At the end of verse 1, he'll bring forth justice to the nations. Now we hear, he'll faithfully bring forth justice. And then in verse four, he's faithful. He's faithful He will not grow faint or be discouraged. Literally, he won't be bruised in that sense that literally he won't be bruised. The sense of it is that he won't be bruised to the point where he will give up. He will be harmed. We know that. But he won't let it cause him To, he will, let me put it positive, he will continue to persevere faithfully for the will of God, for the good of God, for the glory of God, and for the good of his people. So he'll not grow faint. He won't be discouraged till he's established justice in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law. So how is he described? It's amazing. He he's my my servant, the one Yahweh upholds, he's The chosen, the one that causes Yahweh's heart to delight as a father to a son. He's put his spirit on him. He's humble. He's compassionate, he's tender-hearted, and he's faithful to the end. And his ultimate mission is to bring about justice. And what does that mean? Sometimes it's important, I think, to think of Hebrew words It's fun to memorize them. It's fun to know a few of them. One that we want to always remember is You have to say ch sin. But hesed, because it means steadfast love. It means God's unchangeable It means God's unfathomable. It means God's continuing love towards the sinners in Christ. So Hesed is a word we always want to remember. Another one is Mishpat. That's justice. Mishpat. And what we're being taught here is the servant's mission is ultimately Mishpat through Chesed. We can all say that at home, memorize it with our family, say it to our children, say it to our friends, and win friends and influence people through that, right? No, I don't know. But it's Mishpach through Hasid. What does it mean? It means he will accomplish justice through faithfulness, through love, through steadfastness, through glorifying God. This justice is making things right that are wrong. Whether you think of abusive relationships, or you think of abusive people, you think of homes that have abuse, that have experienced abuse, you think of abortion. You think of racism, you think of ill treatment of other people, you think of the way that oftentimes the poor despise the rich And the rich despise the poor. In every way that you can imagine that we can fathom that's wrong with this world. This service is going to make it right. He's going to make it right Because he's going to make a righteous people. Because he's going to bring in a righteous world. And he's going to rid this world of injustice. But in order to do that, he has to remove. The servant must remove in order to bring justice, in order to bring what is right, in order to bring fairness. In order to bring equity, in order to bring the dignity that every human being ought to enjoy in the presence of God, he has to first remove idolatry Immorality, impurity, ingratitude, and every injustice that's known to man, that's known to history Everything that's been done wrong to you by a family member, by a trusted person, in an office, a public office. To a friend that's betrayed you, to a person that's bumped you in line somewhere or in traffic This is how he's described. He's going to bring about right where there's wrong. So whether you can remember Mishpat through Hesed or not, and I invite you to, it's kind of fun. We'll talk about it much more. Remember this, that he will bring what and make things right where there's wrong. That's what the servant is going to accomplish. And so how is he described? He's described as a as as Yahweh's delight. He's described in his character as humble. As compassionate, tender-hearted, as faithful, and he's described in his mission as making right everything that is wrong in this world. Well, now let's ask the question: who is this servant? You remember earlier when we read in Isaiah 41 Go back with me, if you will, to chapter 41, verse 8. It says And again, Isaiah speaking to them in this exilic death state. He's reminding them. And he says in verse 8 of chapter 41, but you, Israel, my servant. Jacob, whom I've chosen. The offspring of Abraham, my friend. This is Yahweh's servant, Israel. This is Yahweh's chosen. And furthermore, if you notice in chapter 42, verse 1, he says, Behold my servant whom I will hold, and then look at the language that's used in verse 10 of chapter 41. In the second part, I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you. Well, so the servants Israel? Is that right? Well, look back now at Isaiah 49. There's another servant song. Look at chapter 49. And in chapter 49, verse 3, we hear And he said to me, You are my servant Israel, in whom I will be glorified. But I said, I have labored in vain. I have spent my strength for nothing in vanity. Yet surely my right is with the Lord, and my recompense with my God Verse 5. And now the Lord says, Yahweh says, He who formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him. And that Israel might be gathered to him. For I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has become my strength. He says, It's not too light a thing that you should be my servant. To raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations, that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth So who's the servant of the Lord? It's Israel. But what's Israel supposed to learn from this? Israel Isn't an academic death state. Why? Because of their unfaithfulness. Because they have taken for granted they're the chosen. Because they have taken for granted that God's Spirit was in their midst. They have been unfaithful to the God who loved them and redeemed them out of slavery, to bring them into his marvelous light, and to make them servants. Ambassador, servant, sons to the world. And they failed. And they're supposed to see this glorious, beautiful servant as what they were intended to be. They're supposed to see this scripture, first of all, in chapter 42, as a mirror held up. My chosen, in whom is my delight, the one I put my spirit upon And for those in Israel who truly believed by the Spirit, they would have seen that they had sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And then Isaiah goes further in chapter 49. He says, My servant further is not just Israel. It's one faithful Israelite, one faithful son of Adam. One faithful son of Abraham, one faithful Israelite, and you know what he'll do? He'll prove himself In righteousness and the grace and love and power of God to bring Jacob back to himself, to raise up Israel from their death state and bring them to God. That's why he says that verse 5 of chapter 49, my mission is to bring Jacob back to him, that Israel might be gathered to him. For I am honored, in the verse 6, to bring back the preserved of Israel, to bring back the remnant, to bring back all those who believe, to bring them back to earth To the beautiful, glorious, peaceful fellowship and communion with the true and triumph God. Amen. His purpose is resurrection. He's going to take the dead and raise them with himself. Who is this servant then? He's the true, faithful Israel, the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, Adam was called to be an ambassador, servant, son, to be a prophet, priest, and king to the nations. He sinned. He rebelled. He was sent far east of Eden. Israel was then corporately called to be God's chosen, to be his ambassador, servant son, to show light to the nations. To make known the true and living God. And rather than being like to the nations, they became like the nations. Idolaters like everybody else. Immoral like everyone else, impure, ungrateful, and unjust Using religion in the name of Yahweh to manipulate people financially and even sexually. That's what the prophets rail against the devastation that Israel has brought about through its sin. And yet believe Beloved, look. When we're faithless, he remains faithful. And so from Israel will come a true sign. A true ambassador, servant, son, a true prophet, priest, and king from Adam, the last Adam The faithful Adam, and through Israel, as Abraham's faithful seed son, who will be the true ambassador Who will be the true beloved Son, who will not just bring Israel back from the dead. He'll bring the nations, all those who believe. You see, you go back to chapter forty two and you see how he's saying this. The Lord is saying this so tenderly, he wants us to get uh uh at this point in in history, even many years before the coming of Christ and his incarnation, uh Yahweh He so loves his people. He wants to capture our imaginations with the glory, with a picture, with to behold who the servant of the Lord is. Yes, it's to show Israel how far they've fallen. Yes, it's to show Israel what they were purposed for, what the plan of God ultimately was for, was for the nations. Abraham was called Abraham because he was the father of many peoples, many nations. He was to bring the blessing of God to all the world. Israel was unfaithful. But there would come a faithful Israelite And even then, in Isaiah's time, God loves us so much. He wanted his people to have a vision that this servant is like you and not like you. That's what we need as a servant and a savior. We need one who's like us in every way. But who's not like us in our immorality, in our idolatry, in our ingratitude, and especially our injustice? Because you see, my servant The Lord is saying, as the Father to the Son, my servant, my Christ, my Son, my beloved Son, whom I uphold, my chosen, and whom my soul delights. The Father has delighted in this Son for all eternity past and will delight in all eternity future. There's never been a time when God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit did not exist in self-existent glory and perfection and beauty and goodness and communion and fellowship and love. And here we get a little of that love that the Son would have heard from the Father in the Spirit for all eternity. We get a little of that love. We get brought into that communion of the tribe and God. We hear, my servant, I uphold you. I have put my spirit upon you. And you will not perhaps maybe might bring forth justice to the nations. No, you will accomplish your mission. Because you'll come in the fullness of time to do everything that Adam failed to do, that everything that Israel failed to do, and everything we fail to do. And that's why Philippians says in the fullness of time, where we're to have the same mind that Christ had, that we do possess in the Spirit even now, that he who is in the very form of God, that is, equality with God. He didn't grasp at it as Adam grasped at the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, as we grasp at possessions and grasp at places in line and grasp at being prime, considered Priority. He didn't grasp at that. But taking the form of a servant. Compassionate. Being found in the likeness of men, being the true seed of Abraham and son of Adam. He humbled himself even to the point of death, even death on a cross. And God has highly exalted him. Look at the second part of this passage because this is where we want to think, beloved, as how we can be particular. servants in this servant, how we can become more and more the servants that we're called to be in the true and final and faithful servant the Lord Jesus So the first two points we looked at were how is he described? We thought about his relationship to Yahweh, we thought about uh his character, we thought about his mission. The second thing we looked at was thinking about His who he was as the servant, that he was the true servant Though Israel in a sense is a servant too, it was from Israel that the true servant would come. The third thing we want to think about is How to be the servants, how to be those true sons in him. And look at verse five. So the Lord reminds us he's the God, He's the Lord, He reminds us that He's the creator of all things And then in verse 6 he says, I am the Lord. In verse 8, he says, I am the Lord. What is he doing here? He's reminding Israel and us what he said. to Israel when he brought them out of Egypt, out of slavery, out of darkness, out of the dominion of slavery under Pharaoh, and brought them through the flood of the Passover Lamb, through water, into his marvelous presence. So he brought them out of darkness into light, out of slavery into freedom. He brought them out of the death state of being enslaved under Pharaoh There was a death threat always on them into life with God. And so what we're being taught here is when he repeats, I am the Lord, I am the Lord. It would make Israel remember the beginning of how he revealed himself to to Moses as Yahweh, I am the Lord And how he said when he called them to Mount Sinai, he said, I am the Lord who called you out of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. He wants them to be reminded that I sovereignly, powerfully have initiated this relationship with you When he says, I am the Lord, it's that they might be reminded of his sovereignty, of his power, of his grace, of his initiation in bringing them to himself. And so he's saying again, he's saying, I'm the creator, I'm also the redeemer. And he says in verse 6, and this is very important, he changes the plural, you, Israel, he changes it from y'all. To you singular. You singular. So this shows us, it gives us a glimpse that we're speaking ultimately of the Lord Jesus. In verse 6, he says, I am the Lord, I have called you singular, you one In righteousness, and I will take you by the hand and keep you. And here it is, I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations. To open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison, those who sit in darkness. Now beloved, this is it. If the true servant is one, and he is, he is the Lord Jesus Christ, ultimately. He's the true and faithful Israelite. If he is one and he is, if he's the Lord, then notice how it is that he makes all things that are not right right. How does he bring in justice? How does he bring in righteousness? Because we're all part of the problem We have had people victimize us, mistreat us, be unjust toward us, but we have done the same. Not one of us. Have been without sin. Not one of us. All of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And so we're part of the problem of injustice, of immorality, of impurity, of idolatry. So where's the hope? The hope is right here in this passage for us to remember that God has called Christ in righteousness to give him as a covenant for the people. See, that's why Jesus, on the night that he was betrayed, on the night that he's going to the cross to lay down his life for his sheep. To pay the penalty for all of our injustices, all of our immoralities, all of our idolatry, all of our sin against the thrice holy God. When he does that, he says, this is the blood of the new covenant. This is the blood, my blood of the new covenant. And so what he's saying is, this covenant Cannot be broken. This covenant that I lay down my life is not the blood of bulls and goats. It's the blood of the righteous Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. Like us, not like us. And so when it says he'll give him as a covenant for the people, he's saying, I will give you as the Lamb of God, the sacrificial offering. As the one who will lay down your life for all covenant breakers, for all those who've broken the relationship with God, for all those, whether Jew or Gentile. who have been unfaithful to God, to all those who've shown injustices, who've been unmerciful, who've been unforgiving, I will lay down my life. Jesus says, I will become through my covenant blood, I will bring them back to the Father. I will ultimately bring them home. To the new heavens, new earth, where righteousness dwells. And I will commit through covenant, through relationship, by my powerful spirit, to make them righteous To make them just. You see, the way God makes the world just, the way He brings and takes the wrong things and makes them right is He starts with His people. He forgives us our sins. He reconciles us to God. He gives us peace. And then he pours out his spirit and says, I'm going to teach you The way of righteousness. I'm going to teach you the way of loving God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and loving your neighbor as yourself. And so the covenant, the service begins right here. Within our homes, within our families, within this congregation Because the blood of the covenant, that covenant that cannot be broken, that covenant that was of the precious blood of the Lamb, that covenant that covers all of our sins and makes us pure and white as snow in his sight that makes us his beloved bride. That covenant makes us faithful servant sons. In fact, it makes us faithful servant son ambassadors. Ambassador servant sons. It makes us ambassador servant sons. And that's why he calls us. I'm going to Give you my spirit. I'm going to begin a work inside out of making you righteous, of making you a just person, because I have plans for the whole cosmos to make it righteous and just. And I don't want to have to get rid of you in order to do it. You see, when we first read that he's gonna make all things right, sinners should all run. At first We should all say, well, wait, wait, wait, wait, if he's going to bring in a perfect righteousness, then I I'm not gonna I'm not gonna be able to live there. But that's the whole point. I'm gonna give you as a covenant. I'm gonna give you in place My son, my servant, I'm going to give you in place of my beloved people. You see, you will be pierced for their transgressions. You will be crushed for their iniquities. Upon you will come the chastisement that will bring them peace. And by your stripes they will be healed from idolatry, healed from immorality, healed from injustice and abuse. Because I will give them my spirit to live within them, and I will make my home and my dwelling with them. And how do we know that's happened, beloved? How do we know? How do we know that we're true ambassador servants, sons? Because we have sight. He opens the eyes of blind, spiritual eyes. We can see his glory, we can see his beauty, we can see his goodness, we can see his grace, we can experience his forgiveness, and then we can show that same forgiveness with others. We've been freed! Look! He came to set the prisoners free from the dungeon. You're all enslaved. Whoever sins is a slave to sin. Sin is a power, it's a tyranny And when we're outside of Christ, that sin rules and reigns over us. That sin drives us. That sin makes us do things that we regret in the morning, in the afternoon, and in the evening. He sums, he comes to set us free, not from merely an earthly tyrant. Or merely from an abusive relationship. He does all that too by his goodness and wisdom. But he ultimately frees us from the tyranny that is the devil. The tyranny that is our sin. to bring us freedom and to make us servant sons. And so how do we know? We can see his glory when we see this passage. We can see his beauty. We can see the only hope for the world, for me, for we for the world is Christ alone, received by faith alone, because of his grace alone. And That we begin to see that our relationship with Yahweh is now as Father, and that He looks upon us as his people united with the righteousness of his son. And he says to you, he says to me, behold my servant. whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights, I will put my spirit on you. This passage is ultimately about Christ, but it's about his people in union with him. And so how do we know we see? We're freed more and more each day from sin and unrighteousness, from injustices, and we call God Father. And we know ourselves as his sons. We can remember another way as well. Because we have peace with God through the Lord Jesus, we've been reconciled to God, we're no longer at war with God, He's also developing in us Christ-likeness. so that we can have the character that he has of of compassion for one another and for the world, for the lost. We can be tenderhearted We can be humble and we can be faithful in and through his Holy Spirit. Amen? Amen. I want to close with a passage From Matthew twelve, if you'll turn there with me if you have your Bible. Our Lord Jesus Is in this context, he's just healed a man. Um he's just healed a man in order to show His graciousness and his kindness. And in Matthew 12, 15, or before 14, we're told the Pharisees went out and conspired against him how to destroy him. Because he had done healing. How to destroy him. You see, many in Israel, and of course the Gentiles, but many in Israel at Jesus' time, many of those who were in the offices of uh of of the church, chief priests, teachers, those who were Pharisees and Sadducees, those people were unjust and abusive in their authority. They even wanted to put Jesus to death. Verse 15, Jesus aware of this, withdrew from there, and many followed him, and he healed them all. He's showing the power of his healing, showing the power that he's the servant. And he ordered them not to make him known. And what was this? Look at verse 17. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him And he will proclaim justice to the nations, to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he'll not break, and a smoldering wick he'll not quench, until He brings justice to victory. And in the name, in his name, the Gentiles, the nations will hope. It's all through the Lord Jesus, the true ambassador, servant, son of Yahweh, God's chosen son, the one that God delights in. And so, beloved, let us delight in him today. And let us be reminded that he who began a good work in us, he will perfect it. He will complete it. But he has begun it powerfully. And we await that perfect, beautiful holiness and humility and honesty that we will possess when we see him face to face one day when he returns. And when we live in a a world that's fully righteous and just And everything, the old has passed away. Behold, the new things have come. And nothing but righteousness and justice dwell. Isn't that a day looking forward to? No more sin, no more Satan, no more sorrow, no more sickness and death. All of Jesus' enemies will be put beneath his feet because he's brought justice to the world through his sacrificial death. Through his loving life, sacrificial death, resurrection, and ascension, he lives and reigns with the Father and the Spirit at God's right hand. Amen. Let's pray. And then we're going to sing to this great God. Our Father and our God, we're so grateful for the Lord Jesus, your chosen servant. We just delight in him. We're grateful as you delight in your son so that we now in the Spirit can delight in the Son as well, knowing that He is your servant. He is the faithful Adam. He's the faithful Israelite. He's the one faithful on our behalf. He's the one you gave to be a covenant. That is, that through his precious blood you established a permanent relationship with us. Where there could be forgiveness and there could be his spirit and you would live within us. And we thank you that we're your church and now as we're united to Jesus Christ, so you look upon us. And you say to us, you are my beloved servant. And we thank you that we live for the day when we shall see you face to face, Lord Jesus, and you shall say to us, Well done, my good and faithful servant. You've been faithful in a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. Until that day, give us strength. To persevere as you pray for us in heaven, may we continue to seek you on earth. We pray in Jesus' mighty name, and all the church responded with a resounding Amen