Continue to stand and turn to Hebrews twelve. Hebrews chapter twelve as we continue to work through Hebrews twelve. Let us Read uh verses twenty-five through twenty-seven. Hebrews chapter twelve, twenty-five through twenty-seven. See that you do not refuse him who speaks. For if they did not escape who refused him who spoke on earth Much more shall we not escape if we turn away from him who speaks from heaven, whose voice then shook the earth But now he has promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not only the earth, but also heaven. Now this yet once more indicates the removal of those things that are being shaken, as the things that are made. That the things which cannot be shaken may remain. Thus far is the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated This is really distressing. My manuscript is gone. It was here. I'm not sure where it went. Um but I'm going to do this anyway. I'd like us to look at this section of God's Word under the general idea of the importance of God's Word because I I think that's the focus of this passage. And I'd like us to consider it that God has spoken and He has written His word for our benefit. Now the first thing that I want to say is the the text starts off See that you do not refuse him or speak. Or, you know, it it it seems to indicate that it's talking about listening to someone, hearing someone who is speaking. And I'm sure that all of you at some point in your life, when you were little, you had a father. And that that father interacted with you many times and pretty much told you what he expected you to do. And uh, you know, as a child we're foolish and uh, you know, we we always keep thinking we know more than our parents know. And uh and so we want to do what we want to do. And not even our father uh and his words or what we know will certainly be the uh the response from him if we do something that's really negative. Not even that's enough to deter us from doing what we want to do. I speak from experience. And maybe you can speak the same way. Thank you, Ken. If my dad always would say to me that I should listen to him because he would never lie to me. And I think, by and large, that was true. I don't remember him ever telling me to do something that was a lie. that he was lying about. When I did disobey, of course there would be consequences. If I was lucky, the consequences would only be a verbal tongue lashing. You can imagine what would be the consequences if I was not so fortunate. I got those consequences administered numerous times It's only in retrospect that I can stand here before you today and say that I was blessed because my dad was often right. And he really cared for me and had my best interests at heart. He was trying the best way he could to spare me the consec the bad consequences. That he had reaped. Because you see, my dad didn't have a father who cared. My my dad was, for all intents and purposes, an orphan at eight But you and me We have a father who cares. We have a heavenly father And he cares for his people. So much so that he is laid out within his word In such precise ways. And repeatedly in his word, he has laid out what he knows to be blessing for our life. In his word. He knows what will not be beneficial. He knows what will be a blessing to us. He knows how to deal with us even when we're going through tough times. You know, we've been going through Hebrews and talks about Hebrews Chapter 12 talks about trials and suffering. And he gives us a perspective on that. Tells us why these things come into our lives. He tells us what God is, God tells us what he's doing with these things. Why? Why are there difficulties sometimes Scripture does say a lot about why we need to listen, and it's not just listening, but it's also obeying. Those two go hand in hand. My dad often used to say, uh Jerry, you listen, uh the things I tell you go in one ear and out the other. Maybe you've heard that sermon Or that well for dad it was a sermon, but and he wasn't a preacher. Maybe you've heard that But it God expects the things that we listen, that we hear, to have that we're to act on that We're to act in a positive way on the things that we hear or listen to his word. Scripture does say a lot about why we need to listen and obey. God's words. But Hebrews chapter 12, 25 through 27, is almost unique in that It's one of the few places in the Bible that tells us God's view of his own inspired word. It tells us right here on the pages of these three verses. These three verses come to us by way of a solitary command. And we see in verse 25, and that's followed up by examples from history about what happens when we listen or don't listen. And it's also, when I say history, it's like from the beginning to the end of life. And not just life here, but life eternal. So I'd like to first look at the command that's here in the text, verse 25. See to it that refuge that you refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escape not who refused him that spake on earth, how much more shall we not escape if we turn away from him that speaks from heaven You are to see to it. It's command. Not to refuse him who speaks. That doesn't mean everybody. He has in view a particular entity that is the one that we are not to refuse what he says That very idea that we might refuse continues to show the sinfulness of our human nature. That we don't we aren't obedient. We're not obedient people. I know, you know, that's not that's not something that is part of our life. It's not in us to be obedient. We rebel We rebel against any kind of authority. And it all stems from a rebellion against God. You know, we don't like laws. We're dealing right now in our country with, in some places, anarchy on the streets. Why is that? It's not about the political system. I mean that's that's their presenting issue. But what's really going on is they don't like God's providence. They don't like where we are at this point in our life. You know And there and and there they're, you know, at the end of the book of Judges, the very last verse of the book of Judges said, In those days there was no king, and everyone did what is right in their own eye. They're acting as their own kings. They're doing what they think is right. And it's never going to be what the Bible says. But I diverge. See to it that you refuse not him who speaks At this point, right in verse, if you only had verse 25, you might be you might be scratching your head and you might be asking yourself Well, who is the him who's speaking here? Who is the one that I'm not supposed uh who I'm I'm supposed not to refuse to listen to? Just defines him as him And I think you all as Christians know who Him is. But if you don't know who Him is in this text. The rest of the verses surrounding these texts, they begin to precisely unpack who the hymn, the identity of the hymn. It makes clear that the Hymn is ultimately God Himself So when you read it, you might want to read it this way, see to it that you refuse not God who speaks. We worship a God who speaks. Not a God, I mean he is a God that can communicate nonverbally too. But in his goodness and in his mercy, he has spoken. He has spoken to you. He speaks as Psalm 19 says he speaks in the language of the stars, day and night. He proclaims himself in the things that we see around us. God speaks That's how it puts it. He is speaking. He is always speaking through this creation. But our God Your God in Christ Jesus determines to speak some more and to speak with so much clarity and precision about who he is that you don't have an excuse for ignoring him. You don't have an excuse for refusing to listen to him. Brothers and sisters, think about it. The God of creation is also the God who is communicating to you. He's not trying to communicate to you, He is communicating. He has left what we call this word preserved, uniquely preserved from the ancient world. written by so many different authors over so many millennia with an essential message The message of this Bible that we worship or that we believe that we are to listen to is that there is a God, the God, and the God lives, and the God has Determined, for whatever his reasons are, he is determined to have some people that he wants to call his children. That he wants to call them by the name of his great son, Jesus Christ, the ultimate revelation of God. The final revelation of God, the truth. God Himself comes to earth and speaks to humans. And then God himself, who one who speaks to his people, saw to it that this would get written down. Now you might say there's some flaws in the process. You might argue with certain individual texts and wonder whether they're there or not. uh foolishness. Don't don't get don't get caught up uh you mean if you do that you're going to uh not see the forest for the trees The message is clear. Only sinful hearts will not listen And that is your situation before Jesus comes into your life. When Jesus comes into your life, the eyes are opened. You once were blind, but now you see. Because he opens us. And he opens not only just our eyes, but he opens the eyes of our heart. He takes away, as Ezekiel said, he takes away the stony heart of flesh and he replaces it. He takes away the heart of stone and replaces it with the heart of flesh. And he puts the then he puts the Spirit there. You get the Holy Spirit. What's the Holy Spirit do? He reminds you. One of the things he does, among many, he reminds you of the things that Jesus said. He will enable you to call to remembrance the things that Jesus said. Don't you remember how many different ways it says in the Bible how important the Word of God is to us? Beloved Peter, the man who always wanted to be first. with his with his Christian commentary on what Jesus was saying and frequently was not right But he learned. But don't you remember what Jesus said? Here's the time he got it right. Jesus is struggling with people. Um that that's not even right to say, but he's got people who are opposed to him. And he starts talking about things which we would define in reform circles as he starts talking about the reform phase He says, um, no one can come to me unless the Father draws him And he said it twice. A whole bunch of people, the text in John 7 says a whole bunch of people left Jesus. So much so that Jesus was prompted to ask his disciples, do you too want to leave me? I remember Peter Lord, where should we go? You have the words of eternal life Think about that. God has given you the words of eternal life. Not just words to get you through the day. Not just words that help you here and now, but words that impact your destiny. Your eternal destiny. Because unless Jesus comes back soon, the people I see here are all going to die, including myself. We're all going to die physically. Right? The wages of sin is death. That's where we're headed. But thanks be to God. God. Jesus has the words of eternal life. And what Jesus tells you to do, to escape what are the wages of sin, He said this too. Repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand. I am not making This up. Look at the scriptures. Look at what they say. Listen to them. Repent and believe. And as we were talking about in our Sunday school class this morning. You surely gotta know what the Bible means by both of those terms. And in many cases, both of them have been watered down But the Bible is pretty clear about what repentance means. Gotta be sorry for your sin. You've got to express as the publican did in Luke chapter 18. Yeah, eighteen. The story, the parable Jesus told The publican came to Jesus after the Pharisee had come and the Pharisee said, Lord God, I'm glad I'm not like other people. I don't extort. I don't take brides. I fast regularly And he even to add for good measure, he said, I'm not like this publican here. Right? And Jesus says. Then the publican comes, who's a tax collector, and he says, what does he say? First word coming out of his mouth. God, be merciful to me, a sinner What a glorious, what glorious words those are. We wouldn't even know how to come to God. God, if we didn't have those words or words similar to them that define repentance and define faith What true saving faith is, what repentance is. It's repentance is to be essentially sick, heart sick, grief, and hatred of our sin. And not want to live that way anymore. But live to the glory of God for all that He has done in Jesus Christ. Christ. Live a life of gratitude, not a life of wickedness. Yeah, you have the words of eternal life. The Bible says that, also says that the word of God is nothing less than our food. Once in Deuteronomy, once in Matthew 4, when Jesus quoted Deuteronomy, he said, man does not live by bread alone. But by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Are you eating well? Are you eating God's word? The Word of God guides you through life. Psalm 119, which we read earlier, first verse of Psalm 119. I'm sorry, the first verse of what we read, which was 105. See the the the Word of God sheds light on where you're going in life. It sheds light on where you're going to go to and how you're going to get there. Are you listening to the light? Or are you stumbling around in the darkness because you aren't listening to the light The Word of God is indispensable to know what truth is. You know, Pilate wanted to know what is truth. With Jesus standing before him. The scriptures tell you. Jesus tells you. In John 17, 17, he prays for his disciples, sanctify them. Through the truth, thy word is truth. Hearing the one who speaks That's God. He adds some things to it. He says, refuse not him who speaks, like they did And if you read the context, it's clear that the they that refused was Old Testament Israel. They could not listen to Moses coming. They they the the Lord spoke on Mount Sinai, and it was so dramatic. That they didn't want to hear anymore. They didn't want to hear anymore from God. They wanted to hear from Moses or somebody else. They didn't want to hear it. And the rest of their history demonstrates that no matter whether it was Moses or anybody else, they didn't want to hear them. Anybody else God said they didn't want to hear him. They didn't want to hear even his son. But they're just like all the rest of us by nature. See to it, you do not refuse him who speaks. For the day you see is coming When he who spoke on the mountain and caused it to shake will be he who speaks from on high. And he will cause the world to shake And only those things that are meant to survive forever will survive. And I can tell you what those things are. They will be you if you're in Christ. But you know what? Jesus said heaven and earth will pass away. My word will never pass away. It's hard to imagine a world where there isn't anything that we're familiar with. This world is gonna go. And only you with Jesus Jesus and the word of God will remain eternal Glorif in your glorified state, your physical body will go and be destroyed, but then you'll get the new resurrected body, the new glorified body, along with the glorified spirit. So my last words to you this day is nourish your soul now. By hearing and embracing God's word and not rejecting it. Amen. And let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we would uh we ask you now, Lord, humbly before you, Father, that you would bless the hearing of the word to the hearts of your people. Lord, may the very concept, the very idea that you desire to speak with us, and you have done that, may that fill us with wonder. And may it, Lord, then fill us with a never-ending thirst and hunger. To feed upon your word. Spirit of God, attend to these words and bless your people. Amen.