Good morning, friends and Jesus. Why don't you sit down for a minute while I kind of get myself organized here All right. We are going to be looking at the book of Acts, chapter two, and at this point would you please stand for the reading of God's Word? Chapter 2 of Acts is the famous chapter about the day of Pentecost, the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. And we're going to pick up at verse 14. Acts chapter 2, verse 14. But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them, men of Judea, and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give ear to my words For these men are not drunk as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day, but this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. And in the last days it shall be, God declares that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. And your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams, even on my male servants and female servants, in those days I will pour out my spirit And they shall prophesy. And I will show wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the day of the Lord comes the great and magnificent day, and it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Men of Israel, hear these words, Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know, this Jesus Delivered up according to the definite plan and for knowledge of God, you crucified, and killed by the hands of lawless men God raised him up, loosen the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. For David says concerning him I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue rejoiced. My flesh also will dwell in hope For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your holy one see corruption. You have made known to me the paths of life. You will make me full of gladness with your presence. Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the Patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne He foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus, God raised up, and of that we all are witnesses, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God and having received from the Father The promise of the Holy Spirit, He has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but He himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him, both Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom you crucified. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. And said to Peter and the rest of the apostles' brothers, What shall we do? And Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, Save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who received his word were baptized. And there were added that day about three thousand souls. Amen. That's the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Give us soul thirst, just like we sang. Lord, your word is so sweet. We ask for the help of the Holy Spirit. Would he interpret to us this passage and apply it to us? Open our ears. Open our hearts. Open our minds to understand and to live out your words. Speak to us this morning, we pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Please be seated. Have you ever thought, how many sermons have I heard in my lifetime? Once every Lord's Day, hopefully twice, and by the end of the year you've heard 100 sermons approximately. And thinking back among all those sermons that you've heard, Are there some sermons that are especially memorable? Memorable perhaps because you heard them recently And I must say here at Trinity, you are very blessed to have a steady diet of good preaching, memorable sermons. Perhaps memorable because some particular sermon led to your conversion. Or memorable perhaps because some sermon had a particular insight that really struck you. Now I'll give you a personal example. A sermon I remember from 40 years ago. At a conference on Reformed theology, where the speaker had been assigned to preach on the doctrine of adoption, where God brings us into his family and adopts us as sons and daughters. And that speaker, instead of going to Romans or Ephesians, where it talks about adoption, went back in the Old Testament. 2 Samuel chapter 9. Which talks about David having recently become king, and he searches out and finds Mephibosheth Mephibosheth, this crippled grandson of King Saul, David's predecessor, who tried to kill David. And David brings crippled Mephibosheth into his house. So he eats at the king's table. He essentially adopts him. I still remember that. Well, here in Acts chapter 2, we have a memorable sermon. And it was preached by Peter, who just two months earlier had denied being a disciple of Jesus. Denied Jesus not once, but three times. Denied him not quietly, but with oaths and cursing. But was restored. And he's the one who steps forward spontaneously to refute these people who are making fun of the Holy Spirit. And preaches so powerfully, you have to wonder, did it even surprise Peter himself? Because the Holy Spirit took control of his mind and his mouth. This was a memorable sermon, and especially for these 3,000 people who were converted that day, the Holy Spirit just flipped around their hearts and changed them totally Such a memorable sermon, just unforgettable. So unforgettable that I think every day after that For the rest of their lives, they remembered this sermon. This was the sermon where I was converted to Jesus. Do you remember when you became a Christian? Was there some dramatic moment, maybe like Paul meeting the Lord on the road to Damascus, or was it more a quiet recognition that there was never a day when I didn't know Jesus That I always knew him, thanks to good Bible instruction at home and at church. And then you say like the boy Samuel, speak, Lord, your servant is listening. Just an unforgettable sermon we have here. And ministers study this sermon as they study all the sermons in the Bible to see what they can learn from it. There's the Sermon on the Mount. I think it was last year you had sermons here preached on that, Matthew 5, 6, and 7. And just in the book of Acts alone, there are 19 sermons. Peter eight, Paul, nine, Stephen, one, James, one. So there's a lot of sermons here. Most of us are not in the preaching business, but we have opportunities to witness to people about Jesus, about salvation in Jesus. And so it can be very useful to look at this sermon and learn what we can learn from this sermon to help us witness more effectively. What was so unforgettable about this sermon of Peter? And I'd like to just touch on three features that this sermon was unforgettably Bible-based. that the sermon was unforgettably Christ-centered, and that the sermon was unforgettably evangelistic. Now, Bible-based, you notice as we read this sermon that a lot of it's just quoting Scripture. Uh we read 25 verses. Ten of those are quotations from the Old Testament. That's almost half. That's a lot. And y you know we read this this whole thing, these twenty five verses, it took what, three, four minutes Don't expect that every sermon should be only three or four minutes long. You'll never learn much about the Bible that way. Charles Spurgeon, famous English preacher, used to preach for two hours. People had commendably long attention spans in those days. But uh you know uh this this was this is just an amazing sermon. It's so Bible-based. And Peter stood up. It was spontaneous. The audience was mocking. Some in the audience said, uh, they're filled with new wine. They're Tipsy. And the first thing Peter stands up and says is, no, they're not filled with new wine. They're not filled with alcoholic spirits. They're filled with the capital S. Spirit, the Holy Spirit. This is the fulfillment of prophecy. And then he quotes five verses from Joel Now the audience we are told was devout men from every nation, fifteen nations in fact, devout Jews would know their Old Testament And the minute he started quoting Joel, they would think, Aha, I know that passage. I know that passage. And being devout people, afterwards, they would be credible witnesses to tell other people what happened that day. Right? So uh i there is an element of spontaneity here. Peter steps up and he addresses that. And It might look like he's unprepared and just he stood up and he started preaching. But he was not unprepared. Not at all Jesus, all the time he had been with the disciples three years, had been telling them about prophecies in the Old Testament, how they told, you know, about the Messiah, his coming, and so forth. We know that the disciples didn't get it right away. John twelve sixteen. The disciples did not understand these things. At first. But when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things had been written about him and done to him. So after the resurrection I think the disciples were zealously searching the Old Testament for all the prophecies about where he would be born, how he would be born, virgin birth. How he would suffer, Isaiah 53, uh his death, Psalm 22, and so forth, his ascension and all that. So they they were really studying very hard. And Jesus appeared to them for forty days, and it says in Acts 1, 4, he opened their eyes, and he promised them the Holy Spirit, who would bring to their remembrance all that he had said. So when Peter steps forward and says no, what's really happening is the fulfillment of promise This passage, which is the outstanding passage in the Old Testament about the coming of the Holy Spirit, was right in his mind. And of course, the Lord used it right there. So Peter was not unprepared. You should never think that pastors come in the pulpit without any kind of preparation and just wing it. That never happens. It's the advanced preparation that allows a minister to come up here in the pulpit and preach with freedom the Word of God because he is prepared. Now, uh, I want to say that when the day of Pentecost arrived, the twelve apostles And there were 120 other disciples, and Luke says they were all together in one place, chapter 2, verse 1. And I want to tell you what they were doing was having a Sunday morning worship service. And you can figure that out if you just do a little arithmetic. Pentecost, one of the three great annual feasts according to the law of Moses. First, there was Passover. Then Pentecost, then the Feast of Tabernacles, and we are told that Pentecost is 50 days, Penta, 50 days after the second day. of Passover. Jesus was arrested on Thursday night, crucified on Friday, quickly buried at dusk on Friday before the Sabbath began. Then Saturday would be the Jewish Sabbath when they celebrated Passover. And the second day of Passover would be the next day, Sunday, the first day of the week. And when you count forward 50 days, Hebrew style, you land on another Sunday. And Peter tells us that It's only the third hour of the day when this is going on. And uh the Jews, sunrise was 6 a. m. , so count forward three hours, nine a. So I think they were having a worship service, celebrating the resurrection of Jesus on Sunday, which we call the Lord's Day, at just about the same time that we hold our worship services today in the morning. Now, this prophecy from Joel is just amazing. God declares, I will pour out my spirit. Not a little drizzle, not a little trickle, but a gusher. On all flesh Male and female, young and old, doesn't matter what your social status is, doesn't matter what country you come from And there are 15 listed here. And furthermore, it's for not only Jews, but also Gentiles. And later Peter says, this promise is for you, for your children, and for all who are far off. Far off is code language for Gentiles. This is just really, really amazing. So the sermon is very Bible-based. What can we learn from it for our witness? One thing we can learn is when you witness the people, use the Word of God. Use the Word of God. Memorize verses and passages. that can be very useful when you talk with other people. Because the Holy Spirit makes the Word of God very powerful. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. Spurgeon, Charles Spurgeon, this famous preacher, later told the story that uh how he was converted. It was a there was a snowstorm in London. To get out of it, he he ducked into this little chapel. on Sunday. And the the minister wasn't even there because of the weather. So someone from the congregation stood up and read this verse. Look unto me and be ye saved all the ends of the earth. I am God and there is none other. And that one verse just pierced Spurgeon to the heart. And the Holy Spirit completely changed his life. And at the age of 22, he became pastor of this enormous church. And of course, we have his sermons. Something else we can learn, and that is Peter connected with his audience. It was, you know, he said uh These men are not drunk, as you suppose. That's not a normal opening paragraph for a sermon. But nevertheless, he got their attention And he connected with the audience, showing first that what's really happening is a fulfillment of Scripture. And remember Paul on the Areopagus in Athens, Greece. He got the audience's attention. He connected with them because he had noticed this altar to an unknown God. And he said, let me tell you about this unknown God. And also Paul, the Philippian jailer, who says, What must I do to be saved? And what he really meant was, I'm in charge of this prison on pain of death to preserve the security. This earthquake has happened. All the jail cells are open. The chains have fallen off, all the prisoners And I'm in big trouble. What can I how can I save my neck? How can I save my job? How can I save my family? And Paul basically says that responds to him and says, you need a bigger and better salvation. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be truly saved. So Try to make a connection in the context and the conversation. Look for ways that you can make a connection. When we go to the senior living place, charter senior living. Talk about the compassion of Jesus. Jesus is the resurrection and the life. Maybe when you talk with younger people, you know, younger people these days are so absorbed in self-discovery, maybe bring up questions like, how can we know who we are? What we're worth? What is our destiny to get their attention and make that connection? So unforgettably Bible-based, but also unforgettably Christ-centered. Peter refutes these mockers. Using the words of Joel. And then there are two things that he does not do. He does not stop talking. And he does not launch into a discussion of the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity. Immediately he confronts his audience with Jesus Christ. Verse 22, men of Israel, this is really where the sermon starts. Hear these words, Jesus of Nazareth. And then in verse 32, this Jesus, verse 36, this Jesus. Jesus Christ is put up right away. Now, Peter, starting in verse 22, he gives the complete gospel message in just 15 verses. And verse 22, he talks about Jesus' life and ministry, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and signs. Wonders and signs, those are the exact words used in this prophecy from Joel. Verse 23, the death of Jesus. Delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed. This is a Very deep verse. Human responsibility and God's sovereignty. Jesus' death was not an accident Almighty God was completely in control of this whole thing. Yes, wicked men, Jews and Gentile Romans. were responsible for having killed Jesus. And yet their actions were mysteriously within the determinant sovereign plan of God. It's just absolutely amazing. And then starting in verse 24 and going on for like nine verses all the way to verse 32. Peter talks about the resurrection of Jesus. This is the linchpin of our faith, Paul, 1 Corinthians 15. If Jesus is not raised from the dead, We're pitiable. But he is. And Peter talks about God raising him up. And here comes another Bible quotation. From Psalm 16, I saw the Lord always before me. It's it's right here, starting in verse 25. When you read the Psalms It's important that you read the caption right above the first verse. And the caption to Psalm 16 is a miktem. of David. So we know David is the author of this psalm. And in the psalm, David talks about God's nearness to him, his fellowship with God, his hope in God, even in the face of death. And then suddenly he talks about somebody else, a holy one, who will not see corruption. And Peter analyzes that and says. David was talking about Messiah. David remembered the promise God had made to him that one of your descendants will sit on your throne forever. And the only way that can happen is if He never sees corruption. So Peter's basically saying, look, David's tomb is right here in Jerusalem. Walk a hundred yards. If you could look inside, you'd see his bones. Now go to the tomb where Jesus was buried. It's empty. And there are a number of us here who have seen Jesus alive after death. We are eyewitnesses. Then he goes into Jesus' ascension, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God and received from the Father. So Jesus has gone entered into heaven You can read about this in Daniel 7, the Son of Man. And he received the Holy Spirit from the Father and then poured it out on his disciples. And you can see for yourselves. These tongues of fire. You can hear for yourself this sound of a mighty rushing wind. But and it's again David. And again it's another Psalm, Psalm 110, verse 1, which, by the way is the most quoted Old Testament verse in the entire New Testament. Something like 25 times it's either quoted directly or referred to indirectly. It's a very important verse Jesus even challenged the Pharisees with this verse. Pharisees, what do you think about this verse? The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand. And this was David speaking. King David, the patriarch, and any of his descendants coming later than him would be inferior to their forefather, and yet David calls him my Lord. How can that be A very important verse. And Peter quotes it to make this point that the Old Testament prophesied the ascension of Jesus. What can we learn from the fact that Peter's sermon was so Christ-centered? Well, one thing for sure, and that is when you read the Old Testament. Don't look at it as just a collection of stories with moral lessons. Look for Jesus in the Old Testament. Those two disciples on the road to Emmaus. And Jesus joined them, they weren't aware of it at first, and he said, Everything in the law of Moses, in the prophets, and in the Psalms is written about me. And he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. Wouldn't you love to have been one of those disciples? In an hour or two you would have gotten a complete seminary course Well, you can still have that experience. Come to church every Sunday. The word is preached, and it's exactly what Jesus would have told you on the road to Emmaus. Now there's something else we can learn from this. Christ centered us, and that is when we witness, bring up the Lord Jesus Christ quickly. Uh you know, you talk with people and uh th they want to go this way and that way and it gets distracting. Oh, what about inconsistencies in the Bible? Oh what about this or that or something Bring it right back to the Lord Jesus Christ. Reverend Tom Martin at Knox said once that no matter what passage of the Bible he preaches on, within a few minutes, he brings up the Lord Jesus Christ. And then something else that we can learn from this, and that is we went to a conference on evangelism sponsored by the Presbytery recently, and we it was suggested to us, use questions. Ask people, who do you think Christ is? What do you think Christianity is? The answer might be, well, it's the golden rule, it's doing good. When in fact Christianity is a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ-centered. Now there's the last feature of this sermon. The sermon was unforgettably evangelistic. Peter ends his sermon with a bang. There's a big evangelistic climax. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him, both Lord and Christ. And who is this Him? This Jesus, whom you crucified. Wow. He identifies Jesus as Lord. And in each of these passages of scripture that he's quoted, Joel, Psalm 16, Psalm 110, there is a reference to the Lord. And if you read it back in the Old Testament, this is Lord in all capital letters, meaning the covenant name, Jehovah God. And Peter is basically saying, Jesus is God. You're not dealing with some backwater rural Galilean carpenter. You're dealing with God come in the flesh. And he is Christ, meaning Messiah. Adam and Eve sinned. And God at that point, among other things he said to them, promised a seed, an offspring who would come and crush the head of Satan. And then the Old Testament prophets, many prophecies about Messiah to come, as I said, his birth His his life, his ministry, his death, his resurrection, his ascension, all of these things. And Peter's saying, This Jesus is the Christ. But you killed him. That's terrible. That's so sinful. Peter expected a response from his audience. And did he ever get it? They were cut to the heart Has this ever happened to you? You've heard a sermon or somebody give testimony about their faith in Jesus and wow, it just cut you to the heart. You think That was meant for me, even though it maybe they didn't say so. The Word of God spoke so directly to me. The Word of God is living and active. Sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And these people listening to Peter stood there. naked and exposed to the eyes of God to whom they would have to give an account. And they ask, what shall we do? And he has an application for them. He's preached Christ Who Christ is, what Christ did, and he says you've got to repent and you've got to be baptized. This is the ringing application. You've got to turn 180 degrees. Now, I I confess uh I've heard some sermons where the minister made no application. And after we would been asked about it, he said, well, it's not me, it's the Holy Spirit that will make application of the Word of God. Uh humbly I submit that's kind of a cop-out. Peter applies the word to these people. And he expects them to respond to it. Of course, it's the work of the Holy Spirit, how they responded in this marvelous, marvelous way, 3,000 people. So, Peter's evangelistic witness. What can we learn from that? Several things. One, be bold. Here's Peter preaching about Jesus in the very place where Jesus was just two months earlier, lynched and killed And in his audience, there may have been people who two months earlier shouted, Crucify him, crucify him. And were the Jewish religious leaders even listening to Peter? The next chapter, Acts chapter 3, Peter preaches another sermon after healing the slain beggar, and he and John are arrested. And they're brought before the Sanhedrin and interrogated. And Peter gives an answer that's so filled with the Holy Spirit, it says, filled with the Holy Spirit. He said to them, and his answer was Bible-based and Christ-centered, and actually evangelistic. So this is something that we can learn. Be bold. You know, we worry. We're brought before people, rumors and authorities perhaps. What are we going to say? How can I prepare? Jesus gives us this promise. The Holy Spirit will tell you in that hour what to say. Have you ever had this experience where you're giving a testimony and a verse of the Bible pops into your mind, just the right thing. Just the right thing to say. And afterwards, thank you. Thank you, Lord, for doing that. Be fearless. Be direct. Peter goes right to it, you crucified the Messiah. Terrible. How could you have done it? You need to repent. Something else he does that we can do as well, and that is we offer a great gift. A two-part gift. Forgiveness of sins. And the indwelling Holy Spirit. And friends, these people who had been involved in the crucifixion and killing of Jesus could be forgiven. Cannot people in our generation also be forgiven? Yes indeed. Peter expected a big response There's a commentary by Michael Reed Green on this passage, and he says, it's like you're sitting at a table, there's good food on the table before you. But it's of no benefit unless you reach out, take it, put it in your mouth, make it part of you. And here the Lord is offering forgiveness of sins, the indwelling Holy Spirit. Act on that in faith. Reach out. Take it. And of course afterwards you know that it was the Lord that drew you there. I think Peter preached with real passion because this message was his lifeblood. Jesus meant so much to him. And You can just see him, such passion. It's like the tongue of fire on his head. He's preaching with fire. And I think he was preaching loudly. He stepped forward. He raised his voice. Just like this sound of a mighty rushing wind. Peter preached with passion, and he really got the message out. And one other thing that we can learn from Peter's evangelistic message, and that is it led to church membership. So when you're witnessing to someone, and at the end of that you should say, well what do you think of this? How would you respond? And I'd like to suggest, come to church. Meet some other Christians. See what happens at church, really. Sit under the Word of God. Be in Sunday school. Fellowship with people. Learn about Jesus. At the beginning of the day on Pentecost, there were 12 apostles, 120 disciples. At the end of the day, add 3,000 people. And simple mathematics, that's an increase of 26 times. 2,600%. The church suddenly grew tremendously. And They joined the church, they were baptized, and they said, count me in, into the church, that is. And this church was a It was an inner city church. It had 12 elders, apostles at the beginning, and seven deacons. And what they did was devote themselves, verse 42, to the apostles' teaching. And fellowship to the breaking of bread and prayers. And that's exactly what we do at Trinity. We have the apostles' teaching here in the Bible And we're hungry for the word. We celebrate the sacraments, the breaking of bread, Lord's Supper, water baptism. We pray together, and we have fellowship, the communion of saints. And there's one more thing. Filled with the Holy Spirit, we witness to the Savior who loved us and gave himself for us. Following the biblically based, Christ-centered evangelistic example, of Peter's unforgettable Pentecost sermon. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you for your word. And we pray that the Holy Spirit would pour out power. and equip us to be good witnesses about Jesus. And we pray, Lord, that uh the Holy Spirit would set ablaze this community of ours with the message of salvation only in Jesus, the only name, among men under heaven. whereby we must be saved. And so Lord, would you please apply this passage to our hearts and to our lives that we be not just hearers of the word, but doers of