Take your Bibles, turn to them with me, please, to Revelation chapter twelve. We're going to read the first sex six verses of Revelation chapter twelve. Hear now the word of God. And a great sign appeared in heaven, a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. And she was with child, and she cried out, being in labor and in pain to give birth. And another sign appeared in heaven. And behold, a great red dragon having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads were seven diadems, and his tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when she gave birth, he might devour her child. And she gave birth to a son, a male child, who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up to God and to his throne. And the woman fled into the wilderness where she had a place prepared by God, so that she might be nourished for 1,260 days. Bow with me in prayer Father, as we look at this marvelous passage so filled with visual things to impact us, to stir our imagination. Help us to understand it, Lord, so that it may encourage us, so that we may be nurtured by it, so that we may see our Savior Jesus Christ. And that we may grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, in whose name we pray. Amen. I like Christmas. I like all the things about Christmas. And one of the things I like about Christmas are Christmas cards. And I have a tendency to categorize Christmas cards. There are those that I I call strictly secular. They they they you you get them and they've got Santa Claus on them and Christmas trees on them and presents on them and they has nothing to do with the uh the birth of our Savior, but all about the giving of gifts. And then uh uh there are those that are called the country Christmas cards They're nice pictures, the courier and Ives kind of Christmas cards. A little cottage out in the woods with smoke drifting out of its chimney and That kind of thing. Then of course there are the religious Christmas cards, the ones that try to express the the gospel and the truth of the gospel And then there are family Christmas cards. That's the ones we send out every year with pictures of our our family and our kids. And I I think I like them because I'm a tightwad and those are the cheapest But you get Christmas cards from friends and relatives and neighbors, people you work with. But I have a question for you. Have you ever got a Christmas car from God? Well, he has sent you one, you know. Well that Christmas card to announce Jesus is right here. One scene I tell you ever scene on a Christmas card is is the one presented here But that's what this is. This is a Christmas card from God. Because this passage has everything to do with Christmas, with Christ's birth, the grand theme of Christmas. In this passage, the Spirit of God pulls back the curtain of the physical world and presents the most dramatic scene of Christmas ever displayed. To fully appreciate this picture, one needs to understand a little bit about the book of Revelation. The book of Revelation is laid out in seven sections. Seven sections, a series of seven pictures. One of my friends calls them PowerPoints. And each PowerPoint is made up of slides. And these presentations are presentations of history, full of movement, action, drama, symbols. And each presentation is a viewing of the history of God's people from a different vantage point, with a different emphasis or purpose, yet all revolving around cosmic spiritual warfare. So in Revelation chapter 12, 1 through 6, you don't find the traditional story of Christmas, with a babe wrapped in swathing clothes, with Mary, Joseph, shepherds, or angels. Rather, this real supernatural struggle, the cosmic struggle of good versus evil surrounding our Savior's birth is here in front of you. Well, what lesson does the Spirit of God teach you here this morning in this Christmas card from God? We're going to see God's redemptive plan for his people in this woman, in the dragon, and in the child. Let's start out with this woman. Let's read again about her, and a great sign, a great sign appeared in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun and moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars, and she was with child, and she cried out, being in labor and in pain to give birth. Who is this woman? Now, is this Mary? Because this whole idea of a woman giving birth to a child goes all the way back to where? Genesis chapter 3 verse 15, where God promises the woman, promises Eve that from a woman one would come who would crush the head of the serpent. So this might be Mary But look at the grandeur and the splendor above her. Is this just Mary? This is a great sign. So this is more than just Mary who gave birth to the Savior, but this sign encompasses Mary. Because this woman is the church. The church of the Old Testament and New Testament. Because the church is the bride of Christ. The church is the one, and even in the Old Testament, to whom who was betrothed. To God Himself. This is the church. And look how she's arrayed. First of all, she's clothed with the Son. You ever tried staring into the sun? Don't. You stare into the sun, you will go blind. You won't know it, but you'll go blind. You'll burn your retinas But she's clothed with the sun. She is light. And she carries light about her, but it's not her own light. It's the light of God. Because in scripture, light is a beautiful thing and it conveys the idea of beauty. And one of the things about the church, one of the things about this church right here This beautiful little congregation is that it is a beautiful congregation. It is a beautiful church church. It is a church clothed in the sun. Listen to what just a couple passages from the Old Testament say about the church. And as I read them, I want you to think about how they apply to this church. Psalm 48, verse 2. Speaking of the church, beautiful in elevation is the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion in the north, the city of the great king. That's the The church. Mount Zion in the north, the city of the great king. Psalm fifty verse two. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty God has shown forth. God shines forth in his church. And that would be this church as well. But not only is she clothed with the sun, the moon is under her feet. Why is the moon under her feet? The moon is a symbol of creation. And the church is to have dominion over creation. The church it is to rule over creation And the Heidelberg Catechism, it asks the question, why is Jesus called Christ? Because he's anointed. Because the word Christ means anointed Anointed to be what? To be prophet. That is, he is to speak the truth of God. He is to display who God is. He is to explain who God is. He is to be priest, that is to make sacrifices. Indeed, he sacrificed himself and died on the cross for our sins, your sins and mine. And he is to be king, that is to rule. He is to rule over the earth. And he indeed he does. He is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And he even as we saw, and I will remind you again in a bit, uh Psalm 2 says, he rules with a rod of iron. But then the catechism asks this question, why are you called a Christian? Because you have been anointed by his Spirit to be prophets. The church, both corporately and the individuals within, are to speak the word of God. We are to share the word of God with our friends, neighbors, and relatives. We are to present the gospel at all times. We are to be priests. We are to present ourselves as living sacrifices to God. Romans 12, verse 1. And we are to be kings. We rule with God. You know, when Adam was created, he was created to have dominion over the earth. We too, we sit with Christ. We are sitting right now in the heavenly places with Christ. We too are to have that dominion We are to rule and influence our society. We rule by shedding the uh sharing the gospel. We we rule by by by saying to it that Truth is adhered to. We rule by caring for the earth. We rule for Christ's sake. Because as you see, she has a crown. A crown of twelve stars. She is royal. This crown means she has authority, delegated authority from Christ. The twelve stars uh uh y y y you read different commentaries and they all have different opinions as to why the twelve stars Some say it represents the the patriarchs of the Old Testament. Some say it it represents the the twelve apostles. Others say it represents them both, but they all everyone agre seems to agree upon is this It means this is the church crowned with the truths of both the Old and New Testament. But there's one thing about this woman. She's in travail. She's in labor pains. And she has been in labor pains from the time of Adam. And we'll show this a little bit l uh uh uh uh a little fuller in a little bit. But from the time of Adam until the time of Christ, she has been in labor pain, struggling to reach the fullness of time when the Savior would arrive. But and he does arrive. So what can we learn from this? First of all, we can learn this. We can remember that God is faithful. That first promise he made in the garden thousands of years ago That promise that was waited for from the time of Adam to the time of Noah to the time of Abraham to the time of Moses, to the time of David, to the time of the division of the kingdoms, to the time of that intertestal period where for hundreds of years there was no word from God All of that labor pains finally was fulfilled, and God answered his promise. And we also see, and I uh and I have already mentioned this, but I want to re-emphasize it, I want you to see the church is beautiful. The world may see us as the, as the hymn says, sore oppressed by, and by schism rent asunder, and by heresy distressed. But the truth is. Victory is ours. And our beauty, the beauty of the church, will be revealed. Yet in this Christmas card we also we see not only the beauty of the church in this woman and the beauty of Christ, but we see the dragon. And another sign appeared in heaven. And behold, a great red dragon. Having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads were seven diadems, and his tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that when he when she gave birth he might devour the child. This is a great power here. Bloodthirsty monster. Mean, vicious, cruel, even vulgar. He's enormous, he's powerful. He's red, he's the color of blood He represents warfare and death. He's grotesque. Think of how ugly he is. He has seven heads. And each head has a crown, a diadem, and he has ten horns. The heads equate with power. He has power, has a sevenfold power, the number of universality. He has seven diadems. Now, I want you to know it's a diadems, not crowns. The woman has crowns. He has diadems. These are symbols of usurped authority. He claims authority that's not rightly his. And he has destr ten horns. Destructive power. Horn in the Old Testament is a symbol of power. The totality of the symbolism is to communicate the usurp power of Satan over the kingdoms of this world. And the isms of this world. And the power is illustrated with his tail. He's able to sweep away a third of the stars of heaven. Now many would say that the third stars of heaven are are all of those uh angelic beings who who who he took with him When he fell and became these became demons. But what I want you to understand is what kind of power this might be In California, in Los Angeles, there's a Griffith Observatory. And down in the lower level, there's a mural on the wall. This mural is twenty feet high, two stories high. A hundred and fifty two feet long, about the size of half a football field. And this mural is just filled with celestial objects. About half of the stars of our Milky Way are up there. And then on top of it, other stars there's uh uh a thousand quasars And in this mural, there's over a million other galaxies. Now, how much of the universe does that mural display? If you were to take Go outside at night when the sky is clear and all the lights of the city are uh are diminished, are extinguished, and you were to take your index finger and hold it a foot away. From your eyes. That's how much is represented in that you in that mural. And this dragon had the power to sweep away a third Of the entire universe. He is powerful. And he is opposed to the church and to Christ. And since the beginning of time, he has wanted to devour the church that is to give forth the Christ child From the beginning you have a history of Satan trying to oppose and thwart God's plans and purposes. Here's just a sampling throughout redemptive history. Cain killed Abel. Because God is because Satan wanted to stop that Christ from coming And then from Seth through Noah, you see the depravity of the human race becoming worse and worse and worse until there's only one godly family left on the earth, and that's Noah. And God has got to clean, cleanse the world Through the baptism of the flood. Then you see what happens between from Noah to Abraham And then you see Abraham who who who, although a godly man is weak and lies about his relationship with his wife. And then you go from Abraham and uh uh uh uh uh through the patriarchal period and and you see what happens to Joseph and and and the brothers and how there's the the the infighting amongst them all, and then you finally get to Moses And then Moses leads the people through the Red Sea, uh and then into the wilderness, but then even uh Moses fails. And then you go from Moses to David, and and David is a great king, and he conquers. Well before we even get there, you you you have the conquest of the promised land. But then in the conquest of the promised land, you have the sin of Achan that Ai, and God threatens to destroy all of Israel. And then you have life in the book of Judges. You know, I find reading through the book of Judges difficult because things go from bad to worse. To at the end, you even have a priest who chops his concubine into pieces and sends it to all the tribes in Israel. And of course the promise of David, David Saul tries to kill kill David, and then David sins his terrible sin. And then his own son Absalom re re rebels against him. And then you have that divided kingdom. Where Israel and Judah fight against one another and battle against one another. Then you have the evil umpires of the Babylonians, Assyrians, and the Medes and the Persians and the captivity A as both nations are carried away and again that intertestimental uh time when there's no word from God And Satan is active. And then even when Christ is born and the wise men come to Herod and then they go visit the child and Herod goes in to Bethlehem and slaughters the infants. But he fails, he fails Christ came at a time when even the line of David was virtually disappeared. And today you have the church persecuted, corrupted, divided, marginalized. Today you have the church and the Christian facing the world, the flesh and the devil, battling the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the boastful pride of life. We face a powerful enemy. One who who failed in in stopping the birth of that child, but still wants to to stop the success of the church. We must remember that we God has not called us to a life of ease, but to a life of struggle, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness. in the heavenly places. So what's the answer to this? The child. And she gave birth to a son, a male child, who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. And her child was caught up to God and his throne And the woman fled into the wilderness where she had a place prepared by God, so that she might be nourished for 1,260 days. Here's the Savior. He's not just a babe lying in a manger. Here's the seed of the woman Who now rules with a rod of iron. He has been born and he has been caught up to heaven. He has ascended Why is he ascended? He has ascended because he has overcome sin and death and the devil. He is ascended for a purpose to rule. He is ascended. To bring forth all of God's promises to his people. He is ascended so that one day every knee will bow and every tongue confess. And as John writes this, i to Christians in the first century who are undergoing persecution and who are undergoing uh martyrdom. It is in uh written to them as an encouragement To let them know that Christ is on the throne. And it's a word of encouragement to you today Living in a world which we might say is a post-Christian world, living in the face of persecution, living in a time when Christians in in this country are are being uh persecuted for trying to live out their faith, living in a time when Christians in other c countries are being beheaded Living in a time when Christians in North Korea are persecuted in the worst possible ways. In all of this Jesus Christ is has ascended. He is the victor who has been uh ascended to heaven And while he is in heaven, he protects his church. Again, and the woman fled into the wilderness. Why the wilderness? Why the w where were God's people after they fled from Pharaoh? in the wilderness. And what did God do for his people while they were in the wilderness? He led them by a pillar of fire by night and a pillar of cloud by day. He led them and watched over them and took care of them. And how did he take care of them? He fed them with manna. And he feeds us with manna today, does he not? For here we have the word of God and we are to feed on it It is to nurture it. And every day they got their manna, and every day you should go to God's word and get your manna. And he quenched their thirst with that spring that came from a rock. And he quenches your thirst today through the Spirit. Who refreshes you and encourages you. And the church is in the wilderness. And to be in the wilderness, Where God had uh uh prepared that place for 1,260 days, three and a half years Don't ask me what that means. But I know that it's we're in that time now And when Christ comes again, he will put an end to our wilderness living and bring us into the fullness of his kingdom. I like Christmas cards. They're great. I like getting Christmas cards from friends, neighbors, relatives. Here I want you to see the reality of Christmas in God's Christmas card, where he presents the church in all her glorious splendor. Where he shows the power of the dragon who is and will be defeated. And where you see the child. Who now rules with a rod of iron. Let's pray Lord God, this is an awesome picture in this passage. What we see here is full of action, full of content, full or of of uh even violence, and yet full of peace And Lord God, we pray that as we have considered your Christmas card to us, the truth of Christmas and the spiritual realities behind it. That we will have been encouraged by it and enabled to celebrate this holiday with even greater love for our Savior, in whose name we pray.