Please continue to stand and turn in your Bibles to Hebrews 12. And we'll be reading today from verse 7 through verse 17. of Hebrews 12, and the focus of the remarks will be on verse 14 and 15 Let us hear God's word. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partners, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we have had human fathers who corrected us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much more readily be in subjection to the Father of Spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed best to them, but he for our profit. That we may be partakers of His holiness. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet So that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed. Pursue peace with all people, and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord Looking carefully lest any one fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up, cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau who for one more morsel of food sold his birthright. For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected For he found no place for repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears. Thus far ends the reading of God's word. Please be seated. As I said earlier, there's a brief correction by way of addition to the sermon title today. As if it's not long enough, it becomes even longer with this addition. The correct title should be God's Instruction to Believers Regarding How to React to Suffering for the Sake of Christ, is shocking. Is shocking. Well, since we've been in the book of Hebrews and particularly in chapter 12, we focused on the matters of believers suffering. simply because they believe in Jesus as their Lord and Savior. We have seen how the text encourages God's people to see such suffering as that which is normal for their lives. We've seen that God says that he uses this kind of tribulation to accelerate holiness in us. A holiness which he says, without which no one will see God. We've seen that This kind of suffering for righteousness' sake is part of how God disciplines every true child of His. Because he loves them and he highly desires their eternal holiness before him. This divinely inspired Word of God is a blueprint for believers, for how to endure suffering when suffering comes. I believe that God in Hebrews chapter 12 is writing to his people who are already going through some form of severe suffering. And I'd like today to talk about who these people are, to get a handle on where where is the author writing this message to. And then I want to focus on some of the surprising appeals that God makes for how these believers are to react to their current situation. and the trials that they face. So the first thing we're going to do is look at who is this writer talking to? What people does he have in mind as he's addressing this message? Now, of course, it's a message that's contemporary or applicable to all believers But he had a group of people in mind that he was writing to when he addressed this. Some key points can be gleaned from the book of Hebrews in trying to assess who these people are. It doesn't actually mention The book of Hebrews doesn't mention who he's writing to. But let's look at some key phrases that give us A reasonable understanding of who are the subjects of this letter. Verse chapter 2, verse 3 We learn that these are people who heard the gospel from the apostles, but not Christ. Verse 2, verse 3, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord? and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him. They still attribute Jesus as the ultimate author of the one who spoke to them, but they had heard the gospel from others. Probably the apostles. The experience, this group is also told in Hebrews chapter 10, verses 34, that they had experienced. some previous trials. Verse thirty two. But call to remembrance the former days in which after you were illuminated, and I take that to mean after which You saw the light of the gospel or being born again, if you prefer. You endured a great fight of afflictions. So at some point this group had already suffered for their faith. You were made a spectacle both by reproaches and afflictions, partly while you became companions of them who were so used. So there's some sort of prior trials that they went through. And then, he says, but you're also going through a A current persecution. Chapter 13, verses 12 and 13. Bring this forward. Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate. Let us go forth, therefore, unto him outside the camp, bearing his reproach. So there's a the pattern of Jesus' suffering is before them, but is an exhortation To also suffer and bear his reproach for the sake of Christ. Bear his reproach. So there's A current or a or a persecution that's very close, that's coming to this group. And finally Even though there is this current persecution coming, they have not yet faced martyrdom. They have not yet been killed for their faith. Chapter 12 and verse 3 Consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself. That's Jesus. Consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest you be wearied and faint in your minds, You have not yet resisted unto blood. Striving against sin. Lastly, this is a group of people who feared that they might soon lose their leaders. Chapter 13, 6 and 7. So that we might boldly say, the Lord is my helper, I will not fear. What man can do unto me. Remember them which have rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follows Considering the end of their conversation. It doesn't mean they're talking. Considering it's an old English phrase for meaning their walk. Consider the walk of your leaders. And it seems that this section that says, I will not fear what man shall do to me. Because the Lord is my helper. And then right after that, he talks about the leaders going. It seems to suggest that there is some kind of concern about the loss of their leaders. And if you go further into uh Hebrews chapter 13, you find that these who were their leaders were those who had spoken the word of God to you. In other words Those leaders that they were converts of their leaders. It says, whose faith followed considering the end of their conversation. So they're wondering in their mind, the leader is going. The guy who shared the gospel with me. He's leaving. And when the leader leaves, you know, it throws open the whole question of the stability and the viability of the work. Where are we going to find another leader? with such with wisdom that can give stability to our group, which is about to go into crisis mode Because of suffering and persecution for the sake of the gospel. So that's kind of a bit of a uh uh book uh review of Hebrews that's talking about these people It doesn't quite yet identify them. It could be any Christian group, as a matter of fact. But as things with these other thoughts that I'm going to share with you, it becomes we can pretty much pinpoint who this group was. The first reference to Hebrews is made by a church father known as Clement of Rome. The first time The book is mentioned, is in his writing, and that doesn't occur until 96 A. D. So you've got you've got a time, you've got a a term, end, a terminal, in which this book has to have been written It has to have been written before 96 A. D. because Clement wrote about it and quoted it in his writings. Now, if we turn to Hebrews 10, verse 2, we find something else interesting about the time. Verse one, the law having a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never take away Can never, with those sacrifices which they offer year by year, continually make the comers thereunto perfect. For then would they not have ceased to be offered? Because that the worshippers once purged would have no more consciousness of sin or conscience of sin When what is he talking about there? What's his reference to? The offerings That were sacrifices which were made, the shadow of good things to come. Where was that done? It was in the temple in Jerusalem. And if if those offerings were to be taken away, they have to be taken away before 70 A. D. Why do I say that? Because in 70 A. D. , Titus, the Roman general, came to Jerusalem and burned the temple to the ground. So we know now we have some dates. We have 64, I mean we have seven, uh, we have 90 something. 96 A. D. with Clement of Rome telling us he knows about the epistle of the book of Hebrews. And we have this statement in Hebrews chapter 10 that Essentially says if the sacrifices were effective They wouldn't have been done away with. But they have been done away with. Because, first of all, there's a better sacrifice in Christ Jesus. But secondly, historically speaking, The temple was destroyed in 70 A. D. when the abomination of desolation occurred, spoken of in Daniel So that gives us somewhat of a time reference, but I think we can push it back a little bit before then, pushed back before 70 A. D. Nero's persecution of Christians in Rome occurs in 64 A. D. These are about to enter into persecution. You following me? This means that this book has to be written Somewhere before 64 A. D. And it also suggests that the book is written To the Christians at Rome. And who were these Christians? First of all, they were Jewish Christians. They were Jewish Christians who were. Remember when they were gathered together in Jerusalem and God brought a great dispersal of the Christians around the world? That's called the Jewish diaspora. Just means the spread. And some of these probably went to Rome. And so Given all these considerations, the date and the identity of the audience suggests Rome. And suggests these Roman Christians are about to enter into Nero's persecution. God, you see, is not writing this letter to Christians who aren't anywhere near persecution. He's writing to Christians who are already in or about to enter into persecution. And I don't want you to miss the importance of that. God is telling them that in spite of what is happening to you in the outside world and despite all of the ugliness of that, that I know about it, and I'm going to suggest to you I'm going to suggest. God doesn't suggest. I'm going to tell you, here is how you look at the situation. Here is how you deal with the situation. Here is how you grapple with a real persecution because you believe in Jesus Christ. What should these people do in the middle of persecution What should brothers and sisters at Rome do as persecution is mounting on all sides? Beginning in verse 14, and it actually carries through with through verse 17, but I'll have time to do all of them today. He gives a series of instructions. And you'll note that each of these instructions are in the command mode. Now, if we were to come upon these instructions for the first time And I suggest and I believe that even if we were to come under the come upon his instructions After many years of being a believer, we would find ourselves nothing less than shocked by what God says. I am not here in any way saying that I can do in my own strength what these words say to do. And I am not in any way suggesting that this is easy. What I am telling you is that this is God's word. I can just imagine myself being alive during Nero's persecutions. And I know that if I was alive during that particular time, I would be seeking out my brothers and sisters. And I would be seeking their support and their comfort. But I can also imagine hearing the conversation At that time. Of course, we would ask why. And then we would follow that up with, his persecutions are so unfair. What have we done to deserve this? Why doesn't God see what's going on? Why does God afflict us? Because aren't we his has he told us we're his own special people? His treasure? Why is the suffering that's occurring so personal? He's destroyed my business. He's killed my family. He's interrupted my life under every such situation Our natural response, your natural response is to fight back, isn't it? It's to fight back. And I mean fight. I mean take up arms. Get a gun. Protect yourself. Protect your family. And then we would think of maybe we could appeal to some other powers in the Senate of Rome. for support. Maybe they could be of help to us because after all We're now the minority who's been being treated so unfairly And I can just imagine Such a person, myself or anyone else, might be really, really tempted To get a gun and get all the guns and march to Nero's palace and try to kill him Can't you? And that's why what God says is so shocking Verse fourteen. Pursue peace with all men. Wow. First of all, the word pursue is a command. It's a plural command. The word is variously translated in the New Testament Pursue and persecute. It's also translated persecute For example, Matthew five, nine through twelve. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are Persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Note the link. Blessed are you when men shall revile you and persecute you Same word for pursue. It's the very same word. Every time you read persecute in the Beatitudes, it's the same word for pursue here in our text. Blessed are you when men revile you and persecute you and you say and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad. For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets before you. How ironic it is that Christians who are going through persecution and suffering for the sake of knowing Christ by Nero are called by God to persecute their enemies with peace. Get an idea how shocking this is. And the peace, of course, we have to define that too This is not mankind's universal wish for peace that has no foundation. It's not the piece that comes from a vague idea of having good feelings or because we can sing kumbaya And it's not the world's idea of peace, but it's Christ's idea of peace. Proclaim vigorously that grace and peace can be multiplied to you through the knowledge of God. And through the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ. The only peace that matters is peace with God. And peace with his people. That's the kind of peace we are to persecute others with. We're to lay it on and pursue after them and to persecute them with peace. That's funny, isn't it? It really is funny to hear it that way. But persecute them with peace, which means essentially we're to be evangelists. Evangelists who love our neighbor while they're trying to kill us. Evangelists, though, who love God and love their neighbor as themselves, who love God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength And to proclaim that Jesus Christ is the only way, truth, and life. What an incredible statement Think about it. Think historically. What that is telling those believers at Rome to do in the midst of this awful persecution. To rise up and declare the gospel of peace to those unbelievers In that awful, awful, wicked town called Rome Where every vice known unto man was easily available Obviously this concept of persecuting peace, that doesn't mean you see that that that betrays kind of a vigorous activity On the part of the one who is declaring it. Pursue peace. The peace of God which passes all understanding Philippians four verse seven. Pursue peace, which is part of being holy in God's sight Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall see God Shall we be dealing with the problem as contemporary man deals with problems? Or shall we try God's way? I am not telling you that if you do it God's way, it's gonna work I'm not telling you that if you do it God's way, that you'll survive. You'll probably get killed For professing your faith. But you have been obedient to God. And when you proclaim the Word of God, you wield a sword That is a greater power than is any other power upon this earth. Because it has the power to cut Through the sin of the human heart and bring life in Christ You all following me? You all like what you're hearing Verse 15 Looking diligently lest any man fall of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. The word looking diligently Is is essentially translated carefully inspecting. Carefully inspecting, but it doesn't say what It is an address to each man in the body. And surely each man in the body must look diligently to himself all the time. that he fail, that he might fail, lest he fail of the grace of God. However, again the verb is plural. It brings into the discussion the looking diligently is not just at yourself, but it's Christians looking after one another diligently. I don't know how many of you have had this experience, but there was a brief period of time, maybe a year or so or nine months, when I worked in a factory. And the factory was involved in making electrical tools. That's what they specialized in. All kinds of tools that you could do electrical work with. And they had this area of the factory called the quality control area. And many of you, if you know about factories, most factories have a quality control area. And the quality control area is to prevent defective manufacturing parts. From getting into circulation. It's to prevent defective parts on an existing completed tool From causing damage Hold that thought for just a minute. Because you see, when you do the quality control, if you want to look at it that way and substitute that for looking diligently When you look diligently at one another in the body of Christ, that's going through trials, that's going through persecution. There is the concern that the persecution may bring the failure of the grace of God in that person, that the person may not be a true child of God And therefore, suffering will cause this end, failing of the grace of God, that you know they will they will not make it But the you know, that that that that you know they're instead of being true believers of God, they're wheat and chaff. They're uh they're chaff, they're tares. But nevertheless, you're still supposed to look diligently to one another. Now, many of you some of you will remember the very day and the very time when you saw the spaceship Challenger blow up. After taking off the launch pad. Do you know why it blew up? Do you know what was the cause? The cause was eventually determined to be that a part called an o-ring. That fit between the stages of the rocket. I think I'm right about, I know I'm right about this. That fit between the stages of a rocket. A relatively inexpensive part could not could not take cold weather. And it had gone down to freezing that day, right at 32. Okay? That was a fra that was a problem that came about in which the whole rocket blew up because of a defective O-ring A relatively minor cost item. There is not good quality control And the whole rocket blew up with the subsequent loss of life. If There had been, and of course the ifs are ifs. You know, they are what they are. If there had been better quality control, perhaps that wouldn't have happened. And all that The writer of Hebrews is saying to those Christians in Rome, exercise some quality control on your brothers and sisters as you're going together through this trial. And then he adds, okay, this is something you be looking at, lest any root of bitterness Let any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Look at that sentence. The reason why you're supposed to do some quality control on yourself and on each other is less You may fail, but also that the rest of the body could be impacted by your failure. By something in you that isn't really dealing with the right way How God says to deal with your life as a Christian, particularly as you're going through trials and suffering. Any root of bitterness, if you were to look at it in the Greek It's simply missing the of. It's any bitter root. Any bitter root. And that may not seem like It doesn't mean a whole lot different than what we have when we translate it into English. But it lo it made me wonder about something. I've always thought that this text meant that there was something personal in the Christian's life or in his past that she is he or she is still holding on to that leaves them bitter. Is that how you've understood it? That it's an individual thing. Okay, that brings about bitterness. You've probably seen people who are bitter about something. And if you explore and you poke and prod a little bit, you're going to find out it's some kind of mistreatment That they experienced in the past. That provokes that kind of reaction. And I still think that that kind of bitterness over the past can trouble Christians as individuals greatly. And can create serious problems in anyone's life who is bitter and hasn't repented of that bitterness. But here in this text, within this context of suffering, I think the application and the words defile many support this. That the root of bitterness springing up and defiling many has to do with Something in the body of Christ. Roots of bitterness in the body of Christ at Rome where they're being persecuted. And you could just see the scenario. Somebody just has lost his wife because of Nero's persecution. He's still alive. He's still in the church. And what does he do? Comes into the middle of the church, he's upset, and he starts talking about payback. And he tries to recruit people to his side. And soon you get the church Off of the agenda of pursuing peace with God's people, and now pursuing bitterness And where is bitterness going to lead to? It's going to defile many within the body, and it is going to shut off the evangelistic thrust of pursuing peace. correctly understood. See that? That's why I spent a lot of time talking about who these people may be and who I think they are. And what are the indications in the text of who they are? It's interesting that where this root of bitterness comes from, this quote, that it is not It is a quote that comes from the Old Testament. It comes from Deuteronomy chapter 29, verse 18, and following. Let me read that to you. Lest there should be among you man or woman or family or tribe whose heart turns away this day from the Lord our God to go and serve the gods of the nations Lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood, both of which are very bitter substances. The context of Deuteronomy 29, 18, if you go back and look at it, it's addressed by Moses. to the Old Testament covenant people. It's addressed to all of them as to whether they're going to experience blessing or whether they're going to experience curse from God. The exhortation in Deuteronomy 29 is not to individuals who have bitterness, but it's to the whole congregation. In the Old Testament. The whole group that came out of Egypt. It's to a root of bitterness within the congregation. Now, granted, it comes from individuals, but it impacts everybody. And the impact can be devastating Again, in this scenario, the person who would come in with a root of bitterness in his mind because there's been these unfair persecutions and he suffered unfairly. And he exhorts others to join him in taking up arms against Rome and somehow riding the fairness. To fight back against what's happening. That kind of thinking, I think, is the bitterness within the body. A bitter root. And I think it ignores in the sense of forgetting. Verse 14. Pursuing peace with all men. I think it forgets about Romans 12, verse 19. Where it says, Avenge not yourselves, beloved, but give place unto the wrath of God, where it is written. Vengeance belongs unto me. I will recompense Says the Lord. If an enemy hungers, feed him. If he thirsts, give him to drink. For in so doing you shall heap coals of fire upon his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. It's very easy to say all this. It's very easy to say that the scenario I painted is happening, to see that it's happening, or could happen in Rome And it always boils down to are we going to, as Christians, are we going to do things God's way? Or are we going to do things God's way? Are we going to do things man's way, or are we going to do things God's way? And God's way is often very surprising. Because as I read earlier in Isaiah 55, God's ways are higher than ours. And God's ways are not our ways. Do it God's way, and let no root of bitterness arise among you and defile you. Consider suffering or persecution as part of your maturing unto holiness that will result one day in you seeing God. Pursue peace with all men, even your persecutors. And I think maybe there are some who are thinking, and maybe maybe this is just projection Pastor Taylor, you don't know what you're talking about. And others might be less generous and think I'm crazy. And both of those things might be true. But I don't think so because it's so hard to do what God wants us to do here. It runs so counter to our into our sinful intuition I thank God that He has aligned me with His Son's teaching. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted. For righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men revile you and persecute you. And say all manner of evil against you for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad. For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted the prophets which were before you. Amen. Let us pray We ask you, Lord, to, if we find ourselves in these situations, we ask you, Lord, to apply the words of Scripture to our heart. And the only way that they can be applied by the work of your spirit. So we ask for your spirit to help us. For truly, Lord, if the Romans were persecuted for your sake and if the Apostles were persecuted with for your for your sake, and if Christ was persecuted for your sake Surely, Lord, we who serve Christ and name Him as Lord and Savior shall receive the same. Keep us, Lord, trusting in you for as long as we live. Amen.