Continue to stand and focus your attention on God's Word, Hebrews 13, 10, verse 10 through 17. Hebrews 13, verses 10. Through seventeen We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin and burned outside the camp. Therefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered outside the gate. Therefore, let us go forth to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach. For here we have no continuing city, but we seek the one to come. Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. Obey those who rule over you. And be submissive, for they watch out for your souls, as those who must give an account. Let them so do with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable to you. And thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated And let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, as we come now to the ministry of your word We pray, Father, that you will help us to focus upon the word, that Lord, you will open our ears that we might hear it. Lord, that you might fill us with joy. at the exhortations and the encouragements that are found within this section of your word. Be with us now, we pray, and instruct us mightily by your Spirit. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Our focus now today is as we continue to study Hebrews, the book of Hebrews, the focus today will be on verses 10 through 14. And um last week when we looked at the previous verses uh verses We found the author exhorting the people, the Christians that he's writing to, to remain faithful to Jesus. He tells them, don't get swept away by various and strange doctrines. Don't get swept away, don't get caught up in uh and instead He reminds them that they are founded by the grace of God in Christ Jesus. Verse 9 And being founded by the grace of God is far better than ever trying to digest the foods which have profited those who partook of them. Don't go to strange and various doctrines, because others have gone that way, and those doctrines never profited them. They never, they weren't the kind of food that they needed. But this story here is not about an earthly diet that we're to take on. As if somehow food might be that which the author is talking about. He's not talking about earthly food. He's talking about spiritual food. When he talks about partaking of these doctrines. The author's focus is on warning his listeners not to go to bad spiritual food And the example that he chooses of bad spiritual food in this particular context is Judaism and the religion of Judaism. Most of the people would have been converted Jews that he is writing to. Instead, he says, stay with the Course of Jesus. And then he reminds us that only Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. Only Jesus has established you by his grace. Only Jesus gives you the spiritual food that never spoils or perishes. You remember the refrain we just sang? Bread of heaven, bread of heaven, feed me. Till I want no more. Only Jesus gives you the living water, from which all who drink of it will never thirst. Only Jesus is the Savior now and forever God. He has made sure that we can always have available His food. Because he preserved it here. He made sure by his Almighty Providence to preserve it. And then he gave us his spirit, his spirit to help us understand the inerrant and inspired Word of God, the bread of heaven. That comes down to give life to the world. His Spirit encourages us and leads us and comforts us and guides us. And helps us to apply rightly the divinely inspired words of God to our life. So that as Paul said in 2 Timothy 3 and verse 16, all scripture is inspired by God. and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. so that the man of God might be perfect perfect, thoroughly furnished for every good work. Only Jesus is the one we are called to live by, only by his word, only by grace through faith Only as it we even eat his words, as the psalmist reminded us in Psalm nineteen. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter than honey. and the honeycomb. Moreover, thy servant is warned in keeping them. There is great reward. The word of God is truth. And as Peter said to Jesus, where else could he go? Only you, Jesus, have the words of eternal life. They're not just truth. They're the words of eternal life. And it was Jesus who provoked that response from Peter when he asked him, Do you want to leave me He asked his disciples, do you want to leave me? The author of the Hebrews in this section Is warning God's people that they ought to recognize there's a sinful tendency in all of us that is prone to leave Jesus. prone to digest various and strange foods which don't profit their spiritual welfare. Beginning in verses 10 through 14, the author of Hebrews continues the thought that it is possible that believers would leave Jesus for a period of time That they will worship a different altar, at a different altar than the one that Jesus has given. Notice in verse 10, he starts off by saying, We have an altar from which those who serve at the tabernacle have no right to eat. Remember I said He's talking about various and strange doctrines, and the example that he uses here is obviously one of Judaism. Talks about the tabernacle, talks about the elder, the altar. And he says that those who serve there which would be the the the the the the chief priests, the Levitical priests, he says, we have an altar which they have no right to eat of. You as a Christian have an altar. An altar. A place of where sacrifice is done. You have an altar from which those of whom many of you were a part of, those who lead now, have no right to eat. They cannot eat at Christ's altar. They can only function in the temple, in the tabernacle, with their sacrifices. They served at that altar. They sacrificed animals in the temple for the people's sins, as we read in Leviticus chapter 16. And after they sacrificed those animals, they burned the animal's body outside the temple. They sprinkled the blood on the altar, but they burned the bodies outside. These blood sacrifices, we later learn from Hebrews chapter 10, could not remit sin Nor could they cleanse the conscience from acts that lead to sin and death. What good were they? They did serve a purpose. The very altar that these priests served in Judaism, the sacrifices they made, they were an annual reminder of our sins. An annual reminder that we needed something better. A better sacrifice. The idea of burning the slaughtered flesh of the animal outside the temple. Symbolizes the sins of God, God's people, being taken away from them outside of the temple. Same thought is put into Judaism in the putting of the blood upon the head of the scapegoat. and the scapegoat taking the sins of the people outside into the wilderness, away from them. But those were symbols. They were not the reality. They pointed to the reality. The reality is not the symbols. The reality is Jesus We have an altar at which those who served in the tabernacle with the sacrifices have no right to eat. He is appealing to people. Don't go back to the ways and the practices of animal sacrifices in Judaism. Symbolized in the temple offerings for sin. The appeal, this very appeal was in many ways part of why the Galatian church submitted to temptation from the Judaizers. They wanted people to eat at their altar. They wanted the people to eat at the altar of their sacrifices. And what was their sacrifices? What was their gospel at that altar? It was that God's grace in Christ is not enough. We must also add to it continual obedience, an attempt to be continually obedient. I'm not putting down that we ought to be continually obedient as God's people, but that's not the grounds for our salvation. The grounds for your salvation is that God by His grace, 100%, we are saved, 100% by His grace, and 0% by our efforts. What is God's grace in Christ if it is not a hundred percent in Christ and zero percent in us? As the author reminds his people earlier in verse 8 of chapter 13, Christ is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow The author pleads with his listeners. Don't go back. Don't go back to the old ways. Don't go back to the old author. Don't go back to the old sacrifices. Even though he knows that coming to faith in Jesus Christ also brings some struggles. And the two struggles which these people are currently facing is learning how to get along with Gentiles. Number one, that was a new experience in the worship service, learning how to deal with those who were not of the Jewish faith. There was a struggle with that. There was a real problem. It was completely new. You know, no Jews were in the worship service. in the synagogue. And if they were, they were somewhere on the outskirts of it. But the other problem is that they're going to very soon be put to the sword of persecution for their faith. And the combination of both of those things hangs over these Christians. So it kind of makes for an argument that they might be prone to go back, to go back to that which they were accustomed to, and to forget what new freedoms they have in Christ. It would be, again, very similar to what Israel did when it came out of Egypt. And after there wasn't enough meat and there wasn't enough water and there wasn't enough bread and they complained, remember, they wanted to go back to Egypt. They wanted to go back to the old ways. To the old world. Where their diet, their physical diet, would be satisfied. And who cared about their spiritual diet? What is so deadly about the return to Judaism is why this matters to you. Why this exhortation matters to all Christians. It's not Judaism that's the problem so much, because Judaism is just one in all of the isms That function on the same level regarding salvation. It becomes a works gospel. It becomes What you do, not a hundred percent Grace. The Jews by this time had twisted God's word. There was a long history of the word being dissected and interpreted by the rabbis. And in their zeal to obey their scriptures, they lost sight of Jesus in the Old Testament. They began to substitute the grace of God, promised by faith in the coming Redeemer. To a system of zealously trying to be holy on their own effort. That is what is deadly about Judaism, and every false religion has the same problem. Man-centered works gospel in the end ultimately makes Jesus' once-for-all sacrifice meaningless. For if we have any ability at all to save Christ, save ourselves, why is Jesus needed? So the author's prescription for the Christians that he's writing to, don't go back to the symbols of Judaism. But stay in the fullness of the reality of Christ. And he says that. He says that in the next few verses. Don't go back. Instead, don't go back. Instead, go forth. Verse thirteen. Go forth, he says, to him. Who is him? Jesus Outside the camp, bearing his reproach. Don't go back, go forth Go forth to Jesus, to the one who sanctifies his people by his own shed blood, outside the camp, outside of the temple. Not in the temple was Christ crucified, but on the hill of Golgotha, outside of Jerusalem. Jesus, the better sacrifice, beckons Christians to come to him outside the camp, where the better blood is shed. Where full sanctification cleanses the mind and the body from acts that lead to sin and death. You must come to him outside the camp. Do not go inside Jerusalem. And to the temple. Go outside, not inside. Go out of everything the world believes about salvation. being their own effort, go outside to Christ, where it's all about His grace, where it's all about faith in His saving work. This idea of coming to him outside the camp is really an amazing redemptive picture. We talked a little bit about it with the scapegoat lamb. Where after the Old Testament priests sacrificed the animals, they took some of the blood. They sprinkled the blood upon the altar where the presence of God was. Why? You go back and look, it's because of your uncleanness. Living in the midst of a holy God. They sprinkled the blood upon the altar so that once a year The high priest could make atonement for the people's sins. But he did something else. He took The blood, the same blood, and he placed it on the head of a goat. And he took that goat. And he gave it to a guy who pushed the goat out into the wilderness. And the image of the goat going outside the camp With the sins of God's people and the atoning blood on that goat, you see, becomes fulfilled When Jesus puts on, takes the cross upon himself, and he crosses The valley called Kidron, John chapter 18. And he goes to Gogotha. And there he dies. There he makes sacrifice for the people's sin. It's an incredible picture of what God is doing And now the author, with his use of these phrases, inside and outside, don't go inside, go outside. He's picking up that Old Testament concept. And he's conveying it to converted Jews who know what that means, who understand that concept. But he also says something to all of us. He says, as elect children of God, when we go outside the camp, we must bear his reproach. We must bear his shame, willing to deny ourselves, taking up his cross and following him We must come to the one outside, to the one who is the shamed one of Israel, to the one whom the world deems the foolishness of God. We come to the one, nevertheless, whom God has highly exalted. He who the whole world despises, God has elevated to the highest position of all. Or every knee will bow and every tongue confess that he is Lord. And finally Finally, he says we not only go out to the city, outside of the city, to him Who is outside the city? To the altar outside the city, the sacrifice made outside the city to Jesus We go to what's called the continuing city. We are going to the continuing city. We bear his shame willingly in adoration of his sacrifice. And as we do that, we're on the way to the continuing city. Here on earth, you have no continuing city. We have no altar here on earth So, we embrace those values of this world. It is grace we love, not works. It is reformed redemption we crave. In the hymn we're going to sing, there is this amazing phrase by Top Lady, who wrote Rock of Ages I know we've sung that now three Sundays in a row. I just can't get that hymn out of my mind. Not the labor of my hands could fulfill the law's demands. We seek the city that God has prepared for us. The one that is already here, and the one that is yet to come. Same city, here and yet to come. We embrace no values of the world because our continuing city is the New Jerusalem. Our altar, from which we are eating, is the altar of Christ sacrificed. The altar of eternal life. We go to the altar outside the city is where Jesus, who is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow, is Your citizenship is in heaven, as Paul put it in Romans chapter, excuse me, Philippians chapter 3. But there is a tension. The tension is we don't we aren't there yet. That we might want to be there. We aren't fully there yet. And while we're fully, while we're not fully there yet, the world always is intruding It never stops intruding. As Bunyan described in Pilgrim's Progress, Christian must go through Vanity Fair. He must go through the slough of the spond. He must encounter worldly wisdom before he arrives at the celestial city Brothers and sisters, the exhortation might have been then to the Christians that the author is writing to. But it's the same exhortation to you. If you are a Christian walking, seeking to serve Jesus, do not forget that Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. Which means you should live by grace through faith, not seek the treasures, the ways, the philosophy, the vain salvation of the world Eat the bread of life from the altar of Christ. Drink the waters only Jesus gives you, from which you will never hunger or thirst. Cloak yourself in the guidance of the Holy Spirit and God's Word. And when you do, by God's grace, you will arrive at the celestial city The continuing city. Avail yourself of all the spiritual armor God gives to you. And by divine grace, you will arrive in the heavenly Jerusalem. God's continuing city. And there you will dine at the marriage feast of the Lamb. And you will eat the good food that you are now in Christ already tasting. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God, we ask your Spirit to apply your words to our heart. We confess to you, Father, that we are sheep prone to wander. We thank thee, O Lord, that even as we wander, you beckon us to return. You do everything you can to demonstrate to us what it is we have in Christ, the great treasure that it is beyond reckoning And we pray, Father, you'll keep working on our hearts to help us realize that truth. That we would never want to leave you or forsake you. Thank you, O Lord Jesus, for never leaving or forsaking us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.