Our uh passage for this evening is from Romans chapter one verses eight. Uh I'm gonna read to eight through fifteen. uh which is in uh the pew bible uh page number one thousand one hundred and sixteen. Romans one verses eight through fifteen The apostle writes, first I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his son, that without ceasing I mention you, always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you, that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have often want to b uh often intended to come to you, but thus far have been prevented in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. You may have a seat. Friends, um it it's good to see you again. Um it's a privilege for me to be here. Um Uh some of your faces I I recognize. Uh my name is John G. I am the uh church planner with our our presbytery uh in Howard County. And so just uh a little bit up north from from here, um, and uh about our church, uh recently we s uh we started on the book of Romans. Uh and so um you know, I never wanted to do double work in school and so it's I don't want to do double work now. So uh yeah, we d as you can see we just started And so this is the second sermon um in our our series. And so um know that uh I guess we'll begin a little like this. Um ancient Greek letters uh often uh contained a uh a uh opening salutation, right? And that's what we see here in verses one through seven. But also uh just regular Greek, not not not uh Christian or biblical uh Greek letters, but just general Greek letters often contained a expression of thanks and a petition to the gods, right? And so for secular uh writings they would uh I guess uh pray to the Roman gods, the pantheon of gods there. And so what Chur what Paul is doing here, um, he is taking that format and I guess he's he's remixing it, if you will, right? Like he's he's putting it into uh his and he's d adopting it for his own purposes. And so you see that here in in verses eight uh through fifteen. All that to say, friends, this this is the opening section is um our passage for this evening is is just merely a continuation of of Paul's opening salutation. And yet, uh uh you see that there's so much theology in this And so as we uh eavesdrop, if you will, in their ancient conversation, uh we're able to glean from it uh applicable truths to our modern lives. For tonight, through this passage, the topic that I want us to focus on is is gospel community, right? Gospel-centered community. That is what we are uh today, that is what they were two thousand years ago. So observe uh the way that Paul interacts with this Fellow believers. Uh uh there are things that He has done for them, the things that He has prayed for them, there are things that He expects from them. There are things he wants to do with them once he finally gets to Rome. And so from these observations I think we can get a better sense. Obviously not an exhaustive sense, but a better sense of what it means to be a church, what it means to be a community centered around the gospel, around Christ. And so that's what uh we're going to focus on uh today in in these short, what is it, eight verses. So first, uh what is gospel community. What does it look like? What are its qualities, its characteristics? One, uh the first thing we observe is is is prayer. Look at me. First two verses, first three verses. Uh he Paul begins first. I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you. Friends, notice that there is no second. Paul is not counting here. And so the only logical thing that we come up with is that the first means not one, two, and three in order, but first of all, it is the the the the most thing that he wants to highlight. And first he says, I thank God. My God, not just a God, my God through Jesus Christ for all of you. Why? Because your faith is being proclaimed in all the world. For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers. Church, it goes without saying that prayer is a significant part of the individual Christian life, right? Beloved Anglican pastor John Charles Rile He wrote this uh in his book about prayer. He says, faith is to the soul, what life is to the body. Prayer is to faith, what breath is to the body. And he hammers this home by he just says this. How can a person live and not breathe is past my comprehension. And how a person can believe and not pray is past my comprehension too You see what he's saying, right? He's just making a simple analogy. God in his wisdom, he made our bodies. He made our bodies to breathe. He made our bodies to breathe automatically. We don't have to remember to breathe. We have to breathe to stay alive. And in that same vein he says that in terms of our spiritual life, we have to pray. That this is where uh we draw life from. Thus it is no surprise that, you know, w when you put believers together then, the same logic applies. Church, we need to pray together, right? As a local body. But but here, uh through Paul's prayer report, if you will, we can glean a little bit about what it means to pray together, to pray for each other, to pray as a community. Let me highlight four things from these first few verses one, prayer is a recognition of God's sovereignty. That is why he thanks God for the faith of the Romans. If we were Arminian and we believe that this faith thing is all up to us, then Paul should be recognizing the Romans, commending them for their faith. Right? But even beyond that, first perhaps, that's what he means, is that he prays to God because it is God, the author and perfecter of our faith. It is God who starts a good work in us and keeps us all the way to the end. And so first and foremost he doesn't commend them. He praises God for their faith, right? So that's one. It is a recognition that there is nothing we can do without God. That is why we pray. Uh we have been struggling too, you know, up in Howard County. We we've stagnated in numbers and um I don't know. Just lately we've ha I just felt this burden. Just gotta pray You know? Uh we have so many ideas that we could do and stuff, but we're spiritual people and we rely on his power of salvation. And we gotta pray. And so this is what Paul does here, right? Uh even faith is a gift from God. God is so big that that we recognize his sovereign power too. uh prayer and the power of prayer, the efficacy of prayer, see that it comes from our union with Christ. Look at it, verse eight. He says, He prays through Christ Jesus. We don't know exactly what Paul meant by this. The early church fathers understood this phrase as a reference to Jesus' high priestly office. seated, uh ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father. And the book of Hebrews tells us that the that Jesus is at the Father's right hand, interceding on our behalf. So perhaps is that perhaps uh Paul is making mention of of Jesus' high priestly office, but other scholars have uh have have diverted and say Paul is mentioning Christ is because Christ's work is the basis and the validation of our prayer, right? That Jesus is the perfect son, the righteous son. And it is through him because we are clothed with his righteousness, and that is how we gain the ear of God Almighty. We are not deserving of it on our own because we have been alienated from God because of our sin, but we have been reconciled to God Almighty through the redemption of Christ. And so Paul makes mention of that. We don't know because both ways are true. And so, but that is the power of prayer. We do it through Jesus Christ. Three, uh prayer, see that is a part of our worship. Not only do we come to service, not only do we serve the less fortunate, not only do we offer praise or anything like that, but verse 9, look at what he says, for God is my witness whom I serve That Greek word there is to render religious service, and it just means to worship. How do we worship God, friends? We pray for each other. We pray for our fellow believers in the local body. And four, notice that this prayer is constant, right? He says, without ceasing. Obviously not literally, because then he would have no time to do anything else. But uh in uh contextually he means that he he offers frequent and regular intervals You know, but the thing that I want to chew I want you to chew on in this first point uh uh is this. Look at look back to verse 8. He begins, he says, First I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you. Why does he thank God? He thanks God because they have come to faith, because of their faith. But I think it's logical to think that did Paul just pray for them about their faith No. Paul thanked God for them as well. Right? And I and I and I challenge you with that this evening. Do you thank God uh for the people here at at Trinity Reform. Right? That individually you know these people, you know uh what they bring in terms of the local body Right? That we understand theology enough so that we know that the Christian life is an asilo. We know that God doesn't bless one person with everything so that we don't need the local body. We don't need Christians Right? We are saved and we are put together because God has gifted us differently and we come together into this blend and this wonderful thing called the church. And in that, do you think God for others. Period. You know, uh as I was uh preparing for this message it kind of convicted me. As I said I'm a I'm a church planner, so there's many things that I have to do Um many things that draw up my mind, but then I was so busy trying to establish a church that I forgot to just do church, which is to enjoy each other's company. Dietrich von Offer, German pastor during Nazi Germany time. This is what he wrote in his book called Life Together. He says, the person who loves the dream of community will destroy community. But the person who loves those around them will create community. Right? It's just do it. Just do it. Instead of talking about it, instead of praying about it in a way, just just do it. Love each other And one of the ways in which is we thank God. We thank God for each other. Do you, friends? Do you thank God for the people here? Challenging thought. Two, a gospel centered community is also not only prayer But also, let me give you another P, it's positive, positive encouragement. Right. Uh in the beginning section of this letter, um Paul notes that he's never been to Rome The letter to the Romans is unique to the Apostle Paul because this is the only letter that that to people that he doesn't know. All the other letters have written to either churches that he's planted or to associates of him, his co-workers that he know, and they planted the church But in the letters of the Romans, he's never been to this church. He's never been to Rome. He knows some of them, but for most of them, they are foreign to him. And so Paul wants to go to Rome to meet these Christians, many of them he's never even seen before. Why? Look at verse 11. Why does Paul want to go to Rome? He says, For I long to see you, that I might impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. What spiritual gift, Paul? He doesn't really specify what gift he wants to impart, but whatever it is, he wants to strengthen them. That is a accurate translation of that Greek word. It is to fortify, it is to confirm, it is to make firm their faith. That's what Paul wants to do. And but then look at what he does in the next verse. Paul sort of corrects himself. Verse 12. He continues on. He says, that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. Friends, this correction is not that like Paul wants to completely amend or take away what he just said in verse 11. Rather, he's ex- Expanding on it, right? Because he he's recognizing that there's mutual gain when brothers and sisters come together in a local body, right? I mean just think about what he said. He is the apostle Paul, right? Half of the New Testament, if you will, is written by him. He is God's chosen instrument, and then yet he says he can get something from you regular Christians in Rome And that is the role I think that we can glean. That is how we are connected. That is the role that we must play for each other in each other's lives. Uh this word for mutual uh encouragement in extra biblical writings, um it is used to to to mean consoling one another in sorrow. uh mutual exhortation before battle, is soldiers just rallying themselves up to go to war, if you will, right? Or exhorting and encouraging one another in the pursuit of a virtue, right? And you see what this is hinting at. We know as believers that we believe in the Bible, that we are made in the image of God. And one of these ways that uh uh the the the Imago Day plays out in our lives is that we are meant for community. That God in his Trinity He is community all by himself. And out of the overflow of that love, he made us, but he made us in his image. That means we are meant for community as well. Right? I mean just I'm being specious, but think about like teachers and trainers and and tutors and coaches In a way, they're unnecessary, right? Like we could just read a manual, read a book and learn it, right? But it's much more effective when it comes from a a person A relationship, isn't it, right? This is why God, in his infinite wisdom, sent his son as a person. that this book, it could have been a manual. It could have been just a law book. Here, just do this. But then he relates to us and his son because it is personal to us because he is a personal God and he wants to draw near to us in a relationship. This is how he has made us And this is who we are as a gospel community. We are relational in this way. We are meant to be in community, right? But notice what what the Apostle Paul says. He says, he receives benefit from regular Christians. This implies that no matter who we are, no matter what we role that we have in church, Uh uh we um have an effect on each other, right? So my spiritual life affects your spiritual life. And your spiritual life affects mine. Friends, do you recognize God's design? Do you recognize the role that you play in each other's lives, right? How is it that in American Christianity, uh people just come and they leave and they like bigger churches because they don't have to do anything. They like um, you know, just just programs and whatever else because it is catered to them And as a church planner living in suburban, affluent Maryland, this is the difficulty because I asked people to come and then they're like, Do you have a children's program? And I'm sitting there and I'm like, you're not the type of person that I need Because the Bible doesn't say, Oh, come here because I can fit your needs. The Bible says, Come here so that you can serve me and that I can serve you Right? American Christianity, you know what it's like? It's like we whittle down church and the gospel and God, all of it, and this worship experience into like a restaurant. You know what a restaurant is A beautiful restaurant with a glorious meal. There's a chef that prepares the meal, but all these people come individually. They glory in the meal. And then they leave separately, right? There is no connection. That is not how God intended church to be, right? It is not a restaurant where we glory in this wonderful meal that the chef tax, but instead, uh oh, we're made to be like workout buddies You know, relationally uh intertwining with each other, rooting each other on, picking each other up, right? And inspiring each other to greater gospel heights Friends, are you playing this role for each other? Right? Th that this is why um rivalries in a way, competition is good. Because it brings out the best in us. This is why when we run it's it's better to run with a partner than to run with ourselves. We can easily run this amount of whatever by ourselves, but it's much more enjoyable when it comes from somebody else, right? We know that things are gonna be okay, right? You've been through worse, you're gonna be okay, but it's better, it's sweeter when you hear it from somebody else. This is the design of it. And you have a role to play. As Jesus said, He came not to be served, but to serve, and as his people we serve who? Each other. Right? Not only others as we spread the gospel, not only others in the community where we try to do good things, but we also have a role to play in each other's lives. as an encouragement, right? Do f people feel good saying hi to you after they say hi to you? Do people good feel good being around you? Are people inspired, right? As gospel center folks You know what the greatest encouragement is to me, I think? Is to see new believers come to faith. It is to see believers growing in their faith. Isn't that the best encouragement, right? And I think this is what Paul's getting at here with this mutual encouragement. Recognize, friends, that this is the role that we play for each other And let's play our part. Lastly, gospel center community. What does it involve? It involves gospel proclamation, right? It involves proclamation. Look at verse 13. I said Paul begins, I do not want you to be unaware, brothers. Notice that Paul seems a little bit insecure. He keeps talking about why he hasn't been to Rome. why it has delayed so much. Like you gotta understand and I think uh part of it perhaps is because, you know, the Corinthian church felt slighted when he didn't come. And so he didn't want the misconception to be like that with the Roman Christians, right? Uh but um Paul wants to be cl Crystal clear here. But why does he want to come to Rome? It says it in order that I may reap some harvest From among you, as well as from among the rest of the Gentiles. And then look at fourteen. What does he say? I am under Obligation, right? Why does he want to go to Rome? It's because Paul felt obligated, compelled. This Greek word literally means that Paul is a debtor And so we ask, who are you in debt to? Who do you owe to? Who are you obligated to? And that's the thing. Paul is an apostle to the Gentiles, but he doesn't owe the Gentiles anything. Who does he owe? He owes God. Right? Uh Anglican another Anglican pastor, John Stodd, he wrote this about this verse. He says, there are two possible ways of getting into debt One uh is to borrow money from somebody, like uh you lend me a hundred dollars, now owe you a hundred dollars, right? Or the other possible way is I get a hundred dollars from somebody to give to you. And then now I owe them something to give to you until I have delivered this over. And it is in the second sense that Paul is saying, I am a debtor. And the same is true for us, friends. It's the hymn, right? Jesus painted all to him. Oh, I oh, you know what this means, friends? You know what Paul is hinting at here? The Christian lie The Christian faith, the gospel, is a pay it forward paradigm. Right? We have been forgiven to forgive others. We have been loved to love others. Think about it, 2 Corinthians 1, Paul says that the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all affliction, so that what? So that we may be able to comfort others in any affliction. Right? Acts 180. This is the the reception of the Holy Spirit. This is when the spirit of power comes on you. What are you supposed to do? Just just take it and feel good about yourself? It's like no, you're supposed to take that and go to the end of the earth. Right John 13, 34, a new commandment I give to you. Love one another. And then look at the justification, the explanation. Just as I, Jesus, have loved you, disciples. You are to love Jesus back? No, you are to love each other in the way that I have loved you. Right? And lastly, remember John 21 Peter encounters the risen Christ. Peter's so ashamed, right? Because he just denied Jesus three times. And so Jesus came to him and said, do you love me? And then Peter said, Of course I do, right? And then what does he say? Then obey me? Then then give up everything and follow? No. He says, then feed my sheep. Right? It's given to us and then it goes out. And that is the essence of what the gospel is, right? Because you know this. What does gospel mean in the Greek? It literally means Good news, friends. It is news. It is news of what God has done for you. But the thing about news is It's meant to be shared. It's meant to be shared, right? Facetiously. You know, my guy friends text every now and then We get reminders. It's like, oh tomorrow is like National Donut Day. Krispy Kreme has free donuts. See, that's news and they give it to you. I remember another one, some other fast food restaurant, it was like birth uh Big Mac or Whopper, it was like birthday or something like that, and then they're like, what a rollback prices to nineteen sixty six are like You know, this thing is like five cents and then like our friends are reminding us. It's new. Yeah, uh even more seriously it's um You know, this past Thursday we were uh we have prayer meeting on Thursday and then like my friend before we started you got a text you know Vadi Bakum died You know, he got a text that that that that uh this pastor, uh this well-known pastor had died and and then but why does he that's the thing though, why did he share it 'Cause it's news, right? And that's the nature of the gospel. And so notice what he says, verse 14 that it is he is under obligation that he's indebted to proclaim this. Verse 15, but it's not just about duty. He is eager, ready, willing to proclaim it. Friends What about you? Right? And I leave you with that. You know what gospel proclamation is? You know what evangelism is I think we got it. I think we get it twisted. Because the impetus for evangelism, it's not about the person. It's about my love for Christ. That's where the source is, right? Of course, of course, we care about this person, right? Somehow we find a connection to them We know that our previous life we were we were on a on on a road to hell, to eternal condemnation. We know that and we empathize and we want this person to not do the same thing But what gets us to share, what gets us to be so bold, it is not about them. It's about us. It's more self-centered. Think about the idea of social media. Nobody asked me to take pictures of your food or your destinations or your grandkids or whatever else. I don't care about your grandkids. I don't care about your puppies. I don't care about anything. But why do people share anyway? It's because they love their kids. Because they love this amazing dinner experience that they want to share. This amazing view of their vacation that they You see, it's not about their audience, it's about my joy in this and in the same way. Our evangelism, our proclamation is inspired by what? It is by our joy of Christ. It is our love for Christ. And that's what I leave you with. When you cultivate that, all of it else takes care of itself. You know what the kicker for me was with this? John 4, Samaritan Woman the well. We don't know what she did But it was some something weird, right? She was shamed. That's why she went to draw water at the highest time of the day, right? But the thing that always got me in that story was When Jesus revealed to her as the Messiah, where does she go? She goes right back into the town and tells the people of the town, but that's the thing. These are the same people that ostracize her. These are the same people that that that made her feel guilty and ashamed and perhaps she recognized that it is her fault. But why would she share that with them? You know if I were me and if I was being petty I would keep it to myself. Forget you guys, you were never nice to me. But then she shares it with these people. Why It's be I think it's because that's how overjoyed she was in Christ. So that it's not about you It's not about what you did to me. It's not about those dirty looks you gave to me. It's not about how you dissed me, right? It's about my love for Christ. And I'll share with you. And that's what Paul's getting here. He's eager because he's felt that too, right? And so the centrality of it, it is the gospel, friends. So um I asked you to reflect on that. Every church is a gospel center ministry. Are we thankful for each other? Are we praying for each other? Are we playing a positive role, encouraging each other to greater gospel living? And are we proclaiming together, together in Christ? Let's pray. Let me close. Prayer. Father, I pray for Trinity Reform, that um regardless whether it's Trinity, whether it's Word of Life, whether it's any church, we are a gospel community. uh saved by you and and collected together as a local body and in that may we live this out Father, we think we know how to do community because in a way it is natural to us, and yet your wisdom and your word is so much deeper than that. And so we pray, I pray for the believers here, I pray for this congregation, that they would appreciate one another in the gospel, that they would inspire each other. That this thing is not about how high I can get in cr in spirituality, but how much higher we can we can get together. And may they play a positive role not only in each other's faith lives, but also in the lives around that we invite, that we share because we love you. Pray for this congregation that they fall deeper in love with you. That it just the gospel just jumps out of them. They can't stop shouting off about you. And so pray for all these things. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's all