Well now we turn in God's word to the book of Philippians, chapter 4. We are in Philippians 4. We are really close to the end. Still not quite there. Philippians 4, verses 14 through 20 is the passage that we are in today. You'll notice, you know, this whole section, verses 10 to 20, it has to do with this gift that the Philippians had sent to Paul. By way of a man named Epaphroditus, who gets named in our passage, he was probably someone from the Philippian church who delivered this gift to Paul while Paul was in prison probably in Rome And so in this section, Paul is acknowledging that gift. You know, last week we considered how he acknowledged the gift. He was grateful for it. And yet he said that he didn't need it in order to be content, which was somewhat surprising, at least the way we ordinarily think about gifts. Well now we will say see once again he acknowledges the gift. And yet, once again, acknowledges it in a way that is somewhat surprising, not the way we normally think of gifts that are given between people. And so you want to listen for that. How does he acknowledge their gift? What does he acknowledge it as? Well, I'll just give you the answer. He acknowledges it as an act of worship to God. And so listen for that. Philippians chapter 4, verses 14 through 20. This is God's word. Give your attention to it. Nevertheless, you have done well that you shared in my distress. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia No church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For even in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that abounds to your account. Indeed, I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things sent from you. A sweet smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God And my God shall supply all your need, according to his riches, in glory by Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen. So here we see once again Paul acknowledging the gift that the Philippians have sent him. You know, we saw it back in verse 10 at first. There he rejoiced in the Lord greatly. Because of their care for him. But here now we see it in verse 14. You have done well, he says, you have done well in sharing with me my distress. You have shared this gift with me as I have been in the midst of this situation of distress. Now he affirms that what they have done is a good thing. You have done well Again, he already rejoiced, and there's good reason for this. Well, now in verses 15 and 16, we learn that this is a pattern that had begun at an earlier time. Now again, notice verses 15 and 16. This Philippian church, this gift they gave to Paul, was sort of characteristic for them It's not the first time they had given him a gift. In fact, the giving and sharing of gifts uh with the Philippians between the Philippians and Paul seems to have been an ongoing occurrence. In verses 15 and 16, the Philippians stand out. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, he's probably talking about the beginning of his ministry of the gospel there. No church shared with me concerning giving and receiving, but you only. For even in Thessalonica you sent aid once and again for my necessities. So again, we see the Philippian church has brought this to Paul It's not just a one-time gift. It has been something that has happened before. It has been something that has defined Paul's relationship with the Philippians. Now it's possible, you know, if you look back to chapter 1, when Paul first introduced the letter, it's very possible in verses 5 and 6 of chapter 1, you know, Paul spoke there about The fellowship the Philippians had with him in the gospel from the first day until now. And notice you're seeing their reflection of the same language that we've come across now in chapter 4. There's this fellowship The word even possibly means partnership. It possibly is even used, or it is used in some cases. in the sense of even a business venture, so even a financial partnership. So you know the fellowship between Paul and the Philippians does include this aspect of financial gift aspect. And you notice it back there in chapter 1, so that was his relationship. Well once again, now at the end of the letter, Paul is affirming that same pattern of relationship that he has with the Philippians. And it's a relationship in which the Philippians stand out, no other church but you only, when I departed from Macedonia, Macedonia being the place where Philippi is. So here as Paul left from them the first time, they were quick to share with him in this giving and receiving, but that means that they were sending gifts to him on a regular basis. And again, Paul affirms this. You have done well. Back in verse 10, he had rejoiced. And yet, what is the reason why he rejoices? Not that I seek the gift, okay, so when we think of relationships between human beings, even between believers. Even between churches and those who minister and teach, we sometimes think about, well, there's thankfulness for the gift that's received. There's an acknowledgement of the personal aspect of relationship that's expressed as the gift is received. There's thankfulness for the gift that's given. But that's not what Paul emphasizes. He says, not that I seek the gift, you know? The gift is good. But why is it good? Not just because it meets Paul's needs. But because it is an act of worship to God. So Paul praises God and thanks God, and also thanks to Philippians, But he affirms their gift ultimately because it's an act of worship to God. Now, of course, the gift does meet Paul's need, doesn't it? And he says this. He says In verse 18, I have all, I abound, I am full. I have received from Epaphroditus the things that were sent from you So it's not that the gift doesn't meet his need. Yes, the gift does meet his needs and does help, but at the same time The greatest thing about this gift in these verses, the thing Paul highlights about this gift in these verses, is that the gift they've directed to Paul is a direct act of worship to God. So the gift is directed to Paul, but the greatest thing about it is that it's an act of worship to God. And again, the great thing about that is what it shows About the spiritual condition of these Philippian believers. You know, it's not for no reason that in other places in the scriptures The Lord Jesus Christ speaks of the importance of the use of money, how it reflects the state of a person's Heart. You know, some of those places, especially in Matthew chapter 6, you see these instances where Jesus highlights the use of money as something that speaks to the condition of a person's heart. I mean he says you can't serve two masters. You can't serve both God and money. And even if you try, and even if you think there's some way you can You'll ultimately end up serving one or the other. So the answer has to be to serve the Lord with money. And again, Jesus also says in Matthew 6, 19 to 21, he instructs his disciples not to store up treasures merely on earth. Merely in a place where there's moth and rust, where things will degrade, where things will decay. But use your money. Store up treasure that is eternal in value. So isn't that what Paul is really expressing here? There's something about the use of our substance that the Lord blesses us with. that says something about the condition of our heart. Well, Paul praises God for the Philippians because the way they have used and what God has given them says something really good about their heart. Again, um uh all by God's grace, but nonetheless something really good. Um You know, back in chapter 1, verse 6, his confidence in them is expressed especially in connection with this partnership they have with him. So there's something about The way they have directed their use of money, their financial gift that they have sent to Paul, that seems to indicate, you know, that God has worked his grace in them in a very uh very strong way. Now notice that language again. What is this gift that they have sent to Paul? We don't know exactly what it is, probably financial it seems. And yet what does Paul say concerning that gift? Now look at that language again in verse 18. A sweet-smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice that is described as well pleasing to God. How is that true about a gift that is given to Paul? Once again, we give gifts between human beings. We give gifts in the midst of the church. We give gifts, you know, one believer to another, or You know, there are other situations of giving and receiving. Something about this gift that is given to Paul makes it an act of worship. A sweet-smelling aroma, something that's acceptable to God. Now you heard that language earlier on in Genesis 8 As the Lord received Noah's sacrifice. The Lord had delivered Noah through the waters of the flood, delivered him from the judgment that had been poured upon the entire earth. And yet Noah was spared. Creation was spared. Creation was allowed to resume in a new way. The creatures were allowed to embark from the ark Noah and the human race was allowed to continue even after that judgment. Noah thanks God for the work that has been done by means of a sacrifice. It's a burnt offering. The smoke of it arises as if to heaven. The Lord receives that offering. The Lord receives that sacrifice as something that's pleasing to him. Well the same thing. Paul now says the Philippians gift is received in the same way to the Lord. The Lord sees that, you know, the Philippians have given this gift to Paul. And they uh uh yeah the Lord receives it as a gift that is pleasing to him, a sweet smelling aroma, as if a fragrance. Um the question is, how can that be the case and why is that the case? Well one of the reasons why that's the case is because what is the gift used to do? What is the gift used for? The gift blesses the ministry of the gospel. The gift is used to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is used to bless one who is preaching the gospel. one who is ministering the gospel. And in the fact that it meets those needs, it is an act of worship. For what is the gospel? The gospel is that good news of what God has done in Christ, and it is that good news that, as it is spread to the ends of the earth, brings glory to God. And so there's a sense in which the support of the gospel ministry is a direct act of worship because it spreads the glory of God's name to the ends of the earth. And so therefore, in a very special way, um it it speaks to the glory of God and it is a reflection of uh the the the honor of God as God's name is spread to the ends of the earth by means of the grace of God. This is bringing glory to God as many other people are brought to faith, as people are brought to worship the true and living God through that good news. God's name is glorified in that way, and so there's something special that we see here in that the Philippians support Paul in the ministry of the gospel. The support of the ministry of the gospel is the way, is very much one of the key ways that we spread the glory of God across the face of the earth And so this is what we see here in Philippians. Why is it a sacrifice that is well pleasing to God? Well, not just because it blesses another person. But because it blesses it blesses the mission of sending the gospel across the earth. You know, we read some interesting words in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. 2 Corinthians 8. It's interesting because there Paul is shaming the Corinthians, it seems. He is shaming them over their attitude about charity, about charitable giving among the churches. And by way of shaming them, he uses the example of the churches in Macedonia. Now this would seem to be relevant to our passage because Philippi is one of those churches in Macedonia that he's referring to. So once again, notice 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verses 1 through 5. For here in 2 Corinthians 8, 1 through 5, we see what is the mindset of these churches in Macedonia. Moreover, brethren, we make known to you the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia, that in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty Abounded in the riches of their liberality. For I bear witness that according to their ability, yes, and beyond their ability, they were freely willing. imploring us with much urgency that we would receive the gift and the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. And not only as we had hoped But they first gave themselves to the Lord and then to us by the will of God. So this Philippian church in their giving They are really highlighted as exemplary. You know, Paul does this in Philippians 4. He also singles out these churches of Macedonia here in 2 Corinthians Chapter 8. And again, in 2 Corinthians 8, notice their attitude in terms of their giving. They did so under a trial of affliction, a great trial of affliction. Nonetheless, they did so with abundant joy. They did so in a situation of deep poverty, and yet their giving was still described in verse 2 of chapter 8 as liberal. So very generous in their giving. So again, we're really seeing a heart on the part of the Philippians that is moved to be generous in the Lord And they delight in the glory of the Lord. They delight in the glory of God being spread by means of his gospel. And this is the reason why they give their gift to Paul. This is the reason why their gift to Paul is received the way it's received by the Lord in our text. A sweet-smelling aroma, something that the Lord finds pleasing. an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. So again, um what a what a great example we see here We see an example of people whose hearts are set upon the things of the Lord. People who are believing in the gospel of God. People who are believing that as the gospel proceeds through the earth, That God's glory is made known and God's glory comes about. As people are called to life by that gospel of Jesus Christ, the glory of God's name spreads to the ends of the earth And they are glad to see this. They are glad to see this. And they are even generous in their giving. And they are even described as liberal in their giving in it in the verses here. Right. So this is the reason why they received this promise in verse 19. So they have shown that they are very much true believers and that their hearts are set on the things of God And to such who are true believers, who belong to Jesus Christ, there is the promise of verse 19. And my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Now once again, remember, they're described in this other place as giving out of abundance in the midst of deep poverty. Even under great trial, but they they have this promise from God. God will supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Now how it how does God supply the needs of his people? How can we say that God is supplying the needs of his people if they are living under great trial and if they are living in deep poverty? And even when they are giving beyond their ability, Paul said, how can we say that that's a r that God is supplying all their needs? Well again, it's worth remembering, worth thinking about the riches that are in glory that God supplies through Jesus Christ. Do not always appear as something that looks very impressive to the eyes of the the world. How then does God supply our needs in Christ Jesus? Well, we know he's supplied our greatest need. We know that the greatest need that we have is communion with God in a new creation We know he has supplied that through the work of Jesus Christ, and that's something that's promised to us. That's something that we are waiting for. That's something we are looking forward to. That's something that we have waiting for us. At the same time. How does God supply our needs in Christ Jesus out of the riches that are his in glory here and now? And how can that be true of people who are undergoing great trial, people who are struggling with deep poverty? Does God meet the needs of such people who belong to Him in Christ? Can those people say God is supplying my needs in Christ? Yes they can. Paul says yes they can. And this is what Paul is telling them. Yes, God will supply all your need, according to his riches and glory, by Christ Jesus. So how is that promise fulfilled here and now? We have a great promise of heaven. We have a great promise of the resurrection and the new creation. We're trusting in it. We're hoping in it. How is that promise answered here and now? Well we have fellowship together in the midst of the saints. We have our spiritual needs provided for by means of his word. When Paul says that God is providing the needs of his people, out of the riches that are in glory Because of Jesus Christ. Paul means that God will lead us to that last final day. God will lead us to that new creation. But the way he will lead us will be by means of his word, his word as it is proclaimed in the church, and also the fellowship that we share in the midst of the saints. Now isn't it true that when you experience true fellowship in Christ in the midst of the saints, isn't it true that that can be much greater? than having a million dollars? Isn't it true that when you know the truth of uh the communion of the saints in the midst of God's people That that can meet your needs so much better than having all the wealth in the world and all the power that this world could offer. Does our Lord provide our needs? Yes, He does. He provides for us in the midst of even suffering, even as the Philippians themselves were described, as under great trial, possibly in deep poverty. Nonetheless, their needs were provided in the sense that they belong to one another, and they belonged to Jesus Christ, and it was God who sustained them. So let's keep this in mind as we look at this promise. This promise is made to all who belong to Jesus Christ, to all who belong to his church, who are uh you know uh should be members of his true church. Um It belongs to every such believer. And yet this is how God supplies our needs. He supplies our needs so that we are able to face our trials, so that we are able to face the sufferings that come to us under His hand. But it's by means of our spiritual needs being provided, through his word and through his spirit, and through his spirit, as his spirit unites us together. Once again another theme that we've come across in Philippians The unity of the church, the church being bound together through their mutual fellowship in Jesus Christ. And by having the one Holy Spirit. This is how our Lord provides for us out of the riches. He provides for us out of the riches that are of heaven itself. Realities which are of the age to come rather than of this present evil age. The Holy Spirit in glory is the one who provides for us all that that comes to us from the Father by way of the Son. So may we be quick to uh latch on to the things that He provides for us. May we find our needs met in the things he provides for us, and may we therefore be ready to give glory to him. Yes, much the same way that the Philippians were. May we be ready to support and promote gospel ministry? May we be ready to give for the purpose of gospel missions May we seek the glory of God. May we seek to see it spread across the face of the earth. And as we do so, may we do it as an act of worship so that it might be received by our Lord as a sweet-smelling aroma and an acceptable sacrifice. May all these things be true of us Not because we want them to be true of us, but because God Himself makes us able, and God Himself grants that these things are true of us by His grace May this be true, all according to his glorious plan in Jesus Christ, which will one day come to its complete and final fulfillment. Until that day, let's continue to look to him. Let's continue to serve him well in this world. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord God, we praise you. Um we have seen in your word. How the Philippians had done well, and how Paul told them that you have done well in what they had done. We praise you that they were able to give glory to you. That their gift that they sent to Paul was used by you to meet his needs, to bless him, and to bless the spread of your gospel Thank you that you have blessed the spread of that gospel even to the point that here we are some 2,000 years later, having received that gospel, still holding fast to that gospel. Your spirit still using that gospel across the face of this earth to bring glory to your name and to gather for yourself worshipers We praise you that you have gathered us as such worshipers. You have gathered us by means of the good news of Jesus Christ. May you work in us by your Spirit so that we too may be uh people who are uh ready to bring glory to you and also r ready and um willing to support uh gospel ministry and gospel missions. So that we too might worship you by means of our giving, so that our hearts might reflect the same things the Philippians' hearts reflected. That we do indeed treasure what is in heaven more than what is on earth, that we do indeed treasure your glory above the things that are available on this earth. Would you work these things in us by your your spirit working in us? Would you be pleased to make these things true of us as a matter of your grace? Lord, what are we as your instruments? We in ourselves are unfit. We in ourselves have nothing to offer you, yet it pleases you to use us, and so use us we pray. We ask these things in Jesus' name.