And let's remain standing for the New Testament reading from the Gospel of Mark. Mark fourteen, verses one through eleven After two days it was the Passover and the feast of unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by trickery and put him to death. But they said, Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar of the people. And being in Bethany at the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the table A woman came having an alabaster flask of very costly oil, a spike nerd. Then she broke the flask and poured it on his head But there were some who were indignant among themselves and said, Why was this fragrant oil wasted? Or it might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and given to the poor. And they criticized her sharply. But Jesus said, Let her alone Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me. For you have the poor with you always, and whenever you wish, you may do them good. But me you do not have always. She has done what she could. She has come beforehand to anoint my body for burial. For assuredly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went to the chief priest to betray him to them. And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. So he thought how he might conveniently betray him. Lord, we pray your blessing now upon our understanding of this your holy word, and please go with what is said. Let it honor you and be edifying to us. Hear our prayer and help us with your Holy Spirit. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. When we read the Bible, we sometimes encounter customs that seem very quaint to us. And when we read those quaint customs, we are forced to ask the question, I think Was it quaint back then or is it just quaint to us? Does it sound unusual only to us or would it have seemed more normal back then? Uh we have a story that is pretty extraordinary. We have a story of a woman who Anoints Jesus with this very costly ointment, Spiknard or Nard, I think is what they may call it these days. Uh a precious substance. I think I read on the internet. You have to go to India or Tibet to find the uh some of this. Uh but uh for burial it was sometimes mixed with myrrh and acacia. Uh Whether it was used for other things, I don't know the again, uh but it was a costly ointment, we're told that three hundred denarii Oh, is it not on? I really don't do this. Thank you. Um Anyway, we have this very costly ointment that uh is assessed at three hundred denarii Which uh a denarius was uh about a day's wage for a Roman soldier We're talking roughly a year uh salary, uh maybe a little less. I don't know whether they had six day weeks, uh presumably among the Jews six would have been the most. But uh that uh Would tell you that this is quite an expensive thing that took place. Now we find stories like it In the other gospels, I believe the account we have in Mark can be very easily uh harmonized with Matthew. I suspect Mark was the first gospel that we have that was actually committed to writing And I suspect Matthew was working with uh an excerpt from Mark or had that in mind as he gives his account of the same story. They're very, very closely the same. John in John chapter 12 tells us what I think is the same story, but there are a few details. That are added, and a few details that we have to reconcile. Luke has a story like it, But it's uh back in Luke chapter seven and I think it's a different event, although many of the details are the same. So you can have a debate. Were there one, two, or three different anointings of Jesus by a woman And uh my opinion is that there were two. The one in Luke seems to be a sinful woman. And she comes, and uh it's at the end of Luke 7, I believe, you'll find that she is uh very stricken With a sense of her sinfulness and uh stricken with love for Jesus I'm sure that the way she had been looked upon by the rest of her community made it particularly appealing to find someone like Jesus who holds out the hand of forgiveness Certainly we don't want to treat sin lightly, and yet we don't want to treat grace lightly either. And there is abundant grace that Jesus shows. And we see that in that story at the end of Luke 7. So I think it's basically two events, but there seems to be something so unique about this custom to our ears that we might wonder, you know, could it really be two or three different events? Let's back up and think about what would have been customary back in that day. And uh I don't pretend to be an expert on this, but we know That Jesus washed his disciples' feet. And this has been regarded uh by scholars as Jesus taking upon himself the office or function of a servant Doing something that only a servant would do. It's common for us to uh recognize there's a need for some cleanliness before you eat. Jesus' disciples were criticized for not washing their hands Uh remember mother, wash your hands before you eat. Uh theirs was probably more of a ceremonial concern. But there is in that Last Supper where Jesus washes his disciples' feet, he does it with water. And at the end of the Luke 7 story with the sinful woman, Jesus notes that she washed his feet with her tears, but also applied the precious oil to them, whereas uh the the host the Pharisee there didn't so much as provide water. So I think the idea of footwashing would have not been at all unusual Uh it might have not been a regular custom. I think uh uh we find different people at different levels of status in society. Different restaurants have different protocols when you go to eat at them. If you're going to McDonald's, you probably have to settle for a paper napkin. Uh if you go to a little better restaurant, maybe they give you a cloth napkin. And if you go to something really fancy They might even bring out a warm moist towel so you can clean up a little bit. I'm not sure. I think I had that happen once or twice Maybe it was ribs at a a Chinese restaurant, I don't remember, but it it it wasn't your ordin it wasn't a McDonald's, I can tell you that So uh I think there would have been different things that happened uh as Jesus and his disciples moved about Uh this woman didn't uh wash all the disciples' feet or head. Uh Jesus is kind of the guest of honor and that's what makes it stand out in this story. Uh in the the Luke account at the end of Luke, what is alarming To the eyes of the Pharisee, is that this woman is a sinner, and if Jesus were a prophet, wouldn't he recognize that? Now here's the irony. Jesus knows what the guy's thinking or muttering under his voice. You want a proof of a prophet? Okay, here it goes. Here's what you're thinking. And uh he he exposes the the man's uh relative lack of hospitality compared to the the welcome that Jesus received from the sinful woman In John's account of the footwashing, what is unusual is that Jesus Assumes the form of a servant. And Peter can't handle that. That's just not right But when Jesus says, if I don't wash your feet, you have no part in me, he says, wash my head too while you're at it. So The idea of being washed wasn't the the problem. The idea of who was doing the washing Whether it was unusual for a woman to perform this service or not, I don't know. Uh It would have been someone who would have not been of high status. It would have been a slave. So maybe it wasn't that unusual that a woman took on this service. drying his feet with her hair. Extraordinary. But as I think about it Both that sinful woman at the end of Luke and Mary, who I think is being spoken of here in Mark fourteen, sister of Martha and Lazarus. They're not in their own house as far as I can tell. They didn't bring a towel with them. They used their hair. And so there are some very unusual things here, but they're not necessarily the unusual things that immediately come to our mind In Mark 14, what is unusual, particularly in the eyes of some of the disciples, is the extravagance. The extravagance, nearly a year's wages being used And Jesus, during his earthly ministry, is coming to the end of it now, but during his earthly ministry has shown a particular concern for the poor. And so there is among, it looks like more than one disciple, a criticism. This is too extravagant This is wasted what a thought wasted on Jesus Does that make sense? Well, it shouldn't make sense to us. But there is some kind of a cognitive problem to figure out how that fits with his ordinary priorities of ministering to the poor And so that is a good, we might call it presentation problem, presentation reason for criticizing Jesus. or really criticizing the woman, but it kind of bounces back on Jesus because he accepts it. And so Jesus says, leave her alone. She's done a good thing for me. The poor you have with us, with you always And you can always do something for them. That almost sounds cavalier, does it? uh to someone who has a totally humanistic view of religion and what Christianity ought to be You'd say it all ought to be about serving the poor. Now the other side of it is That there have been extravagances that are hard to justify. Even the great St. Peter's in Rome, or maybe especially the St. Peter's in Rome I want to keep monuments like that around. They'll look lovely from an artistic standpoint. But they were paid for off of the backs of people who thought they could buy their salvation or Days out of years out of purgatory. I still remember We had a young couple in our church in Baltimore and uh they had medical problems And they were listening to this televangelist. Have faith! $2,000 will show you have faith, or I forget what the number was. He lived pretty well, as I recall And unfortunately they gave him money. Now I challenged them on that, but I'm afraid that maybe it could have come across as though that guy just wants the money instead It's really difficult, isn't it, to challenge each other about how we spend our money because there's a part of us that needs to mind our own business Uh but there is a such thing as good stewardship. Extravagance. What is extravagance? Well, it could be living above our means, or it could be living above what we think is a reasonable need and desire standard of living. Or it could be just spending stuff only on ourselves. But not all extravagance in the Bible is condemned. And I still remember Hearing the story, I don't know if I was born yet or not, but my parents were in rough shape. It was out in California, my dad was out of a job, they were down to about a dollar fifty less And my dad was normally the guy who spent a little more freely. My mother pinched a penny. I got down to that dollar and fifty or whatever it was. No job. My mother went out and bought steak with it And as I reflected upon, I said, you know, that's not what I remember about the way my mother managed finances. What was that all about? And the only thing I can think of, maybe it's my own optimistic read of my mother, but it might have just been a statement of faith. Might have just been a statement of faith. You look at the way finances are addressed in the Bible, and Jesus points to This widow the widows might I guess it was two little coins, the smallest possible coins. And she gives them over to the service of God, or at least ostensibly the service of God, into the temple treasury. Who knows what the rich people that were officiating there did with it. But in her mind she's giving it to God. She's giving everything That's extravagant. It's not extravagant by the standards of what we think is a normal living wage. a denarius for the day or something like that. But for her it was everything. And as Mary opens this Spike Nard ointment, that's a year's wages. Is that her life savings? I don't know. It's it's extraordinary. And I puzzled over what would have moved her to this. Certainly it was love for Jesus. Jesus says she has prepared me for burial. And as I thought about this even this morning, it seems to me that Mary was The resident woman theologian in the area, she's the one who would sit at Jesus' feet. And wanted to learn more about him. And although we sometimes criticize Martha, Martha has some good things We see in the Gospel of John when her brother dies, her initial words seem to be a reproach, Lord, if you've been here, we wouldn't have died. And Jesus challenges her to believe and says, I know he'll rise in the last day. She believes in the resurrection. And this family, Mary, Martha, now Lazarus is back to life, are learning something about the sadness of death and the joy of restored life. And the danger that confronts Jesus, there's kind of a uneasy atmosphere I I think Jesus moved around from house to house. I don't think he spent every night in the same house And we know that there are people in this world that can't spend the same night twice in a row in the same house because somebody's gonna get them. And there is a plot to get after Jesus, but they're aware that Jesus' life is in danger. And they're aware that Jesus is the resurrection and the life And so Mary comes with this gift. Now in Mark's account I think we have something like a bracket. I don't know if it fits the traditional definition of what some people call an inclusio or a bracket, but You find in verse 1 an idea that comes out again in verses 10 and 11 that sort of Put things together. The people, the chief priests, the scribes are seeking how they might find an occasion To put Jesus to death. And then there is an occasion that comes up, verses 10 and 11. It's Judas. And sandwiched in between is this story of this precious anointing of Jesus. By again a woman who we can well infer is Mary from the Gospel of John. And it seems to me that John expands. and gives a a detailed explanation for something that is implied here. A memorial for this woman, her deed will not be forgotten, wherever the gospel is. Of course Mark's leaving out her name. Kind of an unusual memorial, but it's a good woman, you know. Uh And John makes good on that. Mary is named. And it is entirely possible because, remember Not only were they seeking Jesus' life, but John tells us they were seeking Lazarus' life that this family was in danger. So Mark being an early gospel, I don't know. Maybe he will help those names On purpose. We have missionaries that we don't say where they are or who they are. We have to use our brain a little bit. And so maybe that's an explanation, I don't know. But anyway The thing that seems to motivate Judas, and we find it out in the Gospel of John, that he looks like the ringleader of this criticism. Because he's the money guy. He's got the purse. He keeps the funds. And it's very easy for one person to stir things up and to make an outwardly credible argument. Oh, waste. Should have been given to the poor. But his real motive is that he's missing out on a big score. He's missing out on a big score. About a year's wages. So then we find out later that uh He settles on a little lesser score. Thirty pieces of silver, about four months' wages, I think, is what I've read But it'll make up for his disappointment because he's in it for the money. Now, extravagance You find that there are people that are willing to criticize people with money because they don't have enough of it We got a billionaire problem. What's the problem? I'm not one of them, I guess. We can explore the politics of the politics of envy, but let's leave it at this Whether you're a communist or a capitalist, your heart can still be wrong. And you can still be greedy And that's what's going on with Judas. He's greedy. And I'm struck by A kind of modern culture in which greed is really very much a part of our lives today and all the appeals that are made in the political sphere or other places are often an appeal to greed. You deserve Wasn't it Mary's gift to give as she sought fit? What made Judas think he was entitled to direct how those phones would be used? And yet we find that in Jesus' teaching, he accepts this gift for himself And it shows that his mission was not to just come and solve all the poverty cases in the world. His mission was to come and give his everything as a payment for our sins, to die. And when he sees a similar spirit in Mary He commends it. Because the most extravagant gift that was ever given was the Son of God. The most extravagant gift, for God commends his love towards us, in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Are we worth it? Well, only in some mysterious thought of God, but not in our own character We need to be transformed and we need to be forgiven and we made need to be made new. But even before we were transformed, forgiven and made new God made this extraordinary gift of everything. Talks about The one who comes from Judah. Tie his donkey to the choice vine. That's a good way to wreck a perfectly good grape vine. Bathing in wine. That's pretty extravagant. The extravagance marks out his kingship. But it's not an extravagance that is self-serving, it's an extravagance that leads us to see an extravagant grace. That God commends his love towards us, towards you. That while you were yet a sinner, Christ died for you. Everything. And it's humbling because we recognize it calls us to give up everything and yet we have a pretty hard time doing that. Someone once said the trouble with the living sacrifice is it tends to crawl off of the altar. We have to come back to him regularly. That's what we'll be doing this morning with the Lord's Supper. Asking that we might be made more like him W gave everything so that we might know him and love him and worship him. Have you come to that? By simple faith, trusting in Him, you can know His forgiveness Surrender to him. And he'll help you renew that commitment as you struggle through this life as we all do. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that Jesus paid it all. He paid with his own life. An extravagant gift. And we pray that you would move us to see in that extravagant grace a call that we can be extravagant with our love. We thank you for your mercies, which are new every morning, and which come from the one who died for us. We pray in his name Amen.