Now let's go to read the New Testament reading, Ephesians six. Verses ten to eleven. You find that in page eleven sixty three Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his mind. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. Please have a seat. The name of the message today is Guarding Against Satan. Brothers and sisters in the faith, this will be a glorious day. And I'll tell you why. What we are about to hear should be something that you already know. But it is very important to have a refreshment. In time of armed conflict, there is one characteristic that distinguishes all the great generals that went through the history of military warfare. That is the ability to so know their enemies that they are able to participate, to anticipate, sorry, their every move So as to prepare a strategy to meet them and defeat them. Today We can consider a subject which is of the outmost importance to every believer The old saying to be forewarned is to be forearmed is nowhere more pertinent than here. It is a matter of knowing the tricks of Satan or his strategies or his devices that he would use to try to oppose the work of God. Counterfeit the work of God. To keep men from coming to God. They are really his gods. Paul warns us in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 that we must not be ignorant of the devil's devices. lest he easily misleads us and beguiles or entices us. Now, as we contemplate this invisible warfare which we all are engaged. I have something, some necessary biblical observation observations to make about our enemy. And uh pretty much concern us this morning in our message. observations about our enemy let's let's let's see who our enemy is we need to know about him as much as we can so Let's go by the first observation. Observation number one. Satan is superior to many Satan is superior to men because he belongs to a higher created order, that of angels. Hebrews 2, 7, chapter 2, verse 7 says clearly, the man was made a little lower than the angels. For the present time, however, the day will come when men will be elevated above angels. But that is yet in the future. For the present time we are a little lower than the angels. This is of course This of of this of course is according to scripture. I'm not inventing this, I didn't dream this. This comes from the Word of God. Furthermore, Ezekiel chapter 28, verse 14 identifies Satan as a cherub that coveted death and depth of experiential Knowledge that no one and I mean that no one can match. Just think about it. The devil has done battle with Adam, and Adam passed off the scene. He later did battle with Moses, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, David. The Old Testament prophets, the apostles, Saint Augustine, Luther, Calvin, Swingley, Spurgeon, and many other thousands of believers there. We don't have the time to listen here. As a result, his infernal majesty has had the opportunity to scrutinize the children of faith down through the centuries, which enables him in many cases not to forget how we might respond to it. in various situations. That is a great advantage. He is a brilliant strategist and we must take that into consideration. Observation number three. Satan has a comprehensive grasp of the contents of the Bible. He has a comprehensive knowledge of the contents of the Bible Now make no mistake about Satan rejects the scriptures because he is a liar and the father of lies Again, because he is a liar and the father of lies But he does have a firm grasp of the contents of what is in the Bible and has an infinite capacity to twist it and distort it. So as to mislead and confuse the ignorant and the unbeliever. So I can tell you for a fact, you are going to do battle him. Whether you want it or not, and if you don't want to get involved, and you say You are going to be neutral like Switzerland? He's already got you in his part. So you need to be aware of that too. Brothers and sisters in the faith, if you want to do battle with him, you are going to have to know the word of God. And I mean very clear. No. No have read, no have heard, know it. And knowing only comes by us sitting at home every day. reading and perhaps reading some other types of books that gives us some more information about what it is that we do. But it is important And follow it very carefully because As he did in the case of our Lord, he will try to take and twist the word and use it against you. If he used it against him, he will use it against you. He has no problems Think of it, every cult, every false religion, every deviation or aberration of historic Christianity is as a result of Satan twisting the scripture and infiltrating the minds of unregenerate men I know it's a d a difficult word, but uh that type of men exist. To cause them to believe it and so to teach it to others. That is, he doesn't only look For now, today, he looks down the centuries because that is his goal. Peter has some to say about this. If you turn in your Bibles to 2 Peter chapter 3 verse 16, Peter has been talking about false teachers in his second epistle. And in verse sixteen he says, as he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. He's speaking about Paul. There are some things in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction as they do the other scriptures. The word twist in Greek is a Greek word. It's a word the the word is strebble, which means twist and to turn away from. Meaning that's exactly what it is. Used to describe in Greek literature torture or putting a person in the r in the ba in the rock to twist or dislocate his limbs Satan will so affect the minds of unbelievers that they will take the scriptures But he will cause them to twist them, try to dislocate them, take them out of their context. reverse their meaning in order to mislead and he is good at it. I may add he is very good at it Observation number four. Satan is a reprobate and a confirmed liar. Friends, that means that everything and anything that is contrary to the holy word of God comes from Satan. who is a liar and the father of all lies. It is very hard to deal with a liar because he's always lying. The only thing you can do is to trust him to do one thing. Lie. He will always lie to you. Never make the mistake of thinking, well, maybe he is right this time. Maybe I will do it his way. God can't always be right. Can he? Yes, yes, yes. God is always right. Satan is always wrong. So, when you come to do battle with Satan, count on him to always try to mislead you. Always try to corrupt the truth. And in reverse, when you find someone who's trying to mislead or corrupt the truth, you know who is influencing him. Satan is the one. Observation number five. Satan has the ability to deceive man by transforming himself in a variety of ways. He is a master of disguise. Sometimes he comes at you as a roaring lion. Peter says, be sober, be vigilant. For your adversary, the devil walks about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. He comes about you as a roaring lion through ridicule, intimidation, and slander. He could appear at the university classrooms and scoff at the historic historic Christian faith. He could appear in a courtroom per purposely faking and denying eternal truth. But let us not be naive The evil one has absolutely no scruples. He will destroy a family by attacking the credibility of those who name the name of Christ. Have you not felt the scorn of unregenerate relatives? And you're afraid to shake your head. Prior to your conversion, they thought you were rather sane, sensible intelligent individual. But when you got involved in religion they didn't know what are what happened to you. All of a sudden you became a hypocrite. You became a deviant. Everything about you was wrong. Did you ever wonder why there is such a hatred? Passion, bitterness, and antagonism against you? After you came to Christ Antagonism against you after you come to Christ from the members of your own family. Well, because Satan is working in the hearts and minds. As he does in the hearts and minds of all unbelievers to oppose God and his children in the work of Christ wherever it is found. Paul Says we wrestle not just against flesh and blood It isn't just the un unregenerate relatives. They wouldn't do that if they knew Christ. If the blinds will be taken off their eyes, so they can understand the truth of salvation. But at the present time they can. And so they attack you. And they will continue to attack you. They come at you as a roaring lion to discredit you. To demean you, to put you down. Yes, brother, this does happen. If it happened to me, it happened to most of you. In cases where believers were brilliant and they held PhDs. And the people that put them down as being unintellectual were members of their own family that had very little education. We can say sin is illogical. Doesn't make any sense Brothers and sisters, pay attention to what I'm going to say next. Not even the church, and I'm talking about the universal church as well, can it is applied to independent churches like Trinity or any other one. So that is the church Not even the churches is extinct from the attacks of the evil one as a roaring lion. You see Satan doesn't just stop at the church door. He's much more faithful on church attendance. than the vast majority of e evangelical believers. He doesn't ever miss And he has perfect attendance peace. I don't know if you ever seen that. Forty or fifty years ago when I was Yeah for the first time they used to give those to the churches. And you would put them all over the place. Well, he has perfect attendance pins going all the way down on both sides of his chest. He wouldn't ever think missing a service on an evangelical church. So he comes to church. with the purpose to generate strife, division, and discord amongst the brethren His attacks will be centered in this will be centered in discrediting true biblical worship as and now listen this. Being dry and boring But you would ask why would he attack worship? Well, because worship of God is the most exalted or glorify activity you should ever involve yourself in, there is nothing more exalted than that. Nothing. Satan hates that. He wants to stop that. So he tries to water down our worship to get our attention of Almighty God. and on to something else. And guess what? Ourselves or somebody else. So I can talk about me or we can talk about them. So he seeks to divert the immature and the cardinal into rebelling against worship by murmuring. And by complaining and always having a word of criticism, such as it doesn't meet my needs Dear friend, or perhaps you say dear ignorant friend, if you ever say that, your greatest need is to worship Almighty God. That is your greatest need. You don't sound that you would be happy and heaven at all. How many needs would you have in heaven? And I'll tell you now, none What would you do in heaven? Worship the Almighty God. So everything that you don't want to do here because it doesn't meet your needs is what are you gonna be doing if you're saved and you are in heaven. But how can you worship if your needs are not even are not being met? Uh-huh. You hit it on the head. That is not the purpose of worship The purpose of worship is to bring glory and adoration and praise to God. That is the purpose of worship. Our worship should be to give adoration and honor unto the triune God and not to exalt ourselves or ponder. To our own selfish desires, we must worship the Almighty and we must do it His way. But Satan would also seek in church to discredit the true preaching and teaching of the Word, of God's Word. Down through the history of the church, whenever preaching was given, its proper place in Christian worship In the ministry of the church, the church flourished and was strong. But whenever preaching was relegated to a secondary position, the church suffered. And you can check that in it through history. If you want to spend the time to do it. Brothers and sisters in the faith To those that the Lord has called to serve in the church in many of their positions, the fulfillment of that calling should be their primary responsibility before God. What did the Lord say to Peter? Peter, if you love, if you love me Feed my sheep. Peter, do you love me? Feed my sheep And he emphasized that three times. For a pastor, the preparation to preach each Sunday morning and night is a time-consuming effort. It sincerely is a work of law. To handle God's eternal eternal word is the most awesome and exhausting task that they know anything about Brothers and sisters in the faith, after having exhorted some messages and studied to proclaim the word of God, I can honestly say that all of those exhortations came as a result of blood. sweat and yes, sometimes tears. The most important thing that I can do for you is to teach you the word of God. It is the word of God that leads you to salvation. It is the word of God that leads that will build you up to maturity. It is the word of God that will keep you from sin. It is the word of God that will tell you how to be a husband, how to be a wife. It is the word of God that will tell you How to be a citizen. It is the word of God that will tell you how to prepare yourselves to come before the judgment seat of Christ in a way that you will not be ashamed. It is the word of God that comforts the sorrowing. It is the word of God that strengthens the weak. It is the word of God that gives hope to the hopeless. And when you are alone, His word will always be with you. For Jesus said, I am with you always. even unto the end of the world. But you see, Satan hates the world of God. And so he would do anything he possible can to oppose it. And he is not above using backsliding Christians to criticize their pastor's great effort in preparing and preaching the word. And I'm not talking about Trinity, I'm talking about the Christian churches. Despite the import despite the importance of preaching from God's perspective Our churches are full of people who actually disdain the work of the pastor Now I ask you, where do you think that comes from? Not from God or the Holy Spirit But from the enemy of God who wants to silence anyone from proclaiming the word of God or discredit them so people will not listen So when you hear somebody just remember this. Just remember the purpose of it. But sometimes Satan appears like a dragon, as he is pictured in Revelation 12, verse 3. And another sign appeared in heaven, behold a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and on his head seven diatoms. This symbol represents the devil as the persecutor of God's people. Brothers and sisters, millions of saints have been murdered by the dragon over the centuries. Brothers and sisters, if he had his way, he would annulate every Christian from the face of the earth. That was his tactic in the days of the early church. That was his tactic at other points in the history of the early church and that is his present factor Over many years in the whole Soviet Union, China, North Korea, India, Muslim countries in the Middle East, as well as Africa. That is tactical. You're always reading the young children in the Middle East are being executed because they're Christians. I don't know if you remember that picture they show on T V. I can never forget. And the same thing in North Korea, China, and the Soviet Union at the beginning of the century. Not this one, but the one before. We had all of those things going on every single day. So I'm not telling you an anything new. I just put it together in in a little paragraph. Brothers and sisters, this list of countries is not complete. I just listed some of the ones Satan is most aggressively working with. Also, I believe that as a dragon, Satan has the ability to do other things to us. I think he has the ability to cause physical illness. And you would ask, where do I find that? In the book of Job Yes, in the book of Job we see that God permitted Satan to come on on Job on Job And strike him with illness. But God said to Satan, you must not take his life. But Job didn't know that. In the New Testament, our Lord Jesus Christ speaks of a human that was bound with an illness, and he attributes the illness to Satan. And he feeds her and he freeds her. So he has the capacity to come as a dragon and even bring physical illness. Or he has the capacity to produce natural disaster. Think of the storm over the Sea of Galilee. Our Lord was sleep. And at the at the bottom of the boat. And this experienced fisherman went down to get him. And remember he he he was a carpenter. But he is the son of God. That makes a difference. And their concern was, Master, don't you have any concern that we parish? And he rebuked the wind Who do you think sent away? He would not have rebuke anything the father sent, but he would have rebuked Anything that Satan has in it. So he knew. Think of the natural disasters that came upon Job's family, caused by Satan. Now that now that doesn't mean all physical illness came from Satan or that all natural dis natural disasters came from him. We know that all things come as a result of Satan's sins and mention. I mean they don't come as a direct result of Satan. But I believe that the scripture is clear. Satan has the capacity to do those kinds of things. Then sometimes Satan comes to us as uh As a serpent, as he did to Eve, questioning God's word, bringing accusations to God's character, making subtle insinuations Designed to undermine our confidence in God. Our confidence on God's will. Surely He has done that to all of us. Each one of us, if we are honest, will say there have been times when I have questioned God's will in a certain manner. And where do you think that came from? But he doesn't stop there. He may attack us with evil and blasphemous thoughts. Have you ever had the experience of reading the Word of God and anticipating what God was going to say to you in his word and all of a sudden evil thoughts come into your mind? And you wonder where that came from. I will give you three guesses, and the first two don't count. Saint Augustine in his confessions says At the times when he was performing his sacred duties and his mind was not fixed upon Christ, was most fixed upon Christ. The most vile imaginations would come into his mind. Things that he had done in preceding years when he was young. There is one simple way to determine those vile imaginations come from your vile nature or the devil. If when the evil evil thoughts come, you hate them and you wish they were not there. then they are from the devil and you dismiss them. To have the thought is not a thing. It is when you bring the thought down and you say, oh yes, I enjoy that. I want that. I am glad it is here. Then you have sin. But you see, Satan is so subtle that he will put the thought in your mind and beat you all day with it. When it wasn't your thought anyway, we'll beat you all day He put the thought in your mind. And you will miss opportunities to do things for God that God would want you to do. Now if the thought is yours and it could be and it could will be, then you need to confess it and put it under the blood of Christ. Forsake, forsake it and move on But perhaps as a serpent, its most clever deception is when he convinces men and he has To so many, I has done to so many in the twentieth century that he doesn't even exist. See, I mentioned the twentieth century because that's when I was growing up. So so I can talk and uh and I can see the newspapers and and professors and all kinds of people saying, No but he doesn't exist. So there is not much to talk about. So you see, if it can get you to think that he doesn't exist He is got you. Isn't that what fishing is all about? The art of deception. Put that slime stuff at the end of the hook and you have the coils and all kinds of other stuff and then you throw that in the water. You are trying to catch a fish By causing them to see the bait, but not the hook. That is what Satan wants to do with the human race. Catch the bait, don't see the hook until I have got you. If he can convince us he doesn't exist. As he has too many of the call of the so-called intelligentsia who say we are free Free to think, free to live, free to live our lives, sometimes masquerades as the angel of light Paul mentions that in 2 Corinthians chapter 11. An angel of light is one that represents the devil but claims to speak with authority. You see, Satan prefers to work in the theological seminaries than in the tabul He will take a job in either place, but he prefers to be in the seminaries. For in the seminaries, if he is successful, he can poison the minds of generations. who in turn will bring untold confusion to God's people. And we see that. I remember ten or fifteen years ago reading about the seminary in the West that was putting out these people uh And finally, brothers and sisters, have you ever calculated the amount of space in the New Testament devoted to warning against angels of light? false teachers or antichrist? It is quite a sizable portion. I suggest you do a little research and next time we see each other, let me know. Amen. That is the end of this message. And let's continue with our worship. Let's go to our Father in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for this message. We thank you for the content. And some of the clarifications that that we got or or perhaps rather you were trying to remind us of who it is that we're fighting against who it is that we don't quite n understand or know. Father, we thank you for this and we ask you that you will be with us. Today as we go through and perhaps reading next week. Father, apply this to our lives. Help us, Lord. To walk on your path. I asked this enemy you-san.