Good morning brothers and sisters. Please pick your Bible and let's go to the New Testament reading. Ephesians six, chapter six, verses ten to twelve. You can find that on page eleven sixty-three. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this Present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. This is a continuation of what message that it was delivered on last Sunday. The name is guarding against Satan. So therefore it's part two. Brothers and sisters in the faith, as I said last time in part one, this will be a glorious day. What we are about to hear should be something that you already know. But it is very important. to have a better understanding of who our foe is For the foe is no other than whole diabolus. That is the devil. God made that information available to us in various books of the Bible. Matthew, Jones, First Peter, John, Jude, Revelation. So we have him available all over the place. Today, we continue to consider a subject which is of the utmost importance to every believer, knowing the tricks of Satan. And his strategies to oppose the word of God, counterfeit the word of God, or keep men from coming to God. Those are really his goals. Paul in 2 Corinthians 2 warns us that we must not be ignorant of the devil's devices. Now as we continue to contemplate this invisible warfare in which we all are engaged I have some necessary biblical biblical observations to make about our enemy. Observation number one. We covered this last time, but in order to to get to the rest, I need to go through some of these things that we did before. Many of you were not here, so please pay attention. Satan is superior to man. Satan is superior to man because he belongs to a higher creator order. That of angels. Hebrews 2 7 says clearly the man was made a little lower than the angels. However The day will come when men will be elevated above angels. But that is yet in the future. For the present time we are a little lower than the angels. And this is not according to me, but it is according to scriptures. Observation number two. Satan is experien Satan's experience has no equal among many. His longevity has enabled him to acquire a breadth of and depth of experiential knowledge that can be, that cannot be much. Observation number three. Satan has a comprehensive grasp of the contents of the Bible. Please be aware of that. He knows the Bible. In most cases better than this. And he knows the in and out. And he knows how to use it. Satan rejects these scriptures already, but has a comprehensive knowledge of the Bible. He is a liar and he is also the father Of lies has an infinite capacity to twist and distort, mislead and confuse the ignorant and the unbeliever. Last time we touched on those two points and it's not an insult, but it is a fact. Most of us Christians are ignorant of our Bibles, ignorant of the Word of God, and the unbelievers by default are. You are going to do battle with him And now for that you mu and for that you must know the word of God. Without it you you done. And not only know it but follow it. Because he will try to twist it and use it against you Every cult, every false religion, every deviation or every aberration is a result of Satan twisting description. and infiltrating the minds of unregenerate men to cause them to believe his lies and to teach them to others. Observation number four. Satan is a reparate and a confirmed liar That means that everything and anything that is contrary to the Holy War comes from Satan. Who is a liar? It is very hard to deal with a liar because he's always lying. The only thing you can do is trust that he will do only one thing, life Never make the mistake of thinking, well, maybe he's right this time. Maybe I will do his way. God cannot always be right, can He? Yes, yes, yes, God is always right. Satan is always wrong. So when you come to the battle with Satan, to do battle with Satan, Count on him to always try to mislead you and corrupt the truth When you find someone who is trying to mislead and corrupt the truth, you know who is influencing him. Satan is the one. Observation number five. Satan has the ability to deceive men by transforming himself in a variety of ways. He's a master of these guys. Sometimes coming as a roaring lion. Peter says, be sober, be diligent, vigilant, for your adversary, the devil walks about as a roaring lion, seeking. The word is catching, seeking whom he may depower. He will destroy a family by attacking the credibility of those who name the name of Christ. Have you not felt the scorn of unregenerate relatives? I have. Why is that, you ask? Because Satan is working in their hearts and in their minds. Brothers and sisters, not even the church. Yes, the church, the universal church. is exempt from the attack of the evil one as a roaring light. You see, Satan doesn't just stop at the church. He is much more faithful on church attendance. He has perfect attendance He doesn't have soccer games, he doesn't have baseball games, he doesn't have anything. He has a goal. And we should do the same thing. His attacks will be centered in discrediting true biblical worship as Being dry and boring. Have you heard that before? Why would he dare attack worship, you ask him? Because worship of God is the most exalted activity you should ever involve yourself in. There is nothing more exalted than that. Satan hates that. So he tries to water down our worship to get our attention off Almighty God. He seeks to divert the immature and the cardinal into rebelling against worship by murmuring. And by complaining and always having a word of criticism such as it doesn't meet my needs Dear friend, or perhaps I should say like I said last Sunday, they are ignorant friend. If you ever say that Your greatest need is to worship Almighty God. You don't sound like you would be, I'll say, happy in heaven at all. How many needs would you have in heaven? I can tell you right now. None. That would you do what would you do in heaven? One only thing. Worship the Almighty God. There's no soccer games, there's no parties, so you better start practicing. The purpose of worship is to bring glory and adoration and praise to God. I will repeat this. The purpose of worship is to bring glory and adoration and praise to God. Satan also seeks to discredit the true preaching and teaching of the Word of God. Down through the history of the church, whenever preaching was given its proper place in Christian worship, the church flourished. And was very strong. Whenever preaching was relegated to a secondary position, the church suffered. And if you don't believe me, go and read history. You have a few hundred years, thousand years to practice. Reading. Brothers and sisters, to those whom the Lord has called to serve in his church in many of its positions. The fulfillment of that calling should always be their primary responsibility before God For a pastor, the preparation to preach each Sunday, morning and evening, it is a time-consuming effort. It is a work of love. To handle God's eternal word is the most awesome and exhausting task. The most important thing that we at Trinity Reformed Church do is to teach you. The an-adulteravit, word of God It is the word of God that leads you to salvation. It is the word of God that builds you up to maturity. It is the word of God that will keep you from sinning. It is the word of God that will tell you How to be a husband, a wife, to be a citizen, and to prepare yourself to come before the judgment seat of Christ. But you see Satan hates the work then. We were talking that out pastor was talking a little while about the same thing. and would do anything he possibly can to oppose it. And he's not above using backsliding Christians to criticize their pastor Great effort in preparing and preaching the word. Where do you think that comes from? Not from God or the Holy Spirit But it comes from the enemy of God, who wants to silence anyone proclaiming the word of God or discredit them so people will not listen to that. Sometimes Satan appears like a dragon, as he is pictured in Revelation chapter twelve, verse three. And another sign appeared in heaven. Behold, a great red dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and on his head seven diadems. This symbol represents the devil as the persecutor of God's people. Millions of saints. have been murdered by the dragons over the centuries. Brothers and sisters in the faith, if he had his way He would emulate every Christian from the face of the earth. Also I believe that as a dragon, Satan has the ability to do other things to us. I think he has I think he has the ability to cause physical illness. And for that, let's read the book of Job. We see that God permitted Satan to come on Job And strike him with illness. But God said to Satan, you must not take his life. But Job didn't know that In the New Testament, our Lord Jesus Christ speaks of a human that was bound with an illness, and he attributes the illness to Satan. And he frees her. So he can come as a dragon and even bring physical illness or natural disasters Think of the storm over the Sea of Galilee. Our Lord was asleep at the bottom of the boat, and this experienced fishermen Went down to get him. The experienced fisherman went to get a carpenter. There is something That part right there is telling you that that what we do is not what we are. He's Place with them was already established. Think of the natural disaster that came upon Job's or Job, Job's family, caused by Satan. Not all physical illness came from Satan. Nor do all disasters. That's not what I'm saying. Sometimes Satan comes to us as a serpent. We just sang on him about that. As he did to Eve, questioning God's word, bringing accusations to God's character and making subtle insinuations. designed to undermine our confidence in God's will. He doesn't stop there. He may attack us with evil and blasphemous thoughts Think about that. Have you ever had the experience of reading the Word of God and all the sudden evil thoughts came into your mind? No need to answer. Just think about that. Perhaps as a serpent, his most clever deception is when he convinces men, as he did to so many throughout the ages That he doesn't even exist. If Satan can get you to think that he doesn't exist I have news for you. He has got you. You're already his. Sometimes he masquerades one that res represents the devil. but claims to speak with authority. Out of all the places that Satan works, he prefers to work And listen to this in the theological seminaries. Yes, theological seminaries. Rather than in a Tavari For in the seminaries, if he is successful, he can poison the minds of generations, who in turn will bring unfold confusion to God's people. And it has happened. In a few places it has happened. So it is our our duty to pray for that not to happen To pray for you the people on your church, to pray for the ones that are using the pulpit. Brothers and sisters, listen as I need something as I read something from our Lord. from our Lord Jesus. In Matthew he says, Be aware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly are revenues, revenues woes. And the book of Acts, chapter twenty. I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in uh come in among you, not spurring the flock. And from among your own selves will ar will arise men speaking twisted things, to draw away the disciples after them. Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease night or day to admonish everyone with tears. Second Corinthians eleven For such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ, and no wonder For even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. 1 Timothy 4. Now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith by devote themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons. through the insincerity of liars who whose conscience are sealed You wonder how those and regenerate people can say those blasphemous things about God Well, because they are energized by Satan and b and because their conscience is here There is no feeling left in the conscience. It is totally corrupt. Corrupted, as you say. The goal of such a false teaching is to distract men from the glory of God. Satan wants to keep men from knowing the true God. Paul also warns us about false brethren, saying, They hassle me. This in 1 Corinthians eleven. Satan has false ministers. Surely he has false congregation members too. They are always trying to disrupt the work, but they are faithful. So they are sometimes good choices for board members. However, they are always undercutting the work of Christ, so it never quite gets to go forward. Jesus in Matthew tells us gave a parable about the wheat and the good soil. A soil went out to sow the seed for the wheat, that is until the harvest. And the harvest gets closer to us every single day. If you start reaping them Up now, you will tear up some of the wheat as well. Brothers and sisters in the faith, we know something about sin. But I have some additional things that I want you to consider. Consideration number one. Satan is limited by that. He must give regular accountability to the Almighty, as we can read in Job chapter 1, verse 7. The Lord said to Satan From where have you come? Satan answered to the Lord and said, from going to and from, to and fro. on the earth and from walking up and down on it. There is a regular accountability that he must give to the Almighty. So he comes and gives accountability. He can miss any of the sessions that God commands. He must be there and he is there. Brothers and sisters in the faith, Satan's dark mind is an open book to God. He knows what Satan is thinking and he knows what Satan is going to do. God is never caught by surprise by the evil one. Never. The evil one is not omnipresent. He may try to think that he is, but he's not. He is not omniscient. He does not know all things. He will try to lead to things that he does because he is a liar and a deceiver. But he does not all does not know all things. He certainly is not omnipotent. One of his greatest lies is that he controls hell. But he does Gandhas In fact, he is not an omni anything except omni evil. That's the only thing he is. He can foretell the future. He cannot read your mind and he cannot ever cause you to sin. When you sin, take full responsibility for your sin. He can lead you to the point. He can tempt you, but he cannot force you to sing The idea that the devil made me do it was made popular in our society. And it's alive from Satan. Because he wants you to think that you have no accountability, no responsibility, you cannot help yourself. You are just gonna have to sin. The temptation is here What can you do but to accept it? Oh no. You can reject it. Satan can do nothing without divine permission. And he learned that From the life of Job. Consideration number two, the sovereign God even used Satan to accomplish his own internal purpose. Our God is brilliant and so great. He will use the evil one to accomplish his purpose. Think of it. Now I'm gonna take you back all the way to the second century. It was Tertullian from Carthage who wrote Diabolos is simia ius, which translates to the devil is his monkey. What he meant to say is the devil is God's monkey. On occasion, God in his inscrutable wisdom will even use Satan to teach us a spiritual lesson. You may ask, is that possible? Well, he obviously did in the case of the Apostle Paul. Paul speaks in 2 Corinthians chapter 12 of a messenger of Satan who was permitted to afflict him, and then Paul bears testimony. of the fact that through that experience he learned to depend on the sufficiency of God's grace. And he also implies that he was kept from the sin of pride. So Satan apparently wanted to have a chance at Paul, and God said okay, but with certain limitations. And he used that to bring glory to his name and strengthen his servant. That is magnificent. What is even more amazing to me is to know that our sovereign God will even take the diabolical schemes of the devil and use them for his own glory. And the classic illustration is the cross. What seemed to be the ultimate defeat became the ultimate triumph. When those nails were being pounded into the Lord's flesh, they at the same time were sealing the coffin of Satan. The writer of Hebrews tells us that through Christ's dead, he destroyed him who had the power of death, that is the devil. The cross was Satan's waterloo. He was a defeated foe, left on the loose for a little while. But his end is rapidly coming. And he knows it. Down to the history of the church, God has turned the destruction of the devil to his own purpose. Persecution, not only in the early church, but in today's has been used by the Spirit of God as a catalyst for revival. Some of my brothers here asked to pray for the people that been persecuted in the Middle East or places like that. And this is an answer to To your request for prayer. Persecution is not on not only in the early church, but even today. Has been used by the Spirit of God as a catalyst for revival. You will see how out of those persecutions churches begin to grow. The blood of the martyrs shall become the seed of the church. The Holy Spirit, you see, will use the tragedy, suffering, and pain that afflicts men. as a consequence of Satan's sin to bring men to salvation in Christ. If you study the history of revivals and spiritual awakenings, You will discover that nearly every recorded spiritual awakening was preceded by hardship, turmoil, and strife. Revivals rarely, rarely, if ever, occurred during times of great prosperity. Because in times of great prosperity, although the work goes on, people somehow don't seem to see their need. But when the back when their back is against the wall and they are facing eternity, they become amazingly receptive to spiritual things. So brothers and sisters in the faith, don't fear our God is in control. And he works all things after the pardon. of his own will. Therefore, let us rejoice in the victory that we have in Christ Jesus. In Romans 8. 28 it tells us, and we know that for those that have loved God all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also did predestine to be conformed to the image of his son in order that he might be the firstborn among many broth brothers. Brothers and sisters, I hope you are abiding in Christ this morning. And if you are abiding in him, you need not fear the evil one. You need to know of Satan and know his strategies. You need to know what he's capable of, but now you also know his limitations. Do not give him more attention than he deserves. Focus your primary attention upon the Lord. That is why if you look back upon the hymns that we sang this morning and the ones we are gonna be singing, they are all praises to our Lord Jesus Christ. As we focus on him. We are we are teaching about the evil one because God's people need to know The teaching about the evil one has been neglected for so many times. And that is part of the problem for the chaos that we live in in the 21st century. But remember brothers, we don't need to give him too much attention. And if you are here this morning, Or you are listening the other way. And you said this has been a rather frightening message. Or I think I I don't think I understand all of what you have said. There is always the opportunity to get in touch with us and ask any question you have. Anyone Yeah friend, it has if it has never been a time in your life When you have confessed that you were a sinner, nor have invited Jesus Christ to be your Lord and Savior. It's because you were under his control. You were under the control of Satan. You will remain under his control until by faith you walk out from under that. Through salvation in Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's go to our Father in prayer. Our Father, we we thank you for your word. Thank you that it teaches us all things we need to know about life, about the and about how to live a godly life We pray that these things we have discovered from your word about the evil one will cause us to know our enemy, know what his tactics are, and strategies. and to be on guard, not to become one of his victims and to fall prey to him anyway Most of all, we thank you that the Lord Jesus has won the victory and we are on the winning side and can have hope and not fear. For greater is he that it is in you than he that it is in the world. Therefore, help us we ask to know your world. And obey it as we walk day by day through life. And for any here among us who have not yet trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. May this be the morning when you say, Lord Jesus, I confess that I have sinned against you. I turn away from sin. I believe that you die on the cross to pay the penalty for my sins. I receive you as the Lord and Savior of my life. Lord, forgive me for I have sinned. And by your mercy and grace save me. Lord Jesus Christ, come into my heart We ask these things in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen and amen. Now as you get your hymnals Please stand up and we're gonna sing him eleven B Now help you wake up. No? Okay. The Lord is my refuge The allure is my refuge and can you say Hopefully like a bird, mountain away, the godless staying there wondered dark. Flyer's night birthday shoot a day up Friday for Where any vault prevails, the foundation dream Oh what they know what then can righteous men do be sure that the Lord in his temple on high Inhabitant over mankasky The Lord looks on me with certain eyes, his id, and their kind of key thrice. The Lord is the righteous who walk in his way, his soul hates the week who terror embrace. The Lord will send judgment and poured out the Um three of the brain no that's gold. Amen. Receive the Lord's blessing.