If you turn your copy of God's word now to Exodus. Be reading there not quite all that I have in the bulletin this morning, but from chapter 21. It starts on page 73 of your Pew Bibles. We'll be reading portion of that. Chapters 21, 22, and 23 would be known as the Book of the Covenant. We're going to try to cover all of that in the preaching of the Word this morning, but I won't be reading all of it for us. I'll begin at verse 1 of chapter 21 and read there through Verse 32, and then we'll jump to chapter 23. Let's give attention to God's Word. Now, these are the rules that you shall set before them. When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. If he comes in single, he shall go out single If he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her masters, and he shall go out alone But, if the slave plainly says, I love my master, my wife, and my children, I will not go out free, then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door of the doorpost, and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl. And he shall be his slave forever. When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do. If she does not please her master who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has broken faith with her. If he designates her for a son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter. If he takes another wife to himself he shall not diminish her food or clothing or her marital rights, and if he does not do these things, these three things for her, she shall go out for nothing without payment of money Whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall be put to death. But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God let him fall into his hand, then I will appoint for you a place to which he may flee. But, if a man willfully attacks another to kill him by cunning, you shall take from him from my altar that he may die Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death. Whoever steals a man and sells him, and anyone found in possession of him shall be put to death. Whoever curses his father or mother shall be put to death. When men quarrel and one strikes another with a stone or with his fist, and the man uh does not die but takes to his bed, then if the man rises again and walks outdoors with his staff, he who struck him shall be clear. Only he shall pay for the loss of his time and shall have him thoroughly healed When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod, and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be avenged. But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be avenged, for the slave is his money. When men strive together and hit a pregnant woman so that her children come out, that there is no harm, the one who hit her shall surely be fined, as the woman's husband shall impose upon him, and he shall pay as the judge determined But if there is harm, then you shall pay life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe. When a man strikes the eye of the slave, male or female, and destroys it, he shall let the slave go free because of his eye. If he knocks out the tooth of his slave, male or female, he shall let the slave go free because of his tooth When an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be stoned and its flesh shall not be eaten. But the owner of the ox shall not be liable. But if the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past and its owner has been warned But is not kept it in, and it kills a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner shall be put to death. Owner shall also be put to death If a ransom is imposed on him, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is imposed upon him. If it gores his man's son or daughter, he shall be dealt with according to the same rule. If the ox gores a slave, male or female, the owner shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox Shall be stoned. Now, if you would turn in your Bibles to Exodus 23 at verse 20. Behold, I send an angel before you to guard you on the way and to bring you to the place I have prepared. Pay careful attention to him and obey his voice. Do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgression, for my name is in him. But if you carefully obey his voice and do all that I say, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries. When my angel goes before you and brings you to the Amorites and to the Hittites and to the Perizzites and the Canaanites, the Hibites and the Jebuzites, I will blot them out. You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do as they do, but you shall utterly overthrow them and break their pillars and pieces. You shall serve the Lord your God, and he will bless your bread and your water, and I will take sickness away from among you. None shall miscarry or be barren in your land. I will fulfill the number of your days. I will send my terror before you and throw you, throw into confusion all the people against whom you shall come. And I will make your enemies turn their backs to you And I will send hornets before you, which shall drive out the Hibites, the Canaanites, the Hittites from before you. I will not drive them out before you in one year, lest land become desolate and wild beasts multiply against you Little by little I will drive them out from before you until you have increased and possessed the land. And I will set your border from the Red Sea to the Sea of the Philistines. From the wilderness to the Euphrates, for I will give the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you shall drive them out before you. They shall not dwell in your land lest they make you sin against me. For if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you. Would you pray with me? Father, as we come before you again, we ask, guide us. Guard us. Direct our hearts, Father For we come to a passage where we may lack understanding. And so we ask by your Spirit, Father, that you give us Good understanding of who you are, of your nature, and how you call us to behave. Before you, before men, and certainly in Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I know that there are some among us who are learning how to drive. And one of the good things as we learn how to drive is that there are sometimes guard rails on the road. They're there for a reason In one sense, they define the road for us. In another, they're designed to keep us from heading off the road into danger. Some guardrails seem more important than others. For driving up a mountain or down a mountain with steep drops, those guardrails are supposed to keep the car from going off the side of the mountain. Sometimes we might wonder if they actually work This morning we have guardrails given to us, given to the Israelites. They have made it now out of Egypt. They have crossed the Red Sea. They've finally arrived after three months in the wilderness at Mount Sinai. And God has visited them. He's descended upon the mountaintop. Last week, last week we had an overview of the Ten Commandments or the Ten Words. We found that God spoke of them directly to the Israelites, speaking about the way the heart must be If one is to enter into his presence, God commanded moral perfection And if you remember last week, we also considered that, in a sense, the Ten Commandments ended with the beginning of this book of the covenant. What we're referring to, Exodus 21, 22, and 23, now the book of the covenant. It ends with the reference to the altar. And so last week we saw, with help from some commentators, this connection between the Ten Commandments and the altar. This command for moral perfection ended, in a sense, with this description of the kind of altar that would be appropriate for the Israelites to sacrifice on. Thereby pointing them to the need to be cleansed, that they needed to be cleansed in order to have this moral perfection. But there wouldn't be any entering into God's presence without this cleansing that was needed because God recognized they weren't morally perfect. They needed to be cleansed from the filth of sin. Now, in a sense Chapters 21, 22, and 23 of Exodus seem to codify or put in prescriptive form. The moral law. In a sense, 21, 22, and 23 open up the moral law for the Israelites. It's within these chapters that God is explaining how the attitude, the heart attitude now works itself out. into daily living. What the behavior of one who has these moral attributes, this moral perfection, how it looks How these moral precepts were to be followed by a sinful people Now we have to remember the context of the Ten Commandments, the context of the Book of the Covenant now, chapters 21, 22, and 23. The Israelites have just arrived at Mount Sinai. God has visited them, they're there for 11 months. And during this time, God is equipping them. He's preparing them to be able to enter into His worship. That's the idea. Remember, for 400 years they had been in Egypt, and we don't read anything of that time in Egypt. And I think we can make this assumption that they weren't really worshiping God there. Not in the way that God is prescribing. But now in these eleven months that they're at the foot of Mount Sinai, God is preparing, He's equipping them To be able to enter into his presence. The moral precepts, the Ten Commandments, and then how that works out in your everyday behavior in the Book of the Covenant. Remember that the Ten Commandments ended with, in a sense, the description of the altar. This is how you begin that moral perfection. You first need to be cleansed. That blood needs to be shed. It needs to be sprinkled upon you. You've got to be cleansed from your sin such that appropriate behavior Might flow out from a heart condition defined within the moral law. We're seeing that two things were necessary in order to enter into God's presence. First, they had to be cleansed The altar is referring to the sacrifices that were necessary, the blood that needed to be shed to cleanse them from the filth of their sin. But secondly, the sinner must be righteous. Cleansed from sin, sin separated as far as the east is from the west, but then be righteous in the eyes of the God of God, and that's what the Book of the Covenant seems to do. Describes that righteousness in detail for us. You must have both. In order to enter into the very presence of God, you must be cleansed from your sin Blood must be shed, and then you must be righteous. They're not the same, they're different. The Israelites needed them both If they were going to truly enter into the promised land and worship truly the living God. This morning I want us to see very simply That every child of God is guarded by the Spirit of Christ by his righteousness or in his righteousness. Every child of God is guarded by the Spirit of Christ in His righteousness. Three points this morning. Righteous before God, secondly, righteous before men, and finally righteous in men. Christ. We're not going to be going over every single law. In chapters 21 through 23. We're going to have an overview this morning. But as we do, I want you to be thinking How am I going to get to glory? How am I going to get to heaven? Until the Lord Jesus Christ returns, or until you die, how will you stay on the right path? What will keep you or guard you on your way? Well, first, righteous before God Let's consider now a a couple of these laws which define what it was to be righteous before God. As we consider the the Book of the Covenant, we have a mixture within these three chapters of Laws pertaining to the Israelites' relationship to God, and laws relating to the relationship of the Israelites to one another. They're throughout and they're mixed And so we're going to be, in a sense, cherry-picking as we go through this. What does it mean to be righteous before God in Your behavior. Well, we could certainly turn back to the first four commandments, the first four, ten words of God in Exodus chapter 20, and we could read through those, and we could say, well, that's the heart. condition that was needed in that relationship with God. But now we have in the Book of the Covenant Direct and explicit laws, which are derived from those first four commandments relating to the relationship between men and God. Which open up and describe what the Israelites' behavior was to be as it flowed out of those moral precepts contained in the first four commandments Now, as we go through these laws today, we have to understand that these laws were for the nation of Israel. They were commanded to follow these laws as being part of the nation of Israel. And we can't really take these laws and just immediately pluck them out and say, well, these are the laws that we need to adhere to today. There were laws for this particular nation at this particular time. But what we can do is derive some principles. We can derive some precepts from them and certainly, and what I want to do this morning is see the nature of God within them So, just a couple with regard to the Israelites' behavior before God, their righteousness before God. And the first one is Just very plainly, submit to God as your master. Notice how as chapter 21 opens, That the Hebrews had been delivered out of slavery. They've been taken out of Egypt where they were oppressed as slaves. But now they had been purchased, they'd been delivered. God had removed them. He'd brought them out from under that oppression. And immediately after writing the laws of the altar, we come to this passage, this long passage on slaves. These verses must suggest to us that slave holding was a common practice amongst the Israelites. Matthew Henry writes a law concerning Men slaves sold either by themselves or their parents through poverty or by the judges for their crimes At least Matthew Henry felt it or believed that that was the nature of being sold into slavery. This was the reason that stood behind it Matthew Henry also states that he begins the laws concerning servants commanding mercy and moderation. Verse 1 of chapter 21. Now these are the rules that you shall set before them. When you be a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. These laws concerning slaves provided boundaries for their masters to treat their slaves well. They reflect the goodness of God toward his people. But he cared for all of his people, master and slaves alike. He provided peace and justice. For all, even those who were sold into slavery, maybe especially those who were sold into slavery. Brothers and sisters, aside note, we cannot make the mistake here of concluding that God instituted or approved of the system of slavery. This was a system that had been established by men. Consider divorce. God hates divorce. And yet, through Moses, laws were instituted to govern that which men had established. You might think of slavery in the same fashion this morning. But I want us to recognize the goodness of God. Slave was to serve for a certain amount of time and then be set free. He had been paid off his debt, so to speak. But if a slave didn't desire to leave leave after six years, we read this: I love my master, my wife, and my children. I will not go out free. See, the master treated the slave so well during those six years that he desired to belong to him. His master's good and fair and just and loving treatment. Cause the slave to say, no, no, no, I want to stay here, in this place, with this one It's not always possible to glean a general principle from each of these laws. But here we see so very clearly that our God is a good master. First is our creator, and secondly, is our re-creator. Through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, he has repurchased the Christian. And Jesus Christ is a good and benevolent Lord and Master. The one who trusts in Jesus Christ has had his ear bored through. And have become his slave forever. Thanks be to God, Romans 6, that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart. To the standard of teaching which you were committed, to which you were committed, and become slaves of righteousness. Now you've been set free from sin and become slaves of God Do you see the goodness of God, the love of God for his children Brings us to the point where we desire to be his eternal possession. We ask for it. Please make me yours forever. There's a second thing that flows out of this. And throughout this passage on the laws concerning slaves and masters, We see this implication that lies underneath it, that the slaves were to be submissive to their masters And as Christ has purchased us, we're to be not only willing, but in loving submission to the Lord Jesus Christ. We want a desire to serve him well. That underlies this passage with regard to slaves and masters. Israelite slaves were to serve their masters well, and we are called to the same. I love my master, my wife, my children. I will not go out free. I want to continue to serve and to serve well There's a second precept that, or group of laws that I want to discuss with regard to this righteousness before God, and that is to worship God only. Remember, I said that there were horizontal laws, how the Israelites were to behave amongst each other, and then there were the vertical laws, how we were to behave, how they were to behave before God. And so we see throughout the call to worship. Certainly if we were to go back to the Ten Commandments it begins with, You shall have no other gods before me. But how practically were the Israelites to live having no other gods before him? The Ten Commandments don't say, but now the book of the covenant opens that up for us. Chapter 23, verse 12, six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh you shall rest Having no other gods meant heeding God's word to rest on the day that He had selected, to devote that day to serving Him and Him alone. recognizing that he had made the creation, but setting the creation aside for that day and and focusing upon God and God alone On the seventh day you shall rest and may be refreshed. You see how God cares for his children, even as they're submitting to his will to rest on the day and be refreshed. It's interesting that that as these laws were given, as the Sabbath is mentioned in verse twelve of chapter twenty-three, is followed with this: pay attention to all that I've said to you and make no mention of the names of other gods. nor let them be heard on your lips. He's connecting the Sabbath rest with their heart attitude. What are they thinking about? What is going on within the heart? And what's going on within the heart comes to the lips, doesn't it? And so the Israelites are told, don't mention the name of other gods. Don't let it be heard on your lips. For God knew that that was in their hearts and that that needed to be removed, it needed to be Crushed, so that he would be the only God The only way that an Israelite could truly have a Sabbath rest was when he or she did not have false gods residing within his or her To worship meant to put away foreign gods. Verse 31 of chapter 22, you shall be consecrated to me. You shall be set aside for me. All of you, your whole person, your body, your soul shall be dedicated to me. Put away the foreign gods. Whoever sacrifices to any God other than the Lord alone shall be devoted to destruction. See, the punishments now here are unfolded in the Book of the Covenant, whereas they were not within the moral precepts. And so now, as God is teaching them how to live and how to put away foreign gods, if they are to be devoted to destruction if they're sacrificing two false gods, to foreign gods. You shall not bow down to their gods, meaning as he brings them into the land, or serve them, nor as they do, but you shall utterly overthrow and break their pillars in pieces. That's how to serve God. That's how to keep him as your only God. Destroying everything else that's opposed to him. As they entered the land, they were called To overthrow these foreign gods, these idols, these things of worship, the things that the other nations were worshiping, break their pillars in pieces, you shall serve the Lord your God. That to worship meant to put away foreign gods It's interesting as we read in verse 21 of chapter 23, pay careful attention to him as this referring to the angels. We're going to be speaking about him in a moment. Pay careful attention to him and obey his voice. Do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgression. I hope that stuck out as we read through it. It seems to be at odds with all that we know about God and forgiveness. But I think it's connected with this idea of putting away foreign gods, of worshiping Him alone. For if the Israelites were unwilling to put away their foreign gods, Then there would be no forgiveness. As the people did enter into the promised land. And as Joshua speaks to the people, he said to them something very similar to what we read in verse 21 of chapter 22. You are not able to serve the Lord, for He is a holy God, He is a jealous God, and He will not forgive your transgressions or your sins. What did Joshua mean? What did Moses mean? For he will not pardon your transgression. As Joshua tells the people this, they respond. And they say, no, no, we will serve the Lord. And Joshua said to them, Then put away the foreign gods that are among you. You see, Joshua was saying, you can't serve the Lord your God if you have foreign gods. Among you. It's impossible. And he won't forgive you. As long as you're worshiping foreign gods. Put them away. I think we can use that to understand this portion of the angel who they were to pay careful attention to We know that there's pardon in Christ. We have to put away foreign gods. Brothers and sisters, it's really not hard to see the general precepts in this passage with regard to the Israelites' behavior before God, their righteousness before God. Their call was to serve Him and Him alone, to worship the one living and true God, to know that there would never be a true Sabbath rest if they harbored false gods within their heart. It's the same for us today. That precept follows through. It wasn't just for the Israelites. So the call for us today is to put away foreign gods, to put away idols. We can't serve the one living and true God if we are idol factories. And to repent of that. Crus them. And rest in Christ alone. This is the way of being guarded on the way to glory. That brings us to our second point, righteous before men. As I said before, uh these three chapters, twenty-one, twenty-two, and twenty-three, are are laws that deal not only with the relationship to God, righteous before God, but also righteous before God. Men as well. And these uh these laws are not divided as neatly as the town. We see in the Ten Commandments the first four, that relationship to God, the second, the last six, that relationship to men. But we see interspersed throughout these three chapters the day-to-day, the working activity of living with, of traveling with, of camping with, of eating with, of working with. your brothers uh in the Lord. Remember that they were not yet at the promised land, that they will be journeying to the promised land for for for some time. And they needed to arrive without killing one another. And that's exactly what would have happened if these laws were not in place, if these laws were not uh pr promulgated by God through Moses. Moses. They were called to live in a righteous society, in a peaceful community before God and then before one another, so that true worship could indeed happen This was a means by which God was preserving his people. Remember that the seed of the woman would come, come through a certain path, through a certain way. And that seed needed to be preserved, and God was preserving his people by and through these laws. Giving them boundaries of behavior that was acceptable between themselves. And that acceptable means acceptable as God had defined it. As it was righteous in his sight. And so now we we should be seeing a progression, continuing to see a progression from the Ten Commandments that heart condition To then that actual behavior, the boundaries of actual behavior, working out the heart condition in words and deeds before God and before other people. And so I want to consider three aspects here of how they were to live before one another. The first is punishment. We have to notice that within these laws, within many of them, there is a statutory punishment given for a breaking of the law, for a wrongdoing that was inflicted. Look at verse 1. of chapter twenty two. If a man steals an ox or a sheep and kills it or sells it, he shall repay five oxen for an ox, or four sheep for a sheep. Verse 7, if a man gives to his neighbor money or goods to keep safe, and it is stolen from the man's house, then if a thief is found, he shall pay double Again, the nature of God is shown forth as punishment is proscribed. He will not allow the guilty to go unpunished That's an attribute of God that's being set forth in this book of the covenant. The righteous justice of the Lord will be fully satisfied. Sin will be punished according to God's standard of righteousness. He will not let the transgressor go free without satisfaction of his justice. This concept of punishment, then, is designed not to make the victim whole or enriched. It did that in certain cases. But that wasn't the design. It was designed to communicate that the injury suffered Was greater than the thing which was stolen or taken. Five ox for one ox. Four sheep for one sheep. Double the money taken. In other words, the gravity of the sin, the transgression, is more than the act of sin. It's more than the object, the thing taken. Yes, the victim has been offended, and that offense is greater than the thing that was removed from the person who possessed it. But here I think is the real key. Any crime, any theft, any It's a crime of the heart. It's the heart that devised the crime. It's the heart that approved the crime. It's the heart that moved the will to accomplish the crime. Punishment showed the transgressor that the heart problem was worse than the thing taken. And thus the greater price was owed to pay for the crime, demonstrating the depth of the wickedness that was within. Isn't that what we see in the blood of Christ? His blood is so much more valuable than our blood. Blood. The punishment was so much greater than what we might perceive as the actual act of sin. It's a wrong perception, obviously. But you see, the price paid for our sin is so much greater So much greater, has to show us the depth of the wickedness within our hearts And there's restitution. Restitution is different than punishment. Verse five of Chapter twenty two If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over or lets his beast loose and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best of his own field Same thing in verse 6. If fire breaks out and catches in thorns, so that the stacked grain or the standing grain of the field is consumed, he who started the fire shall make full restitution. Well, restitution is the idea of making the victim, the one who suffered the loss, whole again, of restoring the injured one to the position that he or she was in prior to the injury. Think of God now. God is the one who is offended by our sin. He is the one who must be made whole, so to speak. Now I'm thinking in human terms. For God doesn't lack anything. God doesn't need anything. But this idea of restitution goes back to this idea that he is the one who is offended, and from a human perspective, he's the one who must be made whole again. How can we perceive of God being made whole? From a human perspective, He has lost that communion, that fellowship with His people that He had in the garden. It was gone. To be made whole again is to regain that fellowship, that communion. And so it's through Christ. As Christ his Son, that that reconciliation, that restoration takes place, a type of restitution. You see it as God has been offended. And then finally, loving neighbors. It's throughout this these uh three chapters Chapters. You should not wrong a sojourner. This is chapter 22, verse 21. You should not wrong a sojourner or oppress him. You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. Describes the nature of God, doesn't it, so very clearly. He has compassion for the weak, for the helpless. And the Israelites were being called to imitate God as they treated their neighbors, especially the weaker ones. God knows that we're weak and helpless. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly, but God chose his love for us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. God has compassion. It's calling the followers of Christ to have the same compassion How are the Israelites going to get to the promised land? How are they going to be preserved in their journey? How are they going to reflect the glory of God to others? Was it not through this this Book of the Covenant? Yes, they need to be righteous before God, they need to be righteous before man, but then they needed to be righteous in Christ. That's our third point. It's at this point that we're going to focus our remaining time on chapter twenty-three Remember, the Ten Commandments seem to end with that description of the altar that need to be cleansed from sin in order to Have that morally perfect issue. Cleansing began that transformation so that one could be Morally perfectly Of chapter 23, we see something similar to the altar at the end of the Ten Commandments. Behold, I send an angel before you to guard you on the way and to bring you to the place I have prepared. The Book of the Covenant is complete now. And here at the end of it, we have this description This angel that's being sent to guard the Israelites on their way and to bring them into the promised land, we have to ask that question: who is this guardian angel? Verse 21, pay careful attention to him and obey his voice. Do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgression, for my name is in him. We read earlier in chapter 13 about the pillar of cloud and fire that was to go before the Israelites as they went through the wilderness, as they went across the Red Sea. None other. This angel. Because the pillar of cloud and fire is also referred to as the angel of God. And so we see this again. This angel who was to guard them was still with them, still will be with them throughout their entire wilderness, wandering this pillar of cloud and fire. And the angel's going to speak. The angel has the word of God. Indeed, the angel is the word of God. The very son of God was this guardian angel, this preincarnate appearance of the Son of God. This pillar of cloud and fire. The one who would go before them, who would move before them, who would guide their direction go this way, go that way. He would lead them. But now he would also speak to them and has spoken to them through this book of the covenant. So now we have to ask this question, how were the Israelites guarded? Or from what were they to be guarded? What was the guardian angel to do? I send an angel before you to guard you on the way to bring you to the place Well, guarded against what or who? We might think, well, of course it's the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites, that's who the angels to guard them against I think that's a mistake. I don't think that's the case. We're also told in verse 28, I will send hornets before you, it shall drive out the Hibites, the Canaanites, the Hittites. God was going to take care of these possessors of the land. They do not seem to be the enemies that are being spoken of, the ones to be guarded against. No, think of the covenant, the book of the covenant. Think of the need for the people to be righteous before God and before each other. Now we might see and think that the guardian angel was to Guard their hearts. Pay careful attention to him. Obey his voice. Do not rebel. The enemy was within. The enemy was their corrupt nature, their sinful hearts. I see that as well. The enemy were the false gods that were within, the idols that they had manufactured. The people were called to keep themselves pure, worshiping the only living and true God. And the only way for them to do that was by being guarded. The only way for them to get from Mount Sinai to the promised land was by and through the presence of this guardian angel That place where God would dwell with them, the only way was to be guarded by the Son of God, guarded from themselves as the greatest enemy. Guarded from the corruption that was within their hearts, guarded from their desire to lift up their own interest above their neighbors, guarded from the desire to worship false gods. It was only by and through the presence of the Son of God in their midst, that they would be able to persevere. You see It wasn't the keeping of these laws that would enable them to enter Yes, the laws had to be kept. But God knew they were corrupt and unrighteous people. He knew that they were prone to stray. They knew that they would break his statutes and his laws just as that happened outside the garden. There would be murder and adultery and theft and coveting, and they needed this guardian angel. This was the way to righteousness. This was the way to true worship. By and through the guardian angel who would always be present with them and guide them to worship the one living and true God. We see this guarding in other ways throughout the history of redemption, don't we? Certainly uh throughout their wilderness wandering, the pillar of cloud and Fire was always with them. The Son of God was always with the people, guarding them. But then we see as they enter the promised land, the pillar of cloud and fire is gone, and God begins to send judges, who delivers them from oppression, guarding them once again, bringing them back to Himself. He sends prophets. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, all of the minor prophets calling the people back To remember his words, to remember his commandments, to remember the book of the covenant, to come back to true worship, to cast off your false gods. It's a means of guarding the people, of guarding their hearts. What about you today? How is God guarding you? Who are your enemies? What is he guarding you against? You do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against cosmic powers over this present dark age, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We wage war against the old man who's when who's guarding us? Who's guarding you? The Lord has not forgotten our need. Yes, we still have the moral law. Yes, we're called to follow. Yes, we're called to pull out the precepts, the principles of this book of covenant and apply them to ourselves today. But it's only through Christ that we will be preserved. And as we read in John this morning, he has not left us as orphans. He's provided another helper. Whom we know is the Holy Spirit. He is the one who's guarding. He is the one who is preserving us on the way. And what stands behind the Holy Spirit is the love of God, that which we read this morning. In our assurance of pardon and grace. For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things To come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. It's only by and through the work of the Spirit that that's possible It's the true guardian of our hearts. Every child of God is guarded by the Spirit of Christ in His righteousness. Brothers and sisters, our hearts should be full of praise this morning. The Spirit abides within us, is guarding us, he's guiding us all the way to glory. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. Oh Lord God, we ask that you'd give us time in our individual studies to Consider this book of the covenant, these laws that you gave your people, the Israelites, and to pull from them, Father, those precepts which you desire us to apply to ourselves today. And Father, we know that this can only be done as the Spirit takes up your word and lays it up in our hearts and guides us and guards us. O Holy Spirit, we ask, continue to guard our hearts, that we might be those who reflect the righteousness of Christ. We thank you for his righteousness that you've given to us. Grant that we might display it for all to see, for the glory of Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen.