Well now the reading of God's Word. Now from the Gospel of Luke, the very end of the Gospel of Luke, in our Sunday morning service, we've just started the book of Acts. We started at the beginning of Acts as of this morning. And so here now we are, um for this particular uh second service, we are going to look at some verses in the very end of Luke For Acts picks up r uh you know summarizing the days after Jesus was raised from the dead and then right before he ascended into heaven. In some ways, Luke is telling us some of the same things, but from a different perspective here in Luke twenty-four. Luke twenty-four verses thirty-six to fifty-three. You know, I mentioned that X is a sequel to Luke. So it's expanded out here in Luke in ways that, you know, it's the different details are expanded out in X than are expanded out. Luke, but in some ways it's covering similar or the same territory. So Luke chapter 24, verses 36 through 53, the very end of Luke. Now this is when Jesus appears to all of the disciples together as a group for the first time. Luke 24, verse 36 to verse 53. This is God's word. Now, as they said these things, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them and said to them, Peace to you. But they were terrified and frightened. And supposed they had seen a spirit And he said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? Behold, my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have. When he had said this, he showed them his hands. and his feet. But while they still did not believe for joy and marvelled, he said to them, Have you any food here? So they gave him a piece of a broiled fish and some honeycomb. And he took it and ate in their presence. Then he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. And he opened their understanding that they might comprehend the Scriptures. Then he said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name to all nations. beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things. Behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you are endued with power from on high. And he led them out as far as Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. Now it came to pass, well he blessed them, that he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy and were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Amen. Well here near the beginning of this passage, you can imagine what a confused and somewhat fragile condition the disciples must have been in at the point when Jesus comes and appears in their midst You know, first of all, think of their situation. They're probably still in a moment of grief over the loss of their teacher They have probably just lost him just sort of something like two days before this when their beloved teacher and friend has just died. Has just been taken from them in a manner that's pretty horrible, unjustly put up to a cruel, shameful death that was really uh enacted out of an act of political expediency It was a sham trial and a mockery of true justice that got him put up on that cross. And yet there he was, dying under the sentence, not guilty of the things he was charged with. But still sentenced to death for them? And surely what a shock to the system that would have been and you know just something like two days before this when uh you know um when this happened, surely they're still in some kind of shock, some kind of grief over what has happened. This is also a dear friend of theirs. He's not just their teacher. He's also their dear friend. They've been spending something like three years at this point getting to know the man. When he is taken from them with this death. But not only is there the grief of losing a teacher, also losing a beloved friend, there's also an element in this of having their religious hopes dashed. After all, the man Jesus Christ is not just a friend, not just a teacher, but the man on whom they had come to pin all of their deepest hopes pertaining to the coming of God's kingdom. This man, they had hoped, would restore the blessings of true worship of the living God, would bring the restoration of everything that pertains to the coming of the kingdom of God. They had pinned their hopes on on this man and felt they had good reason to do so until his life got cut short. Again they had seen this man do some very amazing things. Things that no ordinary man in natural strength should be able to do. Many miracles. Killing people in remarkable quantity So much so that the news of this man's healing abilities spread to the crowds, and the crowds sought him out to receive his healing. People would flock to him because he became a famed and known healer. He performed at least a handful of resurrections from the dead, people who had died and who were able to come back to life under his doing. He was able to intervene into the ordinary rules of nature, things that no ordinary human being can do, calm the wind and the waves, turn water into wine. Multiplying small amounts of food to provide for crowds of people, all these things he had done, all these things they had watched him do And the the thing that that had meant to them was that it seemed like, it made it, sure made it seem like this was the man, this was the one who can bring about the kingdom of God. And yet what happens? Just days before this, he meets the end of his days. His life is cut short. He's put up to a death on a cross as if he's an ordinary criminal Again, imagine the emotional investment, and imagine what it is to have your hopes dashed in this sense. Three years of getting to know the man, witnessing the man, following him Growing in your hope and in your belief that this is the one, coming to the point where you recognize and acknowledge that man, and where the power of God is evident in the man's ministry. And yet the one crucial moment at which the man is put up to his death, God seemingly does nothing to intervene and to prevent his death. Death. His life is cut short. Again, surely we have all dealt with a sense of disappointment in life, where we are expecting an outcome and we're building up to it. And then suddenly the very opposite comes about. Well, surely, as the disciples are are um where they are in our text, at the beginning of our text, surely they are in that same state of disappointment. Grief over their friend and their teacher's death, but also the disappointment of having their hopes dashed, the hopes they had had that the kingdom of God should come through this man And then he dies. Their disappointment is well described in the words of Luke twenty-four, actually a few verses before this, verses nineteen through twenty-one, is a good description of the disappointment that we would expect the eleven disciples to feel at this point Now these words are spoken by two other disciples, two who are not part of the original twelve or eleven at this point, but those two who actually ran into the risen Jesus on the road to Emmaus, before they recognized that it was him They capture very well the disappointment that must have been felt by the eleven disciples. They report in verse 19 the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet. Mighty indeed and word before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. There's the expression of the disappointment. We were hoping. We were hoping. But our hopes have been dashed. The man has been killed. His life has been cut short. And surely this too contributes to the condition that the disciples would have been in. Again, surely it was something of a fragile condition. There was grief. There was disappointment. But if that was the state that they were in, resulting from his death near a handful of days before this, Can you imagine what it must have done to them to begin hearing some of the reports of the resurrection? For prior to this passage, they seem to have heard the reports of others that he has come back from the dead. You know how um when you are grieving the loss of someone in life, the loss of someone close to you through death. You know how when you're in that place, you really don't want Your state your um your state of grief to be interrupted by distraction sometimes. Sometimes you just want to uh be able to grieve in peace. You want to be Able to come to terms with the new reality that this person who has been present in your life for so long is suddenly absent. You don't want to be distracted in your grieving. And least of all, do you want your grieving upset by possibly upsetting news? But imagine how the reports of the resurrection might have come to them in that situation. Reports that he had come back from the dead Would they have wondered if those who reported these things had gone delusional? Would they have wondered if they were merely projecting a fantasy of their own heads into the reality of their consciousness, is it possible that they might have thought that this was just wish fulfillment? as the disciples heard this. You know, it was people very close to Jesus who saw him resurrected first. You know, most of those who had seen him already were very close to him. They were women. They were two of his closest disciples, Peter and John. Is it possible that in a state of shock and grief that they are given to delusion? And if that's true, can they really trust the reports? Another aspect to this is, is it possible that somebody is playing a cruel joke on them? Is it possible that in the case of this hope high-profile death of someone like Jesus, that somebody is playing off the high-profile nature of who he was and the death he died? and was playing off that in order to stir other things up, to gain attention, or just to play a cruel joke. And you can imagine those questions that might have occurred to the disciples. As they hear some of these reports of resurrection already within a couple days, their first instinct is going to be to wonder if this is delusion Or to wonder if this is a cruel joke. And if that's true, then you know the disciples also might have been driven to be annoyed by these reports, perhaps offended. That's angry. You know how angry people can get when a grave is disturbed or when a memorial, um memorializing someone's death is disturbed. They want that to stop stand for a reason to help them deal with the reality of the death. And you can imagine that if someone goes around messing with things um that that uh point to that death that you can imagine how it would be easy to become annoyed, resentful, angry. So again, here's the state the disciples are in. They are surely confused. They are surely somewhat confused by what has taken place. And what do we see them doing? In verse 36, we see them seemingly discussing these things. So here they are, they are talking about the reports of the resurrection. Again, you can imagine what would it have been like? Would there have been confusion? Would have there been questioning? Would there have been distrusting of the reports? Um uh back and forth would there have been possibly debate taking place? Would there have been questions about whether it was uh people were trustworthy or delusional? Would there be questions about whether somebody was playing a cruel joke? Um Surely it would be no small stir the things that they had heard. And yet, at this very moment, when they are discussing, something happens that changes everything for them. And what we see happening in these verses is Jesus himself appears. Jesus comes and stands in the midst of them in verse 36. He says, peace to you. So suddenly any questions, any discussions must be brought to a halt and must now suddenly deal with this reality, that there he is. He's standing there in their presence. Now, given how confusing it must have been, it's not surprising to see them respond the way they do in verse 37. So how do they respond in verse 37? He stands there, he says, peace to you, but they are terrified and they are frightened. And they also suppose that he He is just a spirit. Again, how jarring it would have been given the up and down emotions of the previous two days, the grief, the confusion, the confusion over possibly conflicting reports He appears. They're terrified and they're frightened. What does the mind do with such a jarring reality? Well, it goes to the next logical thing Surely he's just a spirit. He's an apparition, he says in verse 37. They think he's a spirit. We're reminded of how um the prophet Samuel had appeared to Saul at the medium of Endor back in 1 Samuel 28. So there is this sense in in biblical reality that there is such a thing as the dead. returning to earth in spirit form. There is such a possibility at least. And so here they are. They see him in their midst. They think that he is a spirit. And yet yet what does he do? He accepts their doubts and their struggles, and yet then he answers them and he goes on to address them. Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have. So again, he understands why they'd be troubled. He understands why the doubts arise. And yet he questions them and presses them, but also gives them the answer to their doubts. For what is the answer to their doubts? His hands, his feet. A spirit does not have flesh and bones, as Jesus has here at this point A spirit does not have flesh and bones. He shows them his hands and his feet. Surely the marks from the crucifixion with nails are visible to their eyes, and they are able to see that this is the same Jesus who died, yet who is alive again. He said even says, touch me, handle me, and see. Don't just see my hands and My feet. Also handle me, he says. This reminds us very much of the language of 1 John chapter 1, verse 1, a letter in which John is writing to testify about the Lord Jesus Christ, and he begins it in this way. That which was seen from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled concerning the word of life. So John speaking as an apostle, as someone who has witnessed the risen Christ, has handled the word of life, has handled his flesh. So again, is he just a spirit? No. No. He has hands. He has feet. He has flesh. He has bones. He shows them his hands. He shows them his feet But we see for all this in verse 41, they still do not believe, and it says for joy And they marveled. Surely there's a sense of delirium here, a sense of, well this seems true, but it seems a little too good to be true. Again, all in that one instant. What must have been a jarring moment. And so they still do not believe. Again, sometimes when something good happens, it's too hard to believe, and it takes a while to see Settle in. So here in this case, Jesus further addresses their doubts and their questions. And he brings to rest their doubts and their questions by doing what? By eating some food. Have you any food here? He asks in verse forty-one. They give him some food. And look at what kind of food they give him. Broiled fish and honeycomb. That sounds pretty tasty, doesn't it? Everyone here had lunch already? Um It's not just something plain, something minimally appetizing the food that he eats, fish that is broiled. Look up recipes for broiled fish on Google. And try to do so without your mouth watering up. Broiling it gives it some flavor. It sears the flavor into it. Honeycomb. Something sweet, something tasty. Dessert. Dessert to wash it down. A spirit who is just an apparition do not only doesn't have hands and feet and flesh and bones, but also isn't gonna eat something like that. Boiled fish, honeycomb, a flavorful meal. This is him in the flesh. Now they're convinced. You wonder if this was a meal he'd had with them before during his earthly ministry. Probably at some point, you know. He had fishermen among him. So probably some kind of fish was part of their regular eating. Probably, maybe. Um, but nonetheless, here they see, here they understand Here they are finally convinced. Here their doubts are brought to a rest. And at this point is the point when his disciples become useful. to him. Now again, remember, you know, for so much of his ministry, they really didn't understand what he was about. They really weren't able to follow the things that he was trying to tell them and trying to teach them. But here, seeing him raised from the dead, here having their doubts settled that this really is him in the flesh having come back from the dead, this is the beginning of when he is able to use them. in the way that he intends to use them. After all, seeing Jesus Christ in the flesh, what happens next? In verse 45. Once they see him in the flesh, that's when their understanding is opened in order that they are able to comprehend the scripture. Scriptures. Before they saw Jesus Christ in the flesh, they might have known something of the Old Testament. But after seeing him and being convinced that he's raised from the dead, that's when they're able to really understand the meaning of the Old Testament Of the Old Testament scriptures. Again, this is pointed to in verse 44. How all the things that are written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms, that's a way of capturing the entire Old Testament and its top totality. All of that is written, really fulfilled to be fulfilled by Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ in his suffering, in his being raised from the dead, is a fulfillment of the whole Old Testament scriptures in all their totality. And how does that work? Well, the way that works is that the whole of the Old Testament is pointing to the reality and the promise of God's coming, new creation, kingdom. But Jesus Christ appearing in the flesh, resurrected, is the beginning of that new creation. Kingdom. Jesus Christ Himself is the beginning of a creation subjected to sin and death, being turned around by the power of God, granted new life, made into a new creation. Here it is, they see him in the flesh. They see the new creation kingdom that the Old Testament was pointing to all along, and it is present in their midst, because he is present in their midst, raised from the dead. And here, and not one moment before, are they able to understand the scriptures? Yes, did God's people understand the scriptures before Jesus came? Yeah, at some level, at some level. But the level at which we need to understand them is a level at which the disciples come to understand them only after seeing Jesus Christ raised from the death. the dead. And here again is the beginning of their usefulness to him as his disciples in the mission that he has for them to carry out. For in verse 48 and 49, he speaks to them that they are going to be witnesses of these things. He promises to them, or he repeats for them the promise of the Father that They will you know, pointing to the Holy Spirit coming down from on high as they wait in Jerusalem. In this, what we see is the purpose of God's church, very much the calling of God's church today As we are those who have inherited that commission that was laid upon the disciples. They witnessed the risen Christ. They understand the Word of God in light of the risen Christ We have become witnesses of their witness as we have become witnesses of the Word of God, as we now have the fullness of the Scriptures, Old and New Testaments, pointing us to the witness that they gave to the And so it is now our task, it is now our calling as God's people, it is our calling as the church to carry on the witness that must be done. By the disciples. We are to proclaim the scriptures. We are to bear witness to Jesus, the risen one, the one who is the beginning of God's new creation. God's new creation has begun in the Lord Jesus Christ. We are to bear witness to this, and this is what we do, as we speak the word, as we speak the gospel. And as the Spirit attends to that gospel that is spoken, that is how God spreads the news of his kingdom. And gathers for himself the people whom he will bring to himself on the last day. And so very much what this scripture points us to, it points us to the purpose of the New Testament church. It points us to the purpose of the New Testament church. We continue to speak and proclaim the news that Jesus has been risen from the dead and what the scriptures mean in light of that fact. We continue to proclaim that God's new creation has dawned in the raising of Jesus Christ from the dead, who was put to death under the sentence of our sins. And yet raised to a new life, victorious over that death, having defeated the penalty of sin, having defeated the curse of the law, having won for us eternal life forever in the presence of God. And so as we continue in that task as God's church, the very same blessing rests upon us that Jesus spoke upon his disciples in verse 50 and 55 There he was. He led them out as far as Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. Now it came to pass, well he blessed them, that he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Amen. This is to be our calling. This is what we are to be like. We are to carry on in our task with the knowledge that we have the blessing of Jesus, that the very same blessing he pronounced on his disciples. Rests upon us as we live as his church and as we live faithful to the task that he has given to us to testify to his name. But we're also, because we have that blessing We are also to therefore conduct ourselves in the way that it's described in verse 52 and 53, therefore being able to worship them. Therefore, being able to carry on with great joy. Therefore, being able to praise and to bless the God who has revealed these things and given these things to us. Well may we be true to the calling he has given to us. Way may we be true to what he has entrusted to us. The news of Jesus Christ, the news that Christ risen from the dead, is the beginning of his new creation. The news that we have begun to receive of this new creation, we have his Spirit helping us, we have his blessing resting upon us. As we pursue the task. Therefore, let us pursue the task with joy and also praising God and blessing Him and worshiping Christ, our risen King. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, we thank you this day for what you did in Jesus Christ. We thank you, O Father, for And how you brought him back from the dead and how this is the beginning of our great hope as your people, that we have this great hope that the curse of sin has been lifted and overturned. that the the one who was once dead is alive again and alive in a resurrected glory, glorious form. Thank you, Father, that he came and appeared in the midst of the disciples. Thank you that he came and that they handled him, his feet and his hands, his flesh and his blood. That he was no mere spirit, no mere apparition, but he came and he ate fish and honeycomb in their midst. Father, we long for the day when we will be with him, sharing in his same resurrection glory ourselves And when we too will sit and eat with him. We're looking forward to that day. You have promised that day to us, that his kingdom is coming, that his kingdom will arrive. Father, give to us the joy of that kingdom. Give to us the confidence to carry out that which you entrust to us. We pray these things in His name. Amen.