Please continue to stand to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and our continuing study in um in in this portion of God's word. Let us uh hear the word beginning to read at verse 6, reading on through verse 16 And uh the focus of my remarks will be on verses twelve uh through sixteen. Let us hear God's word. However, we seek wisdom among those who are mature. Yet, not the wisdom of this age, nor are the rulers of this age who are coming to nothing. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory. Which none of the rulers of this age knew. For had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But I, uh as it is written, I has not seen, nor ear heard nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God prepared for those who love him. But God has revealed them to us through his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. For what man knows the things of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God except the spirit of God. Now we Have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God. These things we also speak, not in words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. But the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, nor can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he who is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him But we have the mind of Christ, thus far as the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. I'd like to speak of this section of God's Word this morning under the title Having the Mind of God. Having the Mind of God. And you all know that for, as we've been going through 1 Corinthians, for the past few weeks, we focused on Paul's teachings in first in 1 Corinthians 1 and 2 regarding the nature of true wisdom The Apostle Paul has contrasted the wisdom of this world with the wisdom of God. And we have seen that The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ is the ultimate expression of the wisdom of God, which Paul declares in chapter 1, verse 25. That even the foolishness of God is wiser than men. Furthermore, men prove The truth of God's statement regarding their foolishness. For as Paul puts it in verse one chapter one, verse eighteen, the message of the cross is foolishness. to those who are perishing. More recently in our travels through 1 Corinthians 2 The Apostle Paul has introduced the role, the critical role that the Holy Spirit plays in helping formerly sinful men with foolish minds and sin-deadened hearts. Helping us truly understand the significance of the cross of Jesus And helping us to become wise in the things of God. And it's with the trust It's with trust in the Holy Spirit at work in our hearts now. The Holy Spirit who helps believers savingly understand His Word, God's word. and understand the work of Christ on the cross, then we approach our verses this morning. The first thing I bring to your attention from verse 12. We, as the people of God, have received the Spirit from God, the Holy Spirit. Paul teaches the Corinthian church, this group, who he calls in his introduction saints Who we all know have bad theology and are not consistently living the way of Christ He says that they have the Spirit from God. Look at verse 12. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world. But the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God. The Spirit, and this goes without saying, but it needs to be again emphasized, the Holy Spirit is from God. It is a God-given gift to you. We are passive. In our natural state, with regard to seeking this spirit from God. We might be very active in searching for quote-unquote spirits Spirits for knowledge, spirits for wisdom, spirits for enlightenment. But no one is seeking the spirit that God gives to his people. We also find out that this spirit that comes from God, according to verse twelve We did not receive the spirit of the world. We did not receive the spirit of the world. And now again, Paul is continuing to build on this contrast between the world and the Christian community. And it's a contrast that right now is focused on the importance of the Holy Spirit And to some degree, to some degree, I'm talking in in many ways in a kind of us against them situation. But We must all remember that if it's not because of God's gift to us that we would be among the them. And therefore, if I do focus on us against them, it's with the clear knowledge in your hearts that you should be thankful. For what God has given to you in his spirit. It is not the spirit of the world. 1 Corinthians 1, verse 21, a text we looked at previously For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, the spirit of the world does not know God. The spirit that pervades the thinking of the unbelieving man doesn't know God as you know him. It knows there is a God, but it suppresses that truth in wicked. Excuse me. It knows that there is the God, the Creator, but it suppresses that truth. in unrighteousness. And then when this world hears of the God who gave his son to die on the cross It judges in its wisdom the cross to be foolishness and the preaching of the cross to be foolishness. That's the spirit of the world. It's anti-God, anti-Christ, anti-redemptive Anti-Salvation. It's a spirit of darkness and foolishness Foolishness of mind, foolishness of heart, darkness, not light. For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness. of the message preached to save those who believe. Now we also see in verse 12, not only do we have not the spirit of the world. Not only does God give us this spirit that is not of the world, but we have a spirit that enables us, according to the text, to know the things that have been freely given to us by God. We do not know God and his world exhaustively, but we know what God has freely given to us. And what he chooses to give to us, and that is sufficient for our salvation. That is sufficient for all that we need to know. That we will never know God exhaustively. Because God is infinite, then we are not. As Christ told his disciples before his death, as he shared with them about the coming of the Holy Spirit, He spoke these words in John 14, 26. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you. All things. And bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you. In other words, the Holy Spirit's labor among you, among God's disciples, is comprehensive with reference to Jesus. With reference to the things that Jesus said, and with reference to the things that Jesus did. There would come a time when Jesus had parted that the Spirit would come And the Holy Spirit, which God gives to His people, not the Spirit of the world, not the Spirit which considers Christ's cross-fruit foolishness, it's the Spirit That causes God's people to remember Jesus and what he said and what he did. Not just remember, but cherish and believe Now notice, we're not just to understand the things that God's Spirit teaches us as believers. But he goes on to say in verse 13, these things we speak. These things we also speak. It seems that the the wonderful uh knowledge that God imparts to his people through The spirit that focuses on Jesus and his words are words that need to be spoken. They need to be spoken, not just lived, not that there's anything wrong with living it, but also speaking it And then he goes on to say the speaking is not in words which men's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches. The Holy Spirit is to guide what we say. The Holy Spirit teaches us what we are to say. And we need to be careful not to confuse what the world has to say about Christ versus what the Spirit of God in the Word of God teaches about Christ. And then he goes on to say in verse 13, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. Spiritual things in this context are not, as the world thinks when it refers to spiritual. That might be simplistic to say that. But spiritual for the world of men is an ecumenical and naturalistic idea. By that I mean, you'll hear people say, oh, he or she, they're so spiritual. And that translates, mean the translation of that is that anyone who has religion is quote-unquote deep. Or The idea of being spiritual or so spiritual from the world's perspective might be any individual who is quote-unquote in touch with nature. Or if you want to upgrade it is looking for the force Or anyone who has such profound things to say, because they have gleaned these profundities from the local library or from various news blogs on the net That's kind of how the world looks at those who are spiritual. But that's not as the world thinks That's not this that is how the world sphinx. That's not the st the the spiritual things that God has given to you. Instead The Holy Spirit teaches, verse 13, that we compare spiritual things with spiritual. Think about that verse very carefully. The antecedent for spiritual things with spiritual is the statement, that which the Spirit teaches. That which the Spirit teaches is spiritual And the comparison has to be between what the Spirit teaches and what the Spirit teaches. And what does the Spirit of God teach? What does the Spirit of God principally teach? We go back. John 14, 26. He will teach you all things and bring to remembrance all things that I said to you. Jesus told his disciples. Or as Jesus later prayed for his disciples in John 17, verses 15 through 17. I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, Heavenly Father, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them by your truth. Your truth. Your word is truth. The Spirit of God works, as I've said many, many times, in conjunction with the Word. Bringing forth truth. Comparing spiritual things with spiritual things cannot be in any way outside of what the Word of God is saying. And it's not you see, if if the Word of God is what is there, it's not some sort of mystical interpretation of what the Word of God is saying. But it's concrete Study, trying to understand what as best as we can what the whole council of God is saying about the about whatever issue we're studying. Comparing spiritual things with spiritual. That's what it is. And it's not the spirit of the world, but it's what the spirit of God does. I said before, we are to speak these things We speak God's word, these spiritual things. And the question comes up, well, to who? Who we speak these things to? Well, there's only a couple of choices Ultimately, you speak it to believers or you speak it to unbelievers. There's only those two categories in the world. There's not somewhere in between, right? So when I speak it to believers, if we speak these things of God's word to believers, what are we doing? We're building one another up. We're edifying one another. Iron sharpening iron. If I seek it to unbelievers Now there's a little issue there. Well, you might ask yourself, well, Pastor, you just said You just said that the things of the world, or that the spirit of the world, and the things of the cross, the very focus of God's word, Jesus Christ dying on the cross, is what? Foolishness to those who are perishing. So in your mind you begin to think, well, why should I go out there and speak about foolishness? To those who are perishing. They're going to think me a fool. I won't be a successful evangelist if I do these things. Be ridiculed. Well, there are two reasons why we do it anyway. And the first and foremost is God said to. God says so. Speak. Speak. Open your mouth and speak. The things the Spirit is teaching you. The second important reason why we should speak these spiritual things that we're being taught to, to the unbelieving world. If so, only the Word of God attended to by the Holy Spirit Can save a sinner. You can't save a sinner any other way. The word has to be spoken. The Holy Spirit has to come. The Holy Spirit has to work in the deadened hearts, just as it worked in your heart. The Holy Spirit has to convict you of the truth of God's Word and of righteousness and of the need for Christ. It is never up to you. It is never up to you to save foolish sinners from their sin. That's God's work. He alone can do that. And he alone does that. And he usually does that when a Christian speaks. Preaches, teaches God's word. Then the Holy Spirit gives light To the sin-darkened sinner's mind and to his heart. And the unbeliever comes to now the joy of salvation in Christ. And beloved, this is so, so that none of us, when we speak And God happens to use that to save somebody so that none of us can say, I saved ten souls today, or I saved one. Because when you say that, when you say that, you rob God of the glory that He deserves. You rob God. Can't we just let God get all the glory? Which is entirely fitting for him to do. For in Christ, God gave you his very best. The very best he had. Can't we get ourselves out of the equation and speak for him The title of the text is Having the Mind of God. And it follows from verses 15 and 16. In verses 15 and 16 we read: But he who is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. Starts off by saying, he who is spiritual judges all things. Now I believe at this point he is referring to the believer, the one who has the Holy Spirit. The one who has the knowledge, the saving knowledge of Christ. This person is able to judge all things Because the Holy Spirit is giving him an absolute standard of truth. And an absolute standard by which we can discern right from wrong. That's how you judge. We have been given to know That these standards do exist in God's Word. These absolutes of what is right and wrong and what is true from false come from God, who is truth himself. And he gives us the Holy Spirit to help us understand that reality and that truth. This person who has the Spirit of God is rightly judged by no one. Rightly judged. Now I know rightly in italics, but nevertheless, I think the thrust of what the author uh what Paul is is is implying here is that no one outside of the Word of God has any way to rightly judge you Because the world of unbelief has only opinion, their own opinions. And opinions are relative standards. Standards which are true today and gone tomorrow. Standards which are fleeting Who has known the mind of the Lord that he might instruct him? That's a text. That's a quote. Right out of Isaiah chapter 40, verse 13. And as we read that chapter earlier today, it emphasizes the omnipotence and the omniscience of God. Over against the creature, us, our finite nature, and our weakness. In Isaiah chapter 40, men are like called to be like grasshoppers. Before God, and nations are said to be a drop in the bucket. Even though that's the case, the Lord in Isaiah 40 issues a clarion call. To trust in him, to believe in him, to continue to keep serving and honoring him, to not put your eyes on what Hezekiah on what's coming down the road, but believe in me. I will provide. No human can ever know The fullness of an eternal, omnipotent, omniscient God's mind. But we can know Only analogically from his mind what he chooses to reveal And yet in verse sixteen verse sixteen is astonishing in what it says But we have the mind of Christ. And I say to you, not just the mind of Christ But you have the mind of God the Father, who has given you the Holy Spirit. Who causes you as a believer to be sanctified in the truth and enabling you to see. To see God in many different uh as truth, but also in many different dimensions as Paul puts it in Ephesians 3, verse 17, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. That you being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth, the length, the depth, the height. And to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge. Passes knowledge that you might be filled with all the wisdom of God. Paul in our text says this involves comparing spiritual things with spiritual things. Praise the Lord. For by His grace, the entire Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Is working to make you a poor, redeemed sinner, wise beyond all others in this world. Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, once again. The knowledge that you have given to us and are continuing to give to us The understanding of things, the wisdom which we have from you, is not anything that we should Puff up ourselves over. It is knowledge that is beyond our comprehension Only your spirit helps us understand. And even what we understand, Lord, is not all that there is. But it is all that we need. We do not take this understanding of things and try to uh inflate ourselves before others, but we use it, Lord, to realize how what a desperate difficulty the unbelieving world is in. And so that when, O Lord, we go to speak of the of the of the of the grace of God's work in Christ Jesus. We don't do so, Lord, as if we're talking to sell a product But we do so, Lord, with compassion. Compassion for a poor lost soul. Who unless God uses his his uh his spirit to help them understand, Lord, they remain in darkness. Grant, O Heavenly Father, that you would give us passion for Christ and compassion, Lord, for those who do not know Him. Help us to use what He has taught us to our advantage, Lord, in trying to share with others the the truth of the good news of Jesus Christ. Help us to speak Christ to those lost. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.