If you open your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's Gospel, it will be in chapter 26 once again. I believe that's on page 989 of your pew Bibles. We begin reading at verse forty seven. Let's give attention to the very word of God. While he was speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Now the betrayer had been had given them a sign, saying, The one I will kiss is the man, seize him. And he came up to Jesus at once and said, Greetings, Rabbi. And he kissed him. Jesus said to him, friend, do what you came to do. Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. And Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once Send me more than twelve legions of angels. But how then should the scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so At that hour, Jesus said to the crowds, Have you come out against as against a robber with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. But all this has taken place that the scriptures of the prophets may might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him and fled. And those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered. And Peter was following him at a distance, as far as the courtyard of the high priest, and going inside he sat with the guards. to see the end. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony against Jesus that might that they might put him to death, but they found none, though many false witnesses came forward. At last, who came forward and said, This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and to rebuild it in three days? And the high priest stood up and said, Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You have said so. But I tell you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. And the high priest tore his robes and said, He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? We've now heard his blasphemy. What is your judgment? They answered, he deserves death. And they spit in his face and struck him. And some slapped him, saying, Prophesy to us, you Christ. Who is it that struck you? I'll start in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come to a difficult passage. I pray that you use this in our hearts this morning to see more of Christ, to know more of our Savior. Help us, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Do you long for truth? It's a significant question, and one which I think this passage asks us this morning. Do you long for truth? Think of Cain as he and Abel bring their offerings to God. Abel brought the firstborn of his flock and their fat portions. Cain brought an offering through the ground. But God had no regard for Cain or his offerings. And so Cain was angry. But the Lord gave Cain the solution. He gave him the very word which would bring Cain into fellowship With God. If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is contrary to you, but you must rule over it. Cain received the word of God, but he refused. To receive it. He would not accept the word of truth. He remained in the darkness of his sin, and he allowed sin to rule over his heart. And as a result, Cain had no desire for the brilliance of the truth from the living God. He had no desire for it. That brings us to our text this morning. Jesus Christ has now finished his He's finished his earthly ministry, so to speak, with regard to his preaching and teaching. His leading of the disciples is now over. He's headed to the cross. We've been seeing that in these past weeks if we have been walking through Matthew's gospel. And most recently we've heard of Peter's confidence that he will not deny the Lord Jesus Christ, that if he must, he will die with him. Peter's confidence was in himself. Indeed, that entire passage stands behind this one, where Jesus has told his disciples that they will flee from him when he is stricken. So Jesus' interaction with his disciples is complete. And now he's about to exemplify truth and love. I might sum up the teaching here in these verses in Matthew 26 this way, that the brilliance of Jesus Christ shines through the darkness of sin. The brilliance of Jesus Christ shines through the darkness of sin. We'll see that in two points this morning, two heads, two doctrines. First, the darkness of sin is blinding And secondly, that the brilliance of truth is illuminating. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be continuing to ask yourselves that question. Do I long for truth. Well let's begin then with the darkness of sin, which is blinding. Look at verse forty seven While he was still speaking, and Matthew is now referring to Jesus' conversation with his disciples, Judas came, one of the twelve. One of the disciples. Well, we know why Judas has come. He's come to betray Jesus Christ. But the real question for us this morning is, how dark was Judas's heart? Matthew points it out for us. Judas came one of the twelve One of those who was constantly with Jesus for the last three years, one who is privileged to sit at the feet of Jesus Christ, who is who is proclaiming the words of God. John's Gospel records Jesus said, My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. Jesus was teaching the very words of God to the disciples, which included Judas. Jesus said that he speaks just as the Father taught me. That's what Judas was receiving. He was receiving the words of God as Jesus had been taught. He was privileged. But also he was the one who witnessed the works of Jesus. Not only the preaching, the teaching, straight from God to Judas, but now he also witnessed The works of Jesus. He witnessed him cleansing lepers. Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, meaning a leper, saying, Be clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. Judas was around to see that. He saw the feeding of the 5,000. Taking the five loaves of two fish, and Jesus producing out of those five loaves and two fish enough to satisfy five thousand men, plus women and children. All those who ate were satisfied. Judas saw that. He witnessed that. He saw Jesus walking on the water In the fourth watch of the night, as Jesus came to the disciples, Judas was watching. Judas was observing Jesus as he was doing the works of the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does, that the Son does likewise. Judas was watching and observing all of that. He was seeing, for all intents and purposes, the Father. And yet Judas came as one of the twelve to betray, to be part of the arresting party. Judas was in the upper room when Jesus was washing the disciples' feet, including Judas's. And as John prefaces that portion of his scripture, of his word, he said that Jesus loved them to the end. That's what Jesus was observing. He was watching Jesus love his disciples to the end. Yes, they would be on the cross, ultimately. But Judas was observing all of that. He was watching the love of Christ being poured out. How is that possible? How is it possible that Judas, who had heard the teachings of Christ, who had seen the works of Jesus as being the works of his Father, he seeing the love of Christ How could he turn against him? It can only be explained by the power of darkness That's how Luke's gospel puts it. As Luke records this portion of this event in the history of redemption. Jesus tells those who come to arrest him, this is your hour and the power of darkness. That's what was happening in Judas's heart. Sin had blinded Judas. He was in the power of darkness. Indeed, he was one who was called by Jesus Christ. Think of that. Did I not choose you the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil Not only did Jesus see and hear the ministry of Jesus Christ, he heard the call of Jesus. He was called, he was chosen by Jesus. And now you must see the power, the blinding power of the darkness of sin in Judas's heart He heard directly from the Savior. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. He heard the call It wasn't through an apostle, it wasn't through a preacher, it was directly from the Son of God, the Holy One of Israel, the Messiah himself called Judas He separated Judas. He brought him into the fold, so to speak. But Judas was deaf. He heard the call. But ultimately he was deaf to the call. The call never became effective in Judas's heart. How could that be? You must see not only the blinding darkness of sin, but also the deafening silence that sin creates. Judas was deaf to the call. He was refusing to respond to the call because his heart was so twisted and entwined within his sin that it created this impenetrable barrier. To the call to come and truly follow Jesus. We see that throughout Scripture. Indeed, Isaiah was told to go and preach, but no one would listen Make the heart of this people dull, their ears heavy, they blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn and be healed. That's why he was sent. We even read it this morning in Isaiah 50. Walk by the light of your fire. Not by the light of the fire of Christ. Walk by the light of your fire. Paul states the same as well in 1 Corinthians, for the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. Judas heard the word of the cross as folly. Jesus spoke it more than once. That he must go to Jerusalem, suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, be killed, and on the third day be raised. The gospel is the power of God. And yet those who don't have ears to hear will never respond positively to it. That's the folly. That's how they hear the word of the cross. It's folly. And that is clearly evidenced in Judas's life and his response to Jesus' ministry and call. For Judas, the blindness of his sin was too powerful for him to really truly receive and hear the ministry of Jesus Christ. But he's not the only one. In this passage we see others, don't we? What about the chief priests and the elders? Look at verse 47 again. While he was still speaking, Judas came one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Luke records that, in fact, the chief priests and the officers of the temple were with the crowd. They were there present. And so these religious leaders of the day, they believed that they had they needed many, many people to come with them with swords and clubs. They believe that these many people with these weapons gave them an advantage, the power to overrule this one Jesus. They believed that they were in a worldly, an earthly battle. They believed that they were battling for a national crown, an earthly throne. And they thought by their strength in numbers and weapons of the world that they could defeat God Himself. Where does that come from? It comes from Psalm One, doesn't it? Why do the nations and rage and the peoples plot in vain? And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. You see, the blindness of sin had darkened their understanding of who the Creator was and is, what he could do, what he had done, and what he desires. That defines the chief priests and the elders in that day. Well, their hearts were darkened. And now the arrest was complete. The disciples had scattered, and the scene shifts to Caiaphas's home, apparently. Look at verse fifty-seven, and those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered. Jesus is being brought now before Caiaphas the high priest. The betrayal has been fulfilled, the arrest complete, the religious leaders of the day are are there. And for the first time they are able to confront Jesus face to face on their terms in their house. Did you notice that they're not in the temple? They're not in the house of God. They're in Caiaphas' house. It sees Jesus, they led him to Caiaphas the high priest. Peter is standing in the courtyard of the high priest now Jesus is seemingly in the inner rooms of the home that belongs to the high priest Caiaphas. That's significant. The religious leaders of the day don't bring Jesus to the house of God to try him there, but they bring him to their dwelling place, their dwelling of power. It's a house of darkness. How do we know that? Because of what follows. Look at verse 59. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony against Jesus, that they might put him to death. Just let that sink in for a moment. The religious leaders of the day, the shepherds of the people, the priests. Who had the Word of God, who taught the Word of God, had the privilege of entering into the Holy of Holies to offer blood sacrifice on the Day of Atonement. Do not seek the truth, but false testimony. How is that possible? It's possible because they trusted not in truth, but they trusted in lies, falsehoods. Because that was their nature. Just as Jesus said, as John recorded in his gospel, you are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. That's their nature. The darkness, the blindness of seeking false testimony as a foundation to put Jesus to death Was their desire, knowing that the truth would be ineffective to accomplish what they sought. Think of that. The truth would be ineffective to bring Jesus to death. And then Jesus responds to the question of the high priest. I adjure you, by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. And Jesus said to him, You have said so. The high priest then tears his robes and states he's uttered blasphemy. And now he calls for the judgment of those who hear. What is your judgment? Here is the judgment of men. In the darkened hearts of these men Jesus' ministry culminates for them at this very moment. What is your judgment? He deserves death. What has Jesus done before these men that they can come to this conclusion? He's healed the blind, the lame, the sick. Jesus has relieved many of demonic spirits. He's fed the hungry. He's loved the unlovables. He's taught. He's preached. He's proclaimed the truth. He's sought the will of the living God his Father. And for this In their darkened hearts they conclude he deserves death The canons of Dort, which were written in sixteen nineteen In the third and fourth main point, we read this. That man was originally created in the image of God, was furnished in his mind with a true and salutary knowledge of his creator and things spiritual. However, rebelling against God at the devil's insignation and by his own free choice, he deprived himself of these outstanding gifts. Rather, in their place, he brought upon himself blindness. Terrible darkness, futility, distortion of judgment in his mind, perversity, defiance, and hardness in his heart and will What a description. But all they were doing was looking at this passage likely and saying, this is what happened. This passage may set forth the greatest example of darkness and the power of sin. These men, Judas, the priest, the elders, those who carried clubs and swords, were so blinded by their sin that they were unable to see Jesus in Jesus, the sonship of God, the power of God. The darkness is so powerful that they were unable to hear and receive the truth as it was being proclaimed by Jesus. You've said so. I tell you, from now on you'll see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven He proclaimed truth. And they wouldn't receive it. Indeed, they refused to receive the truth that Jesus preached and taught and proclaimed. They hated the truth. That he brought directly to them. Does that describe you this morning? Are you here? Are you listening? Are you watching on the stream? Are you hearing the recording? Does that describe you this morning that you so hate the truth that you reject it? Well, friend, there's time. There's time to turn. To turn to Christ, to seek forgiveness of your sins. He is the one who can wash you clean. It's his truth that is brilliant. And can bring you eternal life if you would only hear him and receive him. Pray that he would change your heart. But for those of you who are listening this morning, you're and you're agreeing that Jesus' truth is brilliant, that you love Jesus Christ. Do you see that this power of sin is what you're up against every single time you seek to tell somebody about Jesus Christ? Every time you seek to tell somebody about the good news of Christ, this is what you're up against. You're speaking to someone who is not currently trusting in Christ. speaking to someone who is engaged in that power of darkness, the power of sin, and that's what's got to be broken through. How do you engage in that battle? How do you speak to one who's so at that point blinded How do you pierce their hearts? Well, you know you can't. Not on your own. But you can pray. You can ask the Holy Spirit to work powerfully, and you can give them the brilliant word of God. That does bring us to our second point. The brilliance of truth is illuminating. And now we want to turn and focus upon Christ. As we do, did you notice how Judas approaches Jesus. Now Jesus knows that Judas is coming. And now the betrayer. Judas had told those that he was bringing with him, the one I will kiss is the man, seized him, and he came up to Jesus at once and said, Greetings, Rabbi! And he kissed him. How did Jesus respond? He said, Friend, do what you came to do. How did Jesus do that? Have you ever thought about that? In the face of a lie, confronted with Judas's hypocrisy, greetings, Rabbi. And kissed him. A symbol of friendship, of devotion, of intimacy, of closeness. But Jesus was now actually feeling the betrayal. He knew it was coming. But now it's on his cheek. The kiss of Judas, the hypocrite, the sinner, the betrayer. Knowing it was coming and feeling it are quite different. And yet Jesus, Judas, Jesus refers to Judas as friend. In the midst of betrayal, Jesus has compassion He knows the end of this Judas. Friend, do what's on your heart. How does Jesus do this? He knows the plan. He knows the word of God. He knows the purpose of his father. He knows the sin that Judas is participating in right now is not being used as Judas would have it to be used, but for his father's will. That's how it's the brilliance of the Word of God The illuminating power of truth that Jesus is resting in and relying upon. Consider how Jesus begins this passage in a sense. As he tells his disciples, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. And each one of them denies it. They say, no, no, no. That doesn't apply to us But Jesus was speaking the truth to them. The brilliance of the word, even as he explained it to them. The whole passage is based upon that quote. Strike the shepherd and the sheep will be scattered from Zechariah. Jesus began with that because his confidence was in the very word of God He knows that God is faithful and true and that his father would do it. It doesn't get much simpler than that. This is the basis of Jesus' confidence that allows him, that enables him to call Judas's friend and to press on to the cross, even in light of that betrayal of his close friend. He depends upon, he relies upon, he's steeped in, he knows and loves the truth of the Word of God. That's how that's how Jesus calls Judah's friend But there's more, isn't there? Consider what happens as the crowd comes and with swords and clubs and what We know Peter does as he pulls out his sword and he strikes the ear of the high priest's servant, and Jesus said to him, Continue, no, no. He says, put the sword away. All who take the sword will perish by the sword. Do you think I cannot appeal to my Father? He will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels. How can it be that Jesus wouldn't resist? Well, first it's because he came to save, but secondly, he became to fulfill How then should the scriptures be fulfilled? You see the brilliance of truth Do you see how brilliant the Word of God is? I want us now to think about that from a perspective that's slightly different, maybe really majorly different than ours. I want us to think about it from Jesus' perspective, from Jesus' nature. It goes without saying, as we've already said, that Jesus knew that the Word of God was brilliant. He loved it. He cherished it. He desired it. He hung on to it. He revered it. He sought the depths of it by meditating upon it. I've stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways. I will delight in your statutes. I will not forget your word. That's Psalm 119. Those are Jesus' words We know that he loved the word. He loves the word. But there's another aspect of the brilliance of the word of God for Jesus Christ. And that is his desire to see it fulfilled. And this is not a mere standing back and watching. It's not an observing. It's Jesus' involvement in fulfilling the word. It's part of his desire, it's longing to do the will of his father. Because the will of the Father is set forth in the Word of God. And so Jesus, as he loves the Word of God, he knows the brilliance. He's then moved and to participate in and engage in fulfilling the Father's word and thus his will. And so he can say, put away the sword. It wasn't time to fight. It was time for fulfillment. It was time for Jesus to drink the cup or to begin drinking the cup. It was time for Jesus to experience The fulfillment of Judas' betrayal. He needed to experience the arrest. He needed to be confined and led away. And so we see the brilliance of the truth of God as Jesus seeks to bring it to fulfillment, which shines forth the peace. Of Christ's heart, so much so that he can be silent before those who accuse him. Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you? These false testimonies, but Jesus remained Not only does he tell them to put away the sword, now he remains silent before those who bring false accusations against him. They sought These false accusations coming from the chief priests and the elders, bringing those who would testify falsely, lies, Jesus remained silent. There was so much that Jesus could have explained and preached to these men at that point. So many lies, so many false words being espoused against Jesus. So many truths that Jesus could have proclaimed. Putting those lies, those falsehoods down, crushing them under the weight of truth, and yet Jesus remained silent. It was in fulfillment of his father's word, wasn't it? And the suffering servant, that which we know is the suffering servant from Isaiah 53, he was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that is before its shears is silent. So he opened not his mouth. Jesus was fulfilling his Father's word. This is part of the brilliance of truth. It is an oddity that this would be the case, and yet we know that it is. That the truth would shine forth in the midst of darkness, this blinding sin. Meaning, in the midst of all these lies, these falsehoods set forth against Jesus, and yet his truth prevails in silence. Consider that. A lamb being led to slaughter, or a sheep being led to be sheard. They were innocent. Now they're not moral creatures. But each one, the lamb, the sheep, were doing exactly that which God had made them to do. Producing meat or wool. Perfectly obeying the will of God and producing that meat or will and doing it in silence. Jesus Christ was perfectly obeying his Father's will. Doing exactly that which he was sent to do, obedient to the point of death. And so he remained silent as his father called him to remain silent. And his innocence. Showed forth the brilliance of the Word of God. You see, Jesus was fulfilling the Word of God, and thus his obedience was shining forth. His silence exemplified the innocence as the chief priests and elders could not bring to bear against him the lies and falsehoods. which they thought would convict him. They failed. Their lies failed. I couldn't penetrate his innocence. Their falsehoods failed to accomplish that which they longed for. Their lies and falsehoods only added to the brilliance of God's Word. Of his truth and of Jesus' purity. Do you see now how Jesus understood the brilliance of God's word of his truth? So much so that he would participate and engage himself fully and completely in its fulfillment. That's a perspective which we don't grasp. We don't fully understand because none of us are engaged in that kind of work, not like Jesus, the beauty of his obedience. Not merely trusting the Word of God, but fulfilling the Word of God. It's a unique, one-of-a-kind work. Are you looking for that brilliance? Are you longing for that? Certainly as you read the word But even in events, the mundane events, if I can say it that way of your day Are you looking for the brilliance of Jesus to shine forth through the darkness of sin? You long for the truth. We can't finish without addressing what might be the greatest lie of all time. He deserves death. These religious leaders of the day could not have been further from the truth. The statement culminates their hatred for Jesus Jesus and the truth of God. They deserve death. Jesus was defeating death, and in doing so was earning life. His compassion, his love for the Father and for the Word, His peace, His obedient silence were all signs that Jesus was deserving of life. And so while the chief priests and the elders had no concept of truth, and he saints At least in one sense, when taken in the right context, their words were part of the brilliant truth of God. You see, Jesus was about to deserve death, wasn't he? The things of the world were about to be laid upon Jesus He was about to deserve death. Even now, as the those words were spoken at that very moment, It would seem that some of the sins of those who were around Jesus were beginning to weigh upon him. Remember, Peter was just outside. Denying his Savior. While Jesus was in the midst of his suffering, Peter was in the midst of denying Jesus Christ. And this scene suggests that the weight of Peter's sin was beginning to bear upon Jesus Christ. So much so that those words, he deserves death. What about you? Did Jesus deserve death for your sins? Were your sins laid upon Jesus Christ at the cross of Calvary? So much so that you don't deserve death when Jesus returns. Did that describe you this morning? Oh, that it would. And if it does, and the question still remains, do you long for the brilliance of Jesus' truth? Yes, the brilliance of Jesus Christ shines through the darkness of sin. Cain refused to accept the words of truth. He remained in the darkness of his sin. He allowed sin to rule over his heart. But in Christ, only in Christ. Only in Christ can you rule over sin and be released from the power of darkness. So that you can and do long for truth. Praise be to God Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this passage, difficult as it is to read these words, to hear the suffering of our Savior. to hear of those who espouse lies against him are so thankful for the brilliance of your word and the brilliance of the obedience of Jesus Christ. Oh Father, we thank you and praise you that you laid our sins upon Him. So much so that he deserved death at that point and suffered in our place. We thank you and praise you. And ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.