If you turn in your copies of God's Word now to Psalm twenty-two, I think that's on page five hundred and thirty-nine of your Pew Bibles. We'll read that this morning. Preaching of God's Word will be primarily on one verse from this psalm, but we'll read the whole thing for context. Let's give our attention to God's holy word. Psalm 22. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me? From the words of my groaning? O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. In you our fathers trusted. They trusted and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted and were not put to shame. But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind and despised by the people. All who see me mock me. They make mouths at me They wagged their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for delights in him. Yet, you are he who took me from the wound. You made me trust in my mother's breasts. On you I was cast from my birth, and from my mother's womb you have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. Many bulls encompass me, strong bulls of Bashan surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a raving and roaring lion. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a pot shirt, and my tongue sticks to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death For dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me, they have pierced my hands and feet. I can count all my bones. They stare and gloat over me They divide my garments among them from for my clothing they cast lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far off. O you, my help, come quickly to my aid, deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog, save me from the mouth of the lion. You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him And stand in awe of him all you offspring of Israel, for he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from him But has heard when he cried to him. From you comes my praise in the great congregation, my vows I will perform before those who fear him The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you. For kingship belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship. Before him shall bow all who go down to the dust, even the one who could not keep himself alive. Posterity shall serve him It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn, that he has done it. Praise be to God. Our Father and our God, we ask now that you would help us. Father, we want to know more of you. We want to know more of your Son. We want to know more of the Spirit. And so we pray, open our eyes this morning, give us ears to hear. Lord, we're tired. We arose from bed early this morning. Now we ask that you'd give us ears to hear, Father. That you would make our hearts alive to your word. That you would strengthen us, that you would encourage us, that you would convict us of sin, and that you'd remind us of all the promises which are yes and amen in Christ. And we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well this morning As we remember the tomb, the empty tomb As the angel said to the women, do not be afraid, for thy know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He's not here, for he has risen. We might also be thinking about the words of Christ on the cross before he went to the tomb as he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? You think of the forsakenness of Jesus on the cross And then yet the very presence of his father in the tomb as he raises him from the dead. We might think that there is somewhat of a disconnect between those two passages in Scripture, maybe even a conflict. Because it doesn't seem quite right that Jesus would be forsaken on the cross from his Father, and yet days later, a few days later, be raised from the dead by His father. As we consider these passages, as we've been thinking about them for this past week, You might think there's a conflict, a contradiction between the forsaking on the cross and the resurrection of the tomb. Well, if we are thinking that this morning, the first thing we must remember is that God's word, the Bible, never contradicts itself. It comes from a single author, God Himself. And God is true, and His word, His revelation of Himself, is consistent with Himself. He is never contradictory or in conflict. So only problem that we think we might have between the forsakenness of Jesus and the resurrection lies not in God's Word, but in the way in which we read Scripture. Anytime that we think we've found a conflict or an inconsistency, our first thought must be, I'm not reading the word correctly. I need to find the consistency. So how are these two events in the history of redemption consistent? How do we read the cross Consistently with the empty tomb. How do we read, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me with He is risen? How do we read Jesus' crying out in a loud voice with All of the passages in the New Testament which tell us that God raised him up How is it that the Father, who had seemingly left the Son to suffer and die alone? Now joined him in the tomb to raise him from the dead. That must be the question. How do we read them consistently or in harmony with one another? The answer, at least in part, is given to us in Psalm twenty Think of that. We have to go back to the Old Testament to find an answer to a question that's presented to us within the New Testament. Now as we begin to consider Psalm 22 and most particularly verse 24 of that psalm We must see a bit of the structure of the entire psalm that we might grasp the significance of verse 24. That Psalm begins with the same language that Jesus used. Indeed, most likely Jesus uses the language he used on the cross because he knew of Psalm 22, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? As we consider the use of the Old Testament by Jesus and certainly others, such as Paul, we we see at times that that there's a use of a small portion of the Old Testament say of a psalm or some other passage in the Old Testament. And we should realize that by the use of that small portion of a familiar passage It would have brought to mind in the Jews the entire passage. The Jews would have been very familiar with all of Psalm so that by using a small portion, especially the beginning of the psalm, it would have called to mind all of the psalm. In other words, as Jesus cries out on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We can rest assured that Jesus not only knew that he was using words of God of Psalm 22, but that as he did, he would want us to see today, he would want us referenced back today to the entire Psalm. And so as we consider the entire Psalm, we see that the first portion, or maybe even the first half, of the psalm, is really all about the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's unmistakable. All who see me mock me. They make miles at me. They wag their heads. The chief priests, the scribes, those who are mocking Jesus as he's on the cross use these words almost exactly. He trusts in the Lord, let him deliver him, let him rescue him, for he delights in him. Verse 16 of Psalm 22, for dogs encompass me. Gentiles were referred to as dogs. And that's who is putting the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. That's who is putting him to death. Gentiles, the Romans. Verse 18, they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots is exactly what the Roman soldiers did. And then there's that cry, deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. But then there's a dramatic and swift change within the psalm of the second half. It begins at verse 21, after he cries out, Save me from the mouth of the lion. Second portion, you have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. The psalmist now begins to consider the result of the crucial Verse 22, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will praise you, and then it becomes a call to worship you who fear the Lord, praise him. It's no longer a description of the suffering of the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross, but it begins to look forward to those things which come about because of the cross. And it's here where we find verse twenty-four for he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted He's not hidden his face from him, but has heard when he cried. In short, we're given insight. Psalm 22 gives us insight into things that are just not disclosed in the New Testament. And verse 24 is a wonderful disclosure to us this morning regarding what was going on between the Father and the Son as the Son was suffering. The Father had continued to care for and love his son, even as his eternal wrath was being poured out upon him. This morning I want us to see that the Father upheld and loved his condemned Son so that he could be resurrected. The Father upheld and loved his condemned Son so he could be resurrected. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, he did not despise Secondly, he was seen, and then thirdly, he did hear. He did not despise, he was seen, and finally, he did hear. This morning as we go through just this one verse really of Psalm twenty-two, verse twenty-four, I want you to be thinking that the Only way to get to the resurrection is through the cross. So we have to understand the events of the cross in order to understand the power of the resurrection. Well, first, he did not despise Well, as Jesus cries out on the cross, my God, my God, why have You forsaken me. We might be tempted to understand this forsakenness to mean that God the Father had now moved to despise or abhor his son. Why have you forsaken me? That Jesus was now undesirable from his father's view. The Son was now tainted. and thus was unworthy to be heard or to be seen, that Jesus was stricken and afflicted. The beauty of Christ, in a sense, was gone. That's what Isaiah writes in Isaiah 53. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. Because he was bearing our griefs. He was carrying our sorrows He was stricken and smitten by God. He was afflicted. He was in the middle of bearing our transgressions He was being crushed for our iniquities. The chastisement that was due us was being brought upon and laid upon Christ. There's a sense that the beauty of Christ was gone. But yet the father did not despise or abhor. His affliction. As we consider the forsakenness of Jesus on the cross as appropriate and a significant beginning point for us as we understand the Father's view of his son now that the sins of the world were being poured out upon him. What does it mean to be despised Well, if we were to open up dictionaries, we would read to have a low opinion of, the lowest opinion of one. A distaste, a disgust, a disdain, a loathing. That's what it means. to despise. Remember that account in history between Jacob and Esau when Esau was out hunting and comes in and Jacob had made the stew and and Esau was so very hungry. And he saw the stew that that Jacob had made, and he said, Give me some of that stew, and Jacob said, Sell me your birthright. And Jacob said, Fine, what good is it to me? I'm famished. I need to eat. And we read in scripture that Esau despised his birthright. He thought so little of his birthright that he just gave it away. He despised it. He thought low of it. He wanted food so much. In Numbers we read about that person who sins intentionally against God. The person who does anything with a high hand, that means in pride. Whether he's a native or sojourner, he reviles the Lord. That person shall be cut off from his people, because he has despised the word of the Lord, thought very lowly upon God's word, not holding it in a But really casting it off, hating it, despising it. That's the idea. Everyone despised Jesus No one cared for him. Again, Isaiah records he was despised and rejected by men. As one whom men hide their faces, he was despised By everyone. Indeed, as our Savior hung on the cross at Calvary, everyone despised him. They had all devoted Jesus Christ to destruction. I remember the earlier cry of the crowds as they stood before Pontius Pilate. It was unanimous. Pilate comes out and says, why, what evil has he done? But they kept shouting all the more, crucify him! Even Pilate, who confessed and professed the innocence of Jesus, would not relent from despising Jesus Christ and sending him to be flogged and crucified. Think of Jesus as disciples. Every single one of them leaving his side. Every single one of them fleeing from remaining in his presence, every one of them would not stand with him, every one of them despised his shame, everyone despised him. You might be tempted to think that even the father despised him. As the sins of the world were laid upon Jesus, the Son of God, we may be tempted to think that the Father turns away in disgust. That this filth is too much. And that God the Father turned away from his Son as He's afflicted with this greatest of all afflictions. There's no greater affliction in the world, and there never will be one in time to come, and thus God forsakes him. That Jesus was immersed, he was surrounded, he was afflicted with all the sins of the children of God, and yet the truth is that God the Father did not despise the affliction of his son. For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted He did not abhor the affliction. As the Father poured it out, he poured out his indignation upon the Son, the eternal wrath of God was ravaging the body and the soul of Jesus. God the Father does not despise or abhor the affliction. Affliction. So much to say that God the Father did not stop loving his Son. He did not come to hate his son because of that which was being laid upon him indeed just the opposite As Paul writes his letter to those at Philippi, and he writes of Jesus Christ who humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Then he writes, Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed upon him the name that is above every name The word therefore is so important. Because Jesus went to to the cross, because he was obedient to the point of death, because he allowed the filth of the world to be laid upon him, therefore God has highly exalted him. As Jesus the Son submits himself to the affliction of the Father, the forsakenness was not the Father's despising or abhorring the affliction. No, the result of the son's submission to the affliction was the father's exaltation. This morning we need to absorb this truth that the Father didn't despise or abhor the affliction. Affliction which was laid upon Jesus. And he exalts Jesus for submitting to the affliction. Affliction. Think of how that relates to you this morning. Because of what Jesus has done, he's taken your affliction upon himself, and now he exalts the Son. Indeed so that you can be here this morning. So that we can worship him this morning. Psalm 22 is really all about worship. It's all about what the Son has done so that you can come and worship. Because God did not abhor the Son's affliction, but exalts him because he submits to it. Praise be to God. That brings us to our second point that he was seen So we think of that word forsaken as Jesus cries out on the cross and asks that question, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We we think of being deserted, we think of being left or abandoned, forsaken. Scripture uses that word in other places. As the Israelites were being defeated by the Philistines. And for Samuel Samuel chapter 31 As they knew they had been wiped out, as they knew their king was now dead, King Saul was dead. They had been roundly and completely defeated. We read that they abandoned their cities. They fled. They allowed the Philistines to come in and occupy and live in those cities. They had forsaken their cities. They'd left them. They turned and run from them. That's the idea we think of when we think of being forsaken. But this passage in Psalm 22 tells us something much different. He has not hidden His face from him. There was yet the presence of God the Father in some way There's a bit of mystery here that we might not be able to fully grasp, but we can understand this truth that he had not hidden his face from him. This may be the most powerful clause in this particular verse. We know that God has no body. We know that He doesn't have a face like ours. And so it must be stated, it must be set forth in some analogous way. Remember Moses, as he asks to see the glory of God as he goes back up on the mountain and is seeking to atone for the sin. of the Israelites as they put together that golden calf. He says, please show me your glory. And the Lord tells him that I will make my goodness pass before you, but you cannot see my face. For a man shall not see me and live. You shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. And as Isaiah enters into the throne room, he pronounces, woe upon himself. I am lost, I'm a man of unclean lips, I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king. See, Isaiah knew. If you look upon the face of God, you are subject to death. Moses was not able to see the face of God, for a man shall not see his face and live, he saw his back, but Jesus Christ on the cross. Sees the face of God. He has not hidden his face from him. Think of the face. That singular part of our body, which expresses most of what's going on in our hearts. Within our souls. You can tell what's what a person is thinking and then how they're feeling when you look at their face. It tells us so much. And this is what God allowed Jesus Christ to see. He has not hidden his face. from him all of the emotions in a sense in an analogous sense On the face of God as he looks down upon his son and allows his son to peer into his very soul as he's Suffering. God does indeed turn away from the wicked. Against those who do evil, he will not allow his face to be seen. But he doesn't turn away from the righteous Stephen sees being stoned. He looks up into glory. He sees the heavens opened. He sees the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Jesus saw the face of God. A face was not which was not hidden is seen And David, the inspired psalmist, appears to be saying that this one who has cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me is the same one who looks upon the face of his father. Is the same one who is enabled to look upon his Father even in his anguish and his suffering? Is the same one who's been given eyes to see the face of the Father To see that eternal and everlasting love which we had for his son, to see the watch care, the compassion, the mercy that he was expressing within his face, the sorrow and grieving over the sins which have been committed against him and which were now laid upon his sins, and to see the anguish of being separated, in a sense, from his son as a result of the affliction which he was experiencing. All that, seemingly, Jesus was able to look upon as he saw the face of God. We're beginning to see the unchanging love of the Father for the Son. We're beginning to see how Scripture interprets Scripture and how mistaken we were to think that the Father abandoned Jesus on the cross. And we're beginning to see how connected the cross is to the resurrection. How the two must go together. How the only way that the tomb can be empty on the third day is because the Father did not abandon him. His son on the cross, but continued to display his eternal and everlasting love for him as his face was seen. Only the God man, only Jesus Christ, has been able to see the face of God and lived. I want you to think of this. Jesus is the first truth. Jesus in the resurrection paves the way for your resurrection And what did we learn about your resurrection? What do we learn about your existence in glory? If we were to turn to Revelation 22, we would read this: no longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him. They will see His face. You see Jesus in his agony, in his affliction Saw the face of God. And you, this morning, if you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ in glory, you will be able to see his face For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face, do you see the glory that even on the cross? Even in his suffering, especially in his suffering, Jesus was able to gaze upon Upon the face of God, so that you, when you enter glory, will be able to gaze upon His face. Brings us to our third point that he did hear. Again, this forsakenness may lead us to think that the cries of Jesus while on the cross fell upon deaf ears, that the Father forsook his son to the extent that that he wouldn't listen any longer. Now, because of this affliction, that God would no longer hear the cries of his only eternally begotten Son. And once again, we would be mistaken. Again, Psalm 22 at verse 24 tells us at the end but he has heard Remember the connection. Psalm 22 begins with those words, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? And in Psalm 24 at verse 20 Excuse me, twenty-two at verse twenty-four, we read, He has heard. This verse turns on its head our initial understanding of Jesus' cry in a loud voice. We had the impression that the Father was gone. Not only had he poured out his eternal wrath, but he had left. The Father had abandoned the Son on the cross, such that he was not near, such that he was not listening. How wrong we were. Misforsakenness that indeed happened is in no way included or referred to the father cutting off his communion with the Son. Completely. Each and every word of Jesus was heard by his Father He has heard when he cried to him. How could the father not have heard his precious son? Think of that as Jesus cries out in agony. This one who was loved from eternity past, how could the Father not hear the The cries of his son as he suffered. For the Father loves the Son. And we serve an unchanging God. The love for his son will never change, never diminish, never wane, even as the sins of the world were heaped upon him. Indeed, we read in John chapter 10, for this reason the Father loves me because I lay down my life, that I may take it up again. So then the father heard. As the father was watching and the son was able to see his face, the father Father heard all of the cries of Jesus. You may be thinking to yourself, then how was Jesus forsaken? Remember, Jesus was and is the God man, just like us, with one exception, without sin. And so it must be that these human emotions were pouring out as the sins of the world were being laid upon him. In conjunction with Jesus' knowledge of the purity of the Father, Jesus' deep understanding of the abomination, the filth, the offense of sin before a holy God, and so thou he cries out As he was obeying his heavenly father. As he was purposefully, intentionally, humanly speaking alone. As the sins of the world were laid upon him, this father could not be as close as they had been. He couldn't be. Oh, the the holy, the living, the true God could not come near to his precious Son, who he had condemned. For these sins were poured out upon him, not Jesus' sins, but your sins. And so that close presence of the Father, which Jesus had become so accustomed to, which had been normal, which had been that communion which he had been enjoyed had been severed to an extent, but not completely. He had been afflicted with your afflictions, and necessarily as he suffers without the comfort of that close presence of his father, he cries out. He feels forsaken The Father hears. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. Truth. That's true for you this morning. How much truer was it for Christ as he cried out on the cross? This morning. This morning, as we read this passage in Psalm twenty-two, verse twenty-four, we read That God heard, and indeed He did respond Remember Jesus' request at the high priestly prayer. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given to me may be with me where I am to see my glory. Jesus was praying for you. Even before he went to the cross. He was praying that you would be able to see his glory. And the Father heard that prayer. And the Father heard the cries of Jesus on the cross. And he was answering. Because even this morning, even this morning you're able to see a portion of the glory of Christ. Because the The Father heard he heard his cries and he took those cries into the tomb and he raised this one from the dead so that you would be able to see the glory of the Son. Do you see that encouragement this morning? Do you see how all of this leads us to worship that Jesus was not abandoned, that Jesus was not left alone, that He was not despised because of his affliction that the father allowed him to see his face, the father heard the cries of him on the cross, also that you could be confident this morning. And that your hope would be certain. You will indeed see the glory of Christ. And yes, the Father did uphold and loved his condemned Son. So that he could indeed be resurrected. Brothers and sisters, be encouraged. Be encouraged. Even the forsakenness of Jesus Christ on the cross leads us this morning to worship. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven We thank you. We thank you that our Savior suffered on the cross in our place. We're thankful, we're so thankful, Father, that you did not abhor his affliction. Father, we praise you. That you did not hide your face from our Savior, our Christ. Father, we are so very thankful. That you heard his cries and that you responded with the resurrection. Oh Lord God, help us to worship you Help us to worship Christ. Help us to worship the Spirit. I pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.