If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel. We're not skipping chapters, we're just uh jumping to Matthew twenty-eight for this day. And I'll believe you'll find that on page 992 of your Pew Bibles. And I'll be reading the first ten verses. In the 28th chapter of Matthew's Gospel, the preaching of the Word this morning will be focused on one verse, verse 6. And later on today we'll focus on verse seven. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Now, after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning and his clothing white as snow. And for fear of him, the guards trembled and became like dead men. But the angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus, who is crucified. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him. See, I have told you. So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to tell his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and said, Greetings. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him And Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid, and go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me. It's fine in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? We're weak, we're frail, we're tired. We need the Spirit's work. And so Holy Spirit, we ask, guide and direct us now. We have read your word, we ask for understanding. We ask, Father, that you'd use it to pierce our hearts and convict us of All the promises that are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. And now that you lead us, help us to help us to apply this text. To our lives even today. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. What do you fear? The disciples feared death. As the crowd came to arrest Jesus Christ, as Jesus was tried and convicted. All of his closest friends, his disciples, left him. They fled. I think we can assume or even speculate for the moment that what they feared was death. Eternity has been set upon our hearts, and these men apparently feared death. In the Psalm we read earlier this morning, Psalm 30, we see this picture of hanging over the pit of death by a thread. I will extol you, O Lord, for you have drawn me up and have not let my foes rejoice over me. I cried to you for help. You healed me. O Lord, you brought me up my soul from Sheol. You restored me to life from those who go down to the pit. Death Seems to be focal point of this passage we've got before us this morning Jesus has been condemned. Judas has betrayed him. He's been taken to Pilate. If you know the account, he was tried, so to speak, convicted, so to speak, and delivered over to be crucified. The innocent one. was found to be guilty not because of his sins, but because of ours As the account continues, we know that he was indeed crucified. We know in fact that he died, and we know that he was buried in a tomb. Indeed, these women in our text before us were observing all of these events. Even the guards being posted in front of the tomb to guard the way in and out. Well, the text before us this morning, we know that two Marys go and visit on the first day of the week. The day after the Sabbath, he went to see the tomb. There's an emphasis in the text upon seeing. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. Mark records that they were bringing spices to anoint The body of Jesus Christ. They were seeking a body. Matthew records that there was an earthquake, that an angel descends from heaven, rolls away the stone which was placed in front of the tomb to seal it. and now is sitting upon it, with his appearance white as lightning. And the guards who are positioned there now fear so much, fear so greatly. that they become like dead men. And now the angel speaks, not to the guards, but to these two Marys. He gives them some commands. He tells them not to be afraid. He tells them to come and see. And then he says, go quickly and tell. This morning we're going to be focusing upon one single verse in this text of Matthew 28, and that is verse 6. He is not here, for he has risen, as he said. Come see the place where he lay. We might sum up the teaching of this passage, this particular verse, this way. Those who trust in Jesus experience victory over death. And true life in Christ. Those who trust in Jesus experience victory over death and true life in Christ We'll see three doctrines, three truths within this. First, Jesus was not among the dead. Secondly, believers experienced victory over death, and finally, Jesus was the first. To rise. As we go through this single verse this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, what is it that I fear? Well, first, Jesus was not among the dead. He is not here, for he has risen. These are not the first words spoken by the angel to the women. He first tells them, do not be afraid. But this Supernatural being, this angel, this messenger from God the Father now speaks deep truths to those who have been following Jesus Christ. These two women who considered that their following had come to an abrupt and unexpected end. Now the only thing left to do is to anoint the body, the the cadaver, the lifeless body of Jesus with ointments, spices, oils, perfumes, as it would already have begun decaying. The excitement, the work, the privilege, the joy, and the difficulty of following Jesus had seemingly come to a screeching halt in death The Messiah, the Son of David, the Son of Man, was dead from their earthly perspective. And they came to the place of the dead. The tomb. And there they look for their leader, their teacher, their rabbi, the one who loved them to the end, the very radiance and image of God Himself. Was expected to be there in a prone, motionless, lifeless, breathless condition. And the first truth uttered by this messenger of God was this, he is not here. He's not here among the dead. He's not with the lifeless. The living one would not be found with the dead. He is not here. Now that statement has many implications. First and foremost, the obvious one is that Jesus was not then among the dead. He had been And just as significant that Jesus will never again be among the dead. The innocent one, Jesus, died once never to join the ranks of the dead again. He will never again inhabit a tomb. Jesus' body will never again be placed in the ground. He's not here. He's not in that place where death, if we can personify death for a moment, ruled and reigned And Jesus is not confined or bound by death. He is not here Death has its place. Death has its kingdom. Death has its rule and reign, which was established at and by the fall from grace. Adam brought about death with and by his sin. You see, death is that which Adam gave rise to. Not that it was created by God, not that it was an entity Or a thing or a force established by God. No, death came about as a result, the sole result of Adam's sin and our sin Adam ushered it in by his sin. There was no death. As far as I understand the gospel, as far as I understand Genesis, there was no death prior to Adam's sin. Just as the Lord said, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. But Jesus came to defeat death. Jesus came to put a box around death. Jesus came to crush and annihilate that which Adam raised up. Jesus came to undo that which Adam did. And so the angel can powerfully and truthfully pronounce, He is not here. Death, which still has its place of rule and reign, has been bound up for a time. By Jesus Christ. Death will never again rule over Jesus, for he died once for all. And the last enemy to be destroyed is death. Did you notice the first words uttered by the angel to the two Marys? Do not be afraid. For I know that you seek Jesus, who is crucified. Now the guards feared because of the appearance of the angel, because of the earthquake which was caused by the descent of the angel, because the stone has been rolled away by the angel, because of the whiteness, the brightness of the angel I think that as the angel speaks to the two Marys, he's speaking about a different kind of fear. You see, the angel knew that they had come to to see the dead one The angel knew that Jesus Christ had said that he would rise again, and they came to see the dead one. The one that they thought was their Savior, the Messiah. The one who had come now to rule, to sit on the throne once again, to make the Israelite nation once again great. Was dead. And so these two women come in that context And the angel says, do not be afraid, for I know you're looking for this one who was crucified. Don't fear. How could he say such a thing? Upon what basis could he call them not to be afraid? Because they were looking in the wrong place for Jesus. Because they didn't understand who Jesus was yet. They didn't understand what Jesus came to do yet. If they had known, if they had understood who he was, no one would have been headed to the tomb that morning. No one would have been looking for Jesus. No one would have looking for his lifeless body in the place of the dead. Do not fear. He is not here. You see it all depends on on how you know him If you know him as a mere good man, as an excellent teacher, as a role model for all to follow, then you may not even be looking for him this morning. If you were looking for him in that way, you see you'd never find him. But if you truly know Jesus this morning, what a joy to know that He was not there. Your Savior, the Messiah, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the Son of God, the Son of David, the heir of all things, your only mediator. The intercessor has broken out of the tomb. Its clutches over him for a period of time have been released, never to be regained. Not because death was not powerful, but because the triune God was more powerful. And raised him up. He is not here Brings us to our second point. Believers experience victory over death. Well, we have another imperative here, another command. The first was do not be afraid. Now the second here is come. See the place where he lay. Those two imperatives or commands sandwich the truths. He's not here, he's risen. But now the the women receive this invitation See the picture, the angel now has descended the in the earthquake, the stone has now been rolled away from the opening in the tomb. And the angel, in his whiteness, in his purity, is sitting on top of the stone and calls out to the women, inviting them, Come, see the place where he lay. The angel, in a sense, is now the guardian of the empty tomb. The human guards have now gone away. They're no longer performing their duty, are they? Had been replaced by this messenger from God, the supernatural being, who appeared as a man, and yet an angel, a powerful spiritual being, and so he as he guards the tomb Without Jesus' body, as he guards the place of death, he issues an invitation, come see the place where he lay. If you've ever thought about that, it's kind of a strange thing, isn't it? They were looking for Jesus. And he does not send them off immediately to find Jesus. I think that's what I would have done. He's over there. You'll find him there. But no, the invitation is come and see. Come and observe for yourself personally. It's a very empty tomb. Come and see where you know his body was laid, come and see that it is no longer here. Come and see the burial cloths Which had been rolled up and set aside, as John's gospel records it, Simon Peter comes in and went into the tomb and he saw the linen claws lying there, the facecloth which had been on Jesus' head. Not lying with the linen claws, but folded up in a place by itself, folded up. Come and see for yourself that Jesus is no longer among the dead. Why? Well you might be thinking, so that they can tell others what they saw. That is the call. Come and see, go and tell. And I would agree. But first I would say that these dear women needed to experience for themselves the empty tomb and thus victory over death. Could they see that in Jesus as he walked and ate and spoke to them? To an extent, yes. But how powerful would it have been for a moment only to fix and focus your mind and heart upon the empty tomb? And what was left of death? The powerless linen claws rolled up, set aside, folded. They needed to experience the empty tomb. They needed to experience the victory over death personally. Also that their belief and faith in Jesus Christ and in what he had done for them would only be magnified. Have you experienced Jesus' victory over death? See, it's so critical for your Christian walk and witness that you actually do experience the defeat of death. For without this personal experience, you will only know the fear of an awesome power of God, like those guards at the entrance to the tomb. They were in awe of the power of God. That is part of fear, isn't it? But it's not like But these women came to know. The guards became like dead men. And without the experience of the victory over death, you see, you won't know Christ as you should See, we do grieve and mourn over death as it still Rules and reigns to an extent. As loved ones succumb to death, we do mourn. We do grieve. But if we have experienced Jesus' victory, that mourning and that sorrow, that grief will always be tempered. By your assurance gained from your experience, the death will not prevail eternally. So how? How do you experience victory over death? In part it's your desire to stop sinning. Well, we'll never this side of glory stop sinning entirely. Yet as the Lord grants a new heart, your desire to do that which is commanded increases. Isn't that what Paul wrote to the church in Rome? For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. That's experiencing victory over death, because the sting of death is sin. And thus, if your desire is to stop sinning. If you are pursuing and striving after new obedience, not new disobedience, then you've experienced victory over death. All the followers of Jesus Christ will ultimately experience final victory over death when Jesus returns. But until that day. Every time you turn away from sin, every time you take that exit route the Lord gives you from temptation that's set before you, every time you sin and hate your sin more than yesterday Every time you truly seek and desire to do the will of God, you are experiencing victory over death. You need to. You need to know that death has truly been defeated, even as you wait on Jesus Christ. To return. That brings us to our third point. Jesus was the first to rise. Well now we have the reason he is not here for or because he has risen This is the fulfillment of the word, isn't it? This is the fulfillment of Jesus' prophetical statements. Three times, at least three times, he tells his disciples, as Matthew records it in his gospel, on the third day. Be raised. He will be raised on the third day. He will be raised on the third day. He told his disciples three times that this would come about. He has risen, as he said. And so if not here with the dead, if Jesus has defeated death, then where is he? He's not here for he has risen. This third truth proclaimed by this messenger of God. Jesus was crucified. He is not here. He has risen. What does that mean? That he has risen. It's fairly easy to understand the empty tomb. It's fairly easy to grasp. It was very visual. There was nothing in it, no body. As the women entered, it was obvious that the body was no longer there. The one who had inhabited the the tomb was gone, the the tomb was empty, a picture of death being defeated was was clear to them, the concept or the idea of no longer having power over Jesus was a fairly straightforward truth. We don't need much more explanation to understand the emptiness of the tomb and the powerlessness of death over Jesus. However, when we read he is risen, it's a bit harder to clearly and fully understand what this means. Obviously, it means he's alive. And if we were to peruse the other gospel accounts, we would see that Jesus walked on the earth for many days after rising from the dead before he ascended into glory. And so very simply we would understand these three English words, he has risen, to mean that Jesus was alive after being dead. We understand that his human nature, his fully human body, had ceased to function for three days and now was given life. Jesus was fully and completely alive, breathing, his heart beating, his blood flowing, all of his organs functioning properly, such that he could walk, talk, and eat and sleep. That's the easy part The harder part is what does that mean more fully and completely? He's risen. He's been given new life, such that he will always live. Remember, this is the one, this is the son of David who was promised to take the throne which would have no ending. An eternal throne. This was the one who who was to be the eternal king. This is the one who as he is risen will always remain risen eternally. He is the first new birth, the first eternal new birth. Not that he had to be given a new heart. But he is the first one who will live forever in the presence of God in an unchangeable, pure, innocent, holy estate. You say he's the God man, yes, of course. But as we speak of those three words, he is risen, the angel spoke of the human nature of Jesus now being eternally alive in an unchangeable estate, in a state of perfection. In a state of loving his father with his whole heart, mind, soul, and strength forever, never waning, never wandering, but always rejoicing, always doing the will of his father, just as he had done here. But now forever. The firstborn of all those who will live forever, the living one. To say that Jesus is among the living is a bit misleading. He's the first of those with a human nature to enter into a perfect, sinless, unchangeable, eternal estate with his Father. So you might be thinking, okay, so what? Good for Jesus. Is that it? Is that the result? Is that the end of the passage he has risen? No. That's not it. For he has risen not merely for himself, but as the federal head, as the representative of all those who have And who do, and who will believe upon him, meaning Jesus, for their salvation, he is risen for them as well. Let me put it this way. These words spoken by the Messenger of God, He is risen, these words apply not merely to that day for Jesus alone, but these words can rightly be applied to you. If you trust in Christ alone for your eternal life, for your eternal salvation, for being saved from the punishment for your sins, which you justly are due. It can be as if the angel of God were speaking of you. Only if you put your faith in Jesus Christ. He is risen. You see, in Christ, you are risen. In Christ, you have eternal life. Even today If you believe upon him and repent of your sins, those three words, he is risen, can be said of you. See, that's exactly what Jesus asked for as he's praying that high priestly prayer that John records. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am to see my glory. That you've given me. See glory of Christ, as he fully did that which the Father asked him to do, even dying on a cross. God has now exalted him, and he asks The Father, may they come and see my glory. You need life for that. You need to be risen to see the glory of Christ And there's no other way for you to have life outside of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. So the call here this morning, even here at a bit past sunrise, is clear. He is risen. Will that be said of you? Or will you remain among the dead? Where are you this morning? What will be said of you on the day of judgment? Will the messenger of God be able to say out loud the proclamation, he or she is risen with Christ? Or will he say, No, he or she is with the dead? This passage calls you to believe upon him this morning. That's the only way that it can be said of you. He is risen. Those who trust in Jesus experience victory over death. And true life in Christ. The disciples feared death But only until they knew Jesus as the resurrection. Praise God that He's given that understanding, that knowledge, that belief, that truth to all those who believe upon Jesus. Praise be to God. He indeed is risen. Amen. Our Father and our God, this is such a powerful verse. Thank you for giving it to us this morning. We pray, Lord God, that you would work upon our hearts, that you would plant this verse, this passage deeply within us. Holy Spirit, you'd move us. If there are those here this morning that do not know Christ, pray, Father. Pray that you would use this passage, this verse, this truth, to move them, to change their hearts. From stone to flesh, that they might come running to Christ, asking him, crying out to him for life. Help us, Lord. Have mercy. We pray all this in Jesus.