Well here we are in the reading of God's Word. Um the sermon passage for today comes from the book of Acts in the New Testament, chapter one, verses one through eleven. We are beginning to enter into the book of Acts and Here, you know, uh interesting interestingly, uh thing to keep in mind is that Acts is a follow-up to the Gospel of Luke. Acts was written as a sequel to the Gospel of Luke by Luke. Also, you know, as far as we understand, we believe it's Luke who wrote both Luke and axe. And if you want to know what axe is all about, it's interesting as you look at uh Verse 1. Verse 1 describes Luke, the Gospel of Luke, basically, as an account of what Jesus began to do and to So in Luke, Jesus began to do and teach things, but then here in Acts, Jesus continues to do and to teach things. But now by means of his apostles and by means of his church. And so this is why Acts is a follow-up to Luke. And you know, it takes us through the history of the beginnings of the forming of the church in the New Testament sense that we come to understand. And um so it's a it's a good book to consider. And um this is what we are considering this morning. Acts chapter 1, verses 1 through 11, the very beginning of this book of Acts. Things that happened shortly after the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Things involving him and his disciples, particularly his apostles. So let's listen to the reading of God's Word, Acts chapter 1, verses 1 through 11. This is God's word. Give your attention to it. The former account I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach until the day in which he was taken up, after he through the Holy Spirit had given commandments to the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom he also presented himself alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen by them during forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God And being assembled together with them, he commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, you have heard from me For John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit, not many days from now. Therefore, when they had come together, they asked him, saying, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? And he said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has put in his own authority, but you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you And you shall be witnesses to me, in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth. Now when he had spoken these things, while they watched, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel. Who also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, Will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. Just further the reading of God's word. May he add his blessing to it and also to its preaching. Well here again we see the resurrected Jesus Christ after spending time among his disciples and continuing to speak of them of the things of the kingdom of God. At this point, forty days later, is taken up into heaven, and is taken up out of their sight, taken up into a cloud, in their very sight, taken up with the promise that he will Return again one day. Yep, might you might ask the question as you consider what takes place here Why? Why should Jesus leave at this particular moment? Out of all the moments when Jesus might have chosen to leave the earth, why this particular moment? Isn't it a good question? Doesn't it seem like in many ways the present moment might actually be an advantageous moment at which he might profitably stay on the earth? After all, consider some things that are true about the situation he is in here that were not true of him and his disciples just a short while before this. Here Jesus is, now that he's gone to the suffering of the cross, but also been raised from the dead, standing among his disciples. Don't you think that for the first time, his disciples have some sort of understanding of what he was doing Some sort of understanding of why he was going to the cross, some sort of understanding that their hope was not misplaced to put their hope in him Surely they thought their hope was misplaced when he was headed to the cross and when he actually died on the cross and for those three days that he was under the spell of death. Surely they thought their hopes Were misplaced. And yet here he is. He's come back from the dead. Here he is in their midst for forty days, presenting himself alive, being seen by them during forty days. Surely this is going to change things. You know, remember so many times during his ministry, these disciples, they just didn't get it. They just didn't get what he was doing. But surely the fact that he's been raised from the dead has caught their attention. The fact that he's actually gone down to death and come back victorious over it must have changed their misunderstanding into at least some form of understanding. Some form of faith. Remember some of the confusion and misunderstanding the disciples express in the days of Jesus' earthly ministry. Now again Before his resurrection, also before his death, long before his death. Um Luke chapter 9, verse 45, Jesus tells him very plainly that he's going to be betrayed into the hands of men. And in Luke 9. 45, the response that is recorded on their part, it says, they did not understand the saying. And it was hidden from them so that they did not perceive it, and they were afraid to ask him about this saying. They think of it as some kind of mysterious saying that cannot be penetrated, whose meaning cannot be understood. He's going to be betrayed into the hands of men. That's not what they expected as far as seeking to follow the one who is the Christ, who looks like the Christ. And yet, surely, that confusion, that misunderstanding that they had at that point can no longer be their state of mind here in Acts chapter 1. After all, as many as forty days in which he has appeared in their midst over the course of during those thir forty days, he has met with them. He has spoken to them. They know that he's risen from the dead. Surely, if he was able to do great things on the earth with disciples who didn't understand him, Imagine the possibilities of what he could do now, resurrected from the dead with disciples who are now beginning to understand him. We see another instance of the disciples' misunderstanding in in Luke eighteen thirty-four. And here is another occasion at which Prior to his death, Jesus had told them he was going to suffer and die, but also be raised again. But what was their response back then in Luke 18, 34? We're told. They understood none of these things. This saying was hidden from them, and they did not know the things which were spoken. So again, they've been given teaching in advance, they've been given warning in advance, they've been Told what was going to happen. Jesus was going to be betrayed. Jesus was going to die. But he was also going to rise again. Did they understand? Not in the slightest. Zero comprehension But again, now here we are in Acts chapter 1, Jesus is raised from the dead. Surely their lack of comprehension, surely their lack of understanding. has been turned back, rolled back by the simple fact of what God did, raising Jesus from the dead. Him appearing in resurrected flesh. You know, the one we hoped in, we had a reason to hope in. Because look, here he is. He's back from death. He's back to life. And it's God who has done this. Our faith is confirmed. Our faith was not misplaced. Their faith is assured and settled in the fact that he's presented alive after his suffering by many infallible proofs. They didn't just see him like one time. They didn't just see him one time and then have to be convinced on the basis of that. Over the course of forty days He was seen by them. He was in the midst of them. They were speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. And so again, doesn't that raise the question? Why should Jesus leave earth at this particular moment? Why not stay? Now that he has his disciples' ear in a whole new way, why not stay at this particular moment? Why leave now? If Jesus was able to have a great, prosperous, successful ministry in the midst of many people when he had disciples who did not understand him, Imagine what he could do now. Imagine what they could unleash upon the earth, him, the resurrected one, in their midst. And them, his servants, his assistants, his disciples, who now understand him, who now are fully on board in ways that they were not before. Why leave now? Why not stay? Doesn't it seem like that would be the way to go? He ought to stay. If people can see this man raised from the dead, if they can see him in the flesh What a great blessing that would be, and what a great proof that would be for them to come to believe as well. Why take that away by disappearing, by going off into heaven, where you cannot be seen? by men. Why do this? Why do this? It's kind of an interesting question, isn't it? And it's seems like it's answered for us, especially in verse eleven of our text. Verse eleven of our text answers. The question, why leave at this particular moment? Well, in verse 11, it is these men who are speaking, these men in white apparel in verse 10, which is a clear signal to us that these are angels we are talking about And these two men in white apparel, they stand and they speak to the disciples. Now, Jesus is there being taken up into a cloud. In the presence of his disciples, we see the disciples there watching. Their eyes are fixed upon this cloud that is receiving him. Their eyes are fixed upon him as he is headed up out of their sight. But we see these angels, these two men who appear. And these two men appear and they speak to the disciples while their attention is fixed upon him. And they ask this question, Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? The same Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will so come in like manner as you saw him go into heaven. So even as you see him leaving, Don't just watch with the sense of loss of what you're losing as he's leaving, but also expect that he's leaving with the intention of coming back one day. So the question of why, why leave? Well, we understand that he's leaving not to go away forever, but he's leaving to come back one day. And yet we also have to ask the question still, well, why leave? Why go up in order to return? Why not just not leave in the first place? Again, why not just stay? Well now the answer comes to us to that in verse 8 of our text. And so notice what happens in verse eight, because he goes up into heaven with the intention of preparing the way for his return one day. Somehow going up into heaven prepares the way for his return one day. Somehow being up in heaven, he's in a better position to prepare the way for his return. than if he had stayed on the earth even in the glory of his resurrected flesh. Now again, here's the question. How is it better? How is he better able to accomplish his purposes from heaven than if he had stayed upon the earth and resurrected flesh? Now again, here's where verse 8 gives us the answer. Because in verse 8, we show Jesus goes up into heaven for the purpose of sending down from heaven the Holy Spirit. And as the Holy Spirit comes, he gives power so that the apostles, and also by extension, the church receives the ability to witness, to witness to the risen Christ, so that this word should spread to the ends of the earth. So again that's what we see in verse eight. You know the disciples have this question for Jesus. It's not a unexpected question in some ways. As they realize that Jesus has been resurrected and that their hopes were not misplaced, they begin to wonder, well, is it now time for the kingdom to be restored to Israel? In verse 7. Here what we see is that they're thinking of the kingdom of God in very earthly terms. They're thinking about the kingdom of God as being located in a particular nation-state, among a very particular group of people, in a particular location. And now that Jesus is risen from the dead, they begin to wonder, is that what he is going to do? Is the kingdom going to be restored in Israel and among Israel? And yet Jesus does not answer their question directly. He doesn't say yes, he doesn't say no. But he essentially says no by saying, here's what's going to happen instead. And what's going to happen instead is that the Holy Spirit will come upon the disciples, and they will become witnesses to Jesus Christ risen from the dead in Jerusalem, in all Judea, and in Samaria. The key thing there is he goes up into heaven in order that the promise of of the Father may be fulfilled, so that the Holy Spirit will come down, and so that the witness will take place. So again, we're faced with that question once again. Why leave now? Why leave the earth now at this point when he's resurrected in the flesh and when his disciples will understand him in a whole new light? and will accept his sufferings in a whole new light and would have to accept his sufferings in a whole new light. Why leave now? He leaves now because by ascending into heaven and pouring out his spirit, his purposes are better served. And his ongoing mission is better served by him not being present on this earth, but instead being in heaven and having the Spirit poured out on disciples who will witness to Christ to the ends of the world And so what are we to understand by this? What are we to understand by this? We are to understand that Jesus Himself And the Father have intended that the better way for God's kingdom to come is by the Spirit attending to the witnessing words. That testify to the reality of Jesus Christ, who he is, especially who he is in his resurrection glory We're uh to understand that it's better that the kingdom should extend by means of words spoken about Jesus Christ and attended with the Spirit than if he had been physically present and remained physically present on this earth. in our midst. How has God chosen to advance his kingdom? Again, not by Jesus himself remaining here in the flesh? But by sending the Spirit upon his disciples, which includes sending the Spirit upon his church, and as the Spirit attends to the words that are spoken, Those words have more power for the kingdom of God than if Jesus Christ himself were here, present in the flesh personally. So isn't that an amazing thing? Jesus intends that his kingdom spreads more effectively and advances with greater power when words are spoken that testify to him. And the Spirit attends to those words. That is more powerful than if he were here in the flesh. Now, once again. We're reminded that, you know, so many people in this world will say, oh, well, I would believe in Christ if only I could see him. If only I could see him and see that he with my own eyes. And understand that he is not is a reality and not just something of people's imagination. And yet here we see in the book of Acts, don't forget the power. of the speaking of God's word. Don't forget that when you testify to the gospel of Jesus Christ, if the Spirit uses that, as the Spirit uses that, That is more powerful than if Jesus were here in the flesh, standing right in front of that person. Standing right in front of that unbelieving person. You know, we all think, wouldn't it be nice if Jesus would just show up to that unbelieving person in my life? And then that unbelieving person would be forced to acknowledge Jesus Christ. There is more power in the word that is spoken by us as the Spirit from heaven attends to that word. Don't underestimate the power of God's kingdom. Don't underestimate how he uses us to speak that word to save people. The preaching of the word. Every Lord's Day. We do it in worship. We do it on purpose. We believe in it. Do we really believe that this foolish act, this foolish, weak act that sometimes is hard to understand, that sometimes is hard to listen to, do we really believe that that weak, foolish act is how God uses his power to save people? Do we really believe that that is how he advances his kingdom? But again, not just in the preaching of the word, but by extension to all of us, to each of us. Each of us, in some way, is a witness to Jesus Christ. We have received the witness of the apostles in the scriptures, the Old and New Testament, the New Testament as it bears witness to the meaning of the Old Testament. Jesus Christ, as He has been proclaimed to us in the Word, we are witnesses to what we have received. God can use our witness, and God the Spirit attends to. Are witness. Jesus intended that the witness of his church would be the means by which his kingdom would come to the ends of the earth. As it says in verse 8. The disciples themselves would begin in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria. And yet their witness would be used to the end of the earth. Well, it seems like that did not happen in their day. But it seems like, by extension, that which was commissioned to them has further been become the commission of God's church. And God's church down through the ages and down through the generations are the ones who take up that task of bringing it to the ends of the earth. There's not going to be a time when we can say, at least As far as we know, there's not going to be a time when we can say the mission is over. We've finished. We've made it to the ends of the earth. Yes, even as we make it to the ends of the earth, they may there may still be People who are in our near vicinity, people in our near vicinity whom who have not heard yet and who have not received. And so that mission of the church does not end until that day when Jesus actually does come back from heaven. And yet, even as that's true, it's good for us to remember and it's good for us to be reminded that the spread of that mission, the spread of that word, it's Jesus Himself who intends to use that. It is God Himself who intends to use that. The Spirit is able to use these things. It is our job to be witnesses. It is our job to speak to what? God has shown to us and what God has revealed to us in the Word. It is our job to reflect the Savior, to reflect Jesus Christ. It is the Spirit's work to use that. And it is Jesus' work to use that. But it is also their promise to use that as they will. And so may we be willing to live in this way. We know the Savior. We've been justified by His grace. We've been justified by His righteousness alone. We can use our words to point to who he is. We can use our lives to point to who he is. He can use us. And we ought to believe this. And therefore, this is why the question is asked the way it is. Why do you stand gazing up into heaven? Don't just stand gazing up into heaven waiting for Jesus to come. But instead, you know, reflect um you know reflect him in your testimony, and as you reflect him in your testimony He is using you in order to prepare the way for him to come back, even in the way that he you saw him go. So this is the exhortation to us today from God's Word. Again, we see the reality of the church, we see the reality of the gospel, we see the reality of what God is doing, what Jesus is doing. Again, back in verse 1, in the Gospel of Luke, Luke gave us all that Jesus began to do and to teach. But here in the book of Acts, we see the things that Jesus continued to do. And to teach. And it points to us to what He continues to do and to teach, even through us. So may we be willing to live as His servants. May we be willing to bear witness to what we have received from God. And therefore live for the glory of him, and therefore continually carry on in this task until the day when we see him come back. from heaven, even in the same way that he went up. May this be true of us, and may we continue to look for that day and to live for that day, all for his glory, not ours. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, we give praise to you this day that you have saved us with so great a salvation and in so great a savior. We look to the one who has gone up into heaven. We look to your promise as you have sent your spirit to your church, as you have promise that the witness that is spoken in the name of Christ and that is true to the testimony about him, that you attend to that with your spirit, or that your spirit is pleased to attend to that at times and in places. We pray, O Lord, that you would grant that we would be faithful to you as your church, that we would be a people who are ready to speak well of the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray, O Father, that you would um use that testimony as you have seen fit to, that you would give to us faith, Lord, that we would be able to believe that um That word that is spoken, even by us, when your spirit attends to it, that it's a greater advancement of your kingdom than if Jesus had been you know, present right in the midst of us and of people, even in resurrected flesh. We pray that you would give us a faith to believe these things and faith to um carry out um that which you have um appointed your church for. We pray that your name would be glorified. We pray that you would spread your glory and your salvation to the ends of the earth, that you would use us. We ask all these things in the name of Christ, the risen and ascended one, Amen.