If you open the copy of Dad's word now to Matthew. Matthew chapter eleven believe that on page 9. 69 it'd be too bad it might be thinking about this last Sunday and you'd be right. If it'd be the second Sunday you'd be doing the same counter I just tend to be focused on the line first line this very. Matthew eleven. Again, the verse to went. To the point of making to God's Holy Ray. And Jesus had finished the section of twelve disciples, he went and converted to keep in peace in their cities. And when John heard in preaching about the deeds of the twice, he sent word by his disciples and said to him Are you the one who will come or shall we look for another? And please again. There ain't I John what we fear and see. That is a tone and a death here. And the dead are there. And the pillar have goodly think people. And blessed to be one who is not offended than me. Because one of the way Jesus is going to speak to the clouds concerning one. What did we go out into the wilderness to see? A lead taken by the wind? What then did we go out to see? A man gets himself The words. Those who are soft trading are in Queen's houses. What then did you like to see? A castle Yes. And nail that person. You see of whom it is written. Behold, I send my messenger before your face you to tell your way before you Who, like the, among those born of women there is risen no one greater than John the Baptist. But the one who is reached in the kingdom of heaven is greater than seed From the days of John the Baptist and Claret Memory, the kingdom of heaven has suffered value and design All the prophets and the law prophesied unto John, and if you are willing to accept that he is a wiser, he is the kind, he who has ears to hear, let him hear But you play when you did not play We found a girl and he did not know. The John came neither eating nor drinking and they say he has a dream. The son of man came eating and drinking, and they say look at him Adrian and Adwanted have come the touch flatteries and sinners that you can be justified by which is I thought I'm reading the directly and P to P Having a thought of the tiny for your wig. Coming to a completely consecutive standard. I report who did a second. May my feel battle convict thy heart of sin and may God request us once again. Who is the cookie? And the word where the gas were put All that land. Brass well, in fact, everything since the king of my bag and had been reading up to that point where the Israelites will be brought into the promised land, but it's it's a third for us to be got to a cut All that land, the Maggie, the land of Dolphin, the Lola, the Arabia, the Korea country, but promised land was taken by poor. By To remove all the occupants and dwell in the land that he had promised whereby bad kind. And yes, we got a jacket game to you for land and The Lord had destroyed all those who opposed him and yet yet that the waged war for a long time. I think that brings us to our passage this morning, but we are going to fix our heights among them. We are in the middle of the fifth section of Night Week chapter eleven. As Jesus has been teaching and preaching as Matthew's and recording Jesus' ministry by father All the disciples that they were to let their light stand before, that they were to lay up chooses in heaven, not on earth But he was indeed the blogging paint. And at the heart of his sentiment. And that is even in the sense out at this point in the gospel of Matthew sent out the cloud to perform the good news and that he indeed was also now going out I'm so on his moon. If you look at one summer base here and last year I'd like us to see that the kingdom of heaven is open to all and separated by the power of heaven The kingdom of heaven is open to air, whoever and choke it by the power of sin. We see that in three ones this morning, first the reason to choke heaven, secondly the raise to take heaven is finally the alternative to taking heaven. As I said earlier, this is the second of the key type thing today we're going to be focusing on your mind kind of wise. And maybe something about it it's a very simple thing. I thought you can simply put a code plan to actually go. So we will do that to not a code of plan, how don't get it. the reason that we would like to do this in a world here to answer. I thought that the reason to What did this say? From the days of John, the Baptist and Play No, the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence. And the violence If we return the passages, it's morning and we remember that the passages will at least superficially one of those is all about John the Baster. And in the middle of this teaching, this teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ and how this works. And the days of John the Baptist until now they came as having a stuff they violence and Violent takes it by force. Extremely poetic. Even the set forth in parallel at these things to have them suck in violence and violence And then taking it back here so two ways of saying it the same thing. So what does it mean? What is what is it talking about? Again, if we put it in a broad context, we we know that the narrative focus also has been on John the Basket. It begins with John, it's true, name John, his and He sent his sister to ask Jesus if he was the young. And the end of the reference to John. John the Baptist in his work of weapons throughout the spoken of Jesus' teaching, but it means to we can know the context from yet to this verse trial. It seems to be said in contrast to what follows it. But then verses fifteen and seventeen appear to talk about something or speak about something quite the opposite. Okay, what's the I can tell this generation It's like seven things in the marketplace and calling to those royals, you say the fruit thing and you didn't eat your arms, you find the girls who didn't eat my arms. It seems to be set in contrast to those who are in what If we would not respond to the fruit of the big loser is being heard. What we would not mourn dreams over their songs like a bird being sung with John and G. The first 12 contrast is both having absolutely no interest in un Those who have the faith set not upon the spiritual kingdom but upon the worldly kingdom. Their own weirdly. We were quite content to live in their things, to watch their things, to remain in their things And some more perspective to the moon at times. Generally government. And that's exactly a heaven in which they would be submitting themselves wholly and So here Matthew eleven verse twelve seems to be teaching about those people down to enter the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of God. Jesus seems to be teaching up their lying, their day-to-day process And often in this world of the list he's going out. And the day is a diamond body container, which means it's having a second dying, from the diamond Well, that's the context. But it doesn't answer the question to us what is Jesus teaching about why why would these be proved about next uncle with kingdom? Well those who don't Why would these who teach about in verse twelve want to enter this kingdom? Why would anyone take their hands and off this and first two ways for the peak into the kingdom of heaven? If we begin to look at this veil. But now I'm going to anti-gold will have an MLM scan. No one is able to earn or more entry into eternal life. That's not what Jesus is speaking about here in this verse. You must be drawn again, it's clear and water, you must be re So that's a clarification Now let's get back to the question. We could rephrase the question by asking what is it in the permanent cabinet to cause someone to designate with You might consider the question to be minus, simple, maybe not even worth like harmlessly. Maybe consider the answer is obvious What do you say we trust them leave physically the extra? I asked him. I asked him to medically. The time it comes to cover. How often do you notice that I'm glad? I'm not looking for late. I mean that's deep what they're saying. I'm not suggesting some glory little time. Thinking about each other and glory. But this morning, this process gives us the opportunity. So while you sit with a small, what kind of thing you could resolve it? What's going on to ask to answer? How do you think we think of a different How do you consider the focus when given a difficult task to accomplish What does it have to mean? I can see the light at the end of the tunnel. It's the light that keeps me going through the dark tennis. It's the right which keeps you pressing forward. It's the goodness of the thing to be accomplished, the goodness of the objective of the cost given, which keeps the person pressing on to difficult If you're not fixed upon the object, upon the way, if you don't meditate on that way, then why are we test on coding? That is me very much. Not weird. This is why Paul writes his goes at Colossus Sets in mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on to consider Name, the kingdom of God. Consider the description of glory, the kingdom of heaven, given to us in scripture. I saw the holy sin coming down from heaven, earth is heaven from there. The whole is a loud, a dream thing Behold, the dwelling place of God is with men, he will dwell with them and they will be his truth. Why doesn't that work well He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, death shall be no known, neither shall they be known or fine, or turning from the past away. Making I am swimming with every coming for me attack. No screen, no job No stop women, no more tears, no holy physical, experience, resource paradise. What will Jesus exceeded? Heaven, glory to the key Okay, I'll seriously say two today may be with me in paradise. Just a squit and budget the question. Why is the king of heaven a devoid paradise. Why is the team of heaven devoid of king of heals or deaths? The answer to that question is go through the end of the day. And being thinking it's the blowing person Okay. It's because he's a damn it brings about the absence of pain and death, the absence of death and materialism, no pain, physically clear, because he is holding He went with them and he said, I choose the covenant of death It's the family cell ball. How do we do a planet in? It's the only place where God will dwell with his people for eternity. Heaven done is the only place where the setting God will be, which means it's the only place where a sain who make him sit at the feet of the word and say this Jesus says and then his knowledge to be Doing a thousand for the original. You know what I mean? You're seeing it. Can't what you could do with high and let's hope we do. How does one force his way into heaven? What sort of violence or force for action is withdrawing in prize heaven That probably is the way to understand and use the word and under violence. Valiant men. Heaven is stuffing violent and the violent or valiant men take it by fear. We're gonna make two ideas are really running things. But what does music mean by viol and violence? Very nice speaking of physical blow. Do that teachers effectively inflect a poison that things or being with who should keep men from being the way bad. This is consistently important is taken by things or beings that keep us from doing the will of God. That seems to be the idea at his use of the word violence or suffered violence. That's the general And the third definition of the word balance is this produce or continue by force. Not spontaneous or not force. the idea. That's the way Jesus is singing and using this word as phrase his verse. That's the idea. Continuing and fourth phase opposing those things that keep us from being the way of God, not that's the type of exact way to do it. They think of Jesus as Satan tempted him. In time, Satan said before him things with really So the Son of God command these stones to become lords of dead. Jesus could end them passed before the day and so If you don't find a guy tell you a fuck down. But if you ever hear me, I'm gonna company you. And it'll blow you up. And then tell him I'm sending to the Lord and the Lord. I think I would do it for you to fare down and worship me. Satan three times. Jesus, things that would have saturated from his um each of them individually would have prevented Jesus from re-entrance and taking his thrown in a kingdom of heaven. And remember how Jesus fought with zeal against each and every one of their temptations using the word of God. Tell them that. Bye. The father it could be possible that this cup passed from me. He's teaching the cup of rock, a bad rock, but it can be spread out of common for the things of the word, and he's asking Let this potential means Jesus is battling. Let me put him means into light ways because this is difficult. Jesus is battling, he was fighting against his good and right desire to stay with his father. To stay in communion with him. His lines remain in constant, we in communion with his father. And we have a fight against the line with All good will he could desire to desire if he acted at time. This is what time is called And looking down to himself. He took the pick and it's and violently against his who resigned his work and presses on to align his work fully and completely with his father's work. You see how Jesus' heart action should be considered and seen as guided appropriate approach to entry into the alignment with his body This is a kind of thing. Because this world for the minimum travel is very nice. And that's so good to a large girl with a child. What is going on as Jesus? He calls out to John, he heard his mother, he cries out to his mother, women be heard his things, he's crying upon John to put me to the gun Fighting against that city, against his own physical and spiritual means, and calling for his new metal. Again Father forgive them so they know not what they do. The same commentators are going to stand this for below. He's asking for below in Father's judgment against those who sinned against him. And we are in the pure and righteous one of the sin. Again He's mortifying before even such a thought would arise in his mind. He was mortifying that thought of taking a vengeance or hatred against those who despised him and said he's passed. information. What grace is he carrying within Jesus' height to conclude for tone his words to please emergency? But it's including school and walk with it. Many entered in their quality. The bonds are forced exhibited by Jesus to the elements. The other can't turn down. The words were written by 20 points. That's a word significant if we write about the time. The tomb is broken from within. Death had reigned supreme tomb with a process that no man was yet able to storm Because we see them unwanted difficulty to break its fear and smell its father. I can break for sounds and screens And the pain is on the temptations of fate and the lining of his way with his starting to stretch the night The cross, the power of the resurrection. All these are examples of the violent acts of Jesus, the force will continue, touching on a Jesus Have him buy and see his wife with me. I had neutral. That's a bad one. How are you talking about? I remember a part of choking his body going to be clear into the tungle if he closed his gold new birth. I just simply say I say pattern by passion and fell. The lemon is here. Take a heaven by a feel. Whether believe in him is not condemned. Whether believe in him should not perish, could have eternal life. Believe in Lord Jesus and he will be saved. Run down the pad, becoming free upon the land you have Like 10 with them. The enemy can all. Things like John, we can see them through the blind, we see their side below in the off and have the pill had good Unique point to the two for the regular taken back of the MBR is the one who is not extended bananas. That are you But the light of the code thing with our grace is is not one of activism. Well ice cream people. First thing ice cream is only controlled by Paul sends eleven chapters, we have now the chapters and the letter to learn seven fourth three Doctor truth. And then in chapter twelve he writes this as he set forth eleven chapters of truth, of the absolute truth of God The presented bodies as a living sacrifice are in accepted to die. He's been turned by the removal of the mind. And Empire Clay is a queer time, not clear life. Not coming back out of. And wait for the queer towns. Yes, we can wait about I'm not saying it's a case. The classic we came with a classic worse out your own salvation is true and comment for his body will see me but you work and to work for his good practice, work out your own salvation. There's a works today that the actual picked back or what we This is both for my angry. Pick the dot. How is it entry in You didn't consider the God kingdom of God. You say, well, what people didn't do anything. John is the United Works. Disciples are doing like a worship. Who is the more people? They just said water. And he they will confess from their sins, they will submitting themselves not only to the baptism but also to the preaching of God The convention we moved. We open up And then we didn't know that you didn't consider the crucial honor that the card that God could have done Given to each of all these men trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Take up the whole armor of God if you may be able to withstand and either get having done our confirmed time. The death of peace, the gospel of righteousness, the gospel of peace The field of faith. The permit of salvation. The field of the spirit, which is the will of God. Mario said, all of these are supplied to you for your peers who will wait for and they must be used. Having done it are to stand on. That's how you participate and take in heaven by the The nuclear weapons and defensive levels could be used as nuclear spike. Where is the question? Try to say anywhere, yes. think it's something wrong and you warn it. But before you do, it's like the same Well to do that and the first thing is going to be alternative before And if you don't enter the kingdom of heaven, what kingdom will you remain in and reside in the anchor? What's the alternative? If a person is not rising If verse twelve is not describing you this morning, what's the alternative? We began by noting the contrast between verse twelve and that which follows We start with that motion, that first taking of heaven. Versus sixteen and seventeen is that rejection. We told us No motion, no movement, no pressing and no desire to enter heaven. And if they're not what do you This person could be? Where were you going? What's the alternative? What's the right purpose? Heaven by force, really God consume a person's light. You died and the light is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ in Israel light appears, then you appear Also you'll appreciate human grace. Your life is human size. It wish it's the inside of mine. You are Christian, we've driving for heaven with when such and tight. And everything is about twice. The life is contained by Christ. It is inside And choices in you, but if if they're not, what then are you striving for? What do you understand you're trying to achieve in this life? What's your goal, your objective, what's your mindset What's the point set upon? This whole way to touch in the arm. But it balances possible and undertained because he let me from the dead. When annoyed him, I pressed onto a door for the prize of the upward call of God and I seized it. It was not pressing on a core peace that we've got to those agree apart, we're not pressing into the kingdom of heaven and we might be passing into the only other kingdom that exists and that is the kingdom of death They all know other places. They are no other kingdoms. They are noted places for one to size forward You see this morning if you listen. And you are pressing on towards heaven. And indeed you are pressing on to our lesson in God test But in a second, we all create your beings, every single man, woman and child born from Adam as a God-given eternal spirit. You would be Somewhere for every the physical death will not end the existence. The physical talking with moments is are you talking towards evidence or are you talking towards to the kingdom of darkness. That's the only I came to the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of Satan. The kingdom of prayer, damn nation. The coming where we call out a bad is pulled out and at least one to the bag. You see without the charge today We may not see it. As we're living in sin. As we're transgressing the law, God is with reveling and disobedience. We may not see the darkness. We may not see Satan. He is the great deceiver. He is evil greatest receives it. He'd like in the heart if we love what we love, disobedience and the hope of God. And some of the God Jesus may Jesus has already put in a path into the demand for me. And also the demand is the most I have a T eat on anything. It's kind of just me on it. Come on, it kind of the body of the kingdom is taken you through the life of God understand that the things will bring you into that space that we do not reject We think remember things. Some of them are just thinking it's not is flipping with some of you and my objection. I'm a cooking. A very quick. I didn't know I read the Bible, I told you So what do I talk about? Jesus declined to they declare that they had done less than the money and Jesus That's when I clear from the name of the viewers. We'll require to the never menu the type thing we will call the wireless needs. Those are not speaking to my fault, the Iron Man. Those are not speaking to his faith for his own faith. If I wasn't just a couple I don't have to answer the name. And I Just feed the token. I just got now become a feed a blame. Is that near his body? Because all of my life, all of my energy of time. Action for glory and things. How do you put the view mass? Now the coming up and it's open to all round of coat of the colour. That's how we're in time. And if he's got a man of God. I think Hug on appeared when this And that's how it ends. That is the question. It's a post-pad. Have it depends on the tension to read to join us How do I sit and down? Can you ask him? Oh no, they're the plane of clouds. We set our minds upon the clouds. We can't have all all the hip. What can I help? How are you feel? But this wasn't a salad at the minimum. Turn it off. There's a clear night and three and left. Everything good. How about you walking? Let's just go here and both sides.