Please turn to first Timothy chapter three. First Tim First Timothy chapter three. And we'll begin reading at the uh first verse and read on uh through the seventh. Let us hear the word of the Lord This is a faithful saying If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded, of good behavior. Hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, nor violent, nor greedy for money But gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous. One who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Let us pray. Our Father, as we come now to this hour, and we come now to this particular passage in your word, we pray, O Lord, that We will be led by your word to understand more clearly the qualifications that are given here for leadership in your church. We pray, O Heavenly Father, not only will we understand it, but we will not abandon these qualifications. For truly, O Lord, these go to the responsibilities of the one whom you have ones whom you have appointed as leaders. They need these qualifications to carry out the tasks. which you have given to them, and to better benefit the spiritual welfare of your people. These things we now ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We have been going through the book of Timothy, 1 Timothy, and we have come to this part here, and this is the uh fourth now sermon on the qualifications uh for leadership in the church. Um we we were reminded again that uh the Church which Paul is uh writing to here with Timothy happens to be the church at Ephesus. And um that uh Paul is uh soon to be leaving here, and uh he has given Timothy a responsibility along with the elders as well, of um uh um making sure That others do not teach any other doctrine than what he has taught them. You can see that is verse in verse 3. Paul is leaving And he's leaving Ephesus and he won he's given Timothy the overall responsibility of making sure that the church is got the right doctrine because with the right doctrine comes the right understanding of salvation, comes growth In God's word as well. He also charges Timothy in the very next breath to encourage people not to go after idle tales. that that uh stirs up more speculation and division than it does promote unity in the body of Christ So the question then kind of remains, well, if Timothy is to go out and to do this work, And if Timothy is to have any help doing this work, and by the way, there were already elders at Ephesus. We know that because Acts chapter 20 talks about it Paul gave his farewell address to the elders at Ephesus. So what kind of person is an elder? What kind of qualifications does such a person have? And obviously the Apostle Paul felt that just having Timothy there wasn't enough. To do the job which he had entrusted him with. And he expected that other men would come alongside of Timothy and help him in this task. Now he refers to them here, first of all, as bishops, but I do not believe that bishops Signifies a particular office as much as it does a responsibility. A bishop is one who has oversight. That's what the word means, to oversee the things that belong to God. Many of the Several of the parables that Jesus told had to do with the parable of the chief steward or the good steward who would watch over his master's goods. And then when the master came back, he had to give an accounting. He was responsible. It's that same New Testament gospel idea of an overseer that the word bishop actually takes its its it's It's referenced to. One who is going to be responsible to the master of the house. Who is the master of the Lord's house? Well, it's Christ. So the bishops are going to be those who have responsibility for ke taking care of the Lord's flock and making sure none of them get lost, making sure that all that is done is to their benefit. And so there are very explicit instructions regarding what type of men these should be. Very explicit qualifications. And tonight we're going to look at verse 3. because that's where we are in our study. He is one who is not said to be not given to wine. And uh the uh yeah it's an old English phrase. You know, what does it mean to be given to wine? Well, the uh Uh we w I think we all get the point that uh that uh uh addiction is what's being uh pointed out here. Someone who uh is addicted to wine, but the actual word For given is to mean to one who stays near something. And if a person is staying near the wine barrel, you can rest assured that uh he's got an a he may have an addiction problem. He's not moving away from it Now uh you may get you may get a laugh about that, but uh it does convey an image. And um uh When we think about it, wine does have, and I guess liquor in general, does have an intoxicating effect on our bodies. And that intoxicating effect can override our normal ability to control ourselves. Lead to excessive practices or even embarrassing and sinful behavior Proverbs chapter 23, verse 29 is one of those sections of God's Word that does speak to this this kind of intoxicating effect that wine may have when we read Who hath woe, who hath sorrow, who hath contentions, who hath babbling, who hath wounds without cause Who hath redness of eyes? Who are these ones that have these? The answer is then given. They that tarry long at the wine. The guy who stays near the wine. Um They that go to seek mixed wine, look and thou not upon the wine when it is red, when it gives its color in the cup, when it moves itself aright. At the last it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder. Well, yeah, you know, a a nice glass of wine when you're looking at it, you know, it it's rather pretty That red sight, clarity, it's it's it's very pretty, and maybe it's got a few little bubbles that are going uh in there and uh and it can be rather um rather enticing to your to your eyes, but it's not Just enticing to your eyes, it's the effect it has on your inhibitions, the effect it may have on your character if if You go way too far and stay near the wine uh longer, much longer than you should. Anyone who is addicted or over-indulging in a controlled dangerous substance would also be who this text has in mind. Uh because if you're addicted to some kind of mind altering or person altering uh uh uh drug or or liquor, uh it it shows that you're not really in control of your actions You're not in control of those of your of of your judgment. Um If you're given to some of these addictive matters, it would negate some of the other qualities. that uh have uh already been talked about. For example, temperance, verse chapter two, uh ch verse two of chapter three. Uh and uh a a uh uh um A bishop is to be temperate. Uh And as we go went through that the last time, I hope you remember the point I made, is that that is really not so much talking about whether he is drunk or not, although that would apply. But that that word temperate as it is used often in the s this in the New Testament suggests that a candidate for bishop Always has his eye on the end game. Always has his eye on the end time. That's how it's used. So that he knows there is an end time and he lives his life in accord with that. He conducts himself in a holy way. He doesn't waste his time. He uses, he's a good steward of his time. He makes the best of his time He is focused on doing the things that Jesus would approve and will approve when Jesus returns. That's the sense of temperate. And if your if your mind is over-indulging in wine, you can't be temperate. It won't be important to you. Addicted to wine works against being temperate and sober-minded. Always being given to wine runs the risk of doing something that will discredit Christ. And some of us can tell you with sadness before we came to know Christ that uh this may have characterized our life. But those who know Christ don't want to do anything that runs a risk, not even a risk of discrediting the Lord. And especially those who serve his church. Must not take that risk. It would also, if you were someone who were given to wine, If you know if you were someone who regularly indulged and couldn't get away from the barrel or the glass, that would run the risk of what 1 Corinthians chapter 8 talks about. Putting a stumbling block before your weaker brother. And you remember those words. Verse 9: Take heed lest by any means This liberty that you have becomes a stumbling block to them who are weak. For if a man see thee which has knowledge sit at meat at the idols table, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? Through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died. But when ye sin, So against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make your brother to be offended, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth lest I make my brother to offend. That same principle applies not just meat to idols, but also too much wine. Then he goes on in the next la sentence to talk about not being a striker. Not being a striker. And that's There's actually two different words used in this one sentence about uh about striking or or quarreling. Um I'm not sure that you can make uh a great division between the two of them, one that sticks But uh this one, the first one, seems to be one who quarrels, a person who is given to quarreling, quick to strike, especially with his tongue. It's a person the the person who is no striker is one who does not easily engage in arguing or fighting about irrelevant things. I believe that this is a a significant uh um an important matter because we are to be in control of our tongues. We are to be in control of what we say. And that's not an easy thing to do, as James 3 reminds us. And Paul in Ephesians chapter 4 also reminds us. That whenever we're engaged in conversation with others, that our desire should be to speak no unwholesome words, but only those words which edify And an unwholesome word usually comes to your mind when you're involved in a quarrel. Because you get excited, you get involved in the situation, and you want to win your case, and you're going to start saying something that later you regret. So, not quarrelsome, not a striker, but one who edifies, one who, with his speech, is winsome and wins them for the cause of Christ. Because you're not just yourself out here, you represent Christ. As a leader of his church. Also, one who is quick to quarrel or quick to strike is a person who most likely would be rather impatient. In dealing with people. If you're impatient with dealing with people, that means you're not a good listener Because you want to say something rather than you want to listen to what their problem is. And if you're not a good listener, you're not going to be very helpful to people. Not covetous. Not covetous. This is a little more clear And it makes it even clearer when it goes on to say, not guilty of filthy lucre Not guilty of filthy lucre. Obviously, what is being uh uh addressed there is that the this kind of leader uh of the church that Timothy should be looking for, who is a bishop or an elder Is not one that is overly concerned or overly preoccupied with material things. You could call it money, call it position, call it whatever you want to call it. But anything that is uh greater in your mind and in your heart than your love for Christ. From this world is going to lead you into covetousness because you will start desiring that more than you desire anything else And you see in the texts that are read from Joshua, you saw how one man's covetousness Desiring the accursed things, which was an idol. And he took an idol. He wasn't supposed to do that because it was made out of some sort of precious material. He desired it. He wanted it. One one man's problem cost the lives of 36 Jews at AI Now, obviously that isn't going to translate all the time into the church, but nevertheless it should stand as some sort of warning that this is an important thing. Not greedy of filthy lucre. If you're greedy of filthy lucre, that means you love it. If you love it, you've made it an idol. If you made it an idol, you've violated the first commandment. And you violated the tenth. You're guilty of loving something more than God, and you're guilty of loving something more than loving your neighbor. The Apostle Peter in 1 Peter 5, verse 2, he's also there talking about the qualities for leadership in the church And he says in that passage, he talks about some of the qualifications for elders. And he says to them, he says, feed the flock of God which is among you. taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre. Not for filthy lucre, but of a real and ready mind. And you might think, you might think, why would you have to worry about this thing? People in the church are poor anyway. Well people back then were poor anyway in the church. Well, you know, when you when you stop and think about it, uh The scriptures do have something to say about the connection between leader the temptation that leadership brings to men To want to use people for their own material enrichment. Maybe the first time, well, the first time it happened was Judas. Maybe the first time in the New Testament, and maybe the second time it happened was Simon Majus. In Acts chapter 8. And it was Peter who said to him, Your money perish with you. To Simon, when he when Simon wanted to buy the Holy Spirit. So I'm uh and as as I shared with you a couple of weeks ago, uh there was this story about the pastor who said if everybody in in who everybody's listening to this program donates $300 I can buy my Learjet Yeah, he doubled back and then he went back and did it again. He issued it again. He took it away and then he went back and did it. You know how much I didn't know at the time how much a Learjet cost. You know what they cost $65 million. If everybody listening to me donates $300, I can get a leader jet. Well, I don't think that'll fly here. But you you you've gotta ask yourself the question number one, what kind of qualification How did that guy miss out on the qualifications there? What kind of image does that send? I mean we're we're laughing at it, and it's sad that we're laughing at it. God's not laughing at it Because this puts the name of Christ to shame in some people's minds. So, desiring dishonest gain and serving God's church just are two things that just don't go hand in hand. Can't do both You can't love God and man. Then verse another one of the qualifications that's here is patient. Patient Not given to wine or violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous. Gentle, patient, those two are linked together. One who has a fair mind, one who is patient with others James chapter 3 linked patience with wisdom. Verse 17. The wisdom that is from above is first, pure peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, patient. And without hypocrisy. Lastly, it says he's not a brawler. When we think of brawling again, we think of fisticuffs. Um Again, this is pretty close in meaning to the previous word, not violent, coming right after not given to much wine. pretty hard to draw any kind of difference between the two. I'm sure there is a some kind of difference, but uh Titus 3 mentions this word again and contrasts it with uh uh with a person who is gentle. For example, verse 1 of Titus, put them in mind to be subject to principles and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers. but gentle, showing meekness to all men. I suspect, though, that Where there are in one verse two different words that both speak to the question of not violent or brawling or on the other side of it gentleness, I suspect that that's being done for a reason To make everybody understand that this is a high priority. This is an important matter in the discharge of the duties of an elder. Not that others aren't important, but when you got two in one verse, you ought to ask yourself the question why. And I suspect it's because it's very important. And ultimately, uh no man is going to be perfect in all of these things. You're not going to find a perfect man. in all of these matters. But uh these are something you these qualifications you can't just cast aside and pick men based on your own understanding or your own ideas of what a leader should be You know, there's leadership profiles all over the place. The government has leadership profiles for those who are in b uh in in positions of leadership. The military has leadership profiles, what that constitutes. The church does too. And the church is in there may be some overlap in some of these things, but the church has very definite differences. And those differences are calculated. To help the spiritual welfare of God's people. If you start choosing men for the wrong reasons, for the wrong if you try to put the wrong leadership profile that's out there in the world upon an elder and his qualifications in the church, it's not going to work. It's not going to work. Because the job here is to make disciples for Christ. And elders are in charge of assisting the pastor in doing that And it has to be done as Christ did it. Amen. But let's pray. Our Father. These all these qualifications that we've been looking at for these number of weeks now, four weeks, Lord, and we have more to look at. These matters should be taken more and more seriously by all of your churches, Lord, and we plead that your churches would do so. Uh for uh Lord uh uh you understand what it is that we need most of all, and you have seen fit to tell us In terms of our leaders, we pray, Lord, that you'll give the people of the congregation a clear insight into what you want for their leaders. We pray, Lord, that they would be in prayer for their leaders. And that God would raise up other leaders who can assist in the labor of making disciples for Christ. As Timothy was charged, see to it that no other doctrine be taught than the doctrine that Paul had taught, the doctrine of Christ. We ask these things now in Jesus' name, Amen.