But now let us turn to the reading of the scripture passage upon which the sermon is coming. It is based. 1 Timothy Chapter 6, and we'll be reading verses 1 through 5. Comments will be direct uh coming from verses 3 through 5. First Timothy chapter six, one through five, and let us hear the word of the Lord. Let as many bond servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor. that the name of God and his doctrine may not be blasphemed. And those who have believing masters Let them not despise them because they are brethren, but rather serve them because those who are benefited are believers and beloved. Teach and exhort these things If any one teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, And to the doctrine which accords with godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing. but is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words, from which come envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions. Useless wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. From such withdraw yourself. Now, godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we cannot carry we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts Which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil For which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness and pierced themselves through with many sorrows May God add his blessing to the reading of his word. We are coming slowly to the end of Paul's writings here in 1 Timothy. And in our verses tonight, as Paul was writing to Timothy as the pastor of the church at Ephesus, We return uh uh Paul returns back to a theme that has been uh common in the book of uh First Timothy, uh namely uh dealing with those who teach false things, with false teachers, false prophets. Uh remember that the Apostle Paul left Timothy behind when Paul left Ephesus and he charged him, among other things, to prevent the teachers of false doctrine. And we come back to that subject again tonight. And the interesting thing that emerges at this point in Paul's writings is that Paul considers that the words that he is writing here to Timothy, he considers his words to be the word of God Which is quite a incredible thing when you think about it. And tonight I want to talk to you about why Paul takes that view. And so we focus our attention on verses 3 through 5, and we see there's several clues that would help us to understand why considers his why Paul considers his words to be of such importance such great weight that he would um that he would equate them uh with the word of God. And I and I I certainly agree they are the Word of God. uh but uh for any human being to make that claim, uh you know, uh we we would look pretty askance at that kind of person today because the word of God is complete Uh at that particular time it was not. There were still apostles uh who were uh entrusted with uh uh spreading the doctrine of the Lord. And they had certain abilities that were uh beyond uh even those of the elders of the church. So we pick up in verse 3, if any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness, he is proud. If any man teaches otherwise. Now, Paul acknowledges that, right in that statement, that there are other teachers. And he has just made a couple of comments about Christians who are slaves or servants and how they relate. ought to relate to their masters, whether they be believing masters or unbelievers. And it it seems that uh Most naturally, Paul is saying, if someone comes and teaches you otherwise than what I have just said, Um he is uh he is uh uh uh a proud individual That's the first thing he says. He says more, but he's a proud individual. And the the uh I never thought I'd be able to use the word orthodox the sermon title uh but I am because here when he uses the word teaches otherwise uh the the the actual Greek word is uh what we would Well, I'll just say it because it's easier to say it and then explain it. Hetero didascalia. Hetero didascalia. Didascalia means teaching. Hetero means many different forms, many different types of teaching. It is the precise opposite of Orthodox. Because Orthodox in its Greek means straight or right or correct. Orthodox teaching Okay? If anyone comes to you and teaches other teaching than what? Than the Orthodox teaching, which I have presented to you. Okay? If anyone comes and does this, um he f and not And furthermore, not consent to wholesome words, which are the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness. Paul aligns himself with the wholesome words. He aligns himself with the doctrine of Christ. And he says, if anybody, what I have said is in alignment with the doctrine of Christ, if anyone comes and teaches otherwise, he is a proud person. And it it it you know it it it stuns you with the claim that Paul is making. And nevertheless, this is the apostolic task is to proclaim God's word and to teach the church what God's word is and what it is not. And uh even in a matter uh which we might consider somewhat Peripheral to Christian doctrine, the matter of how a master and a slave are to relate, even down to that level. Paul is saying Anything other than what I have said is unwholesome. Anything other than what I have said is heterodox. Anything other is being taught to you by someone who is proud. And so on. Orthodoxy carries with it the The thought of that which is correct, that which is true, that which is doctrinally in line with the things of Christ's teaching. In 2 Timothy 2, verses 15 and 16, we hear the word Not the word orthodox, but another ortho that's very close to orthodox being used, where Paul Exhorts Timothy, study to show yourself approved unto God, a workman that does not need to be ashamed. Rightly dividing the word of truth. Rightly dividing the word of truth. And it's that word rightly dividing. Rightly dividing or just rightly is the Greek word ortho. Orthoo again, you hear the word Right. Correct. Okay? Not exactly orthodox, but in that context, he goes on further to say He exhorts Timothy to study, to be a workman approved by God and not ashamed, because he rightly divides the word of truth, and then it says. Shun profane and vain babblings, for they increase unto more ungodliness. You get heterodox, unwholesome, ungodliness on the same side, along with orthodox right thinking, rightly dividing the word of truth, also on the same side. And there's a big difference. And what Paul is exhorting Timothy is to preserve that which is orthodox and Essentially make war against that which is heterodox. Okay? Every teacher If you're going to be a teacher, you want to, you strive, it doesn't mean you always hit the mark, but you strive for clarity And what you're saying. You strive for clarity in your teaching and in some ways a certain organization about what you're going to say is helpful to con to be to conveying clarity and conveying meaning It helps people to learn. It helps people to learn the material if you're clear and you're organized. That takes, in teaching, that is deliberate. That takes concentrated effort. If any of you have had to give a speech before an audience You know that you try as best as you can to be clear, and that organization helps you to do that. And I'm bringing this point up because it's not as though the false teachers Are unclear, and it's not as though they're unorganized. They want their position to be known too. It's just the way the human mind works. And so if uh if they're going to uh teach something otherwise That means their activity is deliberate. Do you follow what I'm saying? Their activity and their message is deliberately constructed. Against that which has been said by Paul, for whatever reason And you know, usually you think, you tend to think that, well, they the false teachers, they just want to have things their own way. They just want to have their own views, try to prop propagate them, and try to gain a following But what Paul is pointing out here is that there's motive involved. And the motive, the motive is to feed one's old man, the values and the thoughts of the old man. to take care of pride. To take to to to swell the pride, to swell the ego. Um um If you're going to teach that which isn't correct doctrine, if you're going to teach heterodox doctrine, if you're going to teach that which is unwholesome, it's not an error. It's a deliberate, calculated teaching in which ego cannot be separated Wrong values and positions cannot be separated from the heterodox teachers' teaching. Paul is by implication in verse 3 when he says, consent not to wholesome words. If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, he is using wholesome words as a shorter way of saying, does not consent to what I have been. Teaching just most recently in 1 Timothy 6, verses 1 and 2. But it would carry on throughout all of 1 Timothy, and I would say throughout all of Paul's epistles. If anyone teaches otherwise, he's not teaching wholesome Doctrine, beneficial doctrine, healthy doctrine, sound doctrine, spiritually healthy doctrine. And this thought of teaching for for biblical teachers to teach true teachers, not false teachers, but for true teachers This thought of teaching sound doctrine keeps popping up all over Paul's writings. We read about it in 2 Timothy, when we just the one the passage we just read in 2 Timothy. We find it spoken again in another place in 2 Timothy. 2 Timothy 1 verse 13, hold fast the form of sound doctrine or sound words which you heard of me. Which you heard of me in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus The passage we read a little bit earlier, 1 Timothy 4, verse 3, the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, wholesome words. Because of itching ears, they will keep up to themselves teachers, false teachers. Titus 1. 9. Holding fast the faithful word, as he has been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and convince those who are contrary. This witness is true, therefore rebuke them so so sharply That they may be sound in the faith, not heterodox, not unwholesome, but wholesome Titus 2, 1 and 2. Again, the importance of sound doctrine. Speak thou these things which become sound doctrine. And then he goes on to say, this is the thing she's supposed to speak, that aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, and charity and patience. The one who teaches otherwise than what Paul is teaching is teaching unwholesome words, unsound words And so this puts that teacher in direct opposition to Paul's teaching, but also to Christ's. But also to Christ. Paul further declares in verse three It's not my words and my teaching that these false teachers oppose. They oppose even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, he says. And to the doctrine, which is according to godliness. It's like you can't easily get around it. If you're opposing what I'm saying, you're opposing what Jesus says You're opposing sound doctrine. You're opposing the doctrine that is according to godliness, to promoting godliness. What Paul has assumed in these words that he has written to Timothy. The assumption that he has made is that his teaching is from Christ. And uh he assumes that because of his apostolic office, he assumes that because he has known what the scriptures are uh he he has uh known uh what the scriptures are he and the importance of the scriptures. Don't forget it's the Apostle Paul who spoke about the Scriptures in 2 Timothy chapter 3 in the 15th verse, the very familiar verse. Speaking to Timothy, that as a child you have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise into salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. Even what Paul is saying. Is given by inspiration of God. What he has to say in Ephesian in 1 Timothy 6 in our text tonight Is given to Paul by inspiration of God. The Orthodox teaching is given to Paul by God. And that those who oppose are heterodox teachers, and they're guilty of giving unwholesome words, words which do not edify, words which Only serve to be unprofitable to the spiritual welfare of those who hear them. This is not simply Paul's view. But the Apostle Peter says something very similar about the Scriptures. When he writes in 2 Peter 1, verse 19. We have the more sure word of prophecy, whereunto you do well that you take heed, as to a light that shines in a dark place. Until the day dawn and the day star rises in your heart. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the scriptures is of any private interpretation. For a prophecy came not an old by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. There Peter aligns himself with all the prophets of the past. There Peter says that Scripture itself As it is written down by Paul and by other writers of the New Testament and Peter, that this bears the mark of inspiration. That it is God it has God's authorship. And so a person who would dare teach opposite heterodox views is doing so. And is teaching not simply against Paul, but is teaching also against Christ. Both Peter and Paul expressly state that only God's word, the Bible, is spiritually wholesome. Again. All scripture is given by the inspiration of God, and it's profitable. For what? Doctrine, reproof, correction, for instruction in righteousness. Both warn that the word of false teachers is unwholesome, even destructive. To those who teach it and those who follow it. He says that a false teacher, verse 4, is proud Not only is he proud, but he knows nothing. If you're going to take the position that the Word of God, as we have it written down here Is not in line with my thinking, you're going to be in the position before God of knowing nothing. All you know is from your own thought. You're not Putting yourself and subjecting yourself to the teaching of God's word God's word. You're not putting it under God's word. And consequently, no matter how much you know In the end, you know nothing because you don't know anything truly or completely or fully You know it only in error. There are not you know the The implication of that, you see, is that, well, there are not multiple truths out there that these people who are teaching Whoever they are in Paul's day or whoever they are in our day, these people who are teaching against what has already been taught in the Word of God are not just simply on a different wavelength in a different world with a different truth. It's all truth anyway. No, it's right versus wrong. True versus false. Error versus truth. Unwholesomeness versus sound Heterodox versus orthodox. He is proud. He knows nothing. Verse 4. Doning about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, and evil surmisings, perverse disputings. by men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth. Supposing that gain is godliness, from such withdrawal yourself, he clearly says. Supposing that gain is godliness, there is a there's a very clear value judgment that's being made there. And the judgment that's being made is that the person who is teaching and who is all these things, teaching falsehood, is supposing that he will gain. something out of this. And that that which turns out to be monetary gain or worldly gain is equivalent to godliness. From such withdraw yourself, he says. The time will come 2 Timothy 4 3. The time will come when they will not endorse sound doctrine, but after their own lusts shall they heap up teachers to themselves, having itching ears. First Titus chapter one, verse nine, hold fast the faithful word. As you have been taught, that you may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince those who are contrary. Later on in that same section, verse 13 of Titus 1, he says, This witness is true. Therefore, rebuke them sharply. Those who teach falsehood, rebuke them sharply. But then notice what he says, that they may be sound in faith. There's a there's a uh uh a certain Desire on the part of the Apostle Paul that rebuke would bring correction, that rebuke would turn these individuals back to their senses. and that they would uh be sound in faith and uh even perhaps uh be be become good teachers If all these things are true, and certainly we believe them to be true, You would be well advised to listen very carefully to whatever you hear that claims to be Bible teaching. You are and we are all placed on notice that we should not critically unc excuse me that we should not uncritically accept whatever you hear. From someone who claims to be a Bible teacher, no matter who they say they are, and no matter what they say their credentials are. For example, if I came to you and I said for a modest $10,000 investment in soybean futures, I can guarantee you one a hundred thousand dollar profit in six months. What would you do? Give me the $10,000, right? Sight unseen, no questions. No, you wouldn't do that. You would investigate my credentials. You would investigate my claims. You would investigate my track record In this case, we might all say that we'd be taking a $10,000 gamble if we just gave the money. But the stakes that Paul is talking about is far greater than ten thousand dollars When you listen to false teachers, you very easily could wind up gambling with your soul. You must check out what they say, what all teachers say. The exhortation to be a Berean is appropriate. You remember the Bereans and what they did Paul and Silas came to them. They came by night from Thessalonica to Berea. And they went into the synagogue of the Jews. These Bereans were more noble than those in Thessalonica. And they received the word with all readiness of mind. And they searched the scriptures daily to see whether these things were true. May God commend that to you as your regular practice. Amen. Oh Lord our God, we would ask you to be merciful to this world in which we live, a world which has done many of the things which the Apostle Paul warns about. The heaping up of many teachers because we have itching ears, whether we do not like what the scriptures say, or the authority which lies behind them. Or whether it's just that we want to hear something new that will excite our fancy and not place too many demands upon us. Lord, these are not the way to go. Remind us, O Lord God, in all things that we would, as the Apostle Paul uh encourages us to do, to long for the wholesome doctrine, to long for the good, the good words of God, to study God's word, that we might be a workman rightly dividing the word of truth. Lord, that we might seek that which is right, that which is straight, that which is true with your word, even in some people's minds, that which is narrow. But Lord, uh we commend that each person uh who hears this uh will do their own searching. Search the scriptures daily to see if the things that they're hearing are true That once they do that, Lord, they would then follow truth. Follow truth, whatever the cost. Follow the truth of your word, and not the babblings of men. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The final hymn is 101