Let us turn now to the text from which the message is taken, from 1 Timothy chapter 3. Beginning at verse 8 and reading on through verse 13, as we look at the qualifications for Office in the church, and this time we especially look at qualifications for deacons. Let's hear the word of the Lord. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy for money holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. But let these also first be tested, and then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless. Likewise their wives must be reverent, not slanderous, not slanderers Temperate, faithful in all things. Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children in their own houses well. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus Thus far as the reading of this passage of God's Word. Tonight we look at verse 9. In this section of listing the qualifications for deacons. Deacons are to be those who hold the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. And this is the second in the series on qualifications for deacons. Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. It might be interesting to remember or to take note that this particular qualification is not mentioned about elders. I'm certain that it it it is assumed that elders would hold this this viewpoint as well But I think as we go on through this, you'll see, and I want us to try to understand why this is especially important for the deacons. as they go about their work of being ministers of mercy in the life of the church. They're expected to believe the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience, and I think that probably pure conscience means without reservations. Whatever this mystery of the faith is, the deacons are expected to believe it and to hold on to it without any reservations. Now, the word mystery is really actually a word that appears quite frequently in the New Testament. And for the most part, when it does appear in the New Testament, it is clearly associated with the idea of God bringing the gospel to his people. That the revelation of the gospel, the good news, is indeed the unfolding of a mystery, the mystery of God's plan of redemption. And its full meaning was hidden in the Old Testament. The full, complete understanding of what the gospel was, and What are the various different uh aspects of it was not something that was clear in the Old Testament. But now it has been fully revealed. The mystery has been fully revealed on the pages of Scripture for anyone to read. And to see. Now, that doesn't necessarily mean they will understand it, but it has been revealed. And uh it it the mystery is no longer a mystery. And if we begin to look at how this word mystery is used in the New Testament, One of the first times it is used is in the book of Matthew, in the parables. And after Christ gave the story, the parable of the sower. His disciples came to him and said, Why do you speak in parables? And you might recall in verses 10 and 11 of Matthew 13 that Jesus said Because, I speak in parables, because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them other people, other of people in his audience, it is not given. Now Something about the kingdom, the parable of the sower, is a mystery that Christ chooses to reveal to those to whom he desires to have that information understood. In this case, it's the disciples And it's also not to the general populace. In other places, particularly in the writings of the Apostle Paul, We find Paul giving a more full, a fuller explanation of this mystery. That Christ is talking about, the mystery of the kingdom of heaven or the mystery of the gospel. Many different references in Paul's writings. Romans chapter 11, verse 25. I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own conceit. That blindness in part is happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles come in. Now there it seems Apostle Paul is saying that there's an aspect of the gospel that's now been revealed in Christ that has something to do with the Gentiles. something to do with the Gentiles coming in. And I believe it's accurate and correct to say, something about the Gentiles coming into God's kingdom. is part of this mystery. Um Romans chapter 16 verse 25 In what is a benediction from the words of the Apostle Paul, now to him that is able, excuse me, now to him that is of power to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ according to the revelation of the mystery Which was kept secret since the world began. Once again, focus on this mystery Secret in the past, now, with Christ coming, it's opened up. It's been revealed Doesn't quite say exactly what it is yet, but but we have enough information at this very point to understand It has something to do with the kingdom of God. It has something to do with the gospel. It has something to do with the expansion. of the gospel uh to the world. Uh 1 Corinthians 2, verses 6 and 7. We speak wisdom among those that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that have come to naught. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory Ephesians chapter 1, verses 7 through, excuse me, 9 through 12, right after what we just got done reading earlier. part of what we read. Ephesians one, nine through twelve, having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he hath purposed in himself. that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather in to one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth, even in him Once again, I mean the the the word mystery here is still kind of in broad outlines, but we're beginning to see uh more of the details uh coming forward. The concept of gathering all together into one, into Christ, is prominently referred to as this mystery, which was once hidden, but now is being revealed. Paul reflects personally on the fact that God has revealed to him this mystery. Ephesians 3:3. That by revelation he made known unto me the mystery. As I wrote before in a few words, whereby when you read you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ. Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. And then at that point it kind of stops in a sense uh there's a in the paragraph, there's a in the punctuation of that paragraph He leads right up to telling us about this mystery that has been revealed unto the apostles and the prophets. And now he tells us exactly what it is in verse 6 of Ephesians 3. That the Gentiles should be fellow heirs. of the same body and partakers of the same promise in Christ by the gospel In other words, that which was so long hidden in the Old Testament, now being revealed through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in the New Testament. is that the Gentiles also have a place in God's salvation plan. That it's not exclusively limited to one group of people, that Christ has come to gr to bring salvation to the world, uh to to those around the world. Uh And uh and then Paul goes on in again in chapter 3 of Ephesians to say that he was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given to him by the effectual working of his power, unto me who am less than all the saints Is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the riches of Christ, to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery? which from the beginning of the world has been hid in God, who created all things by Christ. In other words, again, You know enough about your Bible to know that in the Old Testament God primarily worked with one group of people. There were a few exceptions, and those exceptions were foreshadowing the mystery being revealed, that there were going to be other people who would be a part of God's. uh messianic redemptive work. But for the most part, um uh the fullness of that uh ingathering, gathering into one, the bringing in of other people. was not something that was on the mind of most of the Jews. Not something that was on the mind even of the disciples initially. And it isn't the fact that Jesus initially spent much time with the Gentiles during his New Testament ministry. Although you begin to see the outworking of that. You begin to see certain people coming to Christ who are Gentiles. During his earthly ministry and receiving his aid. Remember the famous story about the woman who comes to Christ and asks for food from the master's table. uh for her herself and her child. And Christ refuses and he says at initially he refuses and he says, you know, you don't give uh uh uh bread to dogs. Uh bread belongs to the children. And the woman responds back and says, uh yes, but even the dogs flick the crumbs from the master's table. He called her a dog. She was a Gentile. If you go back and look at the story, she was a Gentile. He called her a dog. That's how Jews viewed the Gentiles in those days. But he was testing her He was testing her to see whether she believed that the gospel was for her, just like it was for Rahab, or just like it was for Ruth in the Old Testament. And of course the Lord, you know, he says to the woman, you know, go your way, your faith has made you well. You know, she she's blessed. So a couple of other places. Again, I'm belaboring this point, but I want you to see that it's clear what the mystery is. Ephesians 6 verse 19, Paul says, Pray for me, that utterance may be given to me, that I may open my mouth boldly. To make known the mystery of the gospel. To make known the mystery of the gospel. And that's because, you see, the Apostle Paul is the apostle to the Gentiles. He's asking for their help, that when he goes into Gentile regions, people, he's not Culturally connected to that he'll be bold about preaching the gospel. Colossians chapter 1, verses 26 and 27, even the mystery which has been hid from the ages and from generations, but is now being made manifest to the saints. to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this ministry excuse me, of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. You can also look at uh Colossians 2. 2. Uh you can look at Colossians 4. 3 Which says, pray for us also that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ, which I am also in bonds. If you were to try to summarize all of these verses together, which I've already kind of done, but let's go back and let's hear a summary again. The mystery which the deacons are to hold with a clear conscience is It's knowledge that only God can reveal to those who are given to know it. First of all. Secondly, the mystery is not known by the wisdom of this world. But it is of the wisdom of God, which he ordained for his glory before the world began. 1 Corinthians 2, 6. The knowledge of the mystery of Christ was not previously made known to men. It was even hidden. But it is now revealed to the holy apostles and the prophets, and by extension. To all of us, deacons, elders, and everybody else in the church It's been made known through the Holy Spirit. The preaching of the gospel of Christ is at the center part of this mystery. And this ministry, ministry, this mystery includes the gathering together into one all things in Christ. And I might add, all people in Christ. This is occurring in the fullness of time. This mystery involves the Gentiles and the Jews coming together as one people. Under Christ. Paul was ordained to preach this mystery to the Gentiles And Paul asks repeatedly for prayer that he might be bold to proclaim the gospel to the Gentiles. It's a mystery that has been hidden from the ages, but God has now revealed it to his people. Even though the mystery is hidden, you do find, as I said previously, Old Testament precursors to this mystery Again, Rahab, uh Ruth, and the Syrian leper, Naaman are three prime examples of the gospel in the Old Testament coming to Gentiles. And the beginnings of their becoming part of the kingdom of God. You find the idea of the Gentiles being included. In the gospel or in the good news, even in God's dealings with Abraham. In Genesis 12, verse 3, I will bless them that bless thee, I will curse them who curse thee, but in thee all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And again, remember, in thee. And who is in thee? Who is in Abraham? Is it not Christ? His seed. And in Christ, God says to Abraham, early on in God's dealing with Abraham, Genesis 12. All the families of the earth shall be blessed. Not one family, but all the families shall be blessed. And so many of the promises of the Old Testament about the coming of the Messiah. are are promises that when they find their fullness, full expression, uh they are uh uh They find their full expression and meaning in the New Testament, they are applied not just to one group of people, but to all. Isaiah 53 Uh uh he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our tr iniquities. The chastisement uh uh uh uh that brought us peace was upon him and by his stripes we are healed. Well who are the we? It's those who are in Christ. Then who are they? They are those whom God has chosen from every nation, tribe, and tongue. So again, these are uh some Old Testament precursors uh of a uh of this mystery uh uh even in the Old Testament, but it is now with the coming of Christ. It is it is it is out there in the open for all to see. The mystery is no longer a mystery Now, I mentioned earlier that I'm sure the the elders Would also have to hold to this mystery with a pure conscience. But it leaves, it begs the question, or it leaves open the question, why did Paul write this As a qualification to the deacons, and not necessarily a qualification to the elders And that uh that there is no answer given to that in the text, but yet I think there is a practical reason connected with this. Why would the deacons need to hold the mystery of the gospel with a pure conscience? Especially as that gospel applies to the engrafting of the Gentiles. Well, as the church begins in the early first century And the before there as it as it unfolds and as the church develops, who who's coming, who's making up the church? It's converted Jews and Gentiles Gentiles who've been converted as well. And they're coming from two different cultures. And and those cultures have long been, as it were, in conflict with one another. And there are bound to be prejudices uh that that spring up between these two groups of people as they try to live as now one body One brother and sister in Christ still carrying with them some of their cultural baggage. And you see that, you see that happening in the early New Testament church The Apostle Paul, for example, had to rebuke the Apostle Peter at Galatia because When there were no Jews present or Judaizers present, Peter was buddy-buddy with the Gentiles. As soon as the Jews showed up or the Judaizers showed up, he put on a different face. He had a different approach. He was kind of standoffish from this group. And Paul rebuked him for it. The whole council of Jerusalem mentioned in Acts chapter 15 came about as a result of conflict over what the gospel was and how it was to be applied to Jew and how it was to be applied to Gentile And you remember that that that that was an extremely important conference because it set in motion the idea, as the Judaizers were falsely saying, that These new Gentile converts had to be circumcised and obey the law of Moses. Unless they did it, they couldn't be saved. And Peter stood up after much discussion at the Council of Jerusalem in Acts chapter 15, he says, He says to the whole assembly, he says, why do you want to place upon these Gentile believers a burden which our forefathers could not bear, and which we could not bear. Why do you want to get them into the mindset again of there's something they do, a work that they do that saves them? And that was, you see, that was not so much that was not merely theologically or doctrinally based. upon bad doctrine, it was also culturally based in terms of where they're coming from So there were these conflicts. And then you have this amazing incident in Acts chapter 6. Where the first deacons were elected and installed to the church over the problem of Greek widows being neglected in the daily ministration of food. They were neglected while the Jewish widows of the church were being taken care of. So, Pastor, what are you saying? You see, what I'm saying is that in the exercise of their duties Deacons are going to be faced with questions about how to minister to people who are not our kind. They come from different cultures. Jew versus Gentile. They come with different of different colors. They come with different of different socioeconomic uh um places. And and I think what this holding The mystery of the gospel with a pure conscience, you see, fits how deacons do their work. Because it argues that because of Christ, there are no significant barriers anymore, economic barriers to the gospel. and that all who are named Christ are to be welcomed into the fellowship and ministered to. When they are needy. There's no restriction to be put on them because they're not from the same culture. Because Christ, you see, is gathering everybody It isn't so much that the elders wouldn't have to be aware of that. They should be aware of it too. But it's the deacons who are going to be on the front line ministering to this need. Amen. Let us pray O Heavenly Father, we thank you that your gospel does in its in its purest form, in its purest expression. does not look at external considerations. But Father, you in your manifold wisdom have designed a gospel that appeals To the hearts of those whom you choose to be your people, regardless of their past, regardless of their They're uh where they come from or what nationality they're from, but Lord, you're building your kingdom uh from all the people on earth Who bless Father Abraham, because in his seed is Christ. And Christ is the the one thing that brings unity to all the people of the world. We pray, O Lord, give you thanks for giving us this information this evening as we think about leaders in the church And we pray, Father, that uh we give you thanks that our deacons are aware of these things and that they are faithful, Lord, in administering needs to the people uh based upon Lord the the the the goodness of the gospel of Christ uh goes to anyone, Lord, who has need. And we pray now, Father, that uh You will bless us this evening as we leave this place with your blessing. In Christ's name. Amen