Let's remain standing for the reading of God's Word from Revelation chapter six, verses nine through eleven. Revelation 6 at verse 9. When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true until you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth. Then a white robe was given to each of them and it was said to them that they should rest a little while longer, until both the number of their fellow servants and their brethren Who would be killed as they were was completed. This is God's word. Oh Lord, we pray. That you will give us hearts to hear and understand and encourage them by your word. Go with your word now and honor your name, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Revelation has some obvious challenges when it comes to understanding it. I have often said to people, if you are asking somebody to become familiar with the Bible, so that they may understand the gospel better and become a Christian, you probably don't start with this book. Frequently, we recommend somebody read the Gospel of John, although John has its own complexity, it also has a simplicity to it Very often people will suggest starting with the Gospel of Mark for someone who doesn't know very much about the Bible. I think the Wycliffe Bible translators that go into areas where there are uh groups, races, tribes that have not uh received a Bible in their own language very frequently make it a priority to translate the Gospel of Mark first Because there you get some of the simple facts about Jesus. And it is through Jesus that we come to know God In a saving way and have our sins forgiven. And you don't have to know everything before you know Jesus. And we never know anything know everything anyway, so uh that would be an impossible thing. God has made it easy We want wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and Christ is the one, the door through which we come To know the simple things that lead us on to greater depths, but we should never forget the simple things. So this book presupposes, I believe, that you have a familiarity with the rest of your Bible This book also has some interesting structure to it, and I'm not sure anybody has fully figured out what that whole structure is. is like. There's some good ideas about how it is structured, but this is not like the uh The 30-piece jigsaw puzzles that my grandchildren that are two and four years of age solve. One of these days and probably for the four-year-old not very far off, they'll get tired of the 30-piece jigsaw puzzle because they can put it together so quickly and they know how to do it Well, I've never had that feeling reading the Bible, much less the book of Revelation, that I could just put it all together that quickly. And uh same thing especially when it comes to even finding a fundamental structure to the book of Revelation. There's a structure there, and I could talk about that, but I won't get into it, because again That's one of the challenges. Another challenge that we have is that there are so many people that have elaborate charts and explanations. for what the book is that I'm not sure they're always uh on target and those can after a while if you've been raised with all of those charts confuse you and uh get in the way of of thinking about the book in a new and a fresh way. But perhaps The greatest challenge to understanding the Book of Revelation is having it too good. I don't think this book is quite as hard to understand For someone who is really suffering for the name of Christ. When I first started reading the Bible on a more serious basis. back in the late sixties and early seventies. Yes, this was an interesting book, but sure, we knew that there were Christians persecuted in communist countries and And uh there were not necessarily friendly people that were just overjoyed to hear about other Bible believing Christians, but there was not the kind of persecution that I'm hearing about today in the world. I uh think I heard on the news or television somewhere the other day where there was uh uh an official in the Roman Catholic Church. He might have been a cardinal, I forget But he said that I will probably die in my bed, my successor will die in prison, and his successor will die by being executed I don't know. Maybe he's right. It can certainly look that way But I've kind of given up on making too many predictions because I'm not a prophet or a son of a prophet. And I know that today God could do something that would change everything and scramble all of our ways of thinking and turn them upside down. Whether he chooses to send a great revival that will change things or not, I don't know. It'd be a wonderful thing if he sends that great revival, something that we could all be praying about. And I'm sure sometimes we pray out of self-interest, but we should be praying that God would just be honored and glorified by Bringing his purposes to pass that honor and glorify him. So I do think this book Takes on a special kind of non-theoretical and real feel for those who are persecuted. And that may put them in a better position to understand it than we do. And yet, perhaps we're not that far away, as I've already said. Okay. There are some practical questions. Practical questions that arise that I think Help us think about this passage, maybe in a new way. At least it's been a new way for me. It's a passage here in Revelation 6, 9 through 11 that You're hearing more about, I think, because of the persecution that is going on. But With the background that you presumably have, many of you, I hope all of you, in the Bible You know that the dominant tone of the New Testament is to pray for your enemies. Pray for your enemies and to pray for those who persecute you. And that is the dominant tone of the New Testament. And then you Remember Jesus as he is being crucified, and he says, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Or the first martyr, Stephen, who says very much the same kind of thing. As he's about to be stoned to death. Now, if you've gone through persecution long enough And people have been meek, like Christ was during his suffering, long enough. What is the question you ask? How long? How long Do we have to suffer and be meek and pray for our enemies and those who persecute us? You know, I looked at the how long question and was intrigued to find that the question goes back at least as early as Exodus 10, which we read this morning. And it's interesting that God's the first one that asks that question of Pharaoh. And if I could paraphrase it, it's sort of like how are you how long are you going to be stubborn? How long are you going to be a chump? Uh and pretty soon Pharaoh's own leaders say, Hey How long are you going to hang on to these people? Don't you see that this is not getting us anywhere good? And the how long question doesn't have a highly specific answer to it, does it? It's like, can we try something new? That's another way of perhaps articulating And what's behind that question? Should we try something new here? Jesus himself asked the question, how long Will I be with this faithless generation? It's a question that is prompted by a certain grief A certain grief in the face of stubborn sin. Stubborn sin. And sin is very, very Now, what is fascinating here in the book of Revelation is that it's not Christ going to the cross that says how long, and it's not Stephen About to be stoned, who says how long? It's people who've already died who say how long That's strange. In a certain at least maybe to me, maybe not. Maybe you understand it perfectly But but I look at it and I say, hey, you're dead, you're in heaven? What more do you want? There's no suffering in heaven. But these who have suffered for the testimony of Jesus, whose suffering is over in that regard Are saying how long? And they're asking for a little bit of vengeance here Where's that meek praying for your enemies and those who persecute you thing at Now, this tells me that when you read the book of Revelation and you look at some of the other images in the book of Revelation, there are some really strange twists. This is a change of perspective that is going on here in this book. There is what we call irony. I like irony, uh that kind of twisted thing Uh where somebody says something like, Oh yeah, no good deed goes unpunished. You know, that kind of a twist kind of thing. You know? Uh and uh you can take it too far where you begin to question God's justice. But uh uh I I I like irony and most people who like literature like irony. It kind of makes things interesting I believe irony is founded fundamentally in the wisdom and inscrutable way in which God does things. And when you read the book of Revelation, you find some really curious ironies. We could have read on to verse 16. And it talks about the wrath of the lamb. Wrath of a lamb? But there's something about it that isn't that funny. The image is Kind of frightening. And then you move on to chapter 7, verse 17. And here's this lamb That is leading people to fountains of water. That's a little bit backwards It's normally people that are the shepherds that are leading the lambs to the water. So there's some Change of perspective, some challenge for us, not even so much to get a better interpretation of the Bible, but to start thinking in a different way. Because now we're getting heaven's perspective on things These are those who have suffered for their faith in Christ, who are now in heaven. And now we see From heaven, a perspective that we didn't fully see before John is on the island of Patmos. Perhaps not suffering as badly as some other Christians had suffered, but he's still in exile. And perhaps wondering, hey, I'm maybe the last living apostle. Uh how effective can I be For the Lord, hanging out on this island where I can't do my job, preaching the gospel. And you can feel kind of lonely and abandoned That's one of the keys, I think, to thinking about the book of Revelation before you get into figure Figuring out the complicated structure of it is what you say to people that feel lonely and abandoned Who are feeling like, where is God? Look at all this evil And you know, I probably need to ration my news listening better, but every time I hear, you know, it's one thing after another. Christians that were on a boat with some Moslems leaving Libya on the way to Italy and uh Christians get thrown into into the sea to drown Just a couple of days ago, I think it was. And you hear that kind of thing, and then you say, well, maybe the government would do something about it And there's no governments in this world that seem to be that interested in really doing anything about it. Well, there is a king that's interested. in doing something about it. Praise the Lord. And he will do something about it. And that's what we're allowed to see The stuff that nobody else sees, we see a vision in heaven through John's revelation. And we see that there is not an impotent God who's a pacifist. That's not the picture of the God of the Bible. When Jesus says, pray for your enemies, pray for those who persecute you. Turn the other cheek and all of these things. It's not so that he can found an eternal order of pacifism God is not a pacifist God. God judges sin. And there are a number of differences We could list between Islam and Christianity, but the idea of whether God ever resorts to violence is not one of them God will resort to some violence one of these days. It's called the Last Judgment. And hell is not any Nonviolent experience. It's not an experience that we should want anybody to have to face. That's why we pray. And that's why somebody who may be a persecutor wants moment like Saul can become a Paw. And God is glorified in the transformation and salvation of the wicked. And we should seek to see God glorified in that way. That's what we're here for now But from that heavenly perspective, there is a fuller picture A God who is also just and who will ultimately deal with those who refuse to bow the knee to Jesus Christ And so that is the picture that we have given here. Now The question remains how long? And the answer remains not gonna give Time We have our own way of thinking about time. If you're a physicist, I guess you like things like atomic clocks or things like that things like that. Things that can measure things with a degree of accuracy beyond anything that they can produce in Switzerland. So uh the and then geologists they like to talk about eons or ages and and things like that. Time There have been books written about the history of time, the mystery of understanding time. But we know that there's a practical side to time that is very Kind of relative to our experience. When you're a little kid, time is how many more days till Christmas? Or when you're traveling in the car, are we there yet? And I remember that our kids when they were little we would be going on this long vacation that was supposed to be a lot of fun And we're all packed into this little Toyota Corolla, four of us. And they'd say, Are we there yet? How long till we get there? And I think they were young enough that the words half hour or hour didn't mean very much to them. And so it was, well, it's about two co cartoons before we get there They understood how long a cartoon lasted. So we communicated that way in terms of how many cartoons till we got there Time. Sometimes we think that we can dure just about anything if it's just a short period of time, but I had an experience this past week that gave me an illustration that made me rethink that. I went to the dentist And he was making a thing or dealing with a tooth so he could put a new crown on it. And I realized that I'm very thankful for Novokane and that when they're grinding on that tooth with that drill That even half a minute without Novakane would be torture. Half a minute would be an eternity. And there was one point where the Node Kane hadn't fully taken, and it didn't hurt that much, but I kind of you know let him know that i i it it hadn't fully taken. Just that one zing can kind of uh get your attention. So that question of time when it comes to suffering. Is not a question where we're comforted necessarily by, oh, it'll only be thirty seconds without the Novicane, or it'll only be three three and a half years of great tribulation or whatever kind of time framework because if you're going through the pain you want it to end now Whether it's what we call short or long, again thirty seconds can be a long time if Someone's messing with a sensitive thing like your tooth or eye or whatever it may be. So, how long? The answer is indicated in terms of short, rest a little while longer, but Instead of looking at the hand on the clock and trying to watch it move Will that hand ever hit twelve noon? That agony of waiting That thing that I've seen in movies where the bomb is starting to tick and you know you have three minutes left to diffuse it, or the train is coming to Yuma and uh at a certain time the gunfighters will be off of it and the sheriff's gonna have his handful or if you grew up in a school where Uh somebody said, I'm gonna deal with you after school and three o'clock comes and you say, ah, I guess the time's up. You're watching the clock You're watching that hand on the clock and you're counting time by those increments on the clock. There's a different increment put here than those marks on the dial of a clock though It's a different mystery though. God answers one mystery with another mystery. The increments that God gives in Revelation 6, 9, 21 is it's when the last person dies who's been appointed to suffer for my name. Now if you wanted to know in more chronological time when that is, you'd have to say, okay, who's the last person and when will they be But God's not answering that question. That's another mystery. He's answering one mystery with another mystery. In other words, this book of Revelation is given to sort of put a perspective on, I think, Jesus' words. No man knows the day or the hour We don't know that. But what we know is that there is progress towards that day. And the more people that die for the name of Christ, the faster that clock is moving forward. And the closer we are to seeing the end of all things Now, if you're only thinking of yourself, you might say, yeah, but what's that do for me? But God, I believe, is challenging us to think in a larger perspective about the family that we're a part of now and will be a part of Our daughter-in-law is, Lord willing, about to have another grandchild for us. And uh It's not easy giving birth to a baby. Uh I I can't speak from p experience, but uh I can see. And uh it's a good thing though to have that other family member there One of these days, those of you who know Jesus Christ, you're going to get to see your Whole family. Your whole family. Christ will be at the center, but that whole family will be a joyous family People that may not mean a whole lot to you now will mean something to you then It'll be a joyous thing. And so this waiting, waiting for the baby, waiting for God's coming Waiting for God to help us with whatever it is that we're struggling with, waiting can be difficult because patience is not that easy. It's a fruit of the Spirit. It's not a fruit of the flesh. If it was a fruit of the flesh, we could all be patient But it's something that God wants us to develop as we begin to see a larger picture. Be patient because there's a bigger picture here. And yes, certainly we know the bigger picture is that God will comfort us at the end. But here's this perspective where even those who are in heaven are saying, how long? Because they want. Justice, because that's part of who God is, and that's part of what is right And no doubt they want the suffering of God's people on earth to end. So how long doesn't have to just be about ourself? It's how long until God will be honored the way he should be honored, and how long until God shows forth the fullness of all of his purposes. And faith means trusting that God Has it all under control and is doing the best for us and everybody else. And he's elevating us to be proprietors along with him. In this thing called the kingdom of heaven. We have an interest in the kingdom of heaven and the addition to the family. Because that's part of our community. That's our real community. That's our real family. And one of these days we'll get to meet some people who were thrown off a boat in the Mediterranean Sea. And some people who suffered in North Korea. And they'll get to meet us. We should pray for those people who are suffering. And yes, sure, if anybody has leverage with the government, fine, bring it up. But that's not where our hope is. They'll always in the end disappoint you, but Christ never will. Let's be thankful for our Christ. Who never disappoints because he has been through it. And he experienced an eternity of suffering in three hours So that we might be saved. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God, we thank you for the one who suffered like No righteous person should ever have to suffer. And suffered uniquely that we might not have to suffer. We pray for those who have earthly tribulation, that you will comfort them and help them to endure and help us, Lord, where we may be called to suffer, whether in small things or great, to be found faithful, to be found patient. And even to have joy knowing that it is a fellowship of suffering with the one who now reigns at your right hand. We pray in his name. Amen.