And now let me direct your attention to the Word of God to 1 Timothy. 1 Timothy. As we continue in our study of 1 Timothy and chapter 5, and tonight, verses 1 through 4. Follow along as I read the Word of God. Do not rebuke an older man, but exhort him as a father. Younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, with all purity Honor widows who are really widows. But if a widow has children or grandchildren, Let them first learn to show piety at home, and to repay their parents. For this is good and acceptable before God Now she who is really a widow and left alone trusts in God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. But she who lives in pleasure is dead while she lives, and these things command that they may be blameless But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his own household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. And uh we are coming to the conclusion of the book of First Timothy And as those of you who have been with us for all these weeks as we've been studying know that this epistle was written to Timothy by the Apostle Paul. As Timothy takes over responsibility for leading the church at Ephesus. And in the instructions the Apostle Paul has given to Timothy, He is very zealous that the pure gospel be protected and defended. He's actually given charge to Timothy to To intercept those who are teaching anything contrary to the gospel that the Ephesian church has received from Paul. And he's been saying other things to Timothy like don't let the people wander into a discussion of old wives' tales and fables. And uh and and and and really um it's not simply Timothy that he's giving these instructions to But it's also for Timothy to understand that he has a collection of other leaders who are going to help him. in this labor. And that's where we find the instructions that are given to elders and deacons. Are prominently featured in chapter 3. Those who will come alongside Timothy and his pastoral responsibilities and help preserve the integrity of the gospel. Now, tonight, excuse me, the last time we were together, we talked about this passage in 1 Timothy chapter 4 verse 12 where Paul exhorts Timothy, he says, Lo let no man despise your youth. Obviously, Timothy must have been a young man. when he was uh taking responsibility for the church. And uh one of the ways, uh the primary way that the Apostle Paul uh said that Timothy could prevent people from despising the fact that he was young would be the second part of verse 12, but set an example to the believers Set an example in your understanding of the Word. Set an example in your walk. Set an example in love, in spirit, in faith, and in purity. And that brings us to where we are tonight. And the instructions that we see tonight revolve around Paul giving the giving Timothy uh uh some very explicit uh commands regarding how to treat A different group of variety of people. Older men, younger men, older women, younger women, and widows. And these five groups of people really, when you think about it, constitute the range of people in a typical congregation. Women, men, old, young widows as well. There's obviously some others that would be a part of it, but I don't think Paul meant to do this when he wrote this to Timothy, but in talking about these particular groups that Timothy is to pay attention to. and minister to in a certain way, Paul is also giving us kind of a snapshot of what might have been might the early of church look might the early church have looked like. And maybe the church at Ephesus in particular would have had old people, young people. Single women, married women, widows as well. And I do want to take a minute to comment about that In other places, the Apostle Paul also talks about that the message of the gospel and the fellowship of believers is a fellowship open to all different types of people. Simply because a person uh is uh is of one particular uh uh gender or one particular race or one particular nationality, it's not a reason for the Apostle Paul to then thereupon say, well, let's have churches for each individual gender. Rather, there's a sort of uh uh heter hetero heterogenetic, well, there's a mixed group, a mixed group of people who are part of the body of Christ. It may occur that in certain situations you may be in a situation where you have all old people or all young people But that isn't to be the norm. That isn't to be what we strive for. That we don't want a church that is all Korean or all Chinese are all um any kind of uh nationality oriented. The the more ideal church, the paradigm for the church of the Lord Jesus Christ is the church in heaven Where all people from every nation and every tribe gather together and they have one common bond, which is they've been called to eternal life in Christ That Christ has died for them. And the very fact that Paul is saying to Timothy This is how I want you to treat an older man. This is how I want you to treat a younger woman. Argues for the fact that that church in Ephesus was a mixed group. And it's mixed because each of those groups that he mentions brings to the table Brings to the complexity of the church at Ephesus certain gifts as well as certain aggravations. Those of you who have children know that it can be very aggravating sometimes dealing with younger children. Those of you who have older parents that you're taking care of know that that can be at times a stressful thing and a difficult thing. But they also have wisdom. They have experience. They've gone through what you may be yet to go through. And you can learn things from them. Younger people too also have valid ideas that the rest of us can learn from. But that's not exactly what the point is of this text is. So I'll get off of that and move now to the actual words of the text. How to treat others in the church. Paul says to Timothy, Rebuke not an older man, verse 1, but treat him as a father. and the younger men as brethren In uh other places of uh of Paul's word, or the word that God gave to Paul in Timothy, uh we find him also speaking about How to interact with older people. 1 Timothy 5, 19 and 20. He mentions against an elder And I believe here he is not talking about an older person, but I think he's talking about the office of elder. He says, receive not uh against an elder, receive not an accusation. Without two or three witnesses. Them that sin, rebuke before all, that others may fear. In 2 Timothy 4, verse 2, Paul writes, preach the word, the instant in season and out of season reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine And you might think if Paul is giving Timothy instructions, it's first 2 Timothy 4 to preach the word and to be involved in reproving and rebuking. Everybody that is with the earshot, that that might be in conflict with what we read here. Rebuke not an older man. Uh but I do not believe that uh that's the case simply because um And I know this is a kind of a fine point, but it's a point that needs to be made. When it says in verse 1 of chapter 5, rebuke not an elder, that word is not the normal word for rebuke. in the Greek. In fact, it that that word is only used here in this passage in all of the New Testament. And uh and the word gets translated rebuke, but it is better translated as browbeat And when you browbeat someone, that's not a word we use often, but it is in the English vocabulary. When you browbeat someone You are constantly hammering at them with whatever it is you want them to change. That's not the same as a rebuke. A rebuke is not constant. It's one time, for example. And it's directed at a particular sin. And so I don't think that those two are exactly the same. I don't think they're the same at all. And I think it's pretty easily reconciled. That what Paul is trying to get Timothy to do is to, yes, speak to an elder an elderly person, an older man, if he has an issue. But do it in a certain way. Show him respect, show him honor. And he says also, entreat him, rebuke not an older man, but entreat him. As a father. Entreat him as a father. The word entreat is the Greek perikaleo. And parakaleto, we've talked about many other times. And that means to exhort or encourage. Encourage the man. Don't rebuke him and browbeat him. Keep hammering away with him. Keep trying to drive some sort of point home to him, but show him respect And encourage him. Exhort him to live in a way that is honoring to Christ. And, brothers and sisters, to have that kind of perspective is going to take some time, it's going to take some effort, and it's going to mean you're going to have to choose your words carefully And at the same time, it does reflect the biblical teaching that those who are older are due respect. And honor. It flows in many ways out of the fifth commandment. Honor your father and your mother. When we're young, we sometimes have trouble talking to our natural fathers. And there's a certain zeal of youth that wants to communicate something to their father, but Watch out how you communicate with others, particularly with those who are elderly. Zeal. And sometimes is a good thing, but zeal can also be misplaced and misguided. And you can have zeal and be totally wrong. About what you're zealous for. Appeal to your elder or to the older men, Paul was saying to Timothy, watch how you communicate with them Speak to them what is edifying, not what tears down. Speak words that encourage them. That demands conscious decision and effort, and some creativity Have respect for the older. Show deference to age, wisdom, and experience. That's what he has to say about how Timothy is to relate to the older men in the church. And then and by by extension, it's not it's primarily targeting Timothy, but it's a good general exhortation for all of us in terms of how we relate to the those who are older Paul then also says, treat younger men as brothers. Treat younger men as brothers. The word there is brotherly love. Have brotherly love for your brothers. And you know how brothers are. I wasn't fortunate to have a brother, but Some of you have brothers, you know, uh your brothers usually could do uh could could Brothers could beat you know the heck out of one another. But when it comes time for someone else to go after your brother, you usually rather quickly come to the side of your brother. And And I think that uh when it says treat younger men as brothers, it it it sh I think it clearly suggests that we should love them and stick with them. them and support them as well. In verse two, Paul shifts from the men's side of equation to the women's side of the equation. The young Timothy needs also to know how to interact in a in a positive, God-honoring way with women And the first thing Paul says, he says, treat the older woman as mothers, even as you would treat your own mother. have uh uh have honor her and respect her. Uh the same things that Paul has had to say about old uh how uh he is to Timothy is to relate to older men He now says applies to the older women as well with respect and honor and love. And encourage them, not browbeat them Uh younger as sisters. Uh clearly. Uh I did have I do have a sister. And uh I I'm sad to admit that and ashamed to admit that even though now we're great and doing well, I wasn't such a great brother growing up But at but at the same time, you know, she was my sister and I would protect her if any kind of thing happened to her. uh respect and protect them, honor their purity and their holiness. Treat them as sisters. They're not property and they're not slaves. Women, younger women, women in general are not property and they're not slaves Uh they're like members of your own family. Uh And then Paul speaks about honoring widows, who are widows indeed. Verse 3. Give them honor. There must have been a rather significant problem with widows. in the New Testament church, or not a problem as much as it is a reality. I think we need to realize that in that particular time and place there was no vast support structure. There was no governmental existing welfare state that widows and uh people who were destitute could go to Widows who are widows indeed are those who lived faithfully with their husbands. and were examples of being a good wife and mother. And then after many years they lost their husbands Then the question was always going to be, who's going to provide for them? And you see in the in the Old Testament Israel did make some provision for widows. It wasn't the kind of provision that is uh uh uh saying to widows that, well, you're you're entitled to receive whatever I have. Rather, it was Wherever there were fields that were being gleaned, wherever there were fields that were being harvested, the corners of the field were to be left unharvested. For the widows. The widows then could go out and work and get their own grain. And you see that happening in the book of Ruth. But it wasn't just by accident that that happened. That was part of the law of God. uh in ancient Israel. Uh it doesn't mean that uh uh a widow was automatically entitled to receive any sort of blessings from uh those who might happen to be rich, but it was incumbent upon the rich, nevertheless, particularly if they had fields, to uh set aside some were the poor and the widows in the community. When Jesus was about to die on the cross in John chapter 19, verse 26, he saw his mother, and he saw the disciples standing by. That would be John, the disciple whom he loved. He said unto his mother, Woman, pointing at John, Woman, behold your son. And then he said to the disciple, John, pointing to his mother, behold your mother. And the text goes on to say, from that hour that disciple took her into his own home and cared for her. Honor those who are widows. And who are widows indeed. But even then, notice there's a very carefully worded exception. He says in verse 4, If any widow have children or nephews, let them first learn to show piety at home and to repay their parents. For that is good and acceptable before God. Timothy is told by Paul that the children and nephews Of widows ought to be the first to come to the assistance of the widows. First, even before the church. They're to care for them as they would care for their own mothers. They are to pay them back. Pay them back. The church is not to think, today's contemporary church is not to think that even though we have this vast Welfare structure in place by our government, I do not believe it is right for us to think first that the state will take care of them. It is the in the first place, it is the responsibility of those who are who are aged widows or widows in the church. It's the responsibility of their ch children to care first. And then if there's none of those who exist, then the church may indeed come and help. and should help under those circumstances. And it may be that they'll have to help the children as well. But the primary principled responsibility is not to the church. It's to the children, the family first. Then we see again, as I pointed out, how ancient Israel took care of widows. Just go back and read Ruth chapter 2 verse 2, Ruth chapter 2, verse 8. Where eighteen, excuse me, where Ruth says to Naomi, Let me go to the field and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I have found grace. She's speaking about Oaz there. And Ruth said to her, Go, my daughter. And verse 18, Ruth came back. She took up her basket, went into the city, and her mother-in-law saw all that she had gleaned, and brought forth, and Ruth gave it to Naomi This is what is good and acceptable in the eyes of God. You see, in general, Paul is saying to Timothy, The servant of the Lord must not strive, but even in rebuking, be gentle unto all men, able to teach and patient In meekness, instruct those that oppose you, so that God might give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth These are just a few instructions. Just a few simple uh um instructions that come from Paul writing under the inspiration, from the inspiration of God to Timothy, uh about how uh we're to interact and how we're to treat. others in the church. May God help us hear this. May God help us as we have occasion to do these things. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for this information that your word speaks to us. And uh Lord, we uh we do thank you too for uh revealing unto us the that your church is a uh a mixed group of individuals with various different uh abilities and gifts that no one is indispensable to the welfare of the church. No one is without gifts. No one is without wisdom. Lord, we pray that you will give us grace to treat one another in accordance with the respect that is deserved. And so that, Lord, we might uh benefit each other as the body of Christ, we might grow in grace and be even more uh uh um uh di uh even more uh a blessing uh to one another and for your church and to the people of the world as they see at work in the church What is true love and true compassion? We pray it in Jesus' name, Amen