With us. Psalm 116, a favorite Psalm. I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. The snares of death encompassed me, the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me I suffered distress and anguish. Then I called on the name of the Lord. Oh Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord, and righteous our God is merciful. The Lord preserves the simple. When I was brought lo, he saved me. Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. I believed, even when I said I am greatly afflicted. I said in my alarm, all mankind are liars What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? I will lift up the cup of salvation. And call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. O Lord, I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people, in the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst, O Jerusalem. Praise the Lord. Please be seated. Let's pray. Dear Father in heaven, we thank you for your holy inspired word. Your word is truth, and we, Lord, ask that we would be sanctified by your truth. We ask, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would help us understand this passage and the attitudes and the responses that the psalmist here writes about. And the Lord, would you please work within us, within our hearts, these same attitudes and responses. All to your glory, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever made any New Year's resolutions? Ah, somebody nodded. So when I was a young lad, I came to learn about New Year's resolutions, you know, January, New Year, and you determine that I will improve myself in certain ways And I thought that was rather neat. And so I resolved to study hard and get all A's at school. I resolved to grow six inches so I could dunk the basketball. And very quickly learned that just making a resolution doesn't mean that it's will be automatically fulfilled. There's no New Year's resolution wish ferry, so to speak. So then I learned to make better resolutions, more realistic, more worthwhile resolutions Now we read Psalm 116, and this Psalm is about resolutions. Very good resolutions indeed. You probably picked up. It was written by someone who was in deadly peril. He says that the snares of death encompassed him. So he was tied up. And encompassed him. It was almost like a boa constrictor is wound around and squeezing the life out of you. The pangs of Sheol, the grave, laid hold on me. It's like a dog, he's got a bite on your leg and he just won't let go. And the Lord delivered him from this dangerous Situation. And in response, he writes this psalm of gratitude. And he asks himself this question: What shall I render to the Lord? for all his benefits to me. The NIV puts it this way, how shall I repay God for his goodness? And in one sense, the answer to that question is, well, we cannot repay God in the sense of reimbursing him for salvation. Salvation is just priceless It's beyond putting a cost to it. And besides, God doesn't expect to be reimbursed in that way. He offers salvation to us freely. And so uh the the psalmist here writes, What shall I do? How shall I render to the Lord? And he has Five resolutions. And you can spot them all because each one begins with the two little words, I will. I will this, I will that. So verse 12 he asks, what shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? And verse 13 is the first of these resolutions. I will lift up the cup of salvation. Some of your translations may have, I will take the cup of salvation. Lift up in the sense that we're not offering something to God. We're not saying, I accomplished salvation. Now Lord, here it is. Not at all. The Lord has accomplished it. He offers it to us freely. And we should take it. Don't refuse this tremendous offer. Take it, lift it up, celebrate it, and acknowledge your thankfulness to God So that's what this lifting up is all about. Now, what is the salvation that God gave him? Well, the first part of the psalm seems to give us various elements of this salvation. First of all Verse 1. The Lord heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. Well, this is great. The Lord actually hears our prayers. He didn't turn away. And in verse 2, he inclined his ear to me. Very picturesque language. You see the picture of a small child approaching her father, too timid to ask except in a whisper. And so the father leans over, bends down in love, inclines his ear to his child. And that's the way the Lord is with us as well. He inclines his ear. And when the Lord hears our prayers, that's not the end of it. He answers them as well. He hears and he answers. Then there's another part of this salvation we see coming along in verse 5. Gracious is the Lord and righteous, our God is merciful. This should bring to mind what the Lord said to Moses. Moses wanted to see God's glory. And God said, Well, I'll put you in a cleft of the rock, I'll pass by. You can just see the backside as I go along. But what he said to Moses was, the Lord, the Lord, the I am that I am. A God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. And that statement we see repeated frequently in Scripture, Old and New Testament. And here is an echo of it. Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Our God is merciful. The righteousness part refers to God as being a holy, just, righteous God. who hates sin, who condemns sin, who punishes sin, and yet it's standing here right next to mercy and grace. How can that be? It can only be, this passage that we read earlier, God is both just and the justifier. Think of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And that's how we can have these attributes in juxtaposition. And then Psalm 85, where it says, righteousness and mercy kiss each other. Or, modern translation, shake hands with each other, all because of the atoning work of Jesus Christ. Then verse 6, another part of this salvation, the Lord preserves the simple. When I was brought low, he saved me. The wise, the wealthy, the powerful, all who depend on themselves, God is not going to preserve them. In fact, they don't want it. But he will preserve those who have a very simple trust in him. I was down. I was brought low. He saved me. And then verse 7, return my soul to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. This word bounty, when, for some reason, when I think of it, I see Thanksgiving Day and this uh kind of basket that's on its side, open mouth, and it kind of curves up this way. It's called the cornucopia, horn of plenty. And it's chock full of good food spilling out, in fact. That's bounty. Bounty. And the Lord gives us so much bounty. And we can rest in that. We can be secure in that. Have confidence in God's Goodness to us. We are blessed in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. There's another favorite Psalm of Hugh back here, 103. Psalm 103. which gives a very nice summary list of all God's bounty to us. He forgives all my iniquity. He heals all my diseases. He redeems my life from the pit. He crowns me with steadfast love and mercy. He satisfies me with good as long as I live. O my soul, bless the Lord. Forget not all his benefits. And in fact, it might be a very good thing when you see that the Lord has brought some deliverance in your life from some situation. Write a little note, record it, memorialize it, because then later you'll look back, maybe in another situation of distress and grief And think, yes, the Lord preserved me there, the Lord rescued me there, he will do it again. And that's one of the reasons the psalmist writes this psalm, in fact. And then in verse 8. God, you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stuntling. This actually is a quotation of Psalm 56, which was written by David much, much earlier. You've delivered my soul from death, and therefore my eyes are clear, no tears. I can see how to walk the straight and narrow way and not go stumbling and falling into sin. There's an interesting part of a famous book, The Pilgrim's Progress, by John Bunyan. And on his journey, the pilgrim, whose name is Christian, Travels through the Valley of the Shadow of Death. And it's a dark, scary journey through this valley. And halfway along, there's a pit. And that is the mouth of hell. And out of that is coming flames and smoke and hideous noises and Christian is scared, very scared, and he cries out, O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. That's verse 4 of Psalm 116. In fact, I looked into Pilgrim's Progress because there are so many quotations from the Bible, and I wondered, is Psalm 116 referred to in Pilgrim's Progress? Yes. And then the Pilgrim. For his reassurance, hears a still small voice. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me, your rod and your staff, they comfort me. And he continues his journey. So these are the elements of the salvation that's part of this cup of salvation. What was the distress and the anguish from which he was delivered? The psalmist really doesn't say. He prefers to focus on what God has done for him, not his own situation. Look, in the Bible, there are many instances of remarkable deliverances. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego thrown into the fiery furnace. And they came out, they didn't even smell of smoke. Daniel, thrown into the lion's den. There was something going on here in uh Babylon. And the next morning he comes out intact. No scratch at all. Another one. King Hezekiah, so he's very ill. He knows he's going to die. And he prays, and the Lord grants his prayer and gives him an extra 15 years of life. so he can protect the holy city of Jerusalem from the Assyrians. So there are these remarkable instances. We don't know exactly what it is here. But maybe that's a good thing, because that means this psalm has very general applicability to all of us at all times, in all places, in all situations. And you can think of all kinds of situations. Life-threatening disease, violence, character assassination, but even things like really stressful job situation. or some kind of anguish in interpersonal relationships. The Lord can't help that. And in fact, even if He doesn't For example, take away the person or the job situation, he may help us be able to deal with it. Give us insight, give us peace in that situation. Now it's a cup of salvation. Cup of salvation brings to mind the Old Testament sacrificial system of offerings, and one of those was a drink offering Another one was a thank offering. And Numbers 15 and 28 tell us that every time there was a thank offering, you always did a drink offering, wine in a cup or a pitcher, and you poured it on the altar. And the first time this is recorded in the Bible, actually, is Jacob coming back from years away from home, and he sets up a pillar, and he pours out a drink offering on that pillar, that altar. But it also brings to mind, this cup of salvation, brings to mind celebration of the Passover And there would be four cups of wine drunk during the celebration. Number three cup was called the cup of redemption. It was also called the cup of blessing because the head of the household would take this cup, ask a blessing on it by giving thanks to the Lord for deliverance from the house of bondage in Egypt. Then he would drink, and then he would share it with all of the other participants in the Passover. And remember the Last Supper that Jesus celebrated Passover with his disciples right before he was Executed. Matthew records this. He took a cup, and when he had given thanks He gave it to them, his disciples, saying, drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sin It's exactly the way the Jews celebrated Passover, and then he's bringing in the Old Testament drink offering as well. And of course, we do that in the Lord's Supper, which we will do next Sunday. Just one other thing, and that is Psalm 116 is part of the small collection of six Psalms called the Halel. The Exodus halel sounds. Halel is the Hebrew word for praise. Haleluya. Praise Jehovah. So it's these praise psalms. And they were always read, recited, sung when you celebrated the Passover. So at the beginning of the Passover, they would sing or recite 113 and 114 And then at the end of the Passover, 115, 116, 117, and 118. 117, of course, is the very, very shortest thumb of all. So at the end of the Lord's Supper, before they went out to the Garden of Gethsemane, Matthew records that they sang a hymn. And that would have been these psalms. So the Lord Jesus would have sung Psalm 116 before he went out. And how meaningful this must have been to him. Because the cup of salvation was not the cup that he was facing. He was facing yet another cup. And remember when he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane, he prayed, Father, if it be your will, let this cup pass from me. So what cup was that? It's a cup that's spoken of in the Old Testament. It's the bitter cup of God's wrath. And I'll just read Psalm 75. For in the hand of the Lord There is a cup with foaming wine well mixed, and he pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs. Not my will, but yours be done. And Jesus went to the cross and he drank very deeply of this bitter cup of God's wrath against sin for our sake. so that we can drink the sweet wine from the cup that overflows. My cup overflows. Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I will lift up the cup of salvation, verse 13. And then while he says that, I will lift up the cup of salvation and I will call on the name of the Lord. That's resolution number two. I will call on the name of the Lord. You can see this taking the cup of salvation and calling on the name of the Lord. It almost reminds you of like a toast. To the Lord Jesus for what he did. Because there is no other name under heaven given among them by which we must be saved. You probably noticed that calling on the name of the Lord in this psalm, only 19 verses, is mentioned four times. And each time is just a little bit different. If you look at verse 4, then I called on the name of the Lord. Oh Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. This is a Calling out as a plea, a plea for help, for mercy. It's very earnest. It's very humble. It's very brief. Then if you look at verse 2, because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. This is a calling in the sense of petition. The psalmist had requests. And the Lord heard him and answered him, inclined his ear to him. Now, if somebody helps me in a significant way, I then try to avoid troubling that person again. And if you, you know, contribute something to somebody on the street, maybe at a traffic signal, you see them often these days. How would you feel if that person then said, okay, thank you? And by the way, every day from now on, I'm going to be begging at your house. But our God is so good and so patient. He wants us to come to him, stay with him. He'll take care of us. Ruth, the book of Ruth is about this Moabitus woman, not Jewish, so she's a foreigner. And her husband dies, she's a widow, she's with her mother-in-law, she decides to go with her to Israel. Your God will be my God. And here they are, two women, very poor, nobody to take care of them And so Ruth goes out and gleans. So at the time of harvest, the men would come in and cut the grain. But around the edges of the field there would be some leftover stalks and so forth of grain. And the poor people, the widows and the orphans and so forth, could were allowed to then glean around the edges of the field And the owner of that field, Boaz, saw Ruth. And he didn't have to do this, but he said, come here. Don't go anywhere else. Stay in my field. I'll take care of you. And he even told his threshers, leave a little extra on the side. That's a picture of our God. He is so good. But then in verse 13, where it says, I will call on the name of the Lord, this is a calling in the sense of praise. Organized worship. The first time we see in the Bible this phrase calling on the name of the Lord is way back in Genesis chapter 4. In the days of Seth, so that's the third son of Adam and Eve. The first two didn't go too well. The third son of Adam and Eve, men began to call upon the name of the Lord. So there was organized worship way back then. And it would have been nice to see their order of worship. I don't know if they had bulletins back in those days. And then in verse seventeen it's repeated. Call on the name of the Lord. You know, good things deserve to be said twice. And so the psalmist here says it twice. So this calling on the name of the Lord, it can involve pleas, it can involve petitions, it can involve praise, and one other thing. And that's in verse one. Profession. Profession of love. I love the Lord. Only one other psalm, I think it's 18, has this kind of right out in front bold statement, I love you, Lord. And of course we love because he first loved us. We have to admit that very much. We are supposed to love the Lord our God with all our heart, our soul, our mind, and our strength. And this certainly reflects that. I love the Lord. I love the Lord. Every day I try to make it a point to say to my wife, I love you. Especially as we get older and more frail, the days are very precious. And every day we should say to the Lord in prayer in our devotions, personal, family, whatever. I love you, Lord. I really love you. Because you inclined your ear. Because You delivered my soul because you deal bountifully with me. All these reasons. We love the Lord not blindly, but for very, very good reason. Peter said to Jesus, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Now, resolution number three in this psalm. comes in verse 14. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. We don't know exactly what the vow was. We don't know when the vow was made, perhaps in this time of peril and distress and anguish. We know from the rest of Scripture that vows done properly were a way of acknowledging God publicly for answers to prayer. And we see a number of instances of that. For example, Jacob, I've already mentioned Jacob coming back from. Many years away. When he left, of course he was trying to get away from his murderous brother Esau, and overnight he stays in this place called Bethel, and he sees the ladder going up to heaven. And in the morning he sets up an altar. And this is what he said. If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so that I come again to my father's house in peace Then the Lord will be my God, and this stone which I have set up as a pillar shall be God's house. And of all that you give me, I will give a full tenth. To you. The name of that place was Bethel, which means house of God. So there is a place in the church For vows. There's a place in Christian lives for vows, although Jesus said, be careful. Yes and no is enough. But there is a place for vows when you make profession of faith. There is a vow. When you join the church, there are membership vows. When you get married, there are marriage vows Excuse me. And when officers of the church, pastor, elders, and deacons are ordained, there are vows. So these are, of course, voluntary vows, but you enter into it and it's a serious vow. And it should induce you to keep those vows very much. Another one is parents at the time of baptism of their children. And the psalmist says, I will pay my vows in the presence. of his people. Perhaps the deliverance, the mercies to him were private, we don't know. But he will acknowledge them publicly in the presence of all God's people. Not to get applause. but for God's glory and to encourage others who may be in are in similar situations of distress and anguish and should pay their vows as well. And for himself, it's good to open your mouth and to publicly tell the glad news of deliverance. And then he repeats this also in verse 18, I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Again, a good thing. Repeat it twice. Great. And then he amplifies where he's going to do this. In the presence of all his people, in the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midstone Jerusalem. The circle keeps getting wider and wider. Reminds you of what Jesus said to the disciples. Jerusalem, Samaria, the uttermost parts of the earth, preach the gospel. So this verse eighteen and nineteen really give us a great reason not to Neglect assembling for worship. Hebrews 10, 24. It's a double negative, right? We should assemble for worship so that we can pay our vows in the presence of all God's people We need to meet together to encourage one another, to stir up each other to love and good works, and all the more as we see the Day of Judgment approaching. Resolution number four is in verse 17. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Now, Old Testament sacrificial system, animals, sometimes pigeons, birds, things like that, drink offering. That's not what this refers to. This is a sacrifice of yourself. Romans 12, verse 1, that famous verse, offer yourselves as living sacrifices, holy and acceptable. This is your spiritual service. So it's a giving of the heart to God. So my wife and I went to Calvin College, and therefore I know very well the motto of John Calvin, which was, I offer my heart to you, Lord, promptly and sincerely. And there was a little picture of a hand holding a heart, offering it to the Lord. That's what this is talking about. And to buttress that, he says in verse 16, Lord, I am your servant. I am yours. I belong to you. You have loosed my bonds from sin and tightened them to yourself. And that is my only comfort in life and in death. That I, body and soul, belong to you. I am your servant. I am the son of your maidservant. So he must have had a very godly mother. And Christian parents are a tremendous blessing. Very much so. Very much so. So Sacrifice to thanksgiving means giving our heart, ourselves to the Lord. It's also uh involves our lips. Oral confession. He will say this, the sacrifice of thanksgiving, in the presence of God's people. Through Christ, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God. That is, Hebrews 13 says, that is the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name That is a sacrifice. Now, if you go back to verse 10, I believed, even when I spoke, I am greatly afflicted. And the psalmist here is saying that I was in distress and anguish, but I hung on to my faith. I hung on to my faith. And I offer you that as a sacrifice of thanksgiving. Now, admittedly, this verse is difficult to translate from the Hebrew And if you have the NIB, I think it translates it as, I believed, therefore I spoke, which is in fact the translation which got carried into the Septuagint and then was quoted by the Apostle Paul In 2 Corinthians 5, 13, I believed even when I spoke, I am greatly afflicted. Oh, sorry. I'm quoting the wrong thing. Since we have the same spirit of faith as he who wrote, I believed and so I spoke. He's quoting this verse from Psalm 116. We too believe and so we speak. In other words, what is in our hearts? should come out in our confession. Man believes with his heart and is justified. We confess with our lips, with our mouth, and we are saved. And you know, the testimony that you give is going to be a very personal testimony. The psalm, you see the personal pronoun everywhere in this psalm. When I was brought low, he saved me. And this kind of testimony can be very effective. Done, of course, respectfully, with gentleness, as we give uh testimony to our faith. There's a third thing in the sacrifice of Thanksgiving, heart, lips, and something in my back pocket. Wallet? Pocketbook? Money? Okay, back to Hebrews 13. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have. For such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Jacob promised to give a full tithe. And he came back a wealthy man. Remember how he got the sheep and the lambs and the goats and everything? Um and he ties all of that. Jesus Said, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. There's that word render again, give, and render to God the things that are God's. Now he was speaking in a context of money, taxes. We here at Trinity, we adopted a church budget for 2024, and by adopting it We made a pledge, almost a vow of sorts, and that is part of this sacrifice of thanksgiving. A uh a friend told me a long time ago that If you want to get an idea of the condition of somebody's Christian life, look at three books. First, their Bible. Is it well used? Marked up, maybe. Number two, their appointment book. Okay, today it's digital, but nevertheless, do you see a regular schedule of going to church, Wednesday night prayer meeting, other activities related to the church and Christian activities? And then number three, which is the one I'm getting at here, the Bible appointment book and checkbook. How do you use your money? Do you use it in a God-glorifying and honoring way? Finally, there is resolution number five, and we go back to verse 9 for that. I will I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. So some of these resolutions you may think are kind of church-centric, but this one spreads it out into the context of our seven-day-a-week Christian lives. When the Bible speaks about walking, Uh sometimes it means actual going from this place to that place. But in these kinds of statements, walking before the Lord, it means our way of life. our walk in life that people can observe and see. King Josiah was a very young king. And he had some construction done at the temple, which had been terribly neglected for a long time. And the workmen came upon these dusty old scrolls, and they brought them to the king, and he opened them up. And it was the Bible. It was the Bible. And he read it. And he made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord. to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and all his soul. That's what walking before the Lord really means. Now it's true, unbelieving people walk in the land of the living. Believing people, those who believe in Jesus Christ, walk before the Lord in the land of the living. There's a nice Latin phrase for this, Corondeo. Walk before the Lord, in his presence, he sees us, his ears inclined to us, his eye is on us to take care of us. And there is this final very tender and precious verse in this chapter, verse fifteen. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. And this verse comes to mind anytime there is a death of a Christian friend. or a family member, when Brother Adam Sharp went to be with the Lord, this verse I have no doubt came to many of our minds. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death. And when I read this verse, I always remember a sermon that I heard a long time ago. The minister was preaching from Acts about the uh deacon Stephen. Who used scripture and told the Jewish people, the Sanhedrin, about the Messiah. And they didn't like his sermon. And they pulled him outside and they stoned him to death. And just before he died, he looked up and he said, I see heaven opened, I see the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Now we confess that Jesus was crucified, died, was buried, rose on the third day, ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God the Father Stephen saw him standing. And in that sermon, the minister was making the point that so precious was the death of his servant Stephen, that the Lord stood up. and observed it very carefully. Stephen's death was very precious. Our death is very precious. If we walk before the Lord in the land of the living, Then we come to the end of that earthly walk that is very precious and that is a comfort to us. And by the way, walking before the Lord in the land of the living does not end at that point. It goes right into the land of eternal life as well. And we'll continue to walk before him there. The most precious. death of a saint of the Lord was that of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus read this psalm before he went to the Mount of Olives, the Garden of Gethsemane, and then of course Calvary. the cross, death, the grave, and all that. What wondrous love is this that caused the Lord of bliss To bear the dreadful curse for my soul. For my soul. Well, we've been talking about New Year's resolutions, and maybe January of this year you made some. And maybe January of next year you'll make some if the Lord doesn't come back. But when the Lord comes back, whenever that may be, that will be the real New Year. The new year of eternal jubilee. And in that fantastic new year, the new year of new years, all tears will be wiped away. And we'll drink of the fruit of the vine with Jesus, as he promised he would do with us in his kingdom. And we're going to be walking before the Lord in the land of eternal life, walking and leaping and praising God. And will join with ransom believers of every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. And in the midst of the Church Universal, in the midst of the new Jerusalem, All of us, all together, will cry out, hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And Lord, we love you. We love you, Lord, because you hear our prayers, you hear our pleas for mercy, you hear our petitions, you hear our praise. And we thank you, Lord, that so precious in your sight is the death of your saints. This is such a wonderful comfort for us. So Lord help us to understand this word, to trust, even when we're pressed hard, and we say that we're greatly afflicted, to know that, yes, I still believe. I cling to faith in Jesus Christ. Because our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Please abide with us. You are the help of the helpless. We pray this in Jesus' name.