The reading of God's Word this morning for the sermon comes to us from Psalm 8 this morning. Psalm 8. Which we're we're told is a psalm of David. We're shown that it's a psalm of David, Psalm 8. Here, a psalm of David in which he celebrates the excellence of the Lord, the excellence of the Lord's name. Listen to the reading of God's Word this morning, Psalm 8. And once again, remember that this is God's own word, God's holy word. Give your attention to it. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth, who have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants, you have ordained strength. Because of your enemies, that you may silence the enemy and the avenger. When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers the moon and the stars, which you have ordained. What is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you visit him? For you have made him a little lower than the angels, and you have crowned him with glory and honor. You have made him to have dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen, even the beasts of the field, the birds of the air. And the fish of the sea that pass through the paths of the seas. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it, and may he also bless the preaching of it this morning in our midst today. Well, in this psalm we see David celebrate God's glory, God's name as excellent in all the earth. But what is it here that makes God's name so majestic? What stands at the root of why David here praises God in verses 1 and the last verse of the passage? Well, what makes David give praise to God and recognize the excellence and the majesty of God's name? Did you notice? It's the fact that the Lord uses the lowly and uses the weak to accomplish his will and his praise and his glory Here there's praise that's directed to God on account of this, that He shines his glory forth through what is weak. Take verse 2, for example. Look what David says there in verse 2. How does God make silent those who pose as his enemies? Whom does God use to steal all his foes? In verse 2 of our text, he uses the mouths of small babies and infants. Now, what kinds of speech can a baby or an infant speak? Anyone who has a baby or an infant or has ever had one knows. Babbling words Baby talk. Baby talk sounds meaningless. Yet, such speech God uses to still his foes. Such speech, that which comes from the mouths of babies and infants, God uses to bring unto silence those who stand against God. Now, what does this verse refer to specifically in verse 2 when David speaks of these babies and nursing infants? We don't really know if David has in mind some specific like literal incident where somehow the speech of babies or infants was used literally to silence the foes of God. We don't know if that's literal. Could it just be a figure of speech? Quite possibly. The psalms are poetry. It would make sense if he's speaking poetically. But if it's a figure of speech, what is he talking about? Babies are nursing infants used to silence God's foes. Is this a way to refer to God's people as those who are weak? Thus here they are compared to babies. Whatever is the case here, whether it's figurative or literal, it's clear enough what David is saying about God, isn't it? God uses weak things to make known his glory. He can use even babies and infants and the speech, the babbling speech that comes out of their mouth, even to silence all his foes on the earth And the fact that God does this, the fact that God can do this, really speaks to the excellence of God's name, the majesty of God's name. And so that's one place we see this. We see this in verse 2 of our text. The excellence of God's name is really made known. Now the fact that he's able to use things that are weak, things that seem insignificant. Again, you heard that text this morning in the call to worship, that 1 Corinthians passage, I love that passage How God uses weak things to shame the wise and the strong. But if that's what's expressed in verse 2, you know, nursing babies and infants, weak things are used to show the glory of God. Notice how that's also the very same thing David is saying in verses 3 through 8 of our passage. For in those verses, he's really reflecting on the very same thing. God's ability to use what is small, what is weak for his glory. This time he reflects on the way God created mankind in order to make this point. Once again, in these verses, we see David's wonder at how God makes use of the weak for his glory. This time in view, though, is how God has made mankind as his creature, as something small use For the glory of God. Now listen to what David says in verse 3 and verse 4, and hearing those voices, or hearing those verses. the smallness of man next to other very significant large things that God created, the heavenly bodies, the stars in the sky. Verses three and four When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the Son of Man? That you care for him. Man, such a small thing in God's creation. Underneath the nighttime sky, seemingly a speck in God's universe. Yet this little thing, this little one, what place has God given him in creation? Glory and honor Kingship, dominion over all God's works. When God created man, when God created Adam, He set him up to be the king over all other created things on the earth as a king on God's behalf, ruling over oxen and sheep, beasts of the field, birds of the heavens, fish in the seas. Mankind, king over all creation, under heaven, put in a place and a rank just below the angels of heaven. And again, this is given to man in his smallness, in his littleness. But this little creature Small under the stars, small under the heavens, serves what purpose? King as for what purpose? All to be the one who leads all creation To bring glory and honor to the God who created it. Man, the one king on the earth meant to lead all creation in the service of God. Again, this man under the stars of the night sky, something very little. What is this man? Yet appointed to a very glorious destiny, the one to lead all creation into the glory of God. And again, notice how this only deepens the point of what David is making in this uh whole psalm. Again, this whole psalm. It's framed by these two declarations of the excellence, the majesty of God's name. But in between it all, what is it that makes the Lord's name so majestic? That he uses small, weak things to show his glory. So the same thing you see in verse 2, the same thing you see in verse 3 through 8 as it reflects back on creation from Genesis 1. God shows forth his name as something truly majestic by using small things, weak things, for his purposes. That God can do so, and that he delights to do so. Shows us the excellence of who he is, the excellence and the majesty of his name. So here is what David observes in our psalm. Now, although David does truly observe these things in Psalm 8 and is not off base in what he says here by any means, Isn't it also true, though, that Psalm 8 doesn't tell the whole story of everything that happens in God's good world? And in fact, there's more that goes on in this world than just what's said in Psalm 8, isn't there? And in fact, you don't have to go very far to see examples of this. You can take a look at the life of the psalmist himself, can't you? In David's life, episodes that give us clear indication that man's weakness does not always lead to God's glory, at least not directly, at least not immediately, right? Psalm 8 is what we wish that life could always be, isn't it? Our weaknesses used by God as direct demonstrations of his glory. David himself provides instances of Man's weakness, sometimes in the immediate term, detracting from the glory of God You probably know all the incidents if you've read 2 Samuel. Think of that sentence that David takes late in life. In 2 Samuel, the 24th chapter, this moment of weakness for David, he wants to know how large his kingdom is, so to measure his own glory. And God responds by judging him, judging all Israel, turning in anger against his own people. striking down even 70,000 of his own people in response to the weakness of David. In this instance, David's weakness provokes God, his weakness of faith. And then God then becomes the one. Who brings plague on his people? The Lord revokes David's honor, removes David's glory, strikes down people as part of his judgment on David. Of course, the other great occasion in David's life that points in this direction, a moment of weakness for the man who falls into adultery. And then goes and as a consequence has a man killed. Goes after the woman Bathsheba, the wife of another man, commits adultery with her. Then goes and has her husband killed, a man who had faithfully served him as the king. David has this man killed to get rid of the conflict that would arise. From how he had sinned to begin with in the first place. As you witness instances in the life of David It's very safe to say some of the things David did are not the way the king should act. Conduct of that sort does not serve to illustrate Man's high calling, reflected in Psalm 8, how man was called to be the king of creation, to lead all creation, to praise and bring glory to God. David's conduct does not reflect Psalm 8 in those particular instances. David's conduct in those instances In a way, is a denial of God's calling that he even celebrates and reflects on in Psalm 8. And it isn't this true ever since the fall. Man's weakness has been and even to this day still is. Something that does not always lead immediately to the glory of God. Something that often strives against God and his glory. Something that often strives against God But though this is true, how can David celebrate as he does? Here in Psalm 8, he celebrates how God uses men's weaknesses How can he still celebrate, even when there are even instances in his own life that don't reflect this to the degree that it should? Well, one thing to remember, beloved, is that Yes, there is weakness on man's part that does strive against God, and that is something that is true of the world, and we see that true in our own lives. But it is still true that there are instances where God does use men's weakness for his own glory Now the great example of this, one great example of this, is found in God's people. God's own people are a reflection of his glory. His glory displayed through those who are weak. God's people have been collected by God, not for their great strength, not to what they can offer to God God's people are a people dependent on Him, a people who live by His mercy, a people God chooses, in spite of themselves, to be His possession The greatness of God's people comes not from them, but only from God. Now, at an earlier point I observed in verse 2 that verse 2 might be a figure of speech that David is using to describe and characterize the people of God. When David says they're babes or babies and infants, that might be David's way of describing Israel in poetic terms. Painting a picture of God's people like babies, like those who are dependent, even as a baby is dependent. We all know or have had babies who are dependent on their own mothers. Well, in a similar way, the people of God depend upon the Lord himself It is his power that they live by. It is his strength that they need to serve him. He uses them to silence those who are his enemies. And he does so to make it clear where their strength comes from. The Lord would have it be clear in the way that he uses his own people. He would have it be clear that they live not by their own strength, not by their own wisdom, but by his strength, which he shows forth in them and through them When those who are as helpless as babies are the ones who win, it's clear that they have not won by what they have in themselves. And this is the nature of God's gathered people. They're people who are not sufficient unto themselves. Not in their own strengths, not in their own wisdom. They are people dependent on God's strength, people dependent on God's mercy. So yes, we understand there are instances where the weakness of men does not serve to immediately illustrate the glory of God. There are instances in the life of David. There are instances in your life and mine. But nonetheless, God demonstrates his power and his strength and his glory. By sustaining his people, by his strength, by his wisdom, by his power. Another thing to remember, as you consider again in Psalm 8 The excellence of God's name demonstrated through his ability to use weak things, weak people. Remember That we have not yet arrived at the day when God intends to make clear every way that his glory was shown through weakness There is a day coming when his glory and how it was shown through our weakness will be made abundantly clear. There's a day that's coming. That is our inheritance, as the people of God. A day that is coming bought for us by the blood of God's own Son. A day when we will see with our own eyes and recognize what God was doing all along. How his glory was being made known. We will see it on that day in ways that we do not yet see it today. There is a day when we will see how God was indeed glorifying himself even through the sins of a man like David. We will see on that coming day God's glory shone through human weakness. And especially in the fact That God was pleased to save a sinful, lost, rebellious people. What greater way could there be for him to make known the majesty of his name, the excellence of his name By means of the weakness of man on this earth, than to pour out his love on those who had turned against him To save them by giving his son for their sins. What else could display God's greatness more than that act? the excellence of who God is, the majesty of his name, than what he's accomplished through the sending of his son. Giving life to those who deserved nothing but death from him. On the day that is to come There will be gathered a great throng of people dependent on their God. People who on that day will gladly confess with their own lips and hearts, That they have arrived at that day only by the mercy of God. And they will confess God's majesty God's excellence, God's ability to work goodness and glory in spite of the weakness of them, in spite of their sins. You see, when that day comes, our praise will take up the theme of how God works salvation in spite of weakness. On that day to come, we will gladly confess the words of Psalm 8, that God's name is indeed majestic and excellent on the earth And we will be able to recognize with new eyes how God has used our weakness to demonstrate his glory and for the furtherance of his own namesake and his own glory. So, yes, though sometimes, even now, today, it is hard for us to see sometimes how is God using my weakness today? That is hard to see sometimes. It's hard to see in the moment. But do understand that we have this promise from God, that there will be a day when we will understand. And our response then will only be to bow the knee. And to confess his goodness, his glory, his excellence. And we'll be able to see it in light of the work of his son for us. And that is promised to everyone who is trusting in God and in Christ. Everyone who's saved by the Savior who is trusting in Him. God promises that He is using your weakness for His name, and that there's a day coming when you will understand how. And you will be able to recognize how. Well then how do we live though as we remember who our God is, as we remember what his plan is, and understand that it's a great plan that it that will will bring all his people to that coming day How are we now to live today in light of that coming day? Now here we are, a people who have been saved for a great day to come, destined to be there by the work of Jesus Christ for us. How do we live today? We live by faith that God's name truly is majestic and excellent. Even when it's hard to see how that can be, in light of the challenges we face, in light of the struggles we struggle with. We live by faith that God's name is majestic and that we will see it on a coming day. We live in trust that God does have his good purposes. Even in our weaknesses, even in our struggles. And we remember that God's purpose in bringing us to the final day Is that all the struggles of this life will only drive us to praise Him all the more? Such that the weaker we were in this life, The more and the better we'll be able to recognize how great He is on that day to come. And so, what is our calling today? Our calling today is to live knowing weakness, To recognize ourselves in verse 2 of the Psalm. To recognize ourselves as those babies, as those nursing infants who are dependent on the Lord, just as babies are dependent on their mothers. And isn't it true when we really honestly evaluate our wisdom before God, our wisdom in matters of the things of God? Isn't it really true that sometimes our own thoughts contain just as much sense as the babbling of babies and infants? And it's good to confess that. And yet it's also good to recognize, through such people, through such means, God is pleased to show his glory, his honor, his strength. Not strength that's of our own making, not strength that's due to our wisdom, strength that's his, that reflects his power. And so this is what our psalm teaches us. This is what our psalm shows us. We as God's people are dependent upon our Lord. And that's a good thing, because that's how he's showing his majesty through us and in us. O beloved, may it please our God to bring you to his coming day So that then, when that day comes, you will be there with him, as people gathered for his praise, gathered to confess the excellence, the majesty of his name People who will be ready to confess how God worked through your weakness to bring glory to himself. May it also please our God to grant to you, to us now, faith to live by. Faith to live as a people who are dependent upon him, looking for him to work even through weakness, to bring glory to himself. When that day comes, he will gather us to himself. We will rejoice to be there in his presence, and we will rejoice forever in our God. We will rejoice in how excellent his name is We will rejoice that he is majestic in using weak things, foolish things, to bring glory and honor to himself. Amen. Let's pray. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is your name, we pray. We confess your excellence, your majesty. Oh God, we come to you as, yes, those who are much like David's description as babies, nursing infants. We are people who before you have so little to offer, and in fact we praise you that you offer yourself to us. Knowing that we have nothing really to offer you. So we do come before you in that way and ask you to bless, to strengthen it, to uphold us. Help us truly to depend upon your power Help us to be looking to you that you might indeed be working through us. We look for you to bring your glory. We commit ourselves to you and we entrust ourselves to you. I'm asking you for grace, asking you for your strength, and for your power to uphold us. Lord, we stake ourselves upon you, for we know of all people on the earth, we know. That your name is excellent and majestic here on this earth. And so we confess it now, asking you to sustain us and uphold us. We pray these things in the name of the one great Savior, Jesus Christ, our Savior. Amen.