If you turn your copy of God's word now to the Gospel of Matthew We'll continue our study there this morning in chapter 15, beginning at verse 21, I believe that would be found on page 976. of the pew Bibles. Let's give attention to God's holy word. Matthew fifteen. And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying. Have mercy on me, O Lord, son of David. My daughter is severely oppressed by a demon. But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, Send her away, for she's crying out after us. He answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she came and knelt before him, saying, Lord, help me. And he answered, it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. She said, yes. Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. And Jesus answered her, O woman, great is your faith. Be it done for you as you desire And her daughter was healed instantly. Jesus went on from there and walked beside the Sea of Galilee, and he went up on the mountain and sat down there, and great crowds came to him. Bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others. And he put them at his feet and he healed them So that the crowd wondered, and they saw the mute speaking, the crippled, healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. Thus far in the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we ask now that you would work in our hearts, that you'd add your blessing to the reading of your word. And that Father, by your Spirit, you would open our hearts. Make us receptive, Lord, to all that you have for each of us this morning. Each of us have different needs. So, Father, use your word as your spirit takes it up. To address each and every one here in a particular way that they need healing They need comfort. Their wounds need to be bound up. They need to see Christ. Help us now, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a portion in Scripture where Jesus Is taken wrongfully before the council of the church, so to speak. Before the high priest. And there he's he's put on trial And if you remember the passages, different passages and different gospels, but all really stating the same thing, giving us the same account No one, no one could bring any accusation, any true accusation against our Lord. And so finally he's asked. He's asked about who he is. And he professes that he is indeed the Son of God. There's a sense that this passage is all about that truth Indeed, there's a sense that this passage is all about revealing who Jesus is. And how we are called to come before him in faith Jesus has been teaching his disciples about who he is. We might not see that, but in the Sermon on the Mount, that's exactly what he was doing. He was telling the disciples that you are the light of the world. Well, the only way they could be the light of the world was if they were reflecting him. He was telling them to lay up treasures for themselves in heaven. Well, how could they do that unless they knew who Jesus was, because he is the greatest treasure. Telling them not to be anxious about their life, but how could they make sense of that unless they knew who Jesus was And so this morning, this morning as we know, the harvest is plentiful. As we know that Jesus is able to cast out demons so that righteousness would prevail. We come to a very short passage. Regarding faith. We have to ask a question: what is faith? I think this passage calls us to ask that question: what is a humble Faith. I'm hoping that we'll find the answer to that here in these holy words of God. A humble, saving faith acknowledges sin, knows Jesus as the eternal King, and comes with empty hands. A humble saving faith acknowledges sin, knows Jesus as the eternal King, and comes with empty hands. See that this morning in three short heads. First, she was filthy. Secondly, she was knowing, and finally, she was helpless. This morning, as we go through this passage, there are many ideas in the world about what faith is. I want us to focus our minds this morning on who Jesus is and what it means. to have a humble faith in him. Well first she was filthy. Where was Jesus? First sentence here in this passage tells us that he went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon. If the uh folks who write things on the internet are correct, he had been at Deniseret and now he had moved about 35 miles or so from the Sea of Galilee now to the Mediterranean Sea. It's where Tyre and Sidon were located. He's gone quite a distance, in fact. He's left the land of the Israelites. At a minimum, that's what Matthew is telling us that he's left the promised land. He's left the land of his people. He's left the Israelites. Remember what he said to his disciples? In chapter, what we have now is chapter 15, as they were coming to Jesus and telling him that the Pharisees were offended by his words, he said, let them alone. They're blind guides. And in a sense, that's exactly what Jesus was doing. He was letting them alone. He was withdrawing from that place, and now he goes to the land of the Gentiles, to Tyre. Inside, well what was this place? What were these cities? What was this region? Well, in order to understand that, we've got to go back a little bit in the history of redemption and remember that Canaan, this whole region was known as Canaan. Those from that region were known as Canaanites. Canaan was the son of Ham. And if you remember who Ham was, he was one of the three sons of Noah. And if you remember, it was Ham who goes into Noah's tent and does something that disturbed, that was sinful against his father Noah. And so as Noah awakes, he curses Canaan, the son of Ham, the one who had done the wrongful deed. Noah curses Canaan and says that he will be a servant of servants. He will be the servant of his brother or of his uncle, Shem. He will be the servant of his uncle Japheth. Canaan was cursed. This whole region is named after this one, Tyre and Sidon, both in Canaan. Genesis 10 tells us that Canaan fathered Sidon. Presumably the city was named after his son, and the territory of the Canaanites extended from Sidon. in the direction of Barar as far as Gaza. So we're now getting a bit of a picture of where Jesus has gone. He's going to that place when the namesake was cursed by his grandfather. We read in Ezekiel chapter 26 with regard to Tyre Behold, these are the words of God. Behold, I am against you, O Tyre. In Amos, we read, For three transgressions of Tyre, and for four I will not revoke the punishment, because they delivered up a whole peeper of people to Edom. did not remember the covenant of the brotherhood, so I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour her strongholds. God was not pleased with Tyre. And so we're getting a bit of a picture. These were sinful places or places filled with sinful people. These were places where Gentiles lived, not the Israelites. These were the Canaanites. This is where Jesus withdrew to. Canaanites were not part of those considered by the Jews to be the people of God. They were not descendants of Abraham. They were separate from the nation of Israel. They were Gentiles. This might cause us to remember or even ask the question: well, who were the people of God? Who were the chosen ones? What who did Jesus come to save? Abraham was told that God would be his God and the God of his offspring. Jesus said to his disciples, even in this passage I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. So who were the offspring of Abraham? Who were included in the house of Israel? And if we understand Jesus' ministry was limited. It was only lasting about three years, and yet he goes to a place where we wouldn't find any Israelites. He goes to a place where You wouldn't even think that they would know of who Jesus was really. And yet, that's where he goes. And so we should be asking ourselves that question, who is the offspring of Abraham? Who is included in the house of Israel? And now this woman comes. And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region. Mark records that the woman was a Gentile, a Seraphonician by birth. It's really the same thing. We know from the Jews' perspective that the Gentiles were filthy. Indeed, in even in Galatians, as Paul writes to the church there, as he records his interaction with With Peter. He says, we ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners This is how the Jews thought of those outside of their nation, outside of Israelites, outside of the blood relationship to Abraham. They were sinners. If we think of the way that Paul describes those outside of Christ, in Ephesians We'd say that they were dead in their trespasses and sins. They were following the course of this world. They were following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work, and the sons of disobedience. That's how The Jews would have described those entire and Sidon. That's how they would have described the Canaanites, children of wrath. And isn't that why Jesus uses that idiom? It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. That's how he referred to this Canaanite woman Yes, a gentile sinner. In Psalm 22 we read this, a psalm that is about Christ on the cross, for dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me. They pierce my hands and feet. Obviously dogs were not considered as house pets in that day, not as in our culture today. They they were not favorable during the days of the New Testament or the Old Testament. Psalm 59, you Lord God of hosts, or God of Israel, rouse yourself to punish all the nations. Spare none of those who treacherously plot evil. even even each evening they come back howling like dogs. One commentator writes it they Biblical times dogs were seen quite differently than they are today. They often roamed in packs and were associated with being wild, scavenging, and unclean Remember how David refers to himself as Saul is trying to kill him. After whom is the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue after a dead dog? Jesus taught his disciples to not give dogs what is holy Hopefully you're getting the picture. This woman was thought of by Jesus in a in an outward sense Let me make sure you understand that. Jesus knew everyone was a sinner. But as she approaches him, He refers to her in this derogatory way. And all the disciples would have known it as well. But the significant note here by Matthew is this. Look at verse 27. She said, Yes, Lord. Just think of that for a moment. Yes, Lord. Jesus just called her a dog, an unclean Gentile, not worthy Of coming to his table, not worthy of coming to him at all. And she said, Yes, Lord. Yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. This is how the text refers to her thinking of herself. This is how she came to Jesus as a filthy sinner and knowing it She knew, even confessed her condition before Jesus. I am a dog. My daughter who's suffering. It's a Canaanite dog as well. We are both wretched sinners and I stand here filthy before you Who else has done that? The lepers knew they were externally unclean, but who else has come to Jesus at this point? admitting their lowly estate before him. Yes, I'm a dog. Let me suggest that's the power, really the power of this passage. The power is really in Jesus' profession that he came not to call the righteous but sinners. And that's how she came to him. In the prior portion of Matthew 15, we read of those who came before Jesus hiding their sin. The Pharisees, the scribes, who had redefined sin so as to cover up their transgressions, to redefine what sin was. And supplement, not even supplement, replace God's law with their traditions and say, Well, we keep our traditions and therefore we're fine and and we're covering up our sin. We don't want you to see it And here Matthew leads us in the opposite direction. In the direction of one who comes openly and acknowledges that she came to Jesus in her filth. She came in her sin. That's why we read Psalm fifty-one this morning. Because that's exactly the way David came to God the Father. As he penned this inspired psalm, have mercy on me, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly. Cleanse me from my sin. I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. That's how David came See, it may be that the first part of a humble faith is coming before Jesus in recognition of who you are. He said, Yes, I'm a dog. Yes, I'm a filthy sinner. Last week we won't learn that there was no hiding your sin. But it's a quite different thing to come before Jesus openly and acknowledging and proclaiming yourself Recognizing your shame as a dog, recognizing and confessing that you come in your filth. Not only knowing, but professing your unworthiness. Is that how you come to Jesus this morning We like to come dressed up, don't we? We like to come thinking That we're worthy. We like to come thinking that we're pretty good. This woman came professing she was a dog. You see, brothers and sisters, unless you recognize your filth, unless you recognize the wretchedness of your sin before a holy God, you will never, never truly seek Christ. That brings us to our second point. She was knowing. She was not only filthy, but she was knowing. And Matthew presents this Canaanite woman as knowing Jesus. You might say, well, where is that in this passage? Well first she calls him Lord. This title, Kurias, may be re-seen as a respectful greeting and may be used that way, just a title. My teacher. Think of those who Jesus refers to in the Sermon on the Mount. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. Think of the way that another disciple comes to Jesus and said, Lord, let me first go and bury my father, as Jesus was calling him to follow him. In these cases, it seems that they're just titles, just a respectful greeting, so to speak, not a recognition of knowing Jesus really. But in this passage It seems to be more than a polite or reverential use. This woman uses it three times to refer to Jesus, and three is a number of completeness in Scripture. She knows Jesus is the Lord of mercy. Have mercy on me, oh Lord. Lord, help me. comes to Jesus using this title, knowing that he is the one who helps the helpless. And knowing while we can't know her heart, we can know the way that Matthew presents her. And he presents her as one knowing Jesus as Lord who is her master. That's the way the word in the Greek is is defined. Generally Lord, Master, one who is in charge by virtue of possession, the owner. That's the idea. You own me. As we speak of Jesus our Lord, we're speaking of His role, which is different than being our Savior. They're connected, but it's different. As we call Jesus Lord, we're referring to His Lordship, His Kingship, His His ownership over our hearts and souls. And as she came to him, she was coming to him as her ruler. She was submitting herself to his rule, and that's what we do is we call Jesus Lord. Isn't that what we read in Psalm The second psalm, serve the Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling, kiss the sun. That's the idea. As you call Jesus Lord, he is ruling your heart. You're constantly seeking to follow his guidance, his direction. His commands for your daily life. Everything that you do, everything that you say, everything that you think is under the Lordship of Jesus. That's what it means for for Jesus to be your Lord. And that's the title that this Canaanite woman used to address Jesus. But that was not the only title. She also refers to him as the son of David. This title has been used once before in Matthew's gospel. I believe it's just once, maybe it's more than once. But those who witnessed the restoration of a blind, mute, demon-possessed man, all the people were amazed. Can this be the son of David? They were questioning. They were not declaring, they were not professing, they were wondering, is this the son of David? But as this woman uses the title, there's no question. She's just declaring, she's professing, she's proclaiming him to be this one, this Gentile This non-Jew, this Canaanite, this dog was using this title, which the Jews would have known and appreciated. And so it's significant Significant. As she uses this title, son of David, it takes us back to 2 Samuel, where God tells David that one of his sons would sit on a forever throne. An unending kingdom. And that's what she means. That's what the title means That you are the son of David, the one who's to come, and take that eternal throne. Be my eternal king. So now this outsider, the dog, this Gentile, using language, a title which the Jews understood but failed to grasp, the son of David was standing before them. There's no question in her voice. And presumably in her heart as she knew Jesus is the son of David as her king. And so she knows him She's presented as as knowing him, as Lord of her life, as as the king, as the ruler of her heart But did you notice that it was not just words she used? It was the way she presented herself physically to Jesus. Verse 25, she came and knelt before him, saying, Lord help me. She kneels, she bows before Jesus. This is a position not merely of respect, but of submission. It goes along with the titles, doesn't it? Lord, King, Son of David. Recognition and knowledge of who Jesus was in relation to who she was. Jesus was worthy of her submission, of her worship. So all these things in this short passage suggest that she truly knew Jesus. And that said in contrast to what has gone before. This foreigner, this non-Jew, this Gentile dog knows Jesus, but the ones who should have known him do not. Think of the hometown. As Jesus comes and opens up the scripture in the synagogue, what do they do? They take offense at him. Prophet is not without honor except in his hometown. They saw Jesus as one who did not deserve honor. What about the Pharisees? Pharisees are those ones constantly asking questions, constantly seeking to demean Jesus. Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? They cast Jesus as a leader of lawbreakers. Even the disciples. Even the disciples. Didn't know Jesus yet. Send the crowd away. You can't do anything. We certainly can't do anything. He was a good teacher for them But what does it mean to know Jesus? What does it mean to know Jesus as your Savior, as your Lord, as your King? Like Paul in Philippians, he counted everything lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. Paul knew himself. He knew that he did not have a righteousness that came from the law on his own, and that he needed the righteousness of Christ. From God. He knew Jesus that way. He knew that he would receive the righteousness of Jesus Christ as he trusted in him. That's how he knew Jesus And he wanted to know more of him. He wanted to know the power of his resurrection. He wanted to know of his sufferings. That's what Paul Speaks of it, he speaks of knowing Jesus. Are you knowing Jesus this way? In humility. If not, if you're listening this morning you're saying, No, I'm not knowing Jesus as Savior, I'm not knowing him as my Lord, I'm not knowing him as my King, uh I'm not knowing him as one that I submit. myself to, my soul to, and cry out to him this morning. For he indeed is the only Savior. He indeed is the only God man. He indeed is the only one who can save you from your sin. Cry out to Him because you're helpless this morning without Him. Which brings us to our third point. She was helpless. A third part of this humble faith demonstrated by this Canaanite woman was indeed her helplessness. Did you notice how she approached Jesus? Have mercy on me, O Lord. It's an interesting way to put it. Have mercy on me. She came because of her daughter. She came because her daughter was possessed. By an evil spirit. And she says, Have mercy, not on my daughter, but have mercy on me. Why did she say that? Because she was helpless. She was crying. Behold, the Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying. She was weeping. She was in tears. Because she was helpless. Her daughter was possessed by that evil spirit, which we would understand as being a matter of the spiritual realm. Now we know that Scripture records some physical injuries to those who were possessed by evil spirits, yes, of course, but we know that spiritual possession or spiritual activity, demon possession, it's all caught up in the spiritual realm. And remember this woman was from Canaan. And Jesus was in this region of Tyre and Sidon, as we know to be a, or was, a godless place. We've established that. And so if God was absent, and we know he's not absent from anywhere, but from a human perspective, if this was a godless place, if he was not, from a human perspective, present. How would this woman rid her daughter of an evil spirit in a godless place? There would be no help in Canaan, no help in a godless realm. That would be the first reason that she was helpless, and that would be the reason for Jesus' presence. We'd understand that wherever there was demon possession in biblical times, that there would have been no help from mere human beings. That to remove an evil spirit would require a supernatural act. So even if this woman were a Jew and she was not, even if she didn't live in a godless realm She would still have been helpless. And so she cries out and it does not stop. The disciples came and begged Jesus, send her away, for she is crying out after There's a sense in which we can hear the helplessness as her cries are multiplied before the disciples, as she bows and kneels before Jesus. She doesn't stop, she won't take no for an answer because she's helpless. Help me. The only one, the only God-man, the only son of David, the only true Lord has come now. To her. Are you feeling helpless this morning? I'm hoping that in your heart you're all answered yes. Indeed, every single person here in this room, every single person listening on the stream or in the recording should feel and know that you're helpless. This passage, among other things, gives us a picture of our own helplessness. Well, I don't believe that anyone here is possessed by an evil spirit. I do know that everyone here is battling sin, is struggling with sin, is fighting sin. Remember Paul's words in his letter to the church at Rome, I do not I do not do the good I want. But the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Those could be our words this morning. And not only are we battling sin within, but all here have a battle against the prince of the air, the serpent of old, Satan of the devil as he throws darts and arrows at you, at your vulnerable hearts. In your own strength, you're just like the Canaanite woman. You're helpless. In your own strength to fight against besetting sins, against the powerful temptations of Satan. And so this helplessness is part and parcel of a humble faith, isn't it? Let me say if in your faith you're bringing anything in contribution or as part of your salvation or as part of your fight against sin, against Satan, then that is what Paul speaks of to those who are in Galatia. So look, I Paul say to you, if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. People were teaching that you must do a work in order to be saved. And that's exactly what we do when we think we come to Jesus with anything That we're contributing, that we're helping. That part of our salvation comes from us. Part of our battle in sin comes from us. Part of our battle against Satan comes from us. And there is a sense, yes, a great sense in which we need to be fighting. And God gives us those spiritual tools to do so, but it doesn't come from any strength within us And that's why we read Psalm fifty-one. Create in me a clean heart. David knew that he had no abilities to cleanse himself. He had no ability to fight against his sin. He had no abilities to fight against the temptations of Satan, and he's asking, God, help me. Give me a broken spirit. Give me a broken and contrite heart. Just like this Canaanite woman coming to him in her helplessness. Brothers and sisters, that's the way we must come to Jesus. That is part of our humble faith, knowing that we don't come with anything. Other than a plea for mercy and grace. And if you do, he will welcome you He wants you to come that way. He knows your nature. And he knows exactly what you need. And he's There, waiting for you to say, yes, Lord, please help me. Have mercy on me, oh Lord. Create in me a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me. As a humble saving faith, will acknowledge sin and know Jesus as the eternal King and certainly come with empty hands. Who is Jesus? He is the one who is worthy. Of our submission. He's the one who can and does help. He is the one who knows we are filthy. And he is the only one who can cleanse us. And so he calls you even this morning to come in humble faith, knowing that you're filthy, knowing that he will cleanse you. Knowing that he is indeed your Lord, your eternal King, one who rules all things, especially your heart. And the one who will do all things to ensure your salvation. Praise God. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this passage. We thank you for your word. Thank you how this has cut to our hearts this morning, how we've seen this faith of this woman, this humble faith. How we know, Lord God, this is the this is the kind of faith that we each need. So we pray, work in us. By your Spirit. Cause us to come without anything in our hands. Father, cause us to come as helpless ones, knowing we come to the one who has done all things and done all things well. And who will do all things for us as we ask, according to your will and in his name.