Well now for the sermon text this morning we turn to Philippians chapter 4. We continue Paul's letter to the Philippians. We begin in chapter, we're in chapter four now, verses 10 through 13 is the passage. And here Paul is. He's really winding up the letter. I I know I've probably been saying that for a couple of weeks now, but uh you know he's slowly w or we're slowly winding it up. Um Philippians 4 verses 10 through 13. As as he winds up the letter, here he gets to acknowledging the gift that the Philippians sent to him as they were as he was there in prison, likely in Rome. It seems like they had sent a gift from Epaphroditus, Epaphroditus, someone who came from their congregation. Brought some kind of gift to Paul, probably a financial gift is what's likely. But here Paul is finally acknowledging their gift in verses 10 through 13. But notice what he has to say about that gift. He does say that he's blessed by the gift. He does say that it's beneficial to him, but then he also says something else about the gift at the same time. Philippians chapter 4, verses 10 through 13. This is God's word. Listen to the reading of it, and this is a sermon text. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last your care for me has flourished again. Though you surely did care, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned, in whatever state I am, to be content. I know how to be abased, and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I have learned. Both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to his preaching. in our midst. So here, you know, clearly Paul expressing joy over the gift that has been given to him by the Philippians, as you saw it there in verse 10 at the beginning, when he said, I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last your care for me has flourished again. He's acknowledging the gift that has been given to him. And he's expressing joy for it. He's saying he rejoiced over it. Truly the gift itself went to relieve some of his temporal needs in the present. Truly also the personal nature of the gesture, the fact that it was given by believers whom Paul loved, believers who loved Paul, meant something to Paul, blessed him. He rejoiced in the gift that was given. But he also says he didn't need the gift. He also says he didn't need the gift in a certain sense. He says that he doesn't need the gift. So notice how he's saying that in verse 11 Not that I speak in regard to need. So whatever his rejoicing in the gift, it had nothing to do with him Needing the gift. Now, needing the gift for what? Now indeed, you know, no doubt, the gift itself did meet needs. The gift was probably financial, and so it probably went towards the meeting of some of his needs. It probably brought him some cheer, some relief in the present. In what sense does Paul not need the gift? For he says in verse 11, not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatever state I am to be content. And so that's the answer. Paul did not need the gift in order to be content. Now that word for contentment, think about what is it to be content? Well, contentment is a sense or a feeling of having your needs met. So he didn't need the gift in order to feel like his needs are met. Whether or not they had given him this gift, and even though he's in this situation, remember his situation? He's in prison. He's locked up. He doesn't have freedom. He can't go where he wants to go. Surely prison is an uncomfortable situation. Cells tended to be dark and dirty. Doesn't have the freedom to go where he wants to go, or to be with the people he would prefer to be with, waiting on the outcome of his case, waiting to see if he'll be put to death. On charges that shouldn't even be um have been brought against him to begin with. In the circumstance, Paul says he doesn't need their gift in order to be content. He feels like his needs are fully met in that circumstance. Yes, that's what Paul says. With or without the gift that's sent, Paul is content. Again, he rejoices that they sent it. He rejoices in the care that it expresses on their part for him. Surely it was a blessing to him, surely it helped him in the temporary relief of of um his real needs But even still he didn't need it in order to feel like his needs had been met. And that's what he's saying in verse eleven. Not that I speak in regard to need, for I have learned in whatever state I am to be content. I have learned, no matter what suffering I am experiencing, to feel like. My needs are met in the present. And that's what Paul means when he says he has learned to be content. Now the real question is: how? How is that possible? How is it possible to feel like all your needs are met in the present? Especially in a situation like the one that falls in, you would think You know, if you imagine yourself in Paul's situation, you think about his external circumstances, they seem pretty horrible. Um Who would find that an easy situation in which to feel content and to feel like your needs were being met And yet Paul says, in that circumstance he's content. He also goes through the list in verse 12, whether he's abased. Or whether he abounds, to be abase is to be in a low condition, to be in a position of lowness at the bottom of the world rather than on top of it. We talk about being on top of the world as if it's like this this high situation we're in where we're riding high and we're enjoying life. Well Paul is able to be content when he's low. He's not high on top of the world. He's at the bottom of it. And he pretty much is at the bottom of it here in Philippians, isn't he? He he can feel like his needs are met whether he's full, you know, satisfied through eating food, or whether he's hungry. Feeling that constant gnawing feeling in your stomach when you need to eat and you don't have enough to eat. And one of the words in here, you know, that word behind suffering need in verse, it is verse 12. You know, he talks about suffering need at the end there. That's the word for poverty. You think about what it is to be in a condition of poverty, a constant ongoing state of not having enough to sustain your life. A constant ongoing state of not having enough to thrive in life. It's a constant nagging feeling that your needs are not met. That often goes together with poverty. And yet, in these situations, Paul says, he's able to be content. He's able to feel like his needs are met. How is that possible? Well, the way it's possible is through what Paul says then in verse 13. So notice verse 13. Verse 13, Paul says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. How can Paul be content in the circumstances that he is in? Only through the strength that comes through Jesus Christ, here in verse 13. Because of the strength that comes through Christ, Paul can be content Even when everything he is going through feels like it is bad and only bad. Even when there are some ways in which his temporary needs are not being met He's able to feel like his needs are being met through the strength that comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. Now again, we want to think about what does this verse actually mean? I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. You know, the truth is this verse has sometimes been used in some sort of odd ways if you ignored the context. Sometimes this verse gets quoted in support of well I that means that Christ is going to give me the strength to do whatever I want to do. I have all kinds of goals and dreams I want to go accomplish. Christ is going to give me the strength to do whatever I'm looking to gain in life. You know, I can claim the strength of Christ in order to go out and get for myself a great life here and now. Now, we should be aware that sometimes that verse is used that way. Now, that's not the way that Paul's using the verse. Because remember, what are the all things that he says he can do? The all things that Paul can do through Christ's strength is the all things that he can endure, the all things that he can suffer. He's talking about suffering all things, not about being able to achieve health, wealth, and prosperity for himself But being able to suffer in circumstances where it would be really, really, really hard to be content He's able to be content, and he's able to undergo these things with contentment in the Lord. And that is the strength that he receives from Christ in each and every circumstance. The strength that comes through Christ It's not strength to achieve whatever your dreams are for this life, but it is the ability to hold up under suffering With the kind of contentment that you ought to think shouldn't be possible, given what your circumstances actually are. So, how is Paul able to be content? Through the strength that comes through Jesus Christ. Now, what else can we say about the strength that comes through Jesus Christ? Well, one thing we need to acknowledge and understand is that the strength that Christ gives for us to be content in our sufferings Is not something that comes naturally. Not something that is within reach of our own ability or our own attainment to gain for ourselves Or to produce in ourselves. That's why it has to come from Jesus Christ. The kind of strength that Paul has in mind here is a strength that you could even describe as supernatural. This supernatural strength comes to Paul. It's strength that is of the working of the Holy Spirit, therefore. It comes through Christ. It comes through what Christ has won. By his death and resurrection and ascension, and therefore Christ gives it by means of his Holy Spirit from heaven. It's an ability that is worked in us It's not an ability we have in ourselves, and so we need to recognize that. Yes, we are not able to be content in our sufferings, not in our own strengths. But we are able through the strength that we receive from Jesus Christ and through Jesus Christ. When Christ came and shed his blood for the sins of his people He came to secure for us a sort of life that we were not able to live in apart from him doing a great work of salvation and a great work of redemption and a great work of new creation. So Christ comes and purchases salvation for us, and in so doing, he has also secured for us resources to live by grace. in ways that it shouldn't be possible for us to live. Well one of those such ways is what Paul's talking about here. Contentment in e each and every circumstance. Contentment even in circumstances of suffering. Here's what the Spirit does in us and for us. He gives us this strength that comes through Jesus Christ of the sort that Paul talks about. Such that we can find contentment through Him, through Christ, through whatever we're suffering. So again, that's an important thing to remember. It is not within our own reach. To be content in the midst of our sufferings. Yet another thing to be said about this contentment that is given through the strength that comes through Christ is notice how we are able to find contentment in our sufferings. So we've said that it takes supernatural work, that it takes strength that comes through Christ, you know, not from a natural source. But one reason why we're able to have such strength is because when we're granted such strength, Such strength is that which sets the heart of the believer upon realities that lie beyond this present world and this present light. One of the reasons why we're able to have contentment even when we suffer lack in this life Is because Christ strengthens us to see something beyond our present struggles, something that we're still able to live for in the midst of our present struggles. The strength that comes through Jesus Christ makes God's people care more about the life to come. Than about what they can gain or lose in this present life. The strength that comes through Jesus Christ allows us to live out today In light of something great that we have waiting for us in eternity future, the life to come. And Paul is the great example of this already in Philippians. For again, everything in Paul's present circumstances screamed against the fact that he should be content. Imprisoned for the gospel, and we've already sort of referred to what exactly all that included, a lot of what that included. Also enduring. The petty politics of Christians who were saying things behind his back, trying to stir up trouble for him while he was in prison. Such circumstances would not seem to lead a person to be content. But as Paul expresses himself in Philippians chapter 1, he doesn't care. Paul still rejoiced. He dropped and let go everything that was bad about his present circumstance because through those present circumstances Eternal gains were being made. The gospel was being preached. Christ was being preached. That's what Paul cared about. Paul was in a state of deprivation. Imprisonment wasn't easy, and we've sort of referred to that already a number of times, and we've thought about it over the weeks, over the months already. Paul looked beyond what was immediate and saw the value of the life to come. And that's where his heart was set. See, how is it possible to be content in the midst of suffering and deprivation? Again, the strength that comes from Christ is able to do this. Precisely because it causes our hearts to be set upon the life to come and the values that go with that life more than the present. And so that allows us to let go of the things that we might lose in this life. There are a lot of things we might lose out on in this life for the sake of belonging to Christ There are a lot of things we still suffer as we wait for the day when Christ will consummate his new creation. There are the realities of death, the realities of sin that we still struggle with. The reality is that this world is far from a perfect place. The reality is that that judgment in this world is still very skewed, that there's a lot of injustice and unrighteousness we all have to put up with. But in the midst of these things, what can keep us looking forward, pressing forward, letting go of the things that lie behind, pressing on to what lies ahead, a vision of what's ahead. And as we see what's ahead, it is what is with Christ in heaven today. That is what's ahead. And that is coming to us one day. And as we look forward to that and set our hearts upon that We're able to share in the same contentment that Paul had. This is the contentment that Paul had. His heart was fixed upon what lay ahead. And what lay ahead he recognized was so much greater than anything he could gain in this life or lose in this life. Here's how he's able to be content. Here's the kind of contentment that he's talking about. Contentment in all circumstances. Here upon this earth Whether in life we lose or you know sometimes we win, sometimes we lose. Such is life in this world, such is life in a fallen world. Sometimes the righteous suffer for righteousness' sake. Such is life in a fallen world. But the thing that can keep us content in the midst of these things, rather than grumbling and complaining, Is to notice that our needs are met because our most important need is met. And our most important need is to be brought to the presence of our God in eternity To be brought before him in new creation bodies resurrected from the dead after the likeness of Christ's resurrection, to be brought to dwell with him forever in the presence of God. In a place where God satisfies every need. In a place where there will be no death, no pain, no sickness, no sadness, no sin, no unrighteousness, no injustice. When we have our hearts set upon that, that's how we're able to be content here and now, whatever we lose along the way. Well, it's clear that what our calling is, based on what Paul says here. It's very clear, beloved, that we are called to the very same contentment that Paul was able to find. Now again, you know, um we hope and pray that we're we don't necessarily have to face the same circumstances exactly that Paul faced, but we might. But we all have things we're suffering and struggling with, and in the midst of these things, let's seek to find contentment in what Christ has won for us. For out of this, we are able to receive strength. And let's then pray for this contentment. Let's then Seek this contentment, seek that it might be ours, and ask God to grant it to us, for this is what we all need, and this is what we're called to. In Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, you have shown to us um how the Apostle Paul was able to be content. In the midst of many difficulties, many sufferings, many struggles, yet he found contentment in you, he found contentment in Jesus Christ. He was able to do all things through Christ who strengthened him. And Christ strengthened him to endure. To endure abasement, lowliness, lack, to endure hunger, to endure suffering, need. Paul was even able to do this such that the gift that came to him from the Philippians didn't make a difference as to whether he was content or not. No, for he found rest in the glory of Jesus Christ and rest in that eternal life in the world to come that you had prepared for him and for us. Lord, this is our calling from you. You call us to be content in our circumstances, to recognize that they come from you, whatever they are. To accept them from you, but also to have our hearts set upon what you have for us in the end. Thank you, Lord, that it is a glorious thing you have for us in the end. You have Life in the world to come in which we will be with you forever. Contentment is the satisfaction, the feeling of satisfaction that our needs are met. And we can look forward knowing that our every need is met in your presence on the day that is to come. Lord, strengthen our hearts. Give to us this strength through Jesus Christ. Strengthen us through Christ. To do all things, that is, to suffer all things, that is, to endure all things that you have for us to suffer and to endure. Give us these things. We know that we can't do this in our own strength. We know that it takes the strength that comes through Christ for us to be faithful in these things. Grant us these things through the same Savior who has loved us and given himself up for our sins so that we are your children forever. Thank you that we are your children by grace. Sustain us by grace, we pray, and glorify yourself through us. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. And then we could