Our New Testament reading this morning is from the Gospel of John. I'm sorry, I don't have a page reference for you in the Pew Bible. We'll be reading from John chapter 20 in the first 18 verses Jesus has been buried. And now John's account picks up here, the 20th chapter at verse 1. Let's give attention to God's word. Now, on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple. They were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there. But he did not go in And Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there, and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in. And he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes. But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet. He said to her, Woman, Why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him. Having said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing. But she did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking? Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned and said to him in Aramaic, Rabbonai, which means teacher. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my Father, and to your Father, and to my God. And to your God. Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. As far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, our hearts are moved by your word. Indeed, the Lord Jesus merely calling out Mary's name moves our hearts Help us now. Guide us by your Spirit. That we may see all that you have for us this morning. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In Mark's gospel, there is an account of a blind beggar named Bartimaeus. Sitting by the roadside. And he cried out to Jesus And he asked for mercy. And Jesus stopped And said, call him. And as he was called to Jesus, Jesus asked him what he wanted. And Bartimaeus asked that Jesus would recover his sight And Jesus told him, Your faith has made you well. Go your way. And Barnameda saw, and he followed Jesus. Bartimaeus is a picture of each of us. In Adam, every man, woman, and child is blind. Blind to the things of the Lord, blind to the holiness of God, like Nicodemus, one who needs new birth. Unable to see the kingdom of God. And like Bartimadas, poor beggars unable by ourselves to do anything toward advancing or improving our spiritual health and prosperity. If we are able to see it is only due not to a decision we make But because of Jesus Christ, who gives us sight, he must grant us the ability to see Him. Early in John's Gospel, the theme of sight appears Indeed, as Nicodemus visits Jesus Christ, he is told you can't even see the kingdom of God unless you are born again. This chapter, John 20, is found at the end of John's Gospel. That theme of sight stretches throughout We find it here again in John chapter 20, which comes on the heel of what we read on Friday night. The suffering of Jesus Christ on the cross at Calvary, noting our need for his blood, the purity of his blood, and the fact that his blood was indeed shed for us. Now the apostle records for us what happened after the cross, exactly three days after the cross on the first day of the week. This morning. This morning, I want us to see that the reality of the resurrection becomes apparent as Jesus calls the children of God by name. The reality of the resurrection becomes apparent as Jesus calls the children of God by name. Three points this morning. First, blinded by darkness, secondly, called by the Lord, and then finally testified by joy. Well, first, blinded by darkness. Adam's fall from grace had corrupted hearts Indeed, he caused his own heart to incline away from God and toward evil as he took the forbidden fruit. He passed his corrupted nature then along to every single person who would descend from him by ordinary generation, all of his children, including Nicodemus, including Peter and John, including Mary, including us. Today. So much so that the Apostle Paul referred to the unconverted as those who are dead in trespasses and sins. Children of wrath, corrupt hearts That's the backdrop to John chapter 20. The other backdrop is the fact that Jesus had been speaking to his disciples, to Mary. To all who would listen about his death and resurrection. Luke chapter 9. As Peter confesses that Jesus Christ is indeed the Christ of God Jesus followed that immediately by saying, The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. And on the third day be raised. Mark's gospel records Jesus' foretelling of his suffering, death, and resurrection at least three times. We can imagine that the disciples were told that even more. They knew. They were told multiple times by the Son of God, by the Son of Man. By the one that they confessed to be the Messiah, the Christ. But because of their corrupt hearts, their unknowing and unbelieving hearts, they had not received these words as truth. No one was expecting an empty tomb. Indeed, Mary was expecting a full tomb. Look at verse 1. On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark. John's gospel does not record it, but she came with other women. They came with spices to anoint the dead body of the Lord Jesus Christ. They loved Jesus. And this was something that they could do for him even as he was lifeless. But Mary looks in and sees that the stone has been rolled away from the tomb. Now, at this point, we don't know that she actually looked into the tomb. But she knows that the stone has been rolled away, and she assumes at this point, if she has not looked, that the body has been removed, that it's no longer present. Here is the perfect opportunity to declare that the Lord had risen, that she would remember what the Lord had spoken, that the truth of The reality of his resurrection would be made known to the disciples, but no such declaration was forthcoming from Mary's heart or from her mouth. No, her expectation was to look upon a corpse, a dead man, a lifeless body, a body covered in blood and motionless. So she sought to anoint this motionless body of the Lord Jesus Christ. Fully expecting to find him his soulless body lying within the cold walls of the tomb. Mary was blinded as well. She knew that the body of Jesus was so dead that it could only be moved by others. And so she proclaims to Simon Peter and the other disciple: they have taken the Lord out of the tomb. Peter and John had the same opportunity. To remember the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, as they hear that the stone has been rolled away, that the body is gone, apparently And they have the opportunity now to rejoice that the Lord has risen just as he has said. But again, they missed the opportunity to declare the truth of his words And instead of correcting Mary, they run not to Jesus, but to the tomb. to the place of the dead, not the place of the living. Consider this The body was not there as Simon Peter enters into the tomb and he sees the linen cloths lying on the ground, indeed, the face cloth even folded up, separate from the other linen cloth. What grave robber would have folded up the linen clothes? Again, a second opportunity for Peter and John to rejoice together To embrace one another, that the Lord is risen. And yet instead of Going to look for the risen Jesus instead of going to tell the other disciples that indeed He is risen They go home. There's marble, there's belief even by the Apostle John, who speaks of himself as the one whom Jesus loved in this passage And yet they hadn't been given full sight yet. They hadn't been given complete sight by the Lord Jesus Christ. They've received his words, they've seen the evidence of his resurrection, and yet they do not fully understand that he had to rise from the dead And they go home. Seemingly as if nothing happened. They don't tell others, they don't look for Jesus. They just go back to where they were. And now, John The writer of this account turns our eyes back to Mary. We can think of the account as Mary going there initially, she's seeing the stone rolled away, she goes to tell the disciples they come, they investigate They go home, she's waiting outside for something, and now she begins to weep And she stoops into the tomb and she sees angels dressed in white. They speak to her. And now she tells them what's on her heart. I'm weeping because they've taken the body of the Lord away, the one who is dead, the one who hung on the cross. who must still be in that condition. They have removed him. I cannot anoint him And now Jesus asks the same question. Why are you weeping? Whom do you seek? Even Mary was unable to see Jesus. Even as he spoke to her She was unable to wipe the tears away that which clouded her mind and eyes to see the risen Lord. Even the second time, as she's asked, why is she weeping? She's blinded by her expectation that Jesus was fully and completely and everlastingly dead. The concept of a bodily resurrection was not within her heart. The tears though filled her eyes as she longed to demonstrate her love. For the one who had healed her. And so she weeps in her misery, believing that the hope of the world had been dashed against the wooden cross on Calvary. Her expectation, indeed her corrupt heart, kept her from seeing the Lord Jesus Christ even as he spoke to her It's interesting. Despite the fact that Jesus had told them multiple times that he must rise from the dead, none of the disciples were waiting. for his resurrection. If they truly believed Jesus, you think that they would have set up chairs around the tomb and just waited. It's interesting to note that there were those at the cross who waited for Elijah to come and remove Jesus from the cross. And yet the disciples were not waiting for him to rise. And the only explanation for this is that they did not explain Expect him to rise from the dead. In their corrupt and their unbelieving hearts, they had not understood nor recognized the truth or the reality of who Jesus was and what he was there to do Brothers and sisters, this can be a picture of our own hearts, can't it? Mary's weeping can be a picture of our own weeping when our expectations don't include a remembrance of the promises of God. When we look at our situations and our circumstances around us and misinterpret them And we merely go home rather than looking for Jesus in what seems to be a great darkness We misunderstand when we fail to include the words of Jesus Christ to guide our walk in the midst of trouble. Brings us to our second point, called by the Lord. The first words of the Lord Jesus Christ did not change the heart of Mary. She, in a sense, repeats the same thing that she had said to the angels as she now speaks to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm looking for the dead man. But then Jesus called her name Mary And everything changed. She turned to him and said in Aramaic, Rabbonai, which means teacher. That was the way Mary knew him. Before he went to the cross, he was her teacher. And so now she identifies him as the one who did go to the cross. This is how I knew you before you went to the cross. You were my teacher. She was called out now by the word. She was called out by the one who knew her. She was called by the one who had knit her together in her mother's womb. She was called by the one who knew her, her, who who knew when she sat down, when she rose up, when she had thoughts and he was able to discern them, and he the one who searched out her path and Knew when she laid down the one who was acquainted with all her ways Just by calling Mary's name. Everything changed for Mary This one, this thought of this one who stood before her as possibly the gardener, that thought vanished. Along with the expectation within her heart of setting her sights upon the eternally dead body of the Lord Jesus Christ that was gone. She was given eyes now to see something had happened within her heart, like the flip of a switch. Mary is seemingly converted at this instant, such that she could recognize the one who stood before her. As her teacher. No longer was Mary looking for a dead man. As Jesus called her name, Mary's heart now in a sense was running and embracing him with the words Rabboni or teacher, clearly recognizing this one as the one who had been brutalized on the cross of Calvary, the one who died, the one who was buried in the tomb that was near to where she stood, Mary's heart had been supernaturally Transformed from the one who sought a dead man now to one who recognized the reality of the resurrection in her Lord, even Jesus. There's a podcast on World Magazine this week. Folks were speaking about Good Friday and the resurrection, and it was noted during that podcast that Christianity is very personalized. But it's also very public. And we see that in this passage, don't we? Christianity is very public. Meaning the historical truth of it, meaning the history of redemption, meaning the objective reality of the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ, the cross was so very public. The burial was so very public. The resurrection was so public. Nothing was hidden, everything exposed for all to see. But to know what it meant, to know what it means is very personal Mary had to be personally called by the Lord Jesus Christ. She had to be called out of darkness. She couldn't see her way out. That much was clear in this passage. Even as the risen Lord Jesus Christ, whom she had been with, who had healed her, was initially unrecognizable for In the darkness of her heart she was unable to see. Mary had to be led out, personally called out of the darkness and into the light, for no one can come to the Lord Jesus Christ unless the Father who sent him draws them. John 6. 44 Jesus is constantly calling, generally. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. He who has no money, come buy and eat. If this morning you don't know the reality of the resurrection, Jesus is calling. Those are his words, calling you to come and drink. Drink of him, feast upon him. If you don't know that reality this morning, then call out to Jesus. Ask him to make his call effectual in your heart Pray that your name would be called by the Savior, that He would give you the gift of faith in the power of His resurrection. Brings us to our third point, testified by joy. Well, Jesus does not allow Mary to physically embrace him, for he had not yet ascended. But he had a message that he wanted to convey to his disciples, those who had just gone home, and the others. Go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, to my God, and to your God. This is quite an amazing event in the history of redemption. When anyone tells you that women do not play a significant role in the church, please turn to John 20. The risen Lord appeared to Mary first. He chose Mary, not Peter, not John. They were just there. He chose Mary. And he gave her the task of carrying word to his brothers. Just think about that term for a moment. My brothers. The Lord Jesus Christ referring to his disciples, those who followed him as my brothers. What a glorious thing. But consider even the garden, the first one to fall, so to speak, the one deceived, the one who cast off the word of God. The first one to rebel against God by distrusting his wisdom and his word, now seemingly in a reversal, Mary Mary's given eyes to see. Mary's given faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Mary's given the gift of being able to testify of the bodily resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. John doesn't record it, but Matthew does that they, meaning Mary and the women with her left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy and ran to report it to his disciples. The resurrection is joyful Mary's tears were gone. Because she could now proclaim, I have seen the Lord. I've seen the Lord. What a joy it is to be able to say, I've seen the Lord. The emptiness of the tomb. Indeed, the tomb was emptied completely It no longer had a purpose. Its original purpose was to hold death or to hold Jesus in the grip of death, but then he broke that grip. And he emptied the tomb. Death had no power over the Lord Jesus Christ. Life had walked out. The tomb was emptied of its power. There's no power left in it. The only power of the tomb was death. That's joyful. But there was also joy in Mary's confession. I've seen The Lord, she knew the one she saw living, and she believed. This is a confession of faith. Remember, she referred to Jesus as Reboni This is the way I knew you before you went to the cross, and now she refers to him as Lord. After the cross, now the resurrected one I've seen the Lord. It was a confession of faith. She referred to the living one as teacher, and now Lord Mary believed. She knew that death had been defeated by her Lord. That's joyful. While John's gospel does not record it, Mary's proclamation of truth and faith was not well received. Luke records that as they go and tell the apostles these things, these words appeared as nonsense to them. They would not believe. But for those of you this morning that believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ The call here is to proclaim. I believe. I've seen the Lord I've seen him in his word. He's spoken to me by his word. He's convicted me that he has risen from the dead and he's raised me with him. And we need to tell others about what Jesus has done for us. And some will receive those words as nonsense. Brothers and sisters, that should not affect your joy. The reality is the tomb was empty. The reality is the tomb was emptied of death. And that truth, that reality, is not affected by its rejection by others Don't let that diminish your joy in Christ. Continue proclaiming. Continue telling others: this is what Jesus has done to me. And it's joyful. Indeed, he is risen. Yes, the reality of the resurrection becomes apparent as Jesus calls the children of God by name Bartimaeus was given sight so that he could follow the Lord Jesus. We've been given sight this morning, so that we can do the same. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, Father, for his resurrection. What a great blessing it is that we can proclaim with Mary, I have seen the Lord. We praise you. We ask all these things in Jesus' name.