And now for the reading of God's Word from Ecclesiastes chapter four, verses one through eight, about half of the chapter of Ecclesiastes four. Now this section we are coming to, you know, we've seen, you know, I would say I I think that chapter three, at least especially the beginning of it, gives the great highlight of the early sections of Ecclesiastes, as Solomon is able to come to a perspective in the midst of his meditations. Where he's able to recognize the time and a place for everything that happens under heaven and even is able to recognize that there's a sense in which It will all appear as beautiful in its time. You know, in chapter one and two, this was a struggle. It was, well, life stinks and the world is ugly and vain and broken. And he gave sort of lots of meditation on that. But but in chapter three, that is really the um he comes with the right perspective on it, a perspective which allows him to have peace even in the midst of the ugliness of the brokenness of this world. Well now as we get to chapter four, Solomon, you know, you see how those words begin, I returned and considered. So he's going to Now, having reached the heights of chapter 3, the perspective he had in chapter 3, now with that he's going to go back and look at, squarely at. much of the ugliness of what happens under the sun. And that is the the the topic of our text in chapter four. It will be the topic of our text for probably many weeks. But Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verses 1 through 8. So there are there are a number of instances of what is broken about life. So with that, listen to the reading of God's Word, Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verses 1 through 8, and give your attention to it as God's word, for it is God's Word. Then I returned and considered all the oppression that is done under the sun. And look, the tears of the oppressed. But they have no comforter. On the side of their oppressors, there is power, but they have no comforter Therefore, I praise the dead who were already dead, more than the living who are still alive. Yet, better than both is he who has never existed. Who has not seen the evil work that is done under the sun? Again I saw that for all toil and every skillful work A man is envied by his neighbor. This also is vanity and grasping for the wind. The fool folds his hands and consumes his own flesh. Better a handful with quietness. Then both hands full, together with toil and grasping for the wind. Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun There is one alone without companion. He has neither son nor brother. Yet there is no end to all his labors, nor is his eye satisfied with riches. But he never asks, For whom do I toil and deprive myself of good? This also is vanity and a grave misfortune As far as the reading of God's Word, may He add His blessing to it, and may He add His blessing to its preaching in our midst this Lord's day. So again, you've heard and we've seen in times past how in chapters three um Solomon had come to a place where he was able to find some measure of comfort and peace. Yes, he recognized the brokenness, the vanity of life under the sun, and yes, he stared it straight in the face as a reality that is very ugly to contend with And yet, even still in chapter 3, he was able to come to a perspective where he was able to find peace in the midst of that. He was able to find some measure of peace and comfort. And it was rooted in the work of God. Rooted in the fact that God is at work making all things come come together so that when we see the fullness of God's work from beginning to end. That it will appear beautiful in its time. And that the time when we will see this does have something to do with the fact that God has put eternity in our hearts. So we all long for that eternity future. We all long for that day when we will be able to look back upon the history of this world and we'll be able to say, oh, I see. How it all fits together. I see how it's all beautiful now. Now Solomon was able to come to that position in chapter three. Well now having come to that position in chapter four, he's going to turn and consider once again, he's going to stare straight in the face much of the ugliness of what takes place. in this world. And we see a lot of it laid out for us. We see it laid out in especially three different sections here. Verses one to three seems to constitute one section, dwelling on one topic Verses 4 through 6 looks like he's considering a different topic. And then verses 7 and 8, he's considering another topic. It's framed by the way the writing it appears there in this text. So what are the things he considers here? What is the ugliness of life under the sun? The ways that life under the sun is still broken. What are the things that Solomon considers? Well first of all In verses 1 through 3, he focuses his attention upon the reality of oppression in this life, the reality of oppression in this life We all know that life under the sun often involves the reality of oppression. Those who have power over others Use that power to lord it over those who do not have power. And Solomon reflects upon this Solomon finds it something to be grievous in his heart. It's something that that he not only recognizes, but also mourns over and is sad over and is somewhat repulsed by. Look, the fact that there are tears. In verse 1, there are tears on the parts of the oppressed. Why? Well, because they're oppressed. Those who are oppressed cry tears. The tears flow readily when you are oppressed. If you experience oppression or have experienced oppression, I think we all have at some level or another probably As we experience this, we understand the misery that comes with being under the power of somebody else who is intent on not helping you out and I'm not showing you any mercy or not trying to help make your situation any better. In that situation, how easy it is for those tears to flow as Solomon observes And yet, even when you find yourself in that situation, or when anyone finds themselves in that situation, how rare it is to find a comforter, as Solomon points out. But they have no comforter And one of the reasons why there is no adequate comfort to be given to them is because when they are oppressed by oppressors, We see in verse 1, the oppressors have power. Those who are oppressing them have power in their hands. On the side of their oppressors, there is power. What can you do in that situation? Those who have the power to help, those who are oppressed, often are just happy to hold on to that power. and not use it in order to free other people from the the oppression, but are very comfortable having that power Very comfortable holding on to that power, very comfortable continuing to exercise that power in ways that continue to oppress. And this is what Solomon is dwelling upon and meditating upon here in this text. What would make the difference for those who are oppressed? If those who have the power who were or who are oppressors here, who have power on their side, as Solomon describes, would come to the aid of those who they are are oppressing. But instead, there's no expectation that they're going to do so. Because as we know the hearts of men, and as we know the inclinations of sinful hearts, we understand that those who oppress using power are often quite comfortable maintaining that power And therefore use that power to hold on to it. And therefore often do so without any thought as to what it is doing to those who are being oppressed. This is what Solomon reflects on here in this text. And how does Solomon feel about that? You know, if again, I mean, we've all experienced it at some level or another, surely. We all understand being under the power of someone who is not trying to help you and possibly trying to make your life hard on purpose. We all understand that at some level And yet, so miserable Solomon finds this in our text that he says that it'd be better off to be dead than to be living that life. It'd be better off to never have existed, he said, than to live life that is that kind of life. And this is the kind of world we live in. And um is Solomon wrong about that? No. We can't say that he is. We shouldn't say that he is. And um but his observations are correct. Um he looks around. You can see the same things today. It's not hard to see if you have your eyes open to it. Life under the sun is broken. Where is the comfort of those who are oppressed? Where can they go to to find someone who can do something to rectify their situation? Where can they find that? Not often from the ones who are oppressing them. Where can they find that? Solomon laments this fact that this is how life seems to be. Life is ugly in this way. Alright, another ugly reality. You know, if that's not enough of a downer, let's move forward. Verses 4 through 6. Okay. Yet another thing that's broken about the world. He says in verse 4, you know, I saw that for all toil and every skillful work, okay? People do skillful work. People do good things. People work hard and have success in the work that they do. And other people watch these people doing work, having success. What do they do? Well, Solomon observes that other people then envy that person. Now, is that how work and success should work in this world Don't we all expect, don't we all think that the way things should work is that you do good work, you have success? Other people notice the success you're having. It inspires them to go out and work hard and go have success themselves. Isn't that really the way that work should work in this world? That we all have plenty of experiences that tell us that that's not how work always works out in this world. Sure, sometimes, maybe. But for the most part, oftentimes, the very thing that Solomon observes here, a man expends all his labor, puts in tremendous skill and effort into having success in his work. And yet it inspires from those around him envy, ultimately hatred, ultimately covetousness, at not having the success that the man himself has. Another way that work does not work out in this world is that in verse 5, fools sometimes hold their hands and do nothing. Now, again, in this in this world, it ought to be the case that we all ought to understand that when we work There's there's uh it's better for us to work and have success in work than to not work. And yet sometimes that fact does not actually motivate people to work. In verse 5. We see sometimes people just they know that if they don't work, they're not going to be able to live and survive and eat and thrive. And yet this is not enough to motivate them to work. So it's another way that that work and success and fruitfulness is another aspect of this world that is really broken. And Solomon observes it. Another thing that's broken about work in this world comes in verse 6. Better a handful with quietness than both hands full, together with toil and grasping for the wind. So broken and so messed up is the nature of work and success in this world that sometimes instead of expending the extra effort to work extra hard seeking some extra level of success, It's better to just be satisfied with a little bit, the little bit that you have, and to hold back. Because sometimes extra success in work and extra fruitfulness in work does bring with it such extra trouble And such extra trouble that is not worth the amount of what you have gained by doing that extra So again, it's it's basically this um extended uh meditation on w how work and fruitfulness and success Simply do not work out the way that they really should. Now, if the w world had not fallen into sin, if Adam had not fallen into sin, that's not how work would be. Work, everything would work out the way it should. You work in this world and you gain the fruits of your labors and you enjoy them for what they are. That would be the way work would have been in this world had Adam not fallen to sin. And yet here we are in a fallen world. It doesn't always correlate the way it should. Sometimes you work really, really hard and you feel like you're getting punished for it. Sometimes that happens in this world. We all know that. Here Solomon um um is meditating on The nature of work in a fallen world. Here is an expansion, really, of some of the things he'd said back in chapter one. You know, back in chapter one, he had sort of alluded to this, how how um Man doesn't always get to see profit from his labor. Well, we're seeing some of that worked out in very concrete ways now here in chapter four. Yet another aspect of work in this world that does not work out comes finally in verse 8 of our text. Once again Solomon returns, he sees vanity under the sun. Here is another aspect of The brokenness of life in this world, how broken this world is. And he envisions a man who does not have anyone to work for. No family, no son, no brother, no one whom he's working for. You know, uh those who are working in order to raise a family or in order to support Someone in their family can understand how hard that can be sometimes, how much work it is to um to try to continue to sustain people more than yourself. So you're trying to sustain yourself and the rest of your family And yet sometimes if you're in that position, it's easy to think of and to envy those who are perhaps able to just sustain themselves on their own income and you know, not have a problem or not have that problem of having to support others. And yet, the one who has no family, the one who has no son No brothers? No brother? To work for? To sustain? To support? So often, oftentimes in this world, what happens? Exactly what Solomon says here. This man has no one he needs to work for, and yet he still feels this nagging need to continue to work. And he's never satisfied with what he does, even though it oughta be easy to be content and to be satisfied by what he is doing. Again, if you're working for yourself, it shouldn't be that hard to support yourself in your own work. But again, Solomon notes: the man who has no one else to work for Goes on working endlessly. Sometimes in our culture we think of that phrase of being a workaholic and we You can probably think of people like that, people who are so driven to work. They're not sure what they're in search of. They feel like there's something to be gained by continuing to work and work and work. They may not even know what they're going after, but they may feel this driving need, this driving need. Um perhaps lacking true fulfillment in life, the kind that only comes through God and through Christ, they make an idol of their work. And this is what we see expressed here in verse eight of our text. This man with no companion, with no family, has no need to work that much. And yet He goes on working endlessly. He's not satisfied. You know, really he ought to be working to support somebody else within the church community, um, we would say in New Testament days. And yet um You know, the scriptures make reference to that in Paul's writings in Ephesians 4, and yet um at the same time, you know, the man works just for himself and he's not satisfied, even though He goes on as if somehow he's going to be satisfied. Again, what a what a funny situation. What another situation that Solomon observes, which we ought to say, and we ought to conclude by saying, um, is yet another way that the world is broken. So again, very much in this passage and in many passages to come. Um the the world is not a pretty place. Um because of Adam's sin. Life under the sun is ugly. There are ugly realities to the world. Solomon brings us face to face with these realities. And he's going to again and again as we continue through the chapters of Ecclesiastes. And yet the question is, as we face these realities, is it possible to face these ugly realities without falling into despair? And that's really the question. Because a lot of the times we avoid facing the ugly realities of life because we can't manage, we can't cope with how ugly life is. But is it possible to face the ugly realities of life in this world without falling into despair? And that's the real question for Ecclesiastes. It's a question we're going to face again and again throughout Ecclesiastes because Solomon is going to show us the ugliness of the world again and again and again. How do we understand how to approach life? How do we understand how to do so in a way that we can be realistic that the world is an ugly place? And yet not be led to despair, and still hold fast to our hope in Jesus Christ. And the answer surely comes from the things that Solomon has already said. So really, chapters 1 to 3 is a snapshot of how to face the ugliness of life in this world. The pattern that he showed us in chapter 1 through 3 Is a pattern that we need to apply to all of the ugliness of life in a fallen world. For having sunk into the depths of despair in chapters one and two, Once again in chapter three, he's able to zoom back and get that perspective. And he's able to understand that there is a perspective according to which one day We will understand how everything has its place, how everything is beautiful in its time, as he said in chapter 3, verse 11. When you're going through it, it will look ugly, it will look frustrating, yet even though that's true Well we're going through it, it's good for us to remember there's a day coming when we will understand and when we will see in fullness what God was doing from beginning to end. Again, as Solomon said in chapter 3, verse 11, no one can find out the work that God does from beginning to end today. As we're experiencing the ugliness of life in this world, we can't um you know, we can't understand exactly what God is doing. But we can understand that everything does have its place because God is bringing it all together, and one day we will see that. We will see that because of the eternity that He will bring us to. And of course, we have even more reason to think that, because we have seen the salvation that has come through Jesus Christ. So we understand what God is doing in history. We understand that God is gathering for Himself a people. A people who will praise him. We understand that even the ugliness of life in a fallen world has its role to play. In gathering a people who will praise God for all eternity. A people who are redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ. We understand that everything Solomon is saying in this text oppression and the fact that work is frustrating. We understand that all of that has its place. And God is using even that. To lead people and to draw people to himself. Even to lead us and to draw us back to himself. Yes, again, when life is frustrating and when we face uh come up face to face with the brokenness and vanity of life in this world. We are being called to direct our focus back to what God has done for us in Christ. Back to the fact that we have a future and we have a hope. That we have the promise of the age to come. And when we come to that day, we will understand why God did what He did with us. Yes, it's true. Today that is hard. Today that is frustrating. Today we uh we are saddened by the very things Solomon was saddened by when we observe these very sam same things. And yet we can trust that one day it will make sense One day we will praise God for his great work that he was doing. We can already begin to praise him for it now, as we see foretastes of what he is doing, and we see glimpses of that in our lives today. Now, one thing that's important for us to remember is that even today we can look for some of the things that are true about life in a fallen world. We can look for those things to lead us, um, to to send us back to God and to look back to Christ and the promises we have in him. But we can also realize that God is using these things even to point other people to him. So every time we run into frustration and futility, every time our neighbors around us run into frustration and futility of living in a broken world, we and they are being pointed to the true meaning of life. The true meaning of life is to be reconciled to our God, to be reconciled to our Creator through the work of Jesus Christ. So let's remember that. Remember that. Again, we may face the ugliness of oppression, the fact that there is no comforter on that the fact that that power is on the side of oppressors, so that there is no comforter for those who are oppressed. We may face the ugliness of the fact that our work does not always add up to the success and the fruitfulness that we would hope and expect. We may s we may struggle with the frustrations that we live in a fallen world. Let's remember we have a promise and we have a savior and we have a God who is leading us beyond this fallen world And when we get there, we will understand, and we will only thank him and praise him, and we will only confess the very thing that Solomon already said: that God has made everything beautiful in his time. That even though we in our own lives were unable to find out the work that God does from beginning to end, nonetheless. It was a beautiful work. It was a glorious work. We'll praise him for it. It'll be the theme of our praise forever. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, we do bless your name that you are faithful to us. We thank you, O Lord. Yes, oh Lord, what a what a mystery it is as we uh are often confounded by the things that we experience in this life. Um Why you have um seen fit to even allow sin to come into the world and that it should even be part of your plan. Um we struggle, we wrestle with this. Lord, we all experience the brokenness of the world in so many ways. Our bodies are breaking down. We are led and feel driven to sin. to sin against you and to um to desire to serve idols and and lusts and pleasures that we shouldn't, and yet, oh Lord, all these are are frustrating realities of the world that is under the curse We praise you that you have lifted our eyes up and lifted our hearts up to see Jesus Christ, to see the promise of the age to come, to see that your new creation work has begun already in us through Christ. And that even now you are at work bringing it into into reality as you draw people to yourself. As you draw people by your spirit, as you in l uh illumine your your word so that we can see it and understand it, so that we and other people come to you and are reconciled to you and find fulfillment in you. Lord, grant this perspective to us in the midst of our day-to-day and week-to-week lives. Grant that we would have our hearts set upon who you are as a God who is faithful to us. We know you're able to grant this. We know that you have granted it by giving us your word and your gospel. Would you impress it upon our hearts by your Spirit? We ask these things in the name of Jesus Christ, our living Savior. Amen.