We return now to First Kings chapter eighteen. And may I briefly insert Just by way of thanksgiving to the Lord, to thank you, all of you, for your prayers, for my family, for my wife and me particular, with all of our medical adventures we've had from Midsummer up until just about a month ago. Thank you so much for your prayers. We do so very much appreciate. um you're joining with us on those issues. Thank you kindly. So we are coming to this The whole story of Elijah is really a magnificent portrait of the faithfulness of our covenant-keeping God. And that's almost a redundancy because he is covenant-keeping He is and will always be faithful. He will not go back on his word or fail to maintain and apply his promises to Abraham's seed. And that includes you and me, because spiritually speaking, we are true children of Abraham, regardless of whether we are Jew and Gentile, black or white, European, North American, Asian. South American, with deference to my brother David, wherever we may hail from, whatever our origins, if we are in Christ alone, by faith alone, On the basis of God's word alone, unto the greater glory of God alone, then we are new creatures, and we are God's children, and we are his elect and his people and he is faithful to us. So he was faithful to Elijah even when Elijah, even after this incident, this this incredible incident uh on Mount Carmel. Uh Elijah's going to chicken out. He because of Queen Jezebel, he's going to almost go back on his confidence in the Lord, even though the Lord had done mighty things through his prophet. And isn't that just like you and me After God continues to bless us in ways that we couldn't uh encompass or understand or even anticipate, yet Pastor on, first to raise the hand, grumble, complain, uh forget that it's God who gives us everything that we need, and most of all, redemption in the name of his son. So we come to this confrontation because there's been this Asheraf and Baal worship going on because Ahab and his father before him have been Rebelliously disobedient and uh had listened to their queens and had set up all of these temples and established all of these orders of prophets. I mean they even had their own seminary if you like for these prophets of Baal. And here they numbered just for Baal alone 450 graduates And they were all active, drumming up support for uh and everything, including, I'm sure, coinage. to maintain Baal worship throughout the land, an absolute idolatrous, and abominable thing in the eyes of the Lord. And finally, you were one of God's own faithful prophets, just one in all of Israel. And he called for a confrontation. Now, given how he would act not long after this great triumph of the Lord on the mountain, uh We we recall and would recall were we to go on in the story this morning that he is sinful and fallible and weak just as we all are But the spirit came upon Elijah in a way, and when he found out from Obadiah, who was, I guess you could still say in prophet school at this time time. He wasn't a full-blown, uh, called and ordained and installed prophet, but he was a prophet aspiring But he tipped uh he tipped off Ahab, thinking that he was doing the right thing, as a good subject uh of the crown. And of course Ahab uh himself It's something kings normally don't do. They usually send servants and viceroys and ambassadors uh to do their uh hoi poloi for them. uh especially with people who have erred as as he deemed Elijah had. But he him himself went out to confront Elijah. And so if everything that followed on karma took place, we we really in In great and small measure have Ahab to thank for it. Because he went to meet Elijah, and I love how it's put here. Is that you? Is that really you, Elijah? You troublemaker for Israel. What an epitaph. But but it certainly brought things to a point And Elijah retorted, It is not I, O king, who have made trouble for Israel, but you and your wife and your father and his wife before you. You're the troublemaker because you have failed To obey and worship and follow the living God, the God of your fathers. You've abandoned him, the text tells us in verse 18. So now, and that word is important now because of all of this. And because you dared to come to me, God's own prophet, not that I'm special, but because I represent the Lord To you and to the people. We're going to take care of this right now. And this is one of the most powerful, dramatic, miraculous You can add all the adjectives and adverbial adjectives you want. This is a fantastic outpouring of God's mighty and sovereign power. And it it is like a drama. And and uh poets and playwrights and musicians have done their best to set this uh in a contemporary mood, but nothing replaces the story as we find. find it in Scripture. It's just wonderful. And of course we know what happened. But let's unpack it a little bit, if you will, as we go through it. So he said, summon the people. And summon your prophets. They're your prophets and your wife's prophets. Especially the Azuroth prophets who are who get free free lunch, dinner, and breakfast at Jezebel's table. I want all of them there. Why? He wanted them to be confronted not only by him And to be told according to God's holy law that they had uh erred and sinned and blasphemed God by idolatrously following the Azurof and And also Baals. It's time for a confrontation. And that's what happened. So he turned around and made Ahab his messenger boy. Think about that. But Ahab did it. Because maybe he was thinking, text doesn't tell us, but maybe he was thinking, maybe, whatever happens, we can get rid of this troublesome prophet once and for all. So he sent word, and they assembled on Mount Carmel. And here's Elijah. He stood up. Before the people, and he said, How long will you waver? Or you can think of the word vacillate or jump from one side to the other. At the the Hebrew there literally means stand on one foot. How long are you going to keep doing that? How long could you or I stand on one foot? But in this case, it's like, make up your minds. Whom will you serve? The Baals, the Asheroth, or the one who is The only one worthy of our worship. Why? Because the Baals and the Asheroths didn't create you, but the Lord God Almighty did. That is the chief reason why we worship God. Because none of the other things that we may worship and idolize in breaking both the first and second commandments, nothing else. That we might adore and worship and give honor to created us. Think about that. A very good OP friend tell me that years ago. Only one has created you. And he is the Lord. For that reason alone, apart from redemption and salvation, which is recreation in Christ. And is another tremendous impetus for us to come before Him with joy and reverence and thanksgiving and praise. But He made us So he says, how long will you waver between two opinions? And he puts the point straight. He says, if the Lord. That is the name of the Lord, Jehovah Yahweh. If he is God, then serve him, follow him. But if Baal is God, then follow him. We're going to find out right now. Who is the true one and only living God? So he reminded them that he was the only one of God's prophets Now left alive. Remember, Jezebel had had not a few of God's prophets put to death and uh would try to do the same again So he says, here's what we're going to do. We're going to do it in a way both religiously and culturally that everybody would understand. This is going to be the summit acid test of all proof tests. Who is God? And he says, We're gonna get two bowls. And I'm gonna make it as fair as possible. They, the you know, the Baal prophets and and the other boys, they can choose which of the two bulls they want. They get first choice. Okay? Fair enough. Okay? And then this is how we're gonna do it. We're gonna prepare the altar and we're gonna put wood on it, but don't light the fire yet Okay? And then you call on the name of your God, and when the time comes I'll call on the name of the Lord. The God who answers by fire, he is God. It was a challenge, it was a defiant Final push to the throw challenge. And how did the people respond? They didn't say, well, that's the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard of. uh you know, fire, you know uh w whichever it is, it's not fire? No. They immediately said what you say is good. In other words, we agree. We're gonna do it. And Elijah's gonna hold them to it He said to the prophets of Baal, choose the bowls. And so we have a little bit of this repeated for us, but by inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the author of this book. takes pains to make sure we understood that the the proposal Elijah made, in all fairness, was carried out in a fair and public manner. It was witnessed. Everybody saw it. They saw which bowl the prophets picked. They saw how they prepared the altar and the wood and cut the bowl up and got it ready to be burnt up All in front of their eyes. They saw it all. So they took the bowl given, verse 26, and prepared it. Then they called on the name of Baal, just as Elijah had challenged them to do. And you you gotta love this people. Why? Because as we know in all of the prophets of Old Testament Scripture, we know that the gods of the nations are false. They're fakes They're imitations at best, but those imitations don't even come close in power, in majesty, in great glory, in love, and mercy. To being the one and true living God. But they call on the name of Baal from morning till noon. That was probably around sunrise when they got all of this set up on the mountain Remember, Ahab is there too. They're there. They're seeing all this. And they called on Baal. Oh Baal, answer us, they shouted. And no one responded. No one answered. And so they danced around the altar that they had made. And can you imagine this went on all morning. It says till noon, till the sun was straight up in the sky. Imagine. shouting and dancing and prancing around, begging, as it were, with their shouts that Baal send down fire to consume the sacrifice. Well, nothing happened. So at noon, don't you love it? Okay, don't you just love it? Elijah began to taunt them, shout louder. He said, surely he's a God, but you know, because he's a God, he's got things to do and places to go. He's busy. And he says, you know me, he's just he's deep in thought or he's busy or traveling. Now that word traveling there might be a little different in your English version. The Hebrew there is a little more earthy uh he might be in the water closet doing something. Really, it's the idea that's conveyed there. So travel is just a nice English prosaic way of saying He's he's busy doing something that doesn't want to be interrupted. Or maybe he's asleep and you need to wake him up, shout louder, do something more to get his attention So they shouted louder, and they slashed themselves with spears and swords. And then the writer adds, as was their custom. I guess they had had this problem before, do you think? And still no answer. Midday passed, and they continued their frantic prophesying, which is The secondary idea of Prophet Science, which is to foretell, to try to praise and honor and exalt their God And they probably were, as they were, bleeding all over each other, reminding each other of just how great and mighty and faithful Baal is. Do you smell smoke? Is there fire? There's nothing. Why? Because he's just a block of stone or wood. He's nothing. And it was time for the evening sacrifice. That's a reference to the time under older and older Israel. In the time between Joshua and now, when a sacrifice would be offered unto Jehovah in the evening. It was time. And it was time for the one true and living God to show his stuff. And he did. Then Elijah, verse 30, said to all the people, Come here to me. I want you to be here. I want you to see this with your own eyes and hear this with your own ears. And he could have added, so in the generations to come, long after you've gone into the ground, your descendants will remember what the Almighty did. for you here. And he does say that it was for them. So they came to him. And notice, again, the writer Insert something very important here. Not only was the sacrifice being offered at the time, which was the custom of the Lord's people, but it was a matter of repairing the altar that had long since fallen into disrepair and disuse. It was high time, and Elijah, God's own and only prophet, repaired it by adding twelve stones, one for each of the tribes, those who descended from Jacob, to whom the promise also came, as it was to his father Isaac and his grandfather Abraham. The promise that he would be their God and that they would be his people. So he repaired it. And notice the quote here: your name shall be Israel, which means one who contends with God. That's our name too. We still contend with God because the scriptures tell us we're still prone to go our own way, even though we've been redeemed and are in union with Jesus Christ by faith, our old nature still pulls at us, and we are still wont to wander. and to forsake the God who called us unto salvation in his Son. And so your name shall be Israel. Well, he built an altar in the name of the Lord Amen. And he dug a trench around it. And it says enough to hold two sias of seed. Well, some of you might have footnotes saying, now what's a sea and about how much is is uh is two seas. Well it says it's around thirteen, fourteen quarts uh by volume. Uh that's that's not a little bit of seed Uh and then he arranged the wood, cut the bowl in pieces, laid it on the wood, just as it was supposed to be done. And then he does something else. Calls out to the servants and says, Pour four large jars. Now this isn't like a jar that sits on your dining table Or it might even be mistaken for a vase for your flowers. These are jars. These are like 40, 50 gallon drums. These are huge. And he says, take how many? Four And pour it on the offering and on the wood. Well that's what the trench was for. It was going to catch all the water. But you pour it on the animal, you pour it on the wood. That's what's supposed to burn to burn up the sacrifice. And then he says, do it again. And they did. And then he says, do it a third time. So now we're talking twelve barrels. of water. Do you think it was a little soap? I think so. Do you think Elijah was hobbling his own chances of of the sacrifice being burned up? No He knew the God who had created all things by the word of his power, and he knew that he was faithful in his covenant to his people, even his disobedient. So he did. And the water ran down around the altar and even filled the trench. So at the time of the sacrifice, Elijah stepped forward and here's his prayer. It isn't, oh God, I want these people to know how great a prophet I am in your service, oh Lord. Or you know, I I want you to do something really cool and mighty, Lord, so that they'll say, wow I hope Elijah can come back and do that again next week. No! Because that's sometimes what the people of God want from the Lord. Even in places of worship that they dare to call churches. They want God to put on a show for them and then they'll believe, or they'll keep on believing. But if God doesn't perform, after a while w w I guess he's not really God. No. Here's how Elijah prayed. He says, O Lord. God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel. Remember they're all listening. He wasn't praying, Soto Voce, and uh well I hope someone's listening He was fairly shouting this, let it be known, not tomorrow, not next week, not next year, today. That you are God in Israel, and that I am your servant. I am your representative. No matter what Jezebel says, no matter what Ahab tells the people I'm not a troublemaker. I'm the servant of the Lord. And that you and have done all these things at your command. God told him what to do, he did it. Answer me, O Lord, answer me. What? Not so that I can show off. Not so that they'll say, well, we'll follow Elijah because he's the one that can get the job done. No, he says, so that these people will know that you, O Lord, O Jehovah, O Yahweh, our God, and something else. And it's pure gospel at the end of this prayer, and that you are turning their hearts back again. Who other than the Lord Himself, by His Spirit, through the merits of Christ Can turn our rebellious, idolatrous hearts back to Him. And if we think for one moment this morning, beloved, that our hearts are not inclined to idolatry. They are. Else God was was wasting his time giving the first two commandments. You will have no other gods before me Small g, imitators, flatterers, one God, the only one who created you. And you will not make For yourselves in terms of worship and veneration and honor, any kind of God, any kind of idol, with your hands That you, O God, are the Lord and are the one true and living God who of course answers by fire. Is anything too hard for the Lord? Nothing. And that you were turning their hearts back again. You see, that's the greater miracle. if you like, of of the two things that Elijah prayed for in this prayer. One that they would know because of the fire. Apparently uh Baal wasn't gonna answer. Of course not, he couldn't, because he's not a real God But the God who would answer would answer by fire. But then he also prayed for the greater miracle that he is turning their hearts back to himself. And I don't think Elijah got any much further than Amen. And the fire came. And note what the fire did. This is no ordinary fire, not even the fire of a very hot furnace. Because even the fire of a very hot furnace that could melt tungsten or platinum This is hotter than that. Look what it does. It burned up the sacrifice. Well, okay. It burned up the wood Okay, that you know wood burns. Okay, we know that. Um and stones. Well, there are fires hot enough to disintegrate and melt stone. We call them volcanoes. Uh okay. But the soil, it burned up the soil. Now some more liberal commentators on this panel will say, well, that's really that's really kind of like a mortar or concrete I waive the point. They're at least acknowledging that this fire that came from heaven can do this. But it also licked up the water in the trench Now this was more than just a showboat spectacle. This had to rock those people right back on their heels, if not take them right on their backs. Because he answered. Not a word was spoken. Except the word of the Lord that came through Elijah's prayer. And the fire fell, and it did more than what had been intended, perhaps even surprising Elijah. We don't know. The text doesn't tell us. But isn't that like our God when He hears us and He answers? He does more than what we expect Like Jesus, his first miracle that the gospel's note for us in Cana at the wedding. and how the uh uh the best man or or the master of ceremonies for the groom and his family, you know, c comes comes to uh the groom, comes to his father and says, usually uh You know, we we have the best wine first and then when everyone's a little bit uh woozy, uh then you slip in the cheap watered down wine. But you've saved the best for last. This is far better God does infinitely more than all we can ask or think. That's the kind of God we serve. Who is also faithful? Who also promises that he will judge by fire. He's judged by water. And his son has made the promise good, that when he comes again, he will come for you and me. But for those who have rejected him Who have idolatized their lives by following their own pursuits because you know we can make an idol out of anything, even out of our families out of our jobs or our bank account. The list goes on. John Calvin noted in several places in his writings, the human heart is an idol factory It's like an assembly line. We're turning out one little altar or idol after another. And then we chase after them to make sure that they know that we honor them. Them and worship them. God says, worship is due to me alone. Jesus told the woman at the well, God is looking for worshipers Those who will worship him in spirit and truth. That's the ultimate reason why he has called a people to himself through his covenant accomplished. once for all in his son, that we may worship him now and in eternity. So when all the people saw this, verse 39 This is actually the climax of the story. As if the total conflagration and consummation by the fire of the whole altar wasn't great enough Here comes the other part for which Elijah had prayed, the turning of the hearts. They fell prostrate. We're talking not just on your knees, we're talking belly down, face in the ground. And they cried, not, O Baal, hear us. Praise God. O Lord. The Lord, He is God. The Lord, He is God. And so Elijah commanded them, we've got to clean up the mess. Because the real mess was not any of the carbonized little remains of that altar. But we had all these prophets of Baal and Asheroth running around who could still make a lot of trouble and try to turn the people away again. And God said through Elijah, we're going to take care of business. And he did. Don't let anyone get away. They brought them down to the Kishon Valley, and there they slaughtered them. God will judge not only those who reject his Christ, but he will also judge those who are in a position Whether it be religious or otherwise, who in their lives might have done or said something to prevent or to impede somebody from coming to God's only Son. And I think that is in large part why Jesus said when he looked at the children and said, it would be better for these that millstones be put round their neck in the He wasn't talking about the children. He was talking about the religious leaders of his day who were leading the people astray and, as it were, erecting an altar and an idol made in their image. So that they thought they were serving God by doing all of these superfluous and uncommanded works rather than the command which is by faith And with which we have confidence not in our works, but in the works of Jesus for us And so the call goes out, much like Joshua said, whom will you serve this day? Are you going to serve the God or gods of the inhabitants of this land who we routed and drove out even as God had promised all the way back when he made the promise to Abraham? Or are you going to serve the Lord? He says, as for me and my covenant family, we're going to serve the Lord. May God help us to daily repent and to be vigilant. in prayer, that the only one who for whom is our honor and glory and worship and love and obedience. is the Lord God Almighty. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for this this this your word, for a story, a true story, a real history. In the redemption of your people. And how, Lord, you demonstrated your power and your might. But we thank you for the greater miracle that by your grace you cause repentance in our hearts so that we turn from our sin and our petty false idols, and we turn to look at the true and living God, and to honor his servant, his beloved eternal Son, our Lord Jesus. Who paid the ultimate price so that we might be redeemed and so that we might be declared God's children. Well, Lord, help us that we will not fall into temptation. And that if we do, Lord, that our hearts, Lord, will prick us and cause us to turn away. And not to chase after the things of this world, the worthless, temporary things of this earth. May we serve you with a whole heart. And with love and devotion and joyful obedience, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.