Let's now turn in the New Testament to the Gospel according to Mark. The Gospel according to Mark. And we'll be reading from the first chapter, Mark Chapter One. Several verses beginning at verse 9. This is the Word of God. Mark chapter 1 beginning at verse 9. And in those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And when he came up out of the water, immediately he saw the heavens opening, and the spirit descending on him like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, You are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. And he was in the wilderness 40 days, being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him. Now, after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God And saying, the time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, and I will make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him. And going on a little farther, He saw James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets, and immediately he called them. And they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him. And they went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. And they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority and not as the scribes. And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent, and come out of him. And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him. And they were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching? With authority. He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee. And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. Now, Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her, and he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up And the fever left her, and she began to serve them. That evening at sundown, they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons in the whole city was gathered together at the door and he healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out many demons, and he would not permit the demons to speak because they knew him. Thus far the reading of God's Word, please be seated. Let's pray the Lord's blessing. Father in heaven, we thank you for these marvelous words. But now we pray, O Lord, that the Holy Spirit would take up this word that we've read and cause it to be used in our lives. We pray, Lord, that you would warm our hearts. We pray that you would open the eyes and the ears of our hearts to declare the praises of a Savior who acts in these wonderful and glorious ways. And so we pray, Lord, that you, the living God, would meet us through your word by the work of the Holy Spirit this morning. In Jesus' name we ask Amen. It's often recommended to new Christians And also the people who want to learn about the Christian faith, that they read the Gospel of Mark and why it's that. Well, Mark is a very short gospel. It's the shortest of the four, only sixteen chapters, so you might say it's a speed read gospel. And also because the narrative in Mark is very fast-paced, it's energetic, it's active, it's really engaging. And also because the Gospel of Mark to be understood does not require much background. In fact, Bible scholars think that the Gospel of Mark was written for the Roman Christians. Mark presents the claims of Jesus. To the Roman Christians. And the Romans didn't really know much about the Old Testament. And so Mark wrote this gospel in a very straightforward manner and even has some explanations included. But really the best reason for recommending this gospel is because it so clearly emphasizes who Jesus is and how we should respond to him. So what does Mark say about who Jesus is? If you go back to the very first verse of this chapter 1, the beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, that's verse 1. It's not even a complete sentence. It's more like a title for the entire gospel. And Mark here identifies Jesus in two ways. The beginning of the Gospel of Jesus the Christ. He is the Christ. That's just the Greek version of the Hebrew name Messiah, which means the anointed one. The offspring promised to Adam and Eve long ago who would caresh the head of Satan Jesus the Christ, the Son of God. Now the Jewish people certainly expected Messiah to be the human descendant of Abraham and King David, but they were surprised. that he was God himself, the second person of the Trinity, the God man That's who Jesus is. Now, this statement at the beginning, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, actually structures the entire gospel. So the first eight chapters bear witness especially to the truth that Jesus is the Christ. And this first section climaxes with Peter's confession at Caesarea Philippi. Jesus asked his disciples, Who do you say that I am? Peter stepped forward, bless him, and said, You are the Christ. You are the Messiah. And then the second section of this gospel, chapters 9 through 16, bears witness primarily to the truth that Jesus is the Son of God. And the climax, there's a climax in chapter 15 it is, with the Roman centurion in charge of the crucifixion. And he said, truly, this man, Jesus, was the Son of God, is the Son of God. So Jesus is the Christ. That was said by Peter, a Jew representative of the people of Israel. Jesus is the Son of God said by a Roman representative of the Gentile world. So that's who Jesus is. And then how to respond to him? Well look at verse 15 of chapter 1. This is a very, very short summary, Mark likes short, of Jesus' preaching and teaching. The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent. And believe in the gospel. The kingdom of God is at hand because the King, Jesus, of the kingdom, is now here. Repent, which means Hate your sin, turn away from it, and believe, turn to Jesus, trust in him for salvation. And that is the gospel in a nutshell. Right there. Who Jesus is and how to respond to Him. Now, we read verses 9 through 34, and you notice that in these verses there is a succession of events. a succession of episodes, one after another in rapid succession. And all of them bear witness that Jesus is the Christ. and the Son of God. And we can identify these episodes because every one of them is associated with the use of a certain word, namely the word immediately. And so we look through and we can pull out six brief episodes with this word immediately. The Gospel of Mark is in fact famous. For the repeated use of this word immediately, 42 times. In the rest of the New Testament, only 12 times is this word used. 42 times So we look through this and we can identify six of these episodes. Those of you who are familiar with the King James Version, which is what I was brought up on in my youth. Uh well remember that uh instead of the word immediately, they translated it as straightway, which is the old version of straight away without hesitation, without delay, right away. Here in the ESV it is the word immediately. And going through this, if you underline every time the word immediately appears, we see six Episodes. Immediately baptized, immediately tempted, immediately called disciples Immediately taught, immediately exorcised, and immediately healed. So very quickly, let's look at each of these. immediately baptized. In those days Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan. And from the Gospel of Matthew, which is a bit more expanded, we learn that when Jesus approached John the Baptist to be baptized, John said, I need to be baptized by you and not vice versa. But Jesus answered and said, Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us. to fulfill all righteousness. In other words, Jesus was, through his baptism, fully identifying with the human condition. He was burying the sin of humanity on himself. And Mark only uses three verses to describe this, but we see that this event was Trinitarian. Jesus, the second person of the Trinity, is baptized. And then a voice came from heaven. That's God the Father. You are my beloved Son, with you I am well pleased. This is the ultimate confirmation that Jesus is indeed the Son of God. And the third person of the Trinity, the Spirit, descended on him like a dove. This was a sign of his Messiahship. So the very first event that Mark records for us in his gospel about Jesus, namely the baptism, as all three persons of the Trinity, and shows very clearly Jesus is the Christ, Jesus is the Son of God. Now Mark suddenly shifts the scene from the baptism to the temptation. The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. Verse 12. There's only two verses about this. And we wonder, why didn't Mark tell us what those temptations were? Yes, we can go to Matthew, we can go to Luke, we can find out what those three temptations were. But perhaps by not including them, Mark is implying that with these three temptations The temptations of Jesus were not finished. Throughout his earthly ministry, he was continually tempted. And as you read through the Gospel of Mark, you will see that happen over and over again. People are flocking to his miracles. There's a great temptation to ride that wave of adulation. It's a temptation. But the little details that Mark does give us, we should pay some attention to. The Spirit immediately drove him out. Drove, the commentaries say, is a very, very strong verb. And it doesn't mean that Jesus was unwilling to go and he had to be forced to go. Not a bit. Not a bit. It means that it was so urgent at the beginning of this ministry that he go meet and defeat Satan. There's a real urgency to do this. And so he is impelled to go out into the wilderness to meet with Satan and confront him. The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness. And reading through chapter 1, there are several times when wilderness comes up. It was almost like a theme. John the Baptist, for example, was the voice of one crying in the wilderness. That's a quotation from Isaiah 40. We read that. John fulfills that prophecy. Verse 4, John was baptizing in the wilderness. Verse 5, he was baptizing by the River Jordan. Now, the wilderness Is a desolate, dry place, doesn't have much water, and so John came to the edge of the wilderness, which is the River Jordan, and there he baptized Jesus. And then Jesus was impelled to go deeper into the wilderness to meet Satan. Another detail that we are given is that he was in the wilderness forty days So the mention of wilderness, the mention of 40 days, should bring something to mind. It harkens back to the exodus of the people of Israel from Egypt God, if you look and uh I think it's Exodus 422, he refer God refers to Israel as his firstborn son. And he instructs Moses, tell Pharaoh, let my son go. And the people managed to escape from Egypt. And the way they do it is they're able to cross the Red Sea on dry ground. The Lord holds the waters back, and when the Egyptian army pursues them, the waters come back and they're done for. And then the Spirit Whose presence is seen in the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night, leads the people into the wilderness for 40 years to be tested. And there's an exact parallel with what happens here with Jesus. Jesus is the Son of God, the only begotten Son of God. He's baptized, he's led by the Spirit into the wilderness. Tested and the period of time is denoted by the number 40 days, not years. Now there's another Curious detail that Mark gives, and he was with the wild animals. This puzzling detail shows up in none of the other gospels, only in Mark. And you might wonder, what is the significance of this detail? Well, it says for one thing, that Jesus was out there With no assistance from anyone. He was isolated, he was all alone. And it might also make you think back to the temptation of Adam and Eve They were in a beautiful place, the Garden of Eden. They had friendly animals whom they all had named. Jesus is in a wilderness and it's a dangerous place. He's threatened while he's out there. And just to continue on that a little bit more, as I said, the Gospel of Mark was written for the Romans primarily And they would read this gospel and see that it spoke to them in their situation. Let me explain that Very likely Mark wrote this gospel in Rome while he was with the Apostle Peter. Peter mentions him in his epistle, 1 Peter 5, verse 3. Mark is with me. And very likely, Mark wrote this gospel after that big fire that burned up most of Rome And the rumors were circulating that the evil Emperor Nero started the fire himself so he could rebuild the city for his own glory. And to suppress those rumors, Nero fabricated scapegoats to Christians. And so many of them were arrested. And many of them were brutally martyred, some of them burned alive as human torches, some of them torn apart by wild animals in the arena. And Mark gives this detail to assure them that Jesus knows what they're going through. He's experienced the same kind of thing. Be encouraged. Brothers and sisters, you've been driven into the catacombs. Jesus was driven into the wilderness, and he knows all about wild animals and what a threat they are. And then the last detail Mark gives is that the angels were ministering to him, to Jesus. In Matthew, we are told that Jesus did not eat for forty days before the temptation. He was fasting, fasting in prayer, and probably also remembering the Old Testament scriptures, which I think he had completely memorized, and that's how he prepared for these temptations And there's a parallel in the Old Testament when Moses went up Mount Sinai to be with God to get the Ten Commandments We are told that he did not eat bread or drink water for 40 days and 40 nights. You wonder how is this possible? Remember when Jesus met the Samaritan woman and the disciples come back and say, well. You're okay? You you didn't have anything to drink or eat? And he said, I have food to eat that you don't know about. My food is to do the will of him who sent me And then after the temptations, he needs nourishment, the angels come, provide for him. And again, there's a parallel in the Old Testament. Elijah. The Great Confrontation on Mount Carmel with the priests of Vale. And then he heads south in a hurry And he wakes up and an angel is there providing breakfast for him. And on the strength of that food, he then travels 40 days and 40 nights down to Mount Horeb. which is another name for Mount Sinai, and there he meets God, not in a great wind, not in an earthquake, but in a still small voice, a whisper. Now, angels. Hebrews 1. 14 tells us they are ministering spirits, they minister to the saints of God. And we don't see what goes on around us in the spirit world. And we are comforted that the Lord has guardian angels for us. And I I can tell you I had a little experience like that recently, going down the freeway, 60 miles an hour, suddenly a tire on my car completely shredded into pieces. And I thank the Lord. Immediately baptized and immediately tempted. Immediately called disciples Now, Mark begins Jesus' earthly ministry in Galilee. That's the northern region. And actually, if you read John 1, there was a brief ministry beginning down in Judea, the southern region, where he was baptized. And then two of the disciples of John noticed Jesus. Because John the Baptist said, behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And they flipped and they started following Jesus. And one of them was Andrew. He went and found his brother Simon and said to Simon, Simon, Simon, we have found the Christ. Another one was Philip. He went and found his friend Nathaniel. Nathaniel came to meet Jesus and said, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. Now, these men then went back to Galilee because they worked in the fishing industry. on the Sea of Galilee, which uh, if you look it up in Wikipedia, is a is a lake. It's a pretty big lake. It's 11 miles long, it's eight miles across. 64 square miles, which by the way is just about the size of the land area of Washington, D. C. So they're fishermen, and Jesus comes now, and now he calls them full-time to be his disciples, and he uses language that fishermen can understand. I'm going to make you fishers of men. Fishers of fish now become fishers of men. It's a memorable play on words. As a youth I memorized some songs. I will make you fishers of men if you follow me. But there's more to it than that. Again, go back to the Old Testament. And the prophets in the Old Testament refer to God Himself as a fisher of men. For judgment. Amos 4. 2. The Lord God has sworn by his holiness that behold, the days are coming upon you when they will take you away with hooks, even the last of you with hooks. Fish hooks. And so the fact that the disciples responded so immediately to this call, this was a radical commitment It's because of the urgency of the message, the forthcoming judgment of God on sin. And so our New Testament church, we here today in Trinity, we have a primary mission to seek the lost. to gather men and women and children into the kingdom of God to believe in Jesus Christ because there is judgment coming. Now episode number four immediately taught. Verse 21, and they went into Capernaum They use Jesus and his disciples now. Capernaum, by the way, is about 40 miles from Nazareth, which was Jesus' hometown. And why did Jesus not start his ministry there? He moved to Capernaum as his headquarters. Well, very simply, uh Nazareth was a small village. And it was inland aways. Capernaum is a larger place, very central within Galilee, and it's right on the Sea of Galilee. And think how many times did Jesus get into a boat, pull away just a little bit from the shore, and talk to a massive people? Sermon on the Mount was that way. Sound carries very well over water. So this was the boat was like his pulpit. And also he used boat rides to visit various regions He went across the lake to the region of the Gadderenes. He met this demoniac man living in the tombs. So this was a a very good uh central location, Capernaum, the town of Nahum. And immediately on the Sabbath, he enters the synagogue. And I hope we all follow Jesus' example. Every Lord's Day, we want to be in church. And he was teaching, and they were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as one who had authority and not as the scribes. We're not told here in Mark what he taught on this occasion. We are given this little summary in verse 15. If you read the Gospel of Matthew or Luke, there's much, much more teaching of Jesus given for us. Matthew has five long discourses of teaching. The first is the Sermon on the Mouth. It covers three whole chapters But what we are told here in Mark is that he taught with authority and astonished the people by comparison with the scribes. There are several ways that could be understood. One is that a son of a carpenter has this much wisdom, they were dumbfounded. And also the scribes, these religious teachers of the law, they talked about the traditions of men, all the rules that the Pharisees had invented and piled up and made such a burden for people. Jesus talked about really significant Things, life, death, judgment, eternity. And Jesus used illustrations and parables that made his teaching really unforgettable. And furthermore, he preached from the Word of God. The scribes preached other scribes. Rabbi so-and-so said this and that, and another rabbi said something else. Jesus went straight to the Word and used other scriptures to interpret the scripture that he was talking about. He spoke the heart and mind of God. For example, in the Sermon on the Mount, you have heard it said, Thou shalt not murder But I say to you, if you are angry with your brother, you've broken that commandment. And the authority of Jesus' teaching also extended to the fact that he compelled his listeners To make a decision, to act, repent and believe. Repent and believe. Today we would have liked to have heard Jesus preach We'd like to have his sermons on sermon audio or YouTube. The fact is we have his teaching. It's right here in the New Testament. Thanks to the eyewitness testimony of the apostles and the Old Testament as well, the law, the prophets, and the Psalms, everywhere speak of the Messiah. As Jesus explained to those two men on the road to Emmaus. So we have the teaching of Jesus. We have his preaching. We read scripture. We study scripture. You hear it preached and taught. And the Holy Spirit makes it into the living voice of Jesus. Peter in 1 Peter 1, verse 19, says, we have something more sure. The prophetic word to which you will do well to pay attention. Now, right before that verse, Peter was talking about the Mount of Transfiguration. Peter, James, and John went with Jesus up this mount, and Jesus was transfigured, momentarily, had a glorified body. as a premonition of what would be coming. And he talked with Moses and Elijah. And Peter is saying, we have something more sure. Yes, they heard God the Father say, This is my beloved Son, listen to him. But Peter is saying the enscripturated Word of God is more sure. The Holy Spirit works through this for everyone who pays attention to it. And that's what he says we should do. Now, episode number five. They're in the synagogue. The people are astonished at his teaching, and then something else astonishing happens. A man with an unclean spirit, possessed by a demon, confronts Jesus. And I wonder, maybe you wonder, what was A man possessed by a demon doing at a religious worship service in a synagogue. You know, these synagogues were set up during the Babylonian captivity Because the temple in Jerusalem had been destroyed. So the synagogue was where you went to worship and where they were did teaching, like we will be doing in Sunday school after service. And during the week it housed schools for training students. And the service at a synagogue basically consisted of, among other things Someone would stand up, take the scrolls, and read from the Pentateuch somewhere. Genesis, Exodus, the Dicus Numbers, Deuteronomy, the books of Moses. In Hebrew, and then it was translated into Aramaic, which was the common language. And then again, read something from the prophets And then the leaders of the synagogue would invite someone, while he was seated actually, to give a word of exhortation. And Jesus often used this opportunity, this custom, as he traveled around Galilee and would visit synagogue after synagogue. Paul in his missionary journeys did the same thing. He'd go to a new city somewhere in Asia Minor. He'd find the local synagogue if he could, and they would invite him. Rabbi Paul, do you have a word of exhortation for us? Yes. I'll tell you about Jesus, prophesied in the Old Testament, risen from the dead. And Here's this man with an evil spirit. You know, we read the Gospels and also the book of the Acts of the Apostles, and there are a number of incidents of demon possession, much more so than when we read, you know, in the rest of the Bible. During Jesus' earthly ministry, and while the New Testament church was being established, Satan was working overtime. But he who is in us is greater than he who is in the world. Jesus confronted Satan in the wilderness. Now he confronts one of Satan's evil minions. And there are people today who like to say that what was characterized in New Testament days as demon possession Today, because of our modern medical knowledge, we would diagnose more accurately as epilepsy or mental illness or some kind of psychosis. I think we have to be very careful not to follow that. That really puts down the authority of the scripture. The authority of the scripture. The scripture is infallible, inerror, inspired. And it clearly distinguishes between people who are sick with various diseases, verse 34, and demon-possessed people. So let's be very careful about that. Also, people, as you read through the Gospels, especially the Gospel of Mark, people with ordinary sicknesses would address Jesus as teacher, rabbi, master, son of David. But the demons addressed him differently. This one here in the synagogue says, you are the holy one of God. They know. And in Mark chapter 5, Jesus meets this man possessed by a legion of demons who lives among the tombs. is totally naked and he can break chains and shackles and he cuts himself on the rocks continually. What a pathetic man. And that man addresses Jesus as the son of the Most High God. They knew who he was. And they did not want Jesus of Nazareth destroying them, messing with them Which is kind of ironic because the demon here is messing with this man, this demon-possessed man big time. Jesus tells him, you be quiet. And later that evening, when he heals many who are sick with diseases, and he casts out many more deacons, demons, he would not permit the demons to speak He did not want their testimony. He did not need a letter of reference from demons. Be silent, he says. And Jesus is the one here in the synagogue who speaks. Just a few words. Words of power come out of him. And it says the people were amazed Because the demon came out in a pretty dramatic way, convulsing the man, crying out with Allah, shrieking. And then all is calm. Just like in Mark chapter 5, the man was sitting clothed in his right mind. And the people are amazed. They were astonished at his teaching. They're amazed at his exercising. And by the way, I want to be very careful it's not exercise, jogging weights. exorcised with an O, casting out demons. They're amazed. What is this? I'm sure they reacted with a mixture of wonder and awe and maybe fear even Mark chapter 4, Jesus is on the Sea of Galilee with his disciples in a boat. A big storm comes up. He calms the storm. And the disciples say to each other, who is this? Who is this then that even wind and sea obey him? Just a few simple words. No Incantations, no magic spells, no hocus pocus, just the word of power. He is the word of God. And they were astonished and amazed. Then the last episode immediately healed, verses 29 to 31. And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew. What a day this was. Jesus had quite the day. He taught. He exorcised. He now heals an individual. Later in the evening he's going to heal a lot of people and cast out many demons. He must have been exhausted. And yet we read, if you read a little farther, the next morning he's up before anybody else He needs to pray to get his strength back. Now the individual that he heals here is Simon's mother-in-law. And that makes this particular episode, this incident, very personal, very intimate, very homely The great English preacher, Charles Spurgeon, used this passage for many sermons. And speaking personally, this passage really speaks to me because my mother-in-law, who moved from Japan to be with us, a real godly saint, lived with us for a number of years. We still miss her. Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever. Now In our day, we might invite, you might invite some visitors or other church members after the morning service to come over to my house for lunch. And this is exactly what Simon and Andrew do. They invite Jesus and the other disciples come to our house and we'll have a meal. And then un unexpectedly there is a problem. They get to the house. They learn that Simon's mother-in-law is very ill. Luke, in his account, describes this fever with the Greek adjective megaloi. So I think you get the picture. This was a mega fever, a very, very high fever. And that means the invitation has to be withdrawn. Because probably the meal's not been prepared, and possibly the fever, whatever caused the fever, might be contagious, might be unhealthy to enter the house. But that doesn't stop Our Lord. He goes right into the house. He takes her by the hand. How gentle is our Savior! And he lifted her up well and healthy. How powerful is our Lord. And the fever left her. So one moment she's terribly feverish, fire in the bones, sweating, shivering. Throat just dry as dust, and the next moment, gone. Gone. And not even any residual weakness. Over Christmas and New Year's, my wife and I both had flu with fever, maybe some of you did as well, it's been going around. And even after the fever receded, it took us a couple days to get our strength back. But Peter's mother-in-law, she pops right up and goes to work serving them. Obedient service to the Lord in the church should be our joy and delight. Now I just want to conclude with a little comment about family support. So this last incident, we learned that Peter was married. And he had a home, he had a family to provide for. But when Jesus called him to become a fisher of marriage, He made a total commitment and followed Jesus for three years. And meanwhile, his wife and his mother-in-law supported his discipleship. his ministry by taking care of all affairs at home. And in 1 Corinthians, uh somewhere in 1 Corinthians, Paul writes that Peter's wife even accompanied Peter on his preaching travels. Likewise, James and John, their father Zeppede was a great support. He had let them go to become disciples of John the Baptist. And now he lets them go full-time as disciples of Jesus. Zebody was just a great support. Christian support in the church, what a blessing it is, indeed. So this morning, rather quickly, we've looked at several episodes and incidents recorded rather concisely here in the Gospel of Mark. And I hope that you continue reading the Gospel of Mark. And I hope that you recommend it to other people. Because it's so clearly Demonstrates that Jesus is the Messiah, the promised Messiah, and the Son of God. And because this gospel so immediately compels us To repent daily and believe trustingly in Jesus as our Lord and Savior. Let's pray. We thank you, Lord, for this word of God that we looked at this morning. Your scriptures, O God, contain the very words that we need to hear. Words of assurance and comfort and instruction. This enlivening, enlightening word by which you work in the lives of your people. Our God, we want to know Jesus better. We want to serve Him more. He is the one. In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And so help us, Lord. Please be faithful in sharing the gospel with others. Equip us for the work of ministry. to be faithful in building up the body of Christ until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to the maturity of faith, to the fullness of the stature. Of the measure of Christ. We ask that in Jesus' name. Amen.