Our New Testament reading this morning comes from Second Corinthians. In chapter 12, we'll be reading six verses, if you could stand for the reading of God's Word. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. This is Paul writing to those in Corinth For context, I'll begin at verse one. It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I know a man in Christ, who fourteen years ago, whether in the body or Or whether in the body I do not know, or whether out of the body I do not know, God knows. Such a one was caught up to the third heaven. And I know such a man. Whether in the body or out of the body, I do not know. God knows How he was caught up into paradise and heard inexpressible words which it is not lawful for a man to utter. Of such a one I will boast, yet of myself I will not boast, except in my infirmities For though I might desire to boast, I will not be a fool, for I will speak the truth. But I refrain lest anyone should think of me above what he sees me to be or hears from me. Lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I be exalted above measure. Concerning this thing, I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me. And he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, most gladly I will rather boast in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in needs, in Persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. If you turn in your Gospels, meaning the whole Bible, to Genesis, the first book. I'll be reading here chapter 39. It's a long chapter. Please stand if you can, but feel free to be seated. Let's give attention to God's word. Genesis chapter 39. Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian. Bought him from the Ishmaelites who had taken him down there. The Lord was with Joseph, and he was a successful man. And he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian, and his master saw that the Lord was with him. And that the Lord made all he did to prosper in his hand. So Joseph found favor in his sight and served him Then he made him overseer of his house, and all that he had he put under his authority. So it was. From the time that he had made him overseer of his house, and all that he had that the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. And the blessing of the Lord was on all that he had in the house and in the field. Thus he left all that he had in Joseph's hand, and he did not know what he had except for the bread which he ate. Now, Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast longing eyes on Joseph, and she said, Lie with me. But he refused. And his and says to his master, his wife, Look, my master does not know what is with me in the house, and he has committed all that he has to my hand There is no one greater in this house than I, nor has he kept back anything from me but you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? So it was, as she spoke to Joseph day by day, that he did not heed her to lie with her or to be with her. But it happened about this time when Joseph went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the house was inside, that she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. But he left his garment in her hand and fled, ran outside. And so it was. When she saw that he left his garment in her hand and fled outside, that she called to the men of the house and spoke to them, saying, See, he has brought in to us a Hebrew to mock us. He came in to lie with me, and I cried out with a loud voice. And it happened when he heard that I lifted my voice and cried out that he left his garment with me and fled and went outside. So she kept his garment with her until his master came home. Then she spoke with him with words like these Saying, The Hebrew servant who you brought to us came into me to mock me. So it happened that as I lifted my voice and cried out that he left his garment with me and fled outside. So it was, when his master heard the words which his wife spoke to him, saying, Your servant did to me after this manner, that his anger was aroused. Then Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison A place where the king's prisoners were confined. And he was there in the prison. But the Lord was with Joseph. And showed him mercy. And he gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever they did there, it was his o The keeper of the prison did not look into anything that was under Joseph's authority, because the Lord was with him, and whatever he did, the Lord made it prosper. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we ask Be with your servant. I am weak, I am frail, I am sinful, and yet you have committed your word to vessels of clay So we pray now. Help us. Help us as we study your word. Help your servant to bring it faithfully And to glorify your name. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In nineteen eighty one, a rabbi wrote a book Which became a best seller. His name is Rabbi Kushner. His son was diagnosed, With a disease that meant that he would die. And he asked that question, why Why God? The title of his book is Why Bad Things Happen to Good People. And while we could take some time and open up even that title, the commentator summarized Rabbi Kushner's book In this way. The main idea is that God cannot or will not intervene to protect people from tragedies Nor will he punish or reward them for their actions, preferring that humans use their free will without interference. Krishna believes everyone, including good people, must contend with tragedy without expecting God's intercession. Needless to say, I don't think that book was very comforting to anyone. It was full of untruths. And I think today in this passage we're going to see how untrue Kushner's book was and how true God's word is Joseph has been sold. We saw that even at the end of chapter 37 that his brothers in their hatred hated him so much that they'd throw him into a pit, wanting to cover him over and then sending him off to Egypt, getting him as far away from them as possible. Getting rid of his father's love for him, getting rid of his dreams that would cause them to submit to him, to raise him up And as chapter thirty-seven ended, Joseph was actually in Egypt. And then we were struck with the fact that Moses brings Judah into the picture. While Joseph is suffering in Egypt, now he turns our focus to Judah. And we saw that while Joseph was in Egypt, the sins of his family continued in Judah, in Tamar, in Judah's sons. Righteous Joseph is off, and yet his family continues in their wretched sin. And out of it, God continues To preserve the seed of the woman. And now Moses turns our attention back to Joseph. That stage has been set, so to speak. And now we want to see how this righteous one lives. Before his God. This morning, I want us to see that the Lord upholds and sustains his righteous ones during times of suffering by his presence. Three simple points. The place of suffering, the projectiles of Satan, and the presence of God. As we go through this passage this morning, I want you to be asking. Asking yourselves how is it that you suffer? First the place of service We make plans for our lives, don't we? Each one of us. Plans to get an education Plans to get married, plans to have a career, plans to buy a home, plans to retire. Joseph likely had plans for his life Like any other seventeen-year-old. He was working at home in Canaan, helping tend sheep, feeding the flocks with his brothers. Joseph likely planned to stay there. We can speculate, we can think about that with his family, in the family business. Remember. Jacob had been blessed. Many sheep, many flocks, needed sons to care for them. Serving in Canaan with his family. Egypt was not in Joseph's plan. Not likely, it was not on his mind. It was not part of his desire. Joseph had big dreams, literally. Then God carried him off. Down to Egypt. Down to a master he wasn't expecting. Joseph wasn't planning on serving Potiphar He was planning on serving his father, Jacob. He was only seventeen. His plans were to continue in that. But the Lord had other plans Joseph was not planning to be a slave, one sold off into unwilling servitude. This was not Joseph's desire, it was not his will. Indeed, as Joseph was in Egypt as a slave to Potiphar, it was against his will. Yet, Joseph served Well. He served Potiphar well. Isn't that what we have in the text this morning? That he was a good servant. Joseph found favor in his sight, meaning Potiphar's sight And he served him. He was even made an overseer. Joseph was clearly doing a good job. He was promoted. He was put in charge. This wouldn't happen to one who is grumbling and complaining. This wouldn't happen to one who is late getting out of bed. It wouldn't happen to one who is slow in accomplishing his task. No, clearly we have this idea that Joseph was doing very well. A diligent, a zealous servant. Not only in Potiphar's house, but even at the end of this passage, we see that in jail, in prison. Clearly a place that he didn't want to be. Clearly not a pleasant place to be. And yet Everything that was in the keeper of the prison's hands, he puts it in Joseph's hands. Why? Because he was a zealous and diligent servant. Even in extremely difficult situations. We're beginning to see a pattern here. A way of working, a way of living before the living God. Joseph was not likely rejoicing in the place where he found himself. He was not likely happy, not likely glad, but he was forced to serve Potiphar. He was forced to be in prison But nonetheless, he was zealous. He was diligent about his work, so much so that each master put him in charge of all that he had. Jesus was in a difficult place. Unlike Adam, the son of God, was put in a difficult place, not a garden No, the Son of God was sent from his harmonious home in glory. He was born under the law to enter into a world of sin and misery, to a world full of filth. The Lord was sorry that he made man on earth. He was grieved in his heart. And this is the world that Jesus was sent into, brought into. into a world of sin, of misery, a world of corruption, a world where no one does good, not even one. Yet he served with zeal He served with passion and compassion. He goes into the temple and he drives out all those who bought and sold in the temple. He overturns their tables. Did you see See the zeal that he served with? He didn't just hide his eyes and say, this is an awful, wretched place. I'm not even going to go in there. No, he served his father with zeal. And he loved them to the end. Do you see that the place, in a sense, was insignificant to Jesus? Now I'm saying that in in a particular way, in a particular context There was a sense in which the circumstances of his service were insignificant to the Son of God. How can I say that? Jesus said to them, foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. He didn't care. In a sense, it was insignificant. The focus for Jesus was upon who he was serving. Thus, Jesus could go into a world of misery and of sin because he was serving his father. He could go headlong into the phalanx of the hate, the disdain, the threats, the barbs, the schemes of the chief priests, the Pharisees, the religious leaders of the day because he was serving his father. My food is to do the will of him who sent me. Do you see? My food. He fed upon serving his father. So much so that he was, in a human sense, blind to that filth that was around. The Lord puts each of us in certain places, doesn't Sometimes he puts you in a place that you didn't choose or even desire. In fact, at times In times God puts us not just in geographic locations, but in circumstances that are difficult. Working with a difficult boss or employer. Being taught with a teacher who is just difficult to get along with. At home, maybe with a difficult spouse or parent or child, Joseph was sent to a difficult place with an unwanted master and an undesired task Maybe some of you are there this morning in a difficult place, in a difficult circumstance. How are you serving the Lord there in that circumstance, in that place? For if you set your sights on the difficulties, if you focus upon the hardships, if you fix your attention upon the pain, it will put you in despair. Despair. You'll be downcast and lack joy in serving Christ. You'll be hamstrung in your service And your servant will not be diligent. It won't be zealous. It's not likely to accomplish the task that you've been given. And that really is only secondary. The accomplishment of the task given. That which is primary. Is how you live, how you live in those difficult circumstances, being drawn to Christ That's the primary. That's the one. He's the one you're serving. How you choose to use those difficult circumstances to become more like Jesus, that's the primary. That should be the focus, the real task. Should all be in prayer that the Spirit would use those difficult tasks. in that way to draw us closer and closer to Christ. That brings us to our second point. We've seen the place of serving. Now I want to focus upon the projectiles of Satan. I had to have a P word and so So I'm using projectiles. In the scriptures we have darts, the same thing, the darts of Satan. Satan enters the scene here when he assumes that the lines of defense are weak, when he sees a possible opening in the heart of Joseph. Isn't that what we see? Joseph was weakened. He had to be. He was a young man. His brothers hated him. And they acted with hatred against him So much so that they sold him off into slavery. They hated him so much that they didn't even want to be around him. I think this young man was wounded. To his core. He was removed from the love of his father. He was removed from family worship. He was removed from that place where they did worship the living God. And this is a side note, just think about this for a moment. Joseph was very significant in God's plan, and that made him significant in Satan's plan. Plan. Cut off Joseph, and Satan would in essence cut off the seed of the woman. The generations of Jacob would expire from famine. And along with the generations of Jacob, the seed of the woman, he would defeat God's plan of redemption if he can get rid of Joseph. And so he begins to throw darts. He begins to throw projectiles at Joseph. It came to pass after these things that his master's His wife cast longing eyes on Joseph, and she said, Lie with me. It's as if Satan were standing Next to Joseph and saying to him, Look, your brothers didn't want you. Your father has not sought to find you and bring you home. Joseph, no one wants you But this woman wants you. Her longing eyes are cast upon you. She desires you. And this will bring you much comfort. The love which you're missing. Go to her. She's calling out to you day by day, day after day. You see, his darts were strong. Joseph could not call in sick He couldn't look for other employment. He's trapped. Day after day he's got to go in and be tempted These darts of sinful, vile comfort, which Satan was projecting at him through Potiver's wife. He was saying, just say yes. Brothers and sisters, Satan comes to you in your weakness, when you're spiritually weak. When you're wondering where the love of God has gone. Maybe like Joseph this morning, you're you're in that That situation. Maybe your life today, within your family, maybe there are divisions today that have arisen over your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe a loved one has said hurtful things to you. Maybe someone or something has been taken from you. From you in an unjust or an untimely fashion. Or maybe like Eve, something has caused you to question whether God's prohibitions, his laws for your life are really good for you. And through these events and circumstances which surround you, even press in upon you this morning, you're asking, where is God? Where's his love? Where's his care? Where's his watch care for me? Where's his compassion and mercy? And as you ask This question to yourself, as this question comes to your mind, it's time for you to recognize that you're spiritually weak. You're questioning the promises of God And when you're weak, it's at that time you need to be most alert. For the darts and the arrows and the projectiles of Satan will fly. He will wield them against you, targeting your heart. He will say even that which the psalmist says, I will say to God, my rock, why have you forgotten me? And Satan will respond that God has left you. Where is your God? But you need to quench those fiery darts. As you become alert to the fact that you're weak, as you become alert to the fact that Satan will cast darts, he'll throw arrows at you. Now you need to quench those fiery darts by and through the knowledge that the Spirit is working within you to cause you to know this, to see your spiritual weakness. To remember who it is that would be offended if you succumbed That temptation, as Joseph remembered who it was that would be offended if he succumbed to the arms of Potiphar's wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? Think about what Joseph said. Potiphar, Joseph's master, had been kind to Joseph. He'd trusted Joseph. He'd given Joseph a position of responsibility and honor. Expect Joseph to say, How can I sin against Potiphar? No. In a surprising twist, Joseph decries the possibility of sinning against God. Joseph knew God. And Joseph knew himself. He knew that he owed obedience and honor and reverence to the Lord of hosts, the living God, the holy, holy, holy God of creation. And that Joseph knew that as a created man living in the sight of an omniscient or an all-knowing God, that this potential act of taking Potiphar's wife would not only have been seen by God, even though there were no other men in the house. But it would be that which would be offensive to a holy and pure God. And Joseph knew that God had something much better in store for him. him. Remember the dreams. Joseph had already been told by God that there was something better. That this sin was not the way to be comforted. That this sin would not produce for Joseph that which the Lord had shown to him. How do you fend off temptation? How do you tell Satan, no? How do you say, get behind me, Satan I think this head this question will really be answered under our third head, but let us briefly consider what Paul tells us. In Ephesians. Above all, taking the shield of faith, which you will be able to quench the fiery darts of the wicked one. What does that mean? First. First that means that you know who God is And that each and every sin is an offense against him, the one who has saved you in Jesus Christ. Secondly, you know that God does love you in Christ. The one who has promised never to leave you nor forsake you. And thirdly, remembering that God has something much better for you. and succumbing to the darts and arrows of Satan. Let's go to that third head, the presence of God We've seen the place of serving, the projectiles of Satan, and let's go to the presence of God. What is it that stands behind, even in front, of this entire passage? Is it not the fact that the Lord was with Joseph? The passage really begins that way. Look at verse 2 for a moment. The Lord is with Joseph. Now, that's the first time we're told that in these this account of Joseph. The Lord is with him. We know that God has given him dreams. We know that his father loved him. We know that his brothers hated him. We know that they've sent him off to Egypt now, and this is the first time, even as Judah is full of sin. This is the first time we read that the Lord was with Joseph. And it not only begins that way, but it ends that way. Look at verse 23. The keeper of the prison did not look into anything that was under Joseph's authority because the Lord was with him. I don't think that's a coincidence. I don't think that's by chance. I don't think that Moses just threw it in there. I think Moses records God's word this way very purposefully. We can see that even as Joseph is cast into prison, even as he is tempted beyond that which we can even imagine. God was always with him. Throughout the entire thing, Joseph prospered because the Lord was with him. Causes us to think of Psalm one, doesn't it? Blessed is the man who walks in the counsel of who does not walk in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the path of sinners Nor sits in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. He shall be like a tree planted by rivers of water, and whatever he does shall be Shall prosper. We're told that Joseph's, the work of Joseph's hands was prospered at least two times here in this passage. Joseph was prospering because the Lord was with him. And Joseph was able to fend off these temptations of Potiphar's wife. Why? Because the Lord was with him. How does Joseph come to this thought that the sin would be against God, that this fornication was a great sin? It's from the Lord, who's been present with Joseph the whole time, the one who's been abiding, not merely protecting, but pouring out his favor upon Joseph. What greater favor could there have been than the understanding of who God is and being given the desire to submit to him So that supernatural, so to speak, ability to flee comes from the abiding Of the Lord. The supernatural strength given to Joseph's heart to run away came That's why we read 2 Corinthians 12 As Paul is given this great gift of the revelation of God that might tend or tempt To lift himself up. It might tempt him to exalt himself. What does the Lord do? He lowers him down. He brings him down and gives him that thorn in the flesh. And Paul's crying out to God three times, please take it away. And the Lord says, no. No, it's going to create weakness in you. When you're weak, you're strong in me. You see what Paul wrote? My grace is sufficient for you, my strength is made perfect in weakness, I take pleasure in infirmities. And reproaches and needs and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake, for when I'm weak, then I'm strong. That's how Joseph did it. His weakness. God made him strong. The righteous do suffer Why would God permit this? Brings us back to our question that we started with, doesn't it? Why would God permit such a travesty, such an injustice for Joseph? He was being righteous. He was fleeing from sin. If we know that God is sovereign, that He wants to uplift the righteous ones, if we know that He plans and orchestrates events, why cause this one Joseph, the one who is righteous In fleeing this great temptation, this one who had just honored the name of God? Why? Even before Potiphar's wife, he honors the name of God. Why would God cause him to suffer this way? Brothers and sisters, I think we first need to acknowledge that it's not God's goal. For the life of a believer, to be sheltered from worldly injustice or wrongs. I don't see that in Scripture. I don't see that as God's purpose for our life. No, we know that God was present with Joseph the entire time We know that he never removes his hand from Joseph, even as he's cast now into prison unjustly. That's why we read Confession of Faith this morning. Our most wise, righteous, and gracious God. Oftentimes leaves for a season his own children to manifold temptations. Isn't that exactly what was happening with Joseph? He was being left to manifold temptations. So that maybe Joseph would discover the hidden strength of corruption within his heart. So that maybe Joseph will be raised up to a more constant dependence upon Christ. So that he would be more watchful against all future Occasions of sin. Brothers and sisters, do you think of that? Do you meditate upon those things As the Lord brings temptations into your excuse me, as Satan brings temptations into your life As the Lord, in his righteousness, in his graciousness, in his wisdom, sometimes leaves you to those manifold temptations. and even to the corruptions of your own heart. Do you think upon the fact that what he's doing is he's causing me to discover the hidden corruptions within my heart. He's causing me to be closer and more dependent upon Jesus Christ. He wants me to be watchful against all future occasions such as this one. And he wants me to remember that he abides. He's with me. Christ has said he will never leave you nor forsake you. In all of these things, brothers and sisters, Christ is with you. And then think of this that as Lord brings you into these things. As he allows Satan to tempt you, that others are watching, that others are seeing what's happening How was it that Potiphar saw that the Lord was with Joseph? How was it that the keeper of the jail, of the prison, knew that the Lord was with Joseph? They sensed something. Yes, they saw the favors that were given. We saw the blessings, the material blessings that were given, but they saw something in Joseph. Do others see that in you? As you go through difficult times, as you as you suffer, do they see that the Spirit does abide in you? Do they see that the Lord has had favor upon you and blessed you with salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ? Yes, the Lord does uphold and sustain his righteous ones during times of suffering by his presence. Rabbi Krishna was wrong. God does intervene to protect His people. We saw it today in Joseph, didn't we? He was working, he was being with Joseph, he was keeping him from succumbing to the temptations of power. Wife, God does intervene. It's with us. Be comforted by that, brothers and sisters. And display to others around you that God does dwell in you. You for his glory. Amen. Father, we are weak and frail. We are insufficient for these things. We thank you for the example given to us in Joseph. We thank you for the greater example given to us in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And Father, we are so thankful for His promise that He will never leave us nor forsake us, and that He has sent His Spirit to abide in us. Oh Lord Jesus. We praise you. We exalt you. We thank you for the way you work in us. Keep us, Lord God, from temptations. Help us to turn the other way and turn to Christ And to depend upon him. And pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.