New Testament reading this morning comes from the letter to the those at Colossae, Colossians You'll find a copy on page 1169 of your Pew Bible. I'll be reading a short portion out of chapter 2. Beginning at verse 6, in the Bible that I'm reading from, the title, which is not inspired, reads Alive in Christ. Let's give attention now to the Holy Word of God. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elementary spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. And you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority. In him also you were circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. Having been buried with him in baptism, in which you also raised with him through faith in the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead. And you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him. Having forgiven all our trespasses by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands, this he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. You pray with me. Father and our God, we come to a very full passage. Lord, we ask now that you'd help us by the work of the Spirit to wring out all the goodness that you have for us. To be blessed, Lord God, as we consider union with the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us. Guide and direct us by your Spirit for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. This past week Was the hundred and tenth anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic 110 years ago, on April 14th and 15th in 1912, the RMS Titanic sank. The only means for survival of the passengers and the crew on board that night were the lifeboats. According to Wikipedia, there were twenty lifeboats aboard the Titanic that night. Which could have carried nearly twelve hundred people to safety. But apparently only a little over 700. were actually saved and survived. See it didn't matter that there was more capacity The passengers had to actually get in to the boats It's like the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus has defeated sin and death in the tomb. As we learned this morning, the resurrection was real. Through his righteous life and atoning death, the Lord Jesus Christ earned He secured the favor of God and was thus raised eternally, defeating Satan and putting him to shame. But none of this matters unless you are in Christ. For the resurrection only has significance if somehow It applies or it is applied to you. Otherwise, it becomes another event in the history of mankind, like the sinking of the Titanic. If you're not in Christ, you were like the Egyptians who stood outside of the Hebrews' homes with blood on the doorposts and the lintels Experiencing death within their homes. This morning, as we went through John 20, we saw the reality of the resurrection. But what was next for the disciples? What was next for Mary? They'd seen the empty tomb, they had seen the risen Lord, indeed the disciples watched as He ascended up to heaven to take his seat at the right hand of his father. What was next for Mary? What was next for the disciples? In other words, what was the result of the resurrection? This morning, as we take a very brief look Colossians, this short passage in Colossians, I would like us to see that one must be in union with Jesus Christ to be resurrected with him. One must be in union with Jesus Christ to be resurrected with him. This morning we have three points. In him, you were made complete. In him you were circumcised, and in him you were made alive. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourselves: what is it to be made alive? What is it to be in union with the Lord Jesus Christ? Are they the same? Are they different? Just what do these things mean? A few months ago we went through a series by Sinclair Ferguson, and he, I believe, took this passage and noted for us how many times the Apostle Paul refers to in Him or with him, as he taught on union with Christ. As we go through this passage this morning, the idea is not merely to count. the number of times, but to come to know what it means to be in Christ or with Him Well, first, in him you were made complete. Look at verse six. This begins our particular passage this morning. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord And the passage goes on and refers to being in him or with him. Indeed, so walk in him. Necessarily, then. A person that has received the Lord Jesus Christ is that person who is in union with Jesus. It's akin to knowing Jesus. To be in union with Jesus, we must then first know Jesus. That's the idea. I think that's what Paul is getting at here. To receive Jesus then is to be rooted and built up in him and established in the faith. As that passage continues on. Paul is striking a contrast as he's opening up this particular passage on Christ. He's striking a contrast between being in Jesus, between knowing Jesus, to be one who has received Jesus. Versus one who is in the world. Versus one who has been taken captive by philosophy and empty deceit according to human tradition according to the elemental spirits of the world. He's making a contrast. He's saying, you've received Christ, I preached Christ, you you professed your faith in Christ. And now, as Calvin would state, remain in Christ. Walk in Christ. Not according to the world, not according to men's philosophy, not according to men's traditions. Jesus Christ is the one to whom Paul is pointing. Why? Paul begins his argument in verse 9 as to why you should walk in Christ, why you should remain in Christ, why you should, after once having received him, walk in him. Verse 9, for in him Referring to the Lord Jesus Christ is the whole fullness, the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. We could spend the rest of the day speaking about this verse. What does it mean for the whole fullness of deity to dwell bodily in the Lord Jesus Christ? We're opening up this passage today because we are meditating upon the resurrection. And the resurrection is that one event in history which really tells us that Jesus Christ is the whole fullness of deity. So Paul wrote as he opened up his letter to the church at Rome. Paul's writing about his son, meaning the son of God, who was descended from David according to the flesh. And declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of Holiness, how? By the resurrection from the dead. Paul's acknowledging as he begins his gospel to the church at Rome that Jesus Christ declared to be the Son of God, how? By the resurrection? The whole fullness of deity dwelling bodily. As Paul preached in Antioch He refers to the same thing as recorded by Dr. Luke in chapter 13 of Acts. He has fulfilled to us their children by raising Christ. He's speaking about the promises of God. Also, what is it written in the second Psalm? You are my Son. Today I've begotten you. No more to return to corruption. You will not let your Holy One see corruption. Do you not see the the whole fullness of deity in this one? And the Son, as the Father tells him that you will not see corruption, yes, the resurrection reveals this truth about the Lord Jesus Christ. That in him the fullness of deity dwells bodily. That this is the one that you must receive. Personally, this is the Jesus that you must believe upon. This is the one in whom all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. What does that mean? Let's think about that just for a moment. The fullness of deity. All of God. The fullness of God. The being of God, the substance of God dwelling bodily in Jesus Christ, the eternity of God dwelling bodily in Christ, the holiness of God. Dwelling in Christ, the splendor and majesty of God, dwelling bodily in Jesus, the righteousness of God dwelling in Jesus, the purity of God Dwelling in Jesus, the magnificent power of God dwelling in Jesus Christ, the wisdom of God. In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge the depths of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God dwelling in Jesus the Christ. The spirit of wisdom, understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord dwelling bodily in Jesus Christ, the love of God dwelling in Jesus Christ, the mercy and grace of God. The writer to the Hebrews puts it this way. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his In part that's what it is for Jesus to be the whole fullness of deity Calvin writes this in Christ: there is a perfection to which nothing can be added. God is holy found in him. I think Calvin has captured the idea. Being in union with this Jesus, then Clearly brings a person into communion with the living God. And it's only by this union with Jesus that you can, and if you're trusting in Jesus this morning, you have been brought into communion with the living God. That's what the Apostle John wrote in his first epistle. That which we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you also. He's speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ. The risen Savior, so that you two may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, true life is found only as one is in communion with God The garden demonstrates that so powerfully as Adam and Eve are pushed out, as they are cast out of the garden, out of the presence of God, away from the tree of life, there is this separation that's created and they have died spiritually. But in Christ We're brought back into the very presence of God, into that communion with God which each of us so desires and longs for. To be in Christ, then, is to be filled with the fullness of Him. Verse 10, you have been filled in him. The New American Standard puts it this way: in him, you have been made complete. Contrast now begins to get even more clear. To be in Christ is to be made complete. In Adam we are incomplete. And that's a light way of putting it. We are lacking the perfections that are only found in Jesus Christ. And then to put it as Paul does, the philosophy of this world, the traditions of men, the elementary principles of the world, they're all incomplete. They all fall short of the glory of the living God. And so Paul was urging those at Colossae to lay aside, to cast off those philosophies, those traditions, those elementary principles in favor of retaining the Lord Jesus Christ, the resurrected Jesus. Jesus, the opposite of all these idols and worldly principles established by men. In him you are made. Made complete. Brings us to our second point. In him you were circumcised. What then is it to be made complete or filled in Christ? Certainly the believer does not become divine. That's not the idea. So what then? What is it to be made alive in Christ, or to be made complete, or to be filled? What does this union with Christ do in the believer? Well, first, to be in Christ then is to be circumcised. Look at verse 11. In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands. By putting off the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. Now, to understand that significance of that verse, We need to consider the appearance of circumcision in the Old Testament. And we find it in Genesis 17. As God is entering into covenant with Abraham, he tells him, This is my covenant, which you shall keep. Between me and you and your offspring after you, every male among you shall be circumcised. Circumcision was the sign The sign of the covenant. It was such a powerful sign that God refers to the covenant and circumcision as if they were the same. Every male among you shall be circumcised, the removal of the foreskin, the cutting off, a bloody ceremony. Circumcision required the removal. Which obviously required the shedding of blood. And this was the sign of the covenant of grace between God and his people, the sign that actually needed to be placed upon his people. So that they would be brought into the covenant and receive all of the benefits of the members of the covenant. Those who did not receive the sign of circumcision were cut off from his people. They were covenant breakers But the Lord Jesus tells us that we need circumcision of the heart The circumcision of Genesis 17 points us to the true circumcision needed, the circumcision of Christ. Deuteronomy 30, Moses writes to the people before they enter into the promised land, and the Lord your God will Understand that's future tense. We'll circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring, so that you will love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. That you may live. Do you get the connection? There needs to be circumcision so that you can live How are you circumcised in Christ? If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, you have been circumcised by Christ. That's what the passage tells us. This happened. But how Before conversion, before you came to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, you were in Adam, you were merely the body of flesh. You were inclined, wholly inclined to all evil and wickedness. Paul writes that indeed you were dead in your trespasses and sins. You lived in the lust of your flesh, indulging in the desires of the flesh and mind That fleshly existence needed to be cut off. That's the picture we're given In Genesis 17, that's what Moses was writing about in Deuteronomy 30. That fleshly existence needed to be removed. A new heart, a tender heart needed to be Replacing that stony heart you were born with. For that stony heart lusts after this world, the traditions of men, the elementary principles That stony heart needs to be replaced, it cut out. There needs to be a complete Change, that circumcision refers to this change, that portion of the heart which is inclined to self, that portion which says, me first. That portion that rejects submission to the living God, that portion which loves the creation and not the creator, that must be cut off Circumcised, supernatural surgery must be done by the Lord Jesus Christ, and he is the only doctor who can do that. In him you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands. As you were called by Christ. If you're trusting in him, he brought you into the spiritual operating room and opened your heart and replaced it with a new, tender, fleshly heart, indeed, a circumcised heart. Which is now inclined to God, to the righteousness of Christ. And you might be thinking, well, how did he do that? Look at verse 10. You have been filled in him. You've been filled in Christ, who is the head of all rule and authority. Not only that. You've been buried with him in baptism. Baptism, that signification of being joined to Christ. being in Christ. And if you're in Christ, you've been buried with him in baptism. Jesus pulls you into the tomb, so to speak, along with himself, into the grave, and you become spiritually dead to sin, baptized into his death. Here then is the fullness of the first step of being in union or being in Christ, the first step in being made alive, the first part of being made complete. In the fullness of Christ, our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. Romans chapter six Yes, death. Death to self. Death to that heart which longed after the world and not after Christ. In him you were circumcised. Praise be to God. Brings us to our third point, and Kim you were made alive. It's really impossible to separate the cross from the resurrection. Now we say, well, there were three days between the two. There were two different events. In a sense, two different things going on, but it is impossible because these events go through Together and Paul, as he writes to those of the church at Colossae, brings them together and helps us understand that they cannot be separated. Indeed, the Christian needs both together. And Paul brings them together. He does the same thing in his letter to the Philippians. The cross and the resurrection speak to the believer in different ways, but in ways that work and must work. Together, we need both the cross and the resurrection to be made alive in Jesus Christ. Certainly on display in the 12th verse here. Having been buried with him in baptism in which you were also raised with him through faith There's the second step then. If we can divide this into steps, I'm not sure we can, but we'll continue to try. The first Step being death, being buried with Christ through baptism. Now, the second being raised with him, as Jesus was raised from the tomb, as he was raised from the dead. Now today, if you are trusting in him, Alone for salvation, you also have been raised in Him and with Him through faith. I think for a moment upon the power of faith. Not that you do anything, not that it comes from you. But faith is the way that you take hold, so to speak, of all of the power of the resurrection as the Spirit works. It's through faith. Think of that one who is drowning in the water And the Coast Guard boat comes up beside him and they throw out the life raft attached to a rope The boat will save. But only like the Titanic, if the one who's drowning gets in it, if he takes hold of the life ring. And he can be pulled into the boat. It's like faith. Faith takes hold of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. The power of the resurrection is granted to us by and through faith in Christ. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. Without faith, it's impossible to be raised to life. For Jesus is the only one who has been raised to life to live forever in the presence of the living God, and he is the only one who has earned the favor of his Father to live eternally at his right hand. And so it's by and through faith that we are in union with Christ It's by and through faith that we are raised from the dead with Christ Jesus by the powerful working of God. Consider that. Jesus Christ was raised by the powerful working of the triune God who raised him from the dead. Look at verse thirteen for a moment. And you who were raised in your trespasses And the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with Him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. To be made alive in Christ, your sins need to be forgiven. See, sometimes we think that occurred on the cross at Calvary, and it did. But Paul, as he's writing, connects the cross with the tomb. He connects the cross with the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, and he tells us so very clearly: God has made us alive together with Jesus, having forgiven us our trespasses. You see, it's through the forgiveness of trespasses and sins that you are made alive this morning. This forgiveness can only occur in the Lord Jesus Christ. It is only in His shed blood that your sins can be forgiven. You cannot work them off. You cannot be more righteous than your wickedness. Only Jesus Christ can and has worked off the penalty for your sins. on the cross at Calvary and through his resurrection from the dead. And by that we have been sanctified Do the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Hebrews 10, 10 It is only through Jesus' pure, unblemished blood, through the forgiveness of sins, that you can be made alive with Jesus. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified Do you see the connection? In order for you to have life, you must be forgiven. You cannot have life. You will not have life without forgiveness. How did Jesus do it? How did he secure your forgiveness if you're trusting in him this morning? Look at verse 14. By canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands, he set aside nailing it to the cross. You have a debt Because of your sins, your actual sins, because of your sin in Adam. You have a debt that you cannot repay. But Jesus can and did. And Paul tells us how he did it Your debt, the penalty for sin which you earned, Jesus took upon himself and he nailed it to the cross. He canceled it. It's not going to be revived if you're trusting in Jesus Christ. It's not been said over here for someone to remember at a later date, maybe Judgment Day As Jesus Christ comes on judgment day, there is not going to be an account left to be paid off. He has paid it. He has nailed it to the cross. And because he did that, you became a candidate for life. But not a mere candidate, an actual possessor of life, as Christ has nailed your debt to the cross, as he has wiped it out in his blood. As you have received forgiveness of sins because of who he is and what he has done. Oh, brothers and sisters. You have life in Christ. You are dead in trespasses and sins, but now he's atoned for them. You've been forgiven. Your sins have been separated from you as far as the East are from the West. And now, as a result, life springs up in Christ. Believers are unabled to live in Christ because you're in union with Him You see the importance of being in him? Do you see why Paul repeats it so many times How is it that Jesus nailed your debt to the cross and it's not coming back? How did he accomplish that? How does he give you life? How is it that Satan's not going to come back and accuse you again and again and again How is it that your sins aren't going to raise up and take a hold on you? Why is it that death is not going to strike you? Look at verse 15. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them Those rulers and authorities Our reference to Satan and sin and death, all those that had power over you before you were converted. But as a result of what Jesus did, as a result of his going to the cross, as a result of his shed blood there, as a result of the Father's love for his Son and raising him from the dead. Jesus Christ defeated Satan and sin and death in the tomb. They were vanquished He disarmed them. Satan is continuing to throw arrows and darts at you. Yes, of course, but his darts have been disarmed The power that Satan had has been removed from him as far as Christians are concerned, as far as believers are concerned, he put them to open shame. Defeating Satan and death and sin as he rose from the tomb. He bound Satan and vanquished death and sin. That may be the most significant part of knowing the power of Jesus' resurrection, isn't it? That he defeated our enemies. On the cross and in the tomb, Jesus Christ was the victor. Praise be to God. One must be in union with Jesus Christ to be resurrected in Him. Lifeboats of the Titanic were not full. Jesus Christ is rescuing each and every one that God Himself has chosen for life in Christ. Praise be to God. Amen. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for Christ. We thank you for his death on the cross. We thank you even more for his resurrection from the tomb. And Father, we thank you for the life that we have in Him. Help us to walk with Jesus. We ask these things in His precious name. Amen.