As we're seated this morning, the text for the sermon today comes from Ecclesiastes chapter one, the second half of the chapter, Ecclesiastes one, verses twelve through eighteen. We saw how the preacher got off to a start that was maybe not very encouraging in some ways. He consigned all things to vanity, all things to Futility. And this was his his assessment of what happens um in life that takes place under the sun. Well now in this text The preacher, you know, the guy who's called the preacher here, who's probably Solomon, for all intents and purposes, uh probably is Solomon. Um Now he sets out to try to understand vanity. Why is this life vanity? Can wisdom make the difference? Is it possible that by seeking out wisdom and getting more wise, you can possibly undo the vanity and the futility of life? That's what the preacher is examining in this text. And so listen to this text. It is God's word. Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verses 12 through 18. I, the preacher, was king over Israel and Jerusalem, and I set my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under heaven. This burdensome task God has given to the sons of man, by which they may be exercised. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun. And indeed, all is vanity and grasping for the wind. What is crooked cannot be made straight. And what is lacking cannot be numbered. I communed with my heart, saying, Look, I have attained greatness and have gained more wisdom than all who were before me in Jerusalem. My heart has understood great wisdom and knowledge, and I set my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also is grasping for the wind. For in much wisdom is much grief. And he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. Thus far, the reading of God's Word, may He add His blessing to it, and also to the preaching of it this day. So here again, you know, following up on the the beginning of chapter one, you you saw the preacher's take on life under the sun. And he said, it's all vanity, it's all futility, it's unhappy It's painful. It's frustrating. Well, as he that was his basic conclusion about life under the sun from the outset Now he dives into the question, but what can we do about it? What can we do about the vanity and the futility of life? Is there anything that we can do to undo that vanity? To undo that futility? What about wisdom? What about if we grow in wisdom and insight and knowledge? Maybe if we were just wiser than all the rest. Maybe if we grew in our wisdom, this life wouldn't have to feel like vanity. Maybe we could fix some of what's wrong with this world with a little more wisdom. Is that possible? That's the question the preacher is considering here in Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verses 12 through 18. And you'll notice how this preacher, this you know, Solomon You'll notice how here he's going to remind us. He has all the right credentials to be the man who seeks out wisdom of this sort. Now remember, he reminds us who he is in verse 12. This preacher was the king over Israel in Jerusalem. Now, in those days in the ancient world Think about what it is to be a king. A king, a ruler over a kingdom, a ruler over men. What does it take to be a king? What do you get as part of the package deal of being a king? One thing about being a king is that you are in position To learn wisdom by trial and error. There you are administering a kingdom Having to decide cases in the midst of a royal court, having to make decisions of administration that will affect the kingdom and the people under your charge, having to make judgment calls sometimes A perfect setting in which to learn wisdom by means of trial and error. The other thing about being a king that lends itself to learning wisdom Is that the position of being a king comes with certain privileges, a certain amount of freedom, a certain amount of leisure that allows you to think to learn, to meditate. It's by intention that the king is freed up from other tasks in order to know wisdom, in order to seek out wisdom Also, someone who is the king over a kingdom in the ancient world is going to have access that other people don't have to wisdom that comes from other cultures. You think about the history of Solomon in the book of 1 Kings. You think about how other foreign dignitaries come and go in the midst of his royal court. He gets to hear the wisdom of other cultures, but he also gets to share his wisdom with other cultures. So again, in the position of being in a king, you're in you're in the right position to learn wisdom You're in the right position to get to gain wisdom. Not only that, this is Solomon we're talking about. And you'll remember back in 1 Kings chapter 3 how early on in Solomon's rule The Lord had appeared to him at night in a dream asking him to ask for something to be given to him. Solomon asks for what he needs, and he asks for wisdom. God answers his requests. God gives him wisdom. God gives him the ability to receive and to perceive wisdom. That goes above and beyond what a normal king would be able to attain. Through divine blessing, through the Lord answering his request, answering his prayer, granting to him wisdom Solomon is able to seek out wisdom at the highest level that you would imagine possible in that day and age and place. So again, we're reminded who this king is. We're reminded who this preacher is. Here he goes. He sets out to figure out wisdom. He's got a head start on the rest of the world and on the rest of the kings. He's got a head start because he has God's blessing. He learns wisdom. He gets to the heights of wisdom. We remember that Solomon wrote most of the Proverbs, so he has gained true wisdom. The question is, is wisdom the answer? Does wisdom undo the vanity? Can wisdom unlock or unravel the mystery that is? the vanity of life in this world. What's the conclusion that the preacher comes to in this text? So we read all about his quest, especially in verses 12, all the way up through verse 17. We read about him seeking wisdom, gaining wisdom. Attaining wisdom. He searches out, he thinks about this burdensome task that is life on this earth. Men exercised in life under the sun, their comings and goings, the things that they do, he's examined, he's thought, he's meditated. What's the answer he comes to? Can wisdom unravel the futility of this life under the sun? What does Solomon say? What does the preacher say? He says at the verse end of verse 17, basically, that wisdom at all its height Can do nothing to unravel the vanity that is life under the sun. Now notice how he describes it in verse 17. You know, he attained greatness. He gained wisdom. He set his heart to know wisdom, to understand and to know what madness and folly are. But in verse 17, this attempt to gain wisdom is also grasping for the wind. Alright, what is grasping for the wind? Taking your hands. Having the wind in front of you. Grabbing it. Do you have it? Do you have it? When you grasp for it. You can try to close your fingers around it. You won't get it. So it's an attempt in futility. Wisdom itself is an attempt in futility. If you are trying to use it to undo the vanities of life under the sun Wisdom is not the answer that can undo the futilities of a world that is under the curse and under the dominion of sin and the evil one. Now don't get me wrong. We all need wisdom. We all need to grow in wisdom. Proverbs is in the Bible. We all need to grow in wisdom in our lives before God. Now understand this. But also understand that wisdom is not the ultimate answer. Wisdom is not the answer that can undo vanity or can undo the curse. And that's the point that the preacher arrives at. And look at one reason that's true here in verse 18. In much wisdom is much grief. He who increases in knowledge increases in sorrow. You know, um it's not without reason if you know anything about the history of philosophy, you know that there were a number of philosophers who would seek knowledge, seek understanding, and it would drive them to despair. That happened, it seems like there's numerous examples of that. Um there's at least more than one, I can tell you that. And um So what's the reason? The more you understand the ways that life works, the more the you understand the workings of this world, the more you're brought face to face with ugly realities, the more you're brought face-to-face With how unfixable life really is. The more you understand how the world works, the more you understand how broken it is. and beyond the capability of being fixed by your own wisdom. And this is the reason why this is true. In much wisdom is much grief. He who increases knowledge increases sorrow, the more you know, the more you know what's wrong with what's out there, the sharper you can see how broken and unfixable this world really is And so here's the conclusion the preacher arrives at. Again, he has sought the answer through wisdom, and he shows us the answer to life's futility is not wisdom. And we need to understand that the answer to what ails this world is not just more education Greater learning, deeper insight. The preacher has already shown us what is true about that. Wisdom cannot solve the world's problems. You know, wisdom can do so much. And wisdom can help in some ways. It can't solve the greatest problem that this world has. What can solve this world's problems? The answer is not a what, the answer is a who. And the answer is not a who that is any one of us, but the answer is only Jesus Christ, the God-man What Ecclesiastes is driving us to, what the preacher is driving us to, is to see that the answer to what what is futile and broken in this world is nothing that we can come up with by our own wisdom But only what God provides through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ breaks into life under the sun. Life under the sun is futility. Jesus Christ comes from a world that's above the sun. breaks into life under the sun, bears its futility, bears its iniquity, as he, the righteous one, bears sin for those who are sinners As he pays for sin, even though he's the one thing upon this earth and the one person upon this earth who is truly righteous and truly deserving of nothing, uh no punishment Christ comes down, he breaks that cycle of futility. He brings to light by his death and his resurrection a new creation. He brings about a new creation that is free from the futility of life under the sun. One thing we can understand from this is that I mean Ecclesiastes really points us to the fact that we can really rest in the salvation that he has accomplished. As we understand that wisdom can only take you so far and can only do so much in this world We can understand that it's not our job to fix all that is wrong with the world by means of wisdom. It's not our job to fix ourselves. by means of wisdom. But it is our job to trust in the one who is able to fix all things and in fact has done what it takes to fix all things through his death and resurrection. So again, we're reminded, let's be careful as we think about wisdom. Let's be aware that it has its place. Let's remember what its place is, that its place is not to save us. But nonetheless it is important, it is good, but its place is not to save us. Only Christ can do that. And only the wisdom that comes through Christ is able to do that. You know, Christ Himself is the wisdom of God In a very remarkable way. He has borne our sins. He has set us free from the futility of life under the sun. He has promised to us a new creation. A new world in which all things are made right, in which there is no more futility, no more vanity of vanities. You know, death and decay will no longer be the way when that new world comes, the new heavens and the new earth. And in the meantime, we can live in the sure and certain hope that that life is coming. And we can live with the purpose of looking for it, waiting for it, hoping for it. A day is coming when we will be set free from all that is vanity of vanity, when Christ's perfect salvation will be finished, will be completed, in all the ways that it hasn't been completed yet. A life where we will live in perfect satisfaction, true fulfillment, in the presence of God, worshiping Him forever, in bodies that are perfectly healed and set free from sickness and death With hearts that have been set free from sin forever, we need to know that that is the only answer to life under the sun. That which Christ has won, the hope of the new creation. It is ours today and it will be ours forever. So let's walk in it. Let's continue to believe in it. Let's continue to live as though that is our hope. Amen. Let's pray Well, Father, we do praise you that even though this world has been subjected to futility, there is hope. That you subjected it to futility in hope, that one day it would be set free. And it would be set free from that futility by the work of Jesus Christ. That we praise you, that we have already received the beginnings of this. He has come and taken away our sins. He's begun to give us new natures. Your Holy Spirit is able to live in us and work in us and renew us. And transform us and gather us as his church. O Lord, all these things are the beginnings of that great salvation that He has won for us, that new creation that we belong to in Christ. Lord, thank you that this gives us something to live for. Purpose. Purpose that rises above futility and vanity. As yes, we look around at the world around us. So many things sometimes seem senseless and pointless. And even the ways uh unbelieving people conduct their lives, they they seem to walk in futility. They seem to not understand what is the purpose of life. What is the truth end of man? They do not seem to get it. They walk around from in futility. Yet, oh Lord, um Help us to see clearly that you have given to us a great hope in Christ and help us to be ready to offer that to people who are unbelieving. Help us to be ready to trust in that and to trust in your promise. Lord, strengthen us in the hope that we have, we ask. We would pray all these things for the sake of Jesus, our Savior, who has accomplished these things for us. We give all praise and glory to Him and pray these things in His name. Amen.