Our New Testament reading this morning comes once again from Matthew's Gospel. Page 962, you should find a copy. And I'll be reading this morning from Matthew chapter 5. I'll begin at verse 10 for a bit of context. Preaching of the Word this morning will be on verses 13 through 16. Let's give attention to God's Word. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. You are the salt of the earth. But if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. You are the light of the world. A city cannot be set, excuse me, a city set on a hill cannot be hidden Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others. So that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven We come to a passage which we are familiar with. But Father, help us now to understand. Give us your Spirit this morning that you would lead and guide us To understand how we Christians should be living in this world. Guide and direct our hearts this morning. Teach us, Lord. Help us to see Christ. I pray this in his name. Amen. I'm not sure if it's still going on, but apparently There is a day, or was a day, called the National Lighthouse Day Commemorates an anniversary of the lighthouses of this country. On August 7, 1789, George Washington passed an act establishing and supporting lighthouses, amongst other things. In the New York Times, it was written that lighthouses built the economy of the world. That's an amazing statement. Indeed, on the website of the Smithsonian, you can read that the Founding Fathers knew that if you couldn't sail safely into America's harbors That you couldn't bring in merchandise or do business that the country would fail. Lighthouses, very important for our economy, very important for our country. Think of those who were operating lighthouses. They never knew who might be warned or saved. They were just constantly shining forth the light. That's a bit of what we have today in our passage before us. The Son of God has come down from heaven, from his pure dwelling place, his abode with God, and has entered into this world of sin and misery. The one who came to save his people from their sins, Emmanuel, God with us, Son of the Most High. The one who will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And now Jesus has begun to proclaim the kingdom in this what we refer to as the Sermon on the Mount. He's been teaching his disciples about the kingdom, and as we've gone through the Beatitudes and spent a good bit of time upon them, we've seen that The Beatitudes are a description of those who are citizens of glory. Poor in spirit, those who mourn, those who meet, those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, the merciful, the pure in heart, the peacemakers. A description of all those who dwell with God in glory, and certainly a description of those who are following Christ, who have been changed by Christ, in whom Christ abides. And when Jesus got to the last and the fullest beatitude, one with most description, he described the world's reaction to all those who are indwelt by him. Persecution. Uttering all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Reviling. The world's reaction. William Hendrickson makes a helpful connection between the last Beatitude and then these verses that we have before us this morning. The idea seems to be that as the world reacts to Christians, now Jesus is telling Christians how to respond. To the persecution. Response of those who are in him to the reviling, to the hatred. A living response. In short, Jesus was saying, in response to the persecution, the insults, and the mockery, be like me. Let those qualities show forth that were set forth in the first seven Beatitudes. Live in such a way to honor God. Live in such a way that you're reflecting me, my character, my attributes to the world be salt and light That seems to be the idea. I'd like us to see this morning that Christ works salt and light into his followers. That they would call others to glorify his father. Christ works salt and light into his followers, that they would call others to glorify his father. We'll see that in three points this morning, salting the earth, secondly seeing the light, and then finally sharing the glory. This is a critical passage for us this morning. We need to have ears to hear what the Lord would have for us as we think upon salt and light. And certainly upon Jesus Christ. Well, first, salting the earth. Jesus declares very simply: you are the salt of the earth. We need to break that down a little bit. Some of these words are fairly simple for us to understand. The you, who is the you? Who is Jesus preaching to? As uh the first verse in chapter five tells us, he went up on the mountain. When he sat down, his disciples came to him. He was preaching to his disciples, at least initially That's who his audience was. His disciples came to him. And so these proclamations by Jesus, you are the salt of the earth, you are light of the world. relates to them. It was it was said of the disciples who had come to him and were uh the recipients of his preaching, those who were called by Christ, those who were following Christ, those who had been given ears to hear. These are those to whom Jesus was speaking and preaching. These are the you. When we get to of the earth, we get to of the world, these terms again are Seemingly straightforward, whatever salt and light were intended to signify by Jesus, whatever you're saying that the disciples are, are to be the He's saying that you are this, whatever it is, salt and light, of the entire population of mankind over the face of the globe. They the disciplers, the followers of Christ. are salt and light, two very important things. We might say critical things in the lives of every human being. We might even say the life-preserving and life-giving things These disciples were to be that to everyone else who was not receiving this word. And certainly these disciples were representing all those who would believe upon Jesus. All those who would truly follow Jesus are to be salt and light. Our salt and light. So we get to those words, salt and light. They're a bit general. We know what they are in terms of creation. But they need some explanation in terms of how Jesus was using them. They're critical to this headline, and indeed, this is indeed a headline for a good portion of the rest of chapter 5. You are the light of the world. You're assault. They go together. But Jesus uses two different words to explain how his followers were to live before a world that was persecuting them. They're the centerpiece of these verses. So we need to dig into them a little bit and see how then they relate back to that persecution we referred to earlier. So let's deal first with salt. You are salt of the earth. There are various ways in which salt is used throughout Scripture. I mean we can think of table salt. I'm not sure that's what we want to think of this morning. We can a little bit. But Scripture tells us a bit about salt. Some passages in Scripture speak of salt as a good thing. Others speak of salt as not so very good. Think of Lot's wife. She was turned into a pillar of salt. Punishment for turning back and looking. Punishment for her heart which was still wed to the world. In Zephaniah we read about Moab Moab shall become like Sodom, the Ammonites, though those who lived in Moab, like Gomorrah, a land possessed by nettles and salt pits, a waste forever. Not a good description. A waste forever. But here Jesus uses it in the Sermon on the Mount, the metaphor in terms of its goodness Mark's gospel confirms that. In the parabolic text in Mark 9, we read, Salt is good. Paul uses it in his letter to those at Colossae. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt. Grace and salt going together. Salt was used to heal or purify. In 2 Kings, Elisha uses salt to purify or heal the water. Then he went to the spring of water and threw salt in it and said, Thus says the Lord, I have healed this water. From now on, neither death nor miscarriage shall come from it. Salt was used by God to heal, purify the water. In Ezekiel, salt is referred to as that which was rubbed on an infant, a baby. And as for you, as for your birth on the day you were born, and your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt. Speaking of Israel. But he's also speaking of apparently a custom that was done for babies, some sort of medicinal purpose to the salt, we might assume. But then we get to the ceremonial sacrifices. We read that in Leviticus this morning. Again, salt was used as something good or even necessary for the sacrifices. You shall season all your grain offerings. The King James puts it this way, you shall season all your meat offerings with salt. You shall not let the salt of the covenant with your God be missing from your grain offerings, and all your offerings you shall offer salt. Three times. God tells them to. Add salt to their offerings. When commentator writes about this and notes that salt was that which helped the the sacrifice. It kept it from putrefication and corruption. And he goes on, and and they say, by which all impurity and hypocrisy were repelled. Seems to be the idea. Salt was the symbol of covenant. There's a sign by which treaties were made, according to this commentator And the idea, according to this commentator, was that it imparts strength and purity to the sacrifice. You might think then of the salt as being a necessary ingredient to the sacrifice to make it acceptable to God. Finally, taste, which is something we're very familiar with. In Job we read in chapter 6, can something tasteless be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg? Part of the goodness of salt is in its ability to add taste to foods, and Jesus is using this metaphor here in all of these ways, I think. Salt is that which was added to. The disciples were those who were being added to the people of the earth, so to speak, to the human population, as a good thing. They were to be like salt, that which purified, that which healed, that which preserved, that which added goodness to all those who lacked those qualities. You might think of Abram's call out of the Ur of the Chaldeans, as God calls him to separate himself and to go to a land which he didn't know. He told him, You will be a blessing. In you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. The disciples were to be the same. That's the idea. They were to be a blessing to the peoples of the earth. as they were like salt It was a precious gift given to the disciples, given to every single follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. You are the salt of the earth, a precious commodity which must not be given up. Jesus sets that forth in the in kind of a warning There's an impossibility of restoration if you lose your taste. You're the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? Jesus puts this forth in a rhetorical question. For emphasis. The idea is once salt has lost its taste, its saltiness, it can't be restored. It's impossible. Here we would not understand this reference as a reference to salvation. Jesus was not saying, once you've been saved, if you lose your salvation, you just can't get it back. That wasn't the idea. But it may have been to point to the religious leaders of the day. Think of the Pharisees, the priests, the scribes. They had strayed from the very word of God. They had the very word of God. They were given the very word of God. That was the taste. That was the goodness. That was the salt And they neglected it. Instead of using that, they had adopted their own tra traditions and thus they lost their taste For the Word of God was no longer going out. They lost their saltiness, their goodness. Seems to be the idea. And they became useless. It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. That which was blessed. That which was purposeful, that which was tasteful, was no longer of any use. That which was of much value. Now had completely lost its value and had become waste, something to be disposed of, not wanted, but unwanted Brothers and sisters If you're following Christ this morning, this is a description of you. You are indeed Saul The question is, will others around you agree? Will your neighbors confess, yes, I I know so and so And when I'm around them it there's this sense of Christ. Will they say that And they taste that. Or taste and see that the Lord is good Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Brothers and sisters, does that describe you? We need to examine our hearts this morning and ask that question. It's not possible to lose your salvation. Certainly it's possible to lose your saltiness, like the Pharisees. That brings us to our second point, seeing the light. In a similar way, Jesus states, you are the light of the world. Again, he was speaking of his disciples. There's no mystery there. Those who are trusting in him, those who have faith in him, those who depend upon him for salvation. And so as we think of both of these things, this light and this this salt, we we now need to recognize That both come from Christ. Both that salt, both that light come from outside of the follower of Christ, the believer in Christ Jesus. How do we know that? Well, we've been talking about salt as being good. We know light is good. And we know that there are none who are good. As the rich young ruler comes to the Lord Jesus Christ and calls him good teacher, Jesus responds and asks him that question: why do you call me good? And no one is good except God alone. No one's good. And then we can go to John's Gospel, which is very helpful because Jesus speaks of himself in John's Gospel, as John records it and says very clearly, I am the light. I am the light. I'm the light of the world And then as John's gospel continues on, we see the connection. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become sons of light. But you see, Jesus is saying that I'm the light. If you believe in me, you will become sons of light. And there it is, through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. A person becomes a son of light and therefore reflects the light of Christ. The light of Christ flows through them. Think of John's Gospel in chapter 15 as Jesus analogizes himself to the vine and believers as to the branches which must be engrafted into the vine. That's the idea. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit from apart from you can do nothing. That's the idea. Apart from Christ, you can't shine. Apart from Christ, you can't truly live. Outside of the vine, the branches become worthless and are cast into the fire to be burned. But in the vine there's much fruit produced. In Christ, there's much light. That shines. Think of that lighthouse again. My understanding is that there's one source of light that goes up into that house, it's at the top, and then Through a series of lenses and mirrors that light is reflected and refracted so that now ships miles away can see that one source of light as it's been refracted and I don't know if I'm using the right words or not, but magnified. That's the idea. Christ is the light. And you, as followers of Christ, now become those who reflect and not that you make his light greater, but there's so many that you're proclaiming Christ, you're beaming Christ, you're reflecting Christ, just like that lighthouse. This light which Jesus declares his followers to be is only comes on as one is in Christ. And then as one follows Christ, that light flows through that individual and radiates for all to see. That light is the light of Christ. And there's the design, so that others can see it. Jesus doesn't merely say, receive my light. He says, You are the light, and now shine. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. The implication is if you're shining for Christ, you need to be on the hilltop. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand that gives light to all in the house. And so through those analogies, Jesus says, Let your light shine. before others. Last week we talked about being a closet Christian and see how these verses now connect. You can't be a closet Christian. If Christ's light is abiding in you and you are called to shine forth, you must be set on the stand, you must be set on the hill. Paul writes of that in Philippians chapter two, that you may be blameless and innocent, children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation among whom you Shine as lights in the world. So That's the idea. As Christ abides in you, as you're that branch engrafted into the vine, as you're being nourished by him, as you're receiving the light of Christ, now it's it's beaming out from you. For all to see. You might be asking question then as I did. Well, what does this light look like How is it that we are to look different than others in the world? We are salt, we're light. What does it look like? How is it to be seen? That which abides in every single believer, every single follower of Christ Jesus, what is this light of Christ that we are to shine forth? One might think: well, it's the keeping of the law. In fact, this is a headline in a sense, as Jesus is about to get into the moral law, opening it up and calling us to live in accordance with it, not to be saved, but because you have been saved. And so we could think of that. In one sense, shining forth the light of Christ is living a life in accordance with the moral law. But then very particularly, Jesus says in this verse, in the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works. Your good works. He calls us expressly to these good works that others might see them. And so your good works are part of this light, aren't they? As we opened up the food pantry yesterday. And you participate in that. That was a good work. That was shining forth the light of Christ. You come to English class and you help others learn English. You sit beside those who are struggling with English and you're coming alongside them and you're seeking to help them gain a better understanding of English. That's a good work That's shining forth the light of Christ. But those are too limited Those are limited to certain times and events. Those are good things, yes. But this salt and this light are to be constants. Those are good things to consider. But it might be better for us to consider Jesus' good works. If it's his light that indwells in us, his light that were to be shining, it would make sense that we would consider Jesus' good work if we're to imitate him and be that light. The greatest good work of Jesus was doing the will of his father. I think you'd agree with me. Aligning his will with that of his fathers. And that can be defined as a self-sacrificial life. As he loved his father, as Jesus loved God the Father, his greatest work and life. And this world was defined by sacrifice and thus humility. Don't we see that throughout the life of Christ? That his greatest good work As he pursued the goal of glorifying his Father, doing his will, was his sacrificial living. Think of the Son of God. Who did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, the Son of God lowers himself, he condescends He humbled himself, and Jesus the man did not cling to his life in such a way that prevented him from dying to self. Together, the one person, the God man, gave himself up. The divine nature, the human nature, together, in a spirit of singleness. gave themselves up sacrificially. It seems to be the greatest good work of the Lord Jesus Christ as he sought to glorify his Father. So while we can speak of certain specific works that are good, it might be better for us to be thinking upon what Jesus is saying in terms of your heart. But there's a danger when we enter into good works to seek glory for ourselves. I'll talk about that in a moment. But here as we consider good works as being those which shine forth the light of Christ, we should primarily be considering the condition of our hearts as we enter into them. What's our motive for pursuing good works? And what is the result that we desire from them? The true light of Christ, which shines brightly, is his light of sacrifice and humility. Do you see? How works done in sacrifice and humility will have necessarily as their goal and desired result the glory of God. That does bring us to our third point. Sharing the glory. What was Christ's Goal on this earth, we might say right away, was to save me. He certainly did. But his goal was to glorify the Father. His ultimate goal was to represent and glorify God the Father is to shine forth the justice, the righteousness, the faithfulness, the goodness, the power, the knowledge, the wisdom, indeed the grace of God. How do we know that? Well, because he did so. He did. Writer to the Hebrews says it this way: long ago at many times and in many ways God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he's spoken to us by his son. whom we appointed heir of all things, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact representation of his nature. That was Christ's goal. What is yours? What is it that your works are to accomplish? What's your goal? What's your motive? What's your desire? Like Christ, it should not be self-glory. Like Christ, it should not be to pursue good works so that others would praise you or think well of you. These good works are not to be done to place yourself in a good light before the world. Look at what I've done. They're not done to earn goodwill in the eyes of men The design is to give glory to God the Father. Christ says that very specifically to us this morning. It's no mystery. Let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works. Think of that. They may see your good works and give glory to your Father If you really think about that, that seems quite impossible. It seems a bit supernatural, actually. Indeed, it seems very supernatural. For our nature in Adam is to receive glory. We want the recognition. Look at what I did. Look at how I prayed for you. Our nature is to pursue the good work to receive the praise. It's only through the truly supernatural That one is able to display these good works sacrificially and then call upon those who see them and say, give glory to God. See how having a sacrificial heart, a humble heart, can bring one to this transformed, transformed mind? of pursuing good works in order that others would see and that immediately they'd give glory to God That kind of a heart which is able to pursue this good work and say at the end of it, whatever that good work is, don't look at me. Look at the Father. Look at Christ. Because it's all His. It's all his. This kind of a heart is his. He's changed me in such a way that I want to do this for you. I want to live a sacrificial life for you, and then I want to point you to Christ. These good works are the sharing of that which God has done for you. Isn't that the case? Isn't that why you do them? Let me show you what Jesus has done. You see, when you trust in Christ, as a result As a result, now you're reflecting his light to others. You're reflecting his sacrificial light. Because you've been glorified. See, you've been seated with Christ in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. And you've been created. Now you're a workmanship. For pursuing those good works. See, that's the result of that change of heart that you've been given. So as you do those good works, you're just merely sharing the glory Because you've already been seated with Christ. Because you've been supernaturally changed, because you've been loved when you were unlovable. You're showing that this must be the powerful work of an Almighty God, for I would never do this on my own accord. Showing the power of Christ. Yes, Christ works salt and light into his followers That they would call others to glorify his Father. I'm glad those lighthouses are in place. No one knows how many lives have been saved. Similarly, as you shine forth the light of Christ, as you are the salt of the earth, you have absolutely no idea. No idea. How many are being wooed to Christ? But the Lord tells us and calls us to keep Keep being that soul. Keep being the light. Shine forth for Christ. Amen. Our Father and our God, we are so weak and frail. And it is amazing, Lord God, that you would give us good works to do. Help us, Lord, to pursue them sacrificially. Help us to pursue them in humility. Help us to pursue them always with the mind of Christ. And help us to shine forth brightly for Christ and be that salty taste among this world. That you, Father, would receive all the glory. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.