And now we come to the reading of God's Word for the sermon passage this morning. The sermon passage comes to us from Ecclesiastes 11, verses 1 through 8. We're beginning to basically round out the book of Ecclesiastes here. We may only have probably only have two more weeks after this, but Um Ecclesiastes 11 verses 1 through 8. Here we are at the end. It is a long slow slog through some of it. It's uh, you know, in many ways it is Observations on a sin-cursed world, very frustrating aspects of life in a sin-cursed world. And there has been a good amount of uh meditation upon these things. Uh a good amount of these things have been um set before us and observed by Solomon, the writer of this book. And you know, as you go through a lot of that, it can be easy to get depressed. It can be easy to see, well yes, we know the the world is an ugly place and you know we Sometimes we know that without reading the Bible. And yet we read the Bible and we see it certainly clearly confirmed here in Ecclesiastes. And yet, as you get through all of that, as you get to the end of that What is the beginning of the takeaway? We get the beginning of the takeaway here in Ecclesiastes 11. What would you expect the takeaway to be? Again, the world is a very frustrating place to live in because of sin in the world. And yet, um notice how Solomon begins to give us a takeaway here in chapter eleven, chapter eleven, verses one through eight. What is the takeaway? What is the takeaway? How do you live? in this sin-cursed world. Listen to the reading of God's Word. Ecclesiastes eleven, verses one through eight Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days. Give a serving to seven, and also to eight. For you do not know what evil will be on the earth. If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. And if a tree falls to the south or the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it shall lie. He who observes the wind will not sow. And he who regards the clouds will not reap. As you do not know what is the way of the wind, or how the bones grow in the womb of who is with child, so you do not know the works of God who makes everything. In the morning, sow your seed, and in the evening, do not withhold your hand. For you do not know which will prosper, either this or that, or whether both alike will be good Truly the light is sweet, and it is pleasant for the eyes to behold the sun. But if a man lives many years and rejoices in them all, Yet let him remember the days of darkness, for they will be many. All that is coming is vanity. That's part of the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessings to it and to its preaching. So once again, we're reminded an overarching view of Ecclesiastes' vanity. The world is a place that is broken. The world is a place where there is much that is frustrating. Much that is difficult. It makes it hard to live in. Much that makes it difficult to navigate. Much that makes life complicated. Difficult to predict. And as you uh consider these facts that Ecclesiastes sets before us, wouldn't it be easy to take in the fact of the Vanity of the world, the vanity of life in a sin-first world, and conclude or end up in a place where you end up being scared by it. Paralyzed. If life is so hard and unpredictable and complicated Why bother trying anything in this sin-cursed world? Remember, Solomon has one of the key themes has been that labor in this world is bound to be frustrating It doesn't always pay off the way that we hope it would or the way that we expect it should. But if labor doesn't always pay off in the ways that it we think it should, and it is frustrating, Why try? Why bother? Again, the realities of the curse of sin make it so that so much about the facts of this world and what happens to us in it Sometimes so often really can't be made sense of. And we've learned that that's just the way it is. But if that's true, why try? Why bother trying to do anything good in this world? Why not just say, well, you know, God will change the world and save it in the end. He will fix things. He will make things right one day. Let's just wait around until he does that, since he's promised that. Wasn't it easy to understand why you might end up concluding just such a conclusion? After getting this far through Ecclesiastes, after all, so much that Solomon has told us to this point confirms a fact that we we all know so well in our lives. It's only confirmed here in Ecclesiastes. The world is a place that's hard to live in, confusing to live in. He's laid bare for us so much about the world that is vanity. So much that seems pointless, frustrating, sometimes annoying. All of it due to sin entering entering the world. Might we not expect Solomon to conclude his book after making so many observations along this line, saying, well, what's the point in trying to live here in this world? Why not just wait it out? Why not just live in resignation and despair? Why not just throw our hands up in the air and just wait one day for God to fix everything? And just wait it out the best we can. Why not live in that way? You know, it wouldn't be surprising if to us if we saw Solomon conclude his book in that way. And yet you need to notice. How does he begin to conclude that book in chapter 11? Again, observing so much that's wrong with this world. So much that's frustrating about life. So much that's frustrating about life in a sin-cursed world. How does he tell us to live in just such a world? Well notice in our passage, he tells us that even in a world that is broken, vain, and frustrating, We're still to exert ourselves in such a way that our life is seeking proactively to outpace the evils of this world, even evils that are bound to befall us in the end. Even though vanity is at the end of the line, even though all that is coming is vanity, as he rounds out verse 8. Nonetheless, try to live in what way? In such a way that we seek to outpace even those evils that are going to catch up with us. In the end. After all, we notice what he says at the beginning of verse 1. Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days. What is the point of this saying here? Cast your bread upon the waters, you will find it after many days. He's saying, put yourself out there. Put that which God has entrusted to you out there and look for it to come back to you. in some way. That's what this saying is pointing to. Cast your bed upon the waters, you will find it after many days. Yes, it's hard to do that. And it's easy to understand why you might be tempted not to. After all, sometimes we cast our bread upon the waters and it doesn't seem to come back to us. And so we get gun shy about trying it again. And yet this is what Solomon says. Cast your bread upon the waters, you will find it after many days. Very similar approach in verse 2. Putting ourselves out there, trying to do what is good with what God has entrusted to us. Here he says, give a serving to seven and also to eight. He's talking about laying a spread, food for people. Food for many people, for seven people, possibly even eight. For you do not know what evil will be on the earth. See, yes, life is evil. Yes, evils will come. Yes, evils will befall us. Nonetheless, spread a table, for seven, even eight. Yes, the world is a world where there is lack, where there is famine Use your resources as a spread to serve many people, seven or eight people. Again, um this these verses, what they're pointing us to is to seek to do good in a way that is even a little bit risky. Seek to be even a little bit generous in a way that is a little bit risky. Even though this earth is an earth that is where there is much that is evil, still Do your due diligence to cast your bet on the waters. Do your due diligence to set out a serving for seven, even eight. Now again, it's true that we don't know exactly what evils are bound to take place in our lives. We don't know what evils are bound to come upon us. And as he mentions there at the end of verse two, but don't let that paralyze you. Don't let that hold you back from seeking to use the resources that are given to you. Don't let hold that let that hold you back from even seeking to outpace the evils that are bound to befall us in this world There's a very similar point in verses 3 to 6, a very overarching point about, yes, life is filled with evil, and yet even though life is filled with evil, still seek to do good within it. Now notice what he observes in verses 3 through 6. We know that there are certain things in this life, things that tend to be certain hard and fast truths about the world. Things like verse 3. If there are clouds that are full of rain, then those clouds are going to empty rain upon the earth Things like the other part of verse 3. If a tree falls in a certain direction, whatever direction it falls in, it tends to land in and stay in. These are hard, fast truths about life. Yes, even life in a sin-cursed world. Yes, even though life is unpredictable in a sin-cursed world, there are some things that are predictable. A tree will land where it falls and will stay there. Clouds that are full of rain will empty themselves on the earth. There are also other things about life. in a in this world that are a little less predictable, things like in verse four, the wind and the clouds, the wind. When will it come? Where will it come from? Which direction will it blow in? When it comes, will it be soft and gentle? Or will it be raging and violent and fierce? What about the clouds? Where are they going to come from? When will they come when they come? And when they come, where will they go? Will they rain or will they not? We understand how difficult it can be to forecast the weather. We're all aware of this, that uh um yet even in this day and age where we have um remarkable precision and remarkable technology, even still Our predictions are not always accurate, are they? They can only go out so far in advance. When will the clouds come? What will they bring? Will they bring rain? Will they not? Will they bring snow? Will they not? So what is Solomon saying here? He's saying, um, when you're looking and trying to figure out what the conditions of life will be, Don't be moved by the unpredictable parts. And don't let the unpredictable parts stop you from trying something. Okay? And so this is the point of verse 4. He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap. If you look outside and you look for the wind and the clouds and you try to say, will they or won't they? And then in trying to gauge whether they will or they won't, This is how you make your decision as to what you will do, whether you will do something or will not do something. What are you going to end up doing? You are going to end up never sowing, never reaping. And this is the point that Sullivan makes. Once again, if you wait for um if you wait and regard the wind and the clouds to just make your decision as to what you're going to do. You will never do anything. This person will watch the sky carefully and decide, oh, there are clouds today. I'm not going to go out there into that. When you really don't know what the clouds are going to bring. Again, Solomon continues on this point in verse 5: you don't know what is the way of the wind. You don't know the bones that grow in the womb. of the mother who is with a child. There are things you simply don't know. God knows. God does. God works. And yet, as you consider the unpredictability of life in this world, the unpredictability of what God does, what God blesses, what God doesn't bless What do you do? You still do what he says in verse 6. In the morning, sow your seed, and in the evening do not withhold your hand. For you do not know which will prosper, either this or that, or whether both alike will be good. The fact that you don't know what God will bless, what God won't, how he will bless, how he will choose to defer blessing, the fact that you don't know that, don't let that defer you from action. But let that spur you to action and be okay with the fact that God will bless as he so chooses. This is the instruction. A Solomon. Again, life in this world is hard, it's complicated. It's uh it doesn't always turn out the way we want it to. Don't let that stop you. From seeking to do God's will. Don't let that stop you from seeking to be diligent with what He gives you. Don't let that stop you from putting yourself out there, even in a way that's risky. There's a little bit of that here in this passage, some riskiness in doing good, riskiness in being generous. Don't get scared off from trying something just because there might be clouds or wind that you regard And these things would threaten to scare you off? No. Go and sow anyways, and reap what you reap. And what you reap comes from God. Thank God for it. Don't let that stop you from trying. Don't let that stop you from doing something good. So again, even after observing the brokenness of this fallen world, Solomon doesn't leave us in frustration. He leaves us in a place where he wants us to act with hope. And where he wants us to act in ways that are driven by hopefulness. He wants us to see that, yes it's true, we don't know how God will bless or withhold blessing. But even when that's true, seek it. Seek it anyways, because we know God can bless. We know God can bless. And leave the results with Him. Let the results lie with Him. That's how Solomon instructs us here in this passage. Again, don't be resigned to despair. Don't be resigned to cynicism. When you observe the brokenness of the fallen world, but let it spur you to hope in the God who is able to turn things in our favor. Notice verse 7 and 8, here we get a perspective, a good perspective on the fullness of really all of Ecclesiastes is in many ways is summed up in the pattern that we see. Verses 7 and 8. And it is really two things that are held together, two things that are held together there. Truly the light is sweet, and it is pleasant for the eyes to behold the sun. But if a man lives many years and rejoices in them all, yet let him remember the days of darkness, for they will be many. All that is coming is vanity. There in those verses you really see two things held together, two things that even stand in tension with each other. One is the instruction to find joy. The light is sweet. It is pleasant for the eyes to behold the sun. Enjoy what is pleasant while you can. But also next to joy, what is there? Sobriety. Sobriety about the end of days. The end of days is darkness. And the darkness of those days is many. And there is vanity that is coming in those many days. Two perspectives to put together. Two perspectives to hold together here in this world. Find joy in what God provides. But also be sober about the realities of the curse. This is how we are to live. This is how Solomon instructs us to live. The question is, how can we live in this way? How can we have sobriety about the brokenness of the world? Yet at the same time still be willing to put ourselves out there in seeking to do good and even doing so in ways that might even seem risky. You know, many people when they have risked something and feel like their trust has been betrayed or feel like they're disappointed with the results. Many such people will conclude that they will never try such a thing again. But again, Solomon is telling us to do just the opposite of that. Many people feel like they have cast their brat out on the waters and yet they feel that it has not come back to them and so they think, what's the point of doing that? Why try that again? I'm never gonna try that again. again. Many people have the experience where in verse 2 they have given a serving to seven or eight. They have put themselves out there in generosity. And perhaps they feel their generosity was taken advantage of or wasted and should have instead been spent spent on themselves. How can we have hope in the face of the brokenness of the world? How can we have hope even knowing that we don't know how God will bless the things we try to do? How is it possible to live this way? Well, we know the answer comes through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Through the gospel of Jesus Christ, we know the good news of what God has done. And that good news of what God has done points us to the fact that God can do much more than we think is possible with the things that we engage in Why do we do good? We don't do good simply because we think we have some secret key to securing success for ourselves. We do good because we know that God can bless that which we do. That's why we seek to do good. And we do that even not knowing what the result will be. Not knowing what the result will be, we entrust it to the Lord, and we do good anyways, whatever he chooses to do with it. However he chooses to bless. Remember what Paul has to tell us in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. He is speaking glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. He is speaking glory to God. And he reminds us in this blessing of God, what God is able to do. We ought to remember this Again, as we seek to live with hopefulness in these verses, as we seek to cast our bread on the waters, as we seek to give a serving to seven and also to eight. eight. As we seek to be faithful, sowing the seed in the morning and also in the evening, regardless of how God should sow choose to bless. Remember what God can do. Remember how He is able to bless. Ephesians 3. 20. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly, abundantly, above all that we ask or think. according to the power that works in us. To him be glory in the church. By Christ Jesus. To all generations forever and ever. See, when we put our hand to the plow and seek to do good, we do it with confidence, knowing that God is able to bless. Not just knowing that he can bless in the ways that we would hope he would bless, but knowing that he is actually able to bless far beyond all that we imagine the outcome of our action should be. Whether or not we see the result we are after, we know that God can use that which is done for his glory. And what should give us most confidence of all in the effort to do good, that God can use it, should be the fact of the good He has already done in us. What's the good that he has done for us and in us? If he by his grace can even open our dark, dirty hearts. Turn them towards himself in faith and repentance and unto new life in Christ. We know God can do amazing things. We know God can do more than any anyone has the right to imagine. Even when we seek to do good. So let's remember what Solomon says here in Ecclesiastes 11. Let's remember how he he rounds out his observations. Again, yes, the world is a dark, broken place. Nonetheless. Seek to live. Seek to do good. Hope for what God can do. Whether or not he does it, however he chooses to do it. In the morning sow your seed, and in the evening do not withhold your hand. Not knowing whether he prospers this or that, or whether both will be good, do it anyways, because you're doing it not for yourself, you're doing it for the glory of God. May this be the shape of our lives in this world. May it be true because we have been redeemed by the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's therefore continue to look to him, continue to lean upon him as we seek to do that which he has called us to do. Amen. Let's pray. Well Lord God, once again we come before you and we give thanks to your name that you have redeemed us from darkness that We are those who were dominated by sin and the curse, and you have broken into our hearts. You have done amazing things by bringing us to new life in Jesus Christ and to faith. O Father, we know that you are able to bless. We know that you are able to bless. We pray that you would give us the fortitude to cast our bread upon the waters. You would help us to be generous, spreading a serving for seven or eight. That you would help us to be faithful in sowing in the morning as well as in the evening, looking to you to bless. We pray that you grant these things in us by your Spirit at work in us. O Father, we ask that this would be true of us more and more, because Jesus Christ is our Savior. We pray these things in His name alone. Amen. Then let's continue to pray, bringing to our God the the other needs we have. Oh Father, we come to you this day as a needy people, as a people in need of much provision from your hand. We ask you to bless. We ask you to be with us. We ask you to show us your favor and your grace and your mercy. We pray, O Lord, that you would be with all those in our church who are suffering and struggling, that you would give to us the right perspective on our sufferings and our struggles, that you would help us to see these in light of your good plan and your good purpose for us in the end. Father, we pray that you supply for the needs of your church. We pray that you supply for the needs we have in the way of healing and recovery. We ask that you provide opportunities and means by which to seek these things out. We pray, O Lord, that you might heal those in need of healing. We pray, Father, that you would continue to bless the labors of Trinity Reformed Church, that you would see fit to use it for your kingdom. And again, we ask this not knowing how. Not always understanding how or why, but understanding that you bless and are able to bless beyond measure. Use the gospel ministry that takes place on behalf of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church and other gospel preaching churches. Use your word, we pray, to gather a harvest of people for yourself. Father, again, we commit ourselves to you and ask you for your help and your grace. Ask you to strengthen us. Ask you to confirm us in Christ. And we long for the day when these things will be seen. But in the meantime, we pray for your grace that you would help us to pray the way our Savior has taught us to pray by saying Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. The Thine is the kingdom and the power, the glory forever. Amen.