To first Timothy chapter four first Timothy chapter four uh reading verses one through five 1 Timothy chapter 4 verses 1 through 5. The message will be focused on verses 1 and 2 and is entitled In the Latter Times. The material in the bulletin is wrong. Let us hear the word of the Lord. Now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times Some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their own conscience seared with a higher with a hot iron. Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused. If it is received with thanksgiving, for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we pray now that in these next few moments, Lord, that you'll help us to be attentive. uh to the ministry of the word and Lord that your spirit will apply uh the word to our hearts and give us great encouragement and comfort to know, Lord, that uh you have all things uh uh in your control, in your eternal control. Uh bless us now, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. When we read verse one, now the Spirit expressly says that in the latter times or in latter times Some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. We find the Apostle Paul has now returned. To the subject of false teachings, which he began 1 Timothy with. If you turn to verse 3 of 1 Timothy 1, There we find Paul saying this, as I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus. So that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine, nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogy which promote speculations. Rather than stewardship from God that is by faith. Now, again, it doesn't mention uh uh false um doctrines of demons or spirits, but it does mention different doctrines, different uh doctrines uh and uh devoted to myths and genealogies Apparently, that clearly does classify or characterize the false teaching that can be taught from time to time by various different individuals. So we are told that it is the Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit, that is giving to God's people a warning. A warning to the effect that in latter times people will fall away. People will apostate from the faith. They will pay attention to deceiving spirits. And they will pay attention to doctrines of demons. Now, if we were to look throughout the scriptures, You know that there's a lot of subject matter about the last days or the latter days that's spoken of in God's Word. Some of the more familiar ones to your ears would be a place like Matthew 24, verse 5, where the Lord Jesus says Many shall come in my name, saying, I am, saying, here I am Christ, and shall deceive many. And he's speaking there about latter times. The Apostle John, in his epistle Makes this statement in 1 John 2, verse 18. Little children, it is the last time. And you have heard that Antichrist shall come. Even now, there are many Antichrists. Whereby we know it is the last time. Latter times, last times Last day, end of time, they're all synonymous terms. But the perspective of the New Testament writers And therefore the perspective of God, who gave them the word to say, the perspective is that the last time, the latter times Are occurring at the very time the writers are writing these epistles. In other words, somewhere in the neighborhood of 60 to a 90 years Excuse me, 60 to 90 A. D. , 30 to 60 years after Christ. In 2 Timothy chapter 3, Part of which I read earlier, chapter 3, verse 1 through 8. It talks about in the last days perilous times shall come, and then it gives a list Of behavior on the part of false teachers who come in the last days. Or it gives a list of how the people are behaving during those times. And and you see people will be lovers of themselves. They will be covetous. They will be braggers Proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, and on and on and on it goes, uh, ending up with uh People led away with diverse lusts, always trying to learn, but never able to learn Yeah, what a pathetic thing is. Always trying to learn, but never able to come to a knowledge of the truth. You know, you read a section like that and it sounds very much like our times. It sounds like and people will then make the statement, well, we must be in the last time. So it must not be very long before Jesus is going to return. Jude chapter Jude chapter 4. Jude 4 makes this statement. There are certain men crept in unawares who were before of old ordained to this condemnation. ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness. The lasciviousness, you know that what that means? That means excessive practice of sin. Turning the grace of God into the excessive practice of sin, and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. Then down in verse 18 of Jude, how that they told you there should be mockers in the last time who should walk after their ungodly lusts. Now I don't want anybody to be confused. I don't want anybody not to miss the important point. That though there is going to be a last day, and though there is going to be a day when Christ returns, It is, I think, the perspective of the Bible, the New Testament, and it is my firm belief that the last days come. With the Lord Jesus Christ. With his death and resurrection, with his appearance and his death and resurrection, the last days were inaugurated. And we have been living in the last days since then. That isn't to deny that things are going to get worse. What do you expect with human beings who deny God? But it seems very clear when we read these verses. that the the the writers of the scriptures, especially that John passage, that first John passage, was was very clear in saying that We're in the last days. Why do we know? Because there are Antichrists around. There are false teachers. They're with us now. Some of these scriptures depict the latter times as concurrent With the time in which the epistles were written. Concurrent means last days going on at the same time the epistles were written. Now, in these last days We are told that some will depart from the faith. Some, it says, not all. There will be those who will apostasize, who will leave the faith, who will go away from the faith, who will desert the faith. Who will fall away from the Christian faith. And I'm sure that there isn't a person here who doesn't know someone who has done such a thing. We should realize that falling away from Christian faith is A real possibility. Maybe not for us, but it does it doesn't it does happen. And those who have fallen away, if they remain in that status until the day they die, you must say that they never did believe They never did. They had some sort of understanding of the faith, called an intellectual knowledge, but it wasn't a knowledge that had changed their hearts. Now, the Spirit also gives us a reason why there will be that falling away in the latter times. Those who fall away are said to give heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. Deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. The interesting comment, that word giving heed. You could say it does mean to pay close attention to. They're paying close attention to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. It can also be translated in the New Testament to give oneself to, or to be addicted to. They become addicted to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons. That makes it it tells you tells you how strong in some measure that pull is. Toward the old man that's part of our existence. When you talk about someone who's addicted, you so soon realize that that person is totally given over to what they're addicted to. They lose normal ability to control their ab their Inhibitions. They become overly engaged, even preoccupied. This is an addiction is in this sense it's somewhat more sensual As opposed to being rational. If you're addicted to alcohol, you might make a rational decision to that, but the outworking of it is very sensual. in your life, very part of your feeling, part of your emotions. Or you you do it because it feels good At least that's what I'm told. A person becomes overly engaged, overly preoccupied. The scripture is filled with examples of such preoccupation and overly addicted to. In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, verses 13 through 15, Paul says Such are false prophets, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed, as the ministers of As ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. Now, one thing that I I just want to share with you, have you think about this, and I don't know that this is uh This is an entirely, well, I I think it is entirely correct, but it it it is something to ponder Notice it says that in the last days we become addicted or given over to doctrines of demons. Doctrines of Demons. This is the first time I ever contemplated the thought that demons have doctrines. And yet it clearly is the word for doctrine or teachings. You know, um there's so many in the Like in the Christian community that think about doctrine being a bad word, even good doctrine being a bad word Don't talk to me about doctrines. They don't, you know, just give me Jesus, that's enough. I'm not so sure that that isn't a doctrine of demons Because of the destruction that that brings on the people who follow that kind of teaching. Yeah, the demons have their own systematic theology. They have a doctrine of God They have a doctrine of Christ. They have a doctrine of the church, a doctrine of man. But it's all skewed. It's all false. It's all deceiving. It's all a lie. It may not look like a lie until you start pursuing it a little bit more. And underneath the doctrines of demons, you might find such teachings as we hear all the time. You can have it all now. Grab all the gusto You're entitled. Live for the moment You don't have to go to church to be a Christian. The devil made me do it. Ha ha That one comedian made a living with that line How about I am all there is? Or I am when the world revolves around you That's something to think about. The devil, doctrines of demons. He's done a good job promoting them. And whereas the Christian church tends not to pay attention to doctrines, There's something about men that tend to pay attention to the devil's doctrines In the latter days there will be evil spirits and doctrines of demons. And then it goes on to say they will speak lies in hypocrisy, verse 2. These individuals who are false teachers will speak lies and hypocrisy, having their own conscience seared with an iron. I'm not one who does a lot of ironing. I think you could probably imagine that that's not something I do. I'm not even sure what it means to sear with an iron, but perhaps it isn't the image is not so much the image of taking out the ironing board and ironing clothes, but it's the image of a hot poker that's been sticking in the fire that they use to brand cattle with. Or livestock with. That s that i when and if you've ever seen that done, and I have done this It's it's like you you take this very hot thing that has like a brand mark on it and you put it up against the animal's skin. Of course the poor cow calf is Bellowing like crazy, but uh it does burn off all the flesh that's there and leave an ever-present scar Um and it's it's like it's very, very painful. But the point is that uh uh being seared uh with their conscience, being seared with a hot iron, it it It just means that they're their consciences no longer are acting in the way in which they're they used to be a acting, but they're covered by It shows us how utterly dangerous following false teaching Can be. For they have the potential of not only teaching something's false, but they operate themselves without a moral compass Right and wrong, true and false, have no relevance for them, have no place in their lives. And isn't that the case? Haven't you often seen false teachers, false prophets, whose morality is questionable. You don't see it right away, usually, right? Takes time. They make a pretense, you see, of being moral. But in the light of the scrutiny of the gospel, one day it will be revealed Of rampant immorality and insincerity. And do you know what Sometimes they're very followers that revelation won't matter. They'll continue to follow. That's how addicted they are The false teachers and the prophets, false prophets will speak lies, lies about God, lies about life. But what would you expect them to do? They're following their father, the prince of lies, the father of lies, as Jesus referred to the devil in John 8, verse 44. Their conscience is seared with a heart iron, they are dead to all moral implications or impulses. How does it happen that a person becomes dead to all moral impulses? It happens when there is no repentance, when faith is not nurtured. And when obedience is not forthcoming. When sin is repeated, when pride will not allow repentance, when the lust of the flesh deadens the conscience and the heart The false prophets follow an agenda driven by their own lust and their own evil teachings. They disguise their deceit with good works and moral-sounding words, but always designed to feed their hidden desires. Beware of the false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves. Jesus said that in Matthew chapter 7 verse 15. Peter in 2 Peter 2 verse 3 said Through covetousness shall they, with unfeigned words, make merchandise out of you. When someone makes merchandise out of you, it's really saying they're using you. They're using you for their own profit. When you ask the question, how do you know whether a person is a false prophet or not? They may say things that sound right. They may disguise their immorality. How do you know who is false and who is not? My answer to that question is this. The first thing you must do is compare their teaching with scripture. That's point number one. And point number two is just as important. You must take time to evaluate their personal interaction with others Does the teacher fit the profile of a church leader that Paul has just described in 1 Timothy 3? Or does that teacher not fit that profile This will take time. And you may say to me, that takes too long. It may take a long time to be able to evaluate a person. My response is There is no reason to rush headlong into an error that might cost you dearly. Take time to evaluate. How do you know? Once again Does the person his teaching jive with scripture? Number two, does his life follow the qualifications? for leadership. I don't I don't know how many times I've seen One without the other. Or I've seen neither. And I've seen churches follow such people So it is the last times. It has been the last times. And these things will go on. But let not you get caught up In listening to the deceitful doctrines of demons and following false teachers. May God bring this message to all of our hearts. Amen.