Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord! For what good is the day of the Lord to you? It will be darkness and not light It will be as though a man fled from a lion and a bear met him, or as though he went into the house, leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light? Is it not very dark, with no brightness in it? I hate, I despise your feast days. They do not savor your sacred assemblies. Though you offer me burnt offerings and your grain offerings, I will not accept them. Nor will I regard your fetid peace offerings. Take away from me the noise of your songs, for I will not hear the melody of your stringed instruments. But let justice run down like water and righteousness like a mighty stream. Did you offer me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, O house of Israel? You also carried Sukkoth, your king, and Chion, your idols, the star of your gods, which you made for yourselves Therefore, I will send you into captivity beyond Damascus, says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts. As we uh continue our messages in the book of Amos, let's uh Let's remember that the Lord is soon to bring judgment to the northern kingdom of Israel. It's imminent. It will occur roughly in 25 years after Amos proclaimed these words. And uh Throughout this book, God has revealed what He has against the Northern Kingdom. And uh fundamentally, um it seems that the Lord's frustration and anger with Israel uh uh uh l uh uh is is is is is uh categorized in three different areas. Uh they uh are are full of idolatry they've worshipped other gods They have oppressed others, and they therefore do not love their neighbors as themselves. The Lord repeatedly appeals to Israel to repent. But they refuse to cease the sins that they are committing before his very eyes Now, in our text tonight, God gives further reasons why he is bringing judgment to the northern people, the Hebrews of Israel. And now as the verses start out in verse twenty one, uh you see uh On the one hand, Israel was keeping up with the various forms of what was required as part of their religion After all, they had feast days, verse 21. They gathered together for sacred assemblies. Again, verse 21. They offered burnt offerings and grain offerings. Verse 2 And it says that they offered fattened peace offerings. I think the idea of the fattened peace offerings probably suggests that these offerings were beyond what would be expected The country is in such prosperity that they can afford to be generous with their offerings. Um and it continues. Uh they sing songs. uh in their worship service. They uh they have uh music, uh stringed instruments. And if you just uh looked at all that activity, you would have to say, this is a religious people. These people are are worshiping their God. As best as they can, or these people are uh going, I mean, they're they're doing that which God has in the past told them they should do as part of their religious observance. Keep the feast days. Come to the sacred assemblies. Offer your offerings. Burnt offerings, grain offerings, peace offerings. Praise me by your voice and with the stringed instruments. But that's only half of the story. The other half is what those verses also say. God says, I hate, I despise your feast days. I do not enjoy your sacred assemblies. Though you give me all these burnt offerings, I won't take them. I won't accept them. Though you give me these fatted peace offerings, uh I won't regard them. Um I don't want to hear your songs. They are they are simply noise to me. Simply noise. I won't hear any of the melodies of the instruments you play Israel is certainly practicing religion, even the religion of Jehovah. But their worship was corrupted, of course. And we've seen some of the ways in which Their lives belied what it says they believed about their God. They were full of idol worship. And because they were full of idol worship, and they were living Exactly contrary to how God had prescribed Their religion, their religious offerings to God were a lie They had a poor attitude with regard to the worship of Jehovah, and they worshiped all other gods. Which he expressly forbid, and consequently God refuses to accept even their efforts at quote-unquote religion Even what he had told them to do was not met with heartfelt love and devotion. I do not savor your sacred assemblies, God said. Oh, before I say that, the verse 21, do you notice that uh there's a compounding of how God views their feast days. I hate and I despise. I mean, um what what What Hebrew is doing there is taking two similar thoughts and placing them in close proximity in order to Make us understand how much God hates this They're both intense word, but combined together, it it adds so much force to this hatred that God has for their worship services You might say, if you were to translate it literally, I despise with utter hatred Your worship, your assemblies, your feast days, and all the other things that you're doing in um uh in in without without a heart that loves me. I will not savor your sacred assemblies When you think about savoring, savoring ha has the uh connections to eating. And you know and cooking. And you savor the taste of a you know in in your mouth of a good steak. You know, a good steak meal how mu you can just the y you smell the juices coming before the steak gets to the plate and you're savoring that bite. And God says, I will not savor your sacred assemblies. I will not savor the sacrifices. Those sacrifices do not please me Your sacrifices do not have an aroma that brings pleasure to me. And if you want to think about what kinds of aromas connected with sacrifices that God does is pleased with, let me just uh share with you two verses from the New Testament that I think give us some light on why God does not savor these people's ascensions. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 2. We read, walk in love as Christ hath loved us. and given himself for an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. Surely, when you think about the Lord Jesus and his love and devotion for God and his worship for God, there's no duplicity in the Lord's heart. It's full one hundred percent love for God in all that He does and His worship. And because it's one hundred percent obedient service to God, his Work. His offering is a sweet smelling savor to God. Um and and and and and you you you can contrast the person of Jesus With these people. But at the same time, even though that passage holds out Jesus as the example, It is us, the Christians at Ephesus and Christians in general whom Paul is writing to in Ephesians 5 and verse 2. He in exhorts us to walk in love, to walk in love, to live a life of love. And if we live a life of love and obedience, As Christ lived the life of love and obedience, then we too would be a sweet-smelling savor in the presence of God. Philippians chapter 4, verse 18 is another verse that you can look at and appreciate. In this case, the Apostle Paul Writes, but I have all and abound. I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you An odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable and well pleasing to God. In this case Paul commends the people of Philippi because apparently they sent to Paul some sort of some sort of gift through this man Epaphroditus. But it was a gift that he treasured because it was a gift that he says is a sweet smell. It was sacrificial. in some way, it was sacrificial. You cared for me when I was in need, and you provided me a gift. And this is Even not just a sweet smell to me, but it's a sweet smell to God. A sacrifice that is well pleasing to God. Christians loving one another. You see. So God says, I won't savor your sacred assemblies, and I won't accept your burnt offerings, and I won't regard your fatted peace offerings, no matter how extravagant they are, no matter how much um material wealth you you give to me, uh if Your heart is not right. And if you're covering up that problem with religious quote unquote activity, that isn't Right. God knows the heart. And God sees the heart. And he sees when we're not being true to him. When One hand is doing one thing, and the heart is doing something else. That's really in opposition to what God wants. And that's That's what is happening with these people in the Northern Kingdom, the people during Amos' day. And this is not just an issue for the people of Amos. During the people that Amos is writing to, the northern kingdom. For later on, Isaiah The prophet will be speaking to the southern kingdom, the people of the Hebrews in Judah. And he writes in Isaiah chapter 1, verses 11 and 16, later time in history, 150 years past, uh Or before, before Amos is writing, to what purpose, beginning at Isaiah chapter 1, verse 11, to what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to me? Says the Lord, I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, the fat of fed beasts. I delight not in the blood of the bullocks or of the lambs or of the goats. When you come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand to tread my courts? Bring no more vain offerings. Your incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, the calling of assemblies. I can't, I can't, I cannot away with it. It is iniquity, even the solemn meetings. Your new moons and your appointed feasts, my soul hates. There's that word again. They are a trouble to me. I am weary to bear them. And when you spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you. Yea, and when you make many prayers, I will not hear Your hands are full of blood. Apparently they were treating people nastily, too. Wash you, make you clean, put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes cease to do evil. Speaking to the same group of people, the Southern Kingdom. Jeremiah writes, now we're down to the 620s. In time. Jeremiah writes in Jeremiah 722. 7 verse 22. For I see Spake not unto your fathers nor commanded them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt concerning barn burnt offerings or sacrifices, but this thing I commanded them, saying Obey my voice. I will be your God. You shall be my people. Walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well unto you. Again, um God uh did indeed give commands and he did indeed give uh uh instructions about burnt offerings and sacrifices. But apparently the same problem that the people of Israel have with Amos and the same problem that the people of the Jews and in Judah have the same issue. It's the same problem going on, vain worship. Heart not not not heartfelt worship. Hypocrisy That's another word for it. Worship which looks good on the outside, but on the inside, because God sees the heart It's not worship of God at all. There's no obedience. There's no willingness to fight against sin and live a life for God's glory. There's ongoing oppression, and not to mention, there is rampant idolatry. Rampant idolatry, worship of other gods. And while we're we're see, while they're bowing down and worshiping the other gods, They're messing up their worship to the true God. That's going on at the same time. They're still going through all the motions. All the forms. They're keeping the forms, but there's no heart. There's no love for God. There's no obedience to God. And now, when we read, what do we read in Isaiah in Matthew chapter 15? When Jesus is asked the question, why do your disciples uh not follow the tradition of the father and why don't they wash their hands? And Jesus says, you know, it's not what comes into the mouth that defiles the man, it's what comes out of the heart that defiles the man. Now, we can argue about the question of hygiene here, uh, good health, but that's not the point. Jesus wanted to make and that's not the point the Pharisees were making when they asked the question. And and Jesus quotes He quotes the Isaiah passage that I read a little earlier, Isaiah chapter one, why do these people worship me in vain with regard to in Matthew 15? A little more of an insight into the into the attitude and the posture of the people. is seen in Matthew 23 verse 14. Woe to you, scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites. For you devour widows' houses. Remember oppression? You devour what you take advantage of the poor. And for a pretense, make long prayers. Therefore you shall receive greater damnation. Well, see, you know, when we worship God, you know, is it with our heart, mind, soul, and strength Or is it are we playing? Are we are we playing at worship Are we making long prayers out of pretense because we want other people to hear us, how well we can pray, or we want people to see us praying? Oh, look how pious and religious that person is. And this is what the religion of Jehovah had declined to, while Amos is pleading from God. to turn from this kind of activity and love and love God. And you see in verse 24 of this passage, you see more answers as to why God is so upset with the people. It says it's not simply that they're Their worship is unacceptable. But notice in verse 24 it says, let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as a mighty stream. There's a problem in the nation. There's a problem in which in the way in which the people are living. There's no justice in how they're treating one another because they aren't righteous. They are not practicing their faith in a faithful way. They're certainly religious and they're going through the temple sacrifices while at the same time They're guilty of robbery, robbing God. They don't love justice as the Lord loves justice. Isaiah chapter 4, verse 8 says, For I the Lord love justice. I hate robbery. For a burnt offering. The Lord desires his people to show righteousness all the time Not just when it's convenient. See, he says, righteousness as a mighty stream. You get the image of righteousness that's continually flowing from the people. It's not there. They're not bringing acceptable offerings If you want to see more about the kinds of acceptable offerings that God appreciates You can turn to Leviticus 9 verses 8 through 24. And at that particular point, you find Moses and Aaron making offerings and burnt offerings. And at the conclusion of their offerings, on behalf of the people, verse twenty-three of Leviticus nine says Moses and Aaron then went into the tenth of meeting, and when they came out they blessed the people, and the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. The glory of the Lord of the Lord appeared to all the people. That's an acceptable sacrifice that's offered Fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed the burnt offering and the fat portions on the altar. And when all the people saw it, they shouted for joy, and they fell Face down. There was a there was a certain heartfelt love on the part of the people and Thanksgiving at that particular point in history. It just doesn't stay. It just doesn't continue. And as we've looked at various stages in history, we see Israel early in history, we see Israel During Amos' time, the Northern Kingdom, we see Israel, Judah, the Southern Kingdom, we see the Pharisees, when Jesus comes, the same vain worship. In one form or another, is an ongoing problem. Now, if that wasn't bad enough And if idolatry wasn't bad enough, the text goes on and indicts the Northern Kingdom worshipers even more. In verse 26, we read, You have born the tabernacle of Molech. And Chayan, your images, the star of your God, which you made to yourself This is obviously a reference to the worship of other gods, one being Moloch, who's sometimes referred to as Sikuth. And Chaion, which was a Babylonian god, the name for the planet Saturn is the Babylonian name for Saturn. And it it's it what it it says that you have borne the tabernacle of your Molech and Chion. Now they set up tabernacles to these gods and they offered up sacrifices, but And in Israel's case it says they bore the tabernacle. And I I just want it's a rather strange word to say there, unless What they were doing, perhaps, and this is just a suggestion, that they were wearing kind of replicas of some sort of religious worship to Moloch or to Scion. They were carrying them around, as it were, much like people might wear some sort of Christian or or or Hebrew symbol today. But it it wasn't simply that they were carrying them around. They made these gods. They made these gods to themselves. Even though they were the gods of surrounding deities, they appropriated them and brought them in. And they they bowed down and they worshiped them Molech is a God that from the very beginning God gave strong warnings to Israel, don't fool with that God. Don't worship that God. And you can see that in Leviticus, several places in Leviticus, expressly prohibited worship to Molech. Verse Leviticus 1821, Thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to mullet. Neither shall you profane the name of thy God. I am the Lord. And when he says, You shall not let any of your seed pass through the fire to mow it, This is what worship of Moloch involved. It was human sacrifice, generally the firstborn. So much so did God say, don't do this, that two chapters later in Leviticus he talks about this more extensively. Chapter 20, Leviticus 20, 2 through 2 through 5. Again, thou shalt say to the children of Israel, Whosoever shall be the children of Israel, or the strangers that sojourn in the land, that giveth any of his seed unto Molech, he shall surely be put to death. He shall surely be put to death. The man, the people of the land, shall stone him with stones I will set my face against that man, and I will cut him off from among his people, because he hath given of his seed to Molech. And defileth my sanctuary, and profaneth my holy name. If the people of the land do any ways hide their eyes from the man When he giveth of his seed to Molech, and kill him not, then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and cut him off, and all who go hoering after him To commit whoredom with Moloch from among their people. See, the this this was such an offense to God. And you you can begin to understand partially why it was such an offense. I mean it not just the gruesomeness of it, but it was a shadow image of God giving his own Son, of God giving his seed, the Lord Jesus Christ. It was a twisted, darkened, perverted image of that. And this they were worshiping. And it wasn't just that the man who did it was to be stoned. and cut off from Israel. But at the same time, did you notice? Anyone who sees him doing it and doesn't and and and in essence condones it, cut that person off too And his family. This particular sin was of such in Israel, the Northern Kingdom, was practicing this. Among their other idolatries. And Stephen, in his martyrdom speech in Acts chapter 7 and verse 41 through 43, he refers to it. Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Molech and the star of your God, Rapha, figures which you made to worship them. And I will carry you away beyond Babylon And that's what verse 27 says to for this these this kind of vain worship, uh this kind of uh worshiping God in vain. God says, I will bring judgment. I will cause you to go into captivity and beyond. Beyond Damascus, says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts. They will go into slavery and they will go far, far away. Farther away than they can imagine. The question then poses itself, how will they ever get home? Not just to the Lamb, but how will they ever get home to God? And what I would like to just say, as we see this phenomenon regularly in the Hebrews, It's not just the Hebrews. It's the common condition of man to worship God in vain. To create their own gods and bow down and serve them. And I think that those of us who know Jesus need to really appreciate that God has delivered us from this. He's given us the true and living God. He has given us a Savior. He has given us life. He has given us fellowship with Him. Uh we don't worship God uh with uh simply with uh following the forms of worship that we worship him with our heart. With our with our heart, mind, soul, and strength It's an exercise of love. Love for God. Love for Christ. We bow down. We serve Him. We worship Him. And when we worship Him Thank God that Jesus has told us that true worship of God is worship in spirit and in truth. And when we follow him and we seek to serve him, we indeed worship him in spirit and truth. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, might soul and strength. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. That includes worship. Amen