Let's remain standing and give attention to the reading of God's Word from the New Testament in Romans chapter eight Verses thirty six through twenty thir th verses twenty-six through thirty-nine. Romans 8 at verse 26. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words, and he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit. Because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good. for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies Who is it to condemn Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Knowing all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor heights, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation Will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. May be seated. Oh Lord, what wonderful promises and encouragements from your word We have just heard in your word. We pray that you'll go with the speaking and hearing now of the exposition of that. And we pray that you will give us discerning hearts and believing hearts, that we might receive what you have for us where we stand in need particularly. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This morning we looked at Romans 8 and we were doing something of an overview in this chapter of some perspectives on suffering. And we noted that there is a mystery to the why question of suffering, a mystery that nonetheless has Some partial answers for us, answers that are sufficient. Answers that are sufficient because they are proven at the cross. That God is trustworthy, that He can be trusted, that He is good He is all powerful, and how we can put those things together is more our problem than God's problem, and that God's trustworthiness is nonetheless To be seen that he gave his son, and that his love is certain, his love is invincible as we have seen that even this evening at the end of Romans chapter 8. Now this evening I want to focus in a little bit On one aspect of the comfort of God in our sufferings, and that is that He intercedes for us And we see that there are a couple of places where intercession is spoken of in verses 26 and 27, and then again in verse 34. In verses 26 and 27, we learn that the Holy Spirit is the one who intercedes for and with us. He is involved in the Intercession process. And then we read in verse 34 that Christ Jesus is at the right hand of God interceding for us. This word is essentially the same in both places. There's one small variation But it's essentially the same verse 34 and especially verse 27 that we're talking about the same word. Now the word intercession Is something that we typically use when we talk about prayer. We learn that there are different kinds of prayer There is the prayer of the confession of sin. That's an important aspect to prayer, that we confess our sins to God. Jesus doesn't have to confess any sins, nor does the Holy Spirit, at least not for themselves. And so uh that's not part of their personal interest in prayer, but they help us when it comes to our own need to confess sin. There is also the prayer of thanksgiving and adoration and praise. And this is something that I believe God helps us with, too. Because we are weak. But then there is intercession. And in intercession, we often think of petition We think of sometimes especially what comes first to our minds, or maybe I should speak for myself, I think of me. You know. I got problems. Lord help me with my problems, you know. Okay, it's legitimate To bring prayers about our problems to God. It's legitimate to bring the small concerns that we have. I remember hearing a little chapel message when I was in seminary. Bruce Hunt, our missionary to Korea He had been held captive during World War II there. Uh and uh he was a faithful missionary and he describes when he was growing up as a small child, he had a pocket knife that he lost And uh he prayed about it. I don't remember. I think he found it. It'd be a nice way to make the story in anyway, but but in any event what he learned whatever the end of the story was, and I think he found it, but uh was that there was nothing too small for him to bring to God in prayer But of course, petition isn't just about me, it should be about others too And uh we are taught to pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We ought to be praying and petitioning God That he would bring his lordship to bear in the lives of others in this world. And he does that through the outreach through missionaries that we send in other parts of the world, through missionaries and uh churches that we have in this country. Uh and that's the great petition That the Lordship of Christ would be realized in the lives of people here on this earth, certainly beginning with us. That's where you can have a good me petition. Say, Lord, help me accept your lordship in my life. So that's part of the prayer of intercession and petition. But here in Romans eight, we seen that there is a large theme of suffering. And here the intercession is particularly with respect to, I believe, how we deal with the suffering. Uh we didn't read the verses because I guess I had to choose a place to cut off the reading somewhere, but we read them this morning Back in verse 23, it says, we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit. We already have the Holy Spirit. But we're also waiting for something. We're waiting for our resurrection body. We're waiting for what the Holy Spirit will do to our bodies when we are raised with Christ victoriously from the grave in our body. There's a sense in which we're raised with Christ now. Uh but that's a first fruit. It means it's real. It's the same kind of uh salvation as far as it coming from God through the Holy Spirit. We have the first f first fruits of the Holy Spirit now, but we're looking forward to something in hope. And while we're looking forward in hope, we sometimes still have pain, don't we? And so that's where you have this interesting thing that I talked about this morning. The whole creation groans, it says. There's a cosmic Dimension to the fall, where the the the whole creation is in groaning, waiting for its liberation We are sad when our pet dies when our favorite vacation spot out in nature, the forest and everything. When there's a fire that destroys the beauty of God's creation, when there are things that uh ruin the beauty of what God has created and the the wholesomeness of it And so that creation groans, and our bodies are connected. So we're groaning. But what this says here Is that the Holy Spirit is in some sense groaning too? Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. Verse 26, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings, too deep for words. There is a communion. I talked about union with Christ, and that's affected by the Holy Spirit living in us. So there is the Holy Spirit who is in us, creating this communion And he groans with us in the prayers that we utter, because sometimes, often probably, but sometimes we don't know how to pray. Now, this gets into uh or could get into, I always get into it, a deeper theological question. I don't know, here comes a deeper theological question. Uh the will of God. We usually make a distinction between the hidden will of God and the revealed will of God. the creative will of God and the normative will of God for our lives. There are some things we know exactly what the will of God is in terms of what he expects from us. We don't have to ever pray, Lord, should I commit adultery or not? You don't have to offer that that's a disgraceful prayer. Because you know the answer to that question. You know what? The will of God is there. He has revealed his will. And as we read the Bible, we have a sense of who he wants us to be. He doesn't want us to lie. He doesn't want us to steal. He wants us to be Christ-like. He wants us to uh not engage in Unrighteous anger. And when we think our anger is righteous, we probably better be especially careful Because that doesn't always work out so well either. So we know what God's will is in one real sense where it's revealed in the Bible. But there is a mystery, a hidden will of God, a hidden will of God that includes bad things that will happen It's not that God is pleased that bad things happen, but God has decreed everything that will come to pass. He has a sovereign control over everything that comes to pass. And if there's a war that breaks out as awful and as bad as it is, that's something that's under God's control. I think we can pray that wars would cease. Because God is a God of peace. But there are, of course, situations where there are just wars, self defense. You may not want to go to war with somebody else, but they may want to go to war with you, and you don't have a whole lot of say in it. Whether to defend yourself or to do nothing. So those are the things that God's in control of And we can pray about that, but of course God is not going to reveal all of his hidden wisdom. There are things that kind of come, I don't want to say that there's an in-between will of God, but there are other decisions that are specific to our lives. Uh not whether uh we should disobey God's law or not, but whether to take this job or that job whether to pursue a personal relationship with this person or that person that might lead to marriage, whether to marry that person or not. Those are things That yes, it's something God has decreed from all eternity, but we want to make a wise decision. based upon the other things that we know that are revealed in God's Word, what kind of uh things that He wants in a marriage, and stuff like that. So uh we struggle because the answer for some people may be well you're not to get married yet even though that's what you really want So that's the kind of struggle that we struggle with in prayer. And the struggle in prayer may particularly come as we look at this suffering thing. Paul prayed about his own suffering. Paul said that there was a thorn in the flesh that he had And that he prayed three times that it might depart. And what was God's answer? My grace is sufficient for you. That thorn in the fr flesh uh was there for a reason. There are people and situations that God may bring into your life that are a kind of a thorn in the flesh. And your first reaction may be pull it out and toss it in the fire, get rid of it. I don't want anything more to do with it. Uh Maybe that God is also using that situation to learn patience and Christlikeness. Doesn't mean you have to endure all kinds of abuse without speaking up or addressing it or challenging it But it does mean that you are being challenged to deal with it in a Christ-like way. And you're praying about it and you don't know how to pray exactly. Should I talk to that person about their behavior? Should I bear patiently and wait for a more opportune time? So often we figure we gotta figure it out all of ourself before we've even prayed about it. And that can get you into trouble So you're praying, but you're sometimes saying, I don't know what the wisest thing to do is. Well, there's where the Holy Spirit comes in. He's praying in and with you with groanings too deep for words. Sometimes it's hard to put prayers into words. We should try to put our prayers into words. into words and not just unintelligible sounds, feelings, emotions. We should try to articulate our prayers. But sometimes when it gets really hairy, the only prayer that we can pray is help, Lord. Because you're confused. I believe God answers that in his own way, too, and in his own time. So there is this wonderful work. That is present tense that is going on in your life if you are a Christian. If you have received Jesus Christ, yes, there's all the benefits of the past. Christ died for you on the cross, rose again, your sins are forgiven. And you have that wonderful salvation, but you have an active relationship with him now And that means he's living in you and the Holy Spirit is helping you in your weakness. Not only in your weakness In how do I overcome this temptation or sin? But also your weakness in Lord, I don't know how to pray. I'm confused. I'm struggling. Lord, I'm worn out. And the Holy Spirit is there to help us, to help us in and with us. And prayer with groanings too deep for words. Groanings is an interesting word. There's something primal that is coming out of this chapter As Paul talks about the Holy Spirit, we know that there is something about our adoption and receiving. Receiving the Holy Spirit of adoption. Back earlier in the chapter, it's uh verse fifteen. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry, Abba, Father. Boy, that's simple. That's primal. That's not deeply theological, although there's benefits to deep theology. But that is primal. That's like at the level of the soldier who's severely shot and dying in the field. And for some reason he cries out, Mama. And it sounds absurd. But it's primal. And there's something primal. Because it's real. There's a real connection with God here, our spirit and the spirit of adoption. And we cry out, Abba, Father. And the Spirit praying for us and with us, helping us, with groanings too deep for words. That's primal That means that God helps not just the thoroughly educated, well-catechized Christian. But the one who is struggling, just crawling along, and doesn't know what to do or say, and cries out, God help. God is a God of the meek, the gentle, the lowly, and the brokenhearted. We've been going through Book about Christ, Gentle and Lowly. It's mostly been about Him. But uh the the thing of it is it's because we're broken, because we're downcast, that in reaching down to us that he is gentle. And lowly. We have this blessing. And then I'll just briefly refer to it because I think The bulk of what I wanted to say is about the Holy Spirit's intercession. But we do have a reference to Christ's intercession for us. This intercession seems in some ways to be maybe a little different, even though it's the same word It's having the best attorney that was ever born or unborn, standing at the right hand of God pleading your case. for you. When someone brings a charge against you and your attorney Jesus Christ stands there and says, this case has been already satisfied. It is in Latin terms race giudicata. It is finished. It is over. There's no double, triple jeopardy here. Here. It's been paid for. The case is closed. There's no jurisdiction against this person that is being accused here. Because they are in me and I have paid the price. He is the witness and the attorney at the right hand of the Father who intercedes for us. If you go into court and you have a problem and you're being charged, there's not like nothing like having the best attorney and the best witness that's available. And in Jesus Christ you have the best attorney and the best witness because you have the best Savior Repaid it all. And because of him, it's not guilty. And because of him, it's righteous All the righteousness of Christ imputed to you, because you've received him by faith. Have you received him by faith If not, now's as good a time as any, because pr tomorrow is promised to no man or woman. Let us pray. Lord, we say, Hallelujah, what a Savior. You are the one who has not only done it all, but continues to do it all, helping us in our weakness. Help us to have confidence, not leading to indifference, but leading to freedom and joy. That we, O Lord, are alive unto you, that we may serve with joy the one who served us by dying and rising Rising again. We pray in his name. Amen.