All right, if you'd open up your copy of God's Word to Paul's letter to the Romans. We're going to begin our study there this afternoon. My plan is to uh to read the first 15 verses here of chapter 1. As we um as we just jump into this uh this wonderful letter, this wonderful uh gospel, so to speak. Of Paul to the Romans or to those in Rome. Let's give attention to God's word. Paul, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle? separated to the gospel of God, which he promised before through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures concerning his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. was born of the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared to be the Son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. Through him, we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name, among whom you also are the called of Jesus Christ. To all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. That your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. making request, if by some means, now at last, I may find a way in the will of God to come to you. For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift So that you may be established. That is, that I may be encouraged together with you by the mutual faith, both of you and me. Now I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that I often planned to come to you, but was hindered until now, that I might have some fruit among you also, just as among the other Gentiles. I'm a debtor, both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to wise and to unwise. So As much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you who are in Rome also. We'll stop there this afternoon. Praise be to God. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, now as we begin this study of this great epistle, this great letter, this This wonderful statement of Christian faith, of Christian doctrine, of the truths of our faith, Father, work in our hearts That these things may be fixed, fixed in our hearts, fixed in our minds, not just for intellectual understanding, Father, but that we might be made more like Christ. Help us now, Father. Fill us each one with the Spirit, that our paths this afternoon might be illumined, and that you, Father, might be blessed as we worship you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, we just actually uh came off the study of uh the resurrection as we were studying the uh Crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ Wednesday night. Richard took us to the passage more than once. As Jesus Christ was on trial. uh and I use that term loosely, as he was being tried falsely. He is before Pilate And Jesus tells him this so very clearly, for this cause I've come into the world that I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who's of the truth hears my voice. And then Pilate asks a very interesting question. He says to Jesus, what is truth? Well, we know that truth was before him that day. We know that he um ignored the truth, and even though he knew the truth that Jesus was innocent He nonetheless sent him to the cross. He nonetheless determined that he would be, in fact, crucified. What is truth? Well, uh that question uh was appropriate then. It it gave us insight into uh who Pilate was, what he was doing, and and the the false the falseness that surrounded Christ, and yet his truth broke free and broke out. We live in a similar time today. when the truth uh has been veiled, when the truth has indeed been cast off, when there's a actually a void. now of truth as as the Bible has been pushed aside and uh and the world has tried to uh uh develop its own truth That seems to be one of the reasons why we're studying this particular letter this afternoon. We need truth. We need to have that uh that area within our souls filled with that which is right and good and true. And uh and as Paul writes to Romans, that's exactly what he's doing. The scene here, the the background, the the contextual scene is uh the church is in existence in Rome And uh and obviously Paul is writing to it. Paul, one of the greatest uh missionaries in the history of the Christian faith, has yet to get to Rome He didn't plant this church. He knows of this church. In fact, the world knows of this church. But he has yet to be there in person. Some think that Paul wrote this letter while he was in Corinth. Uh it's not exactly uh uh uh um evident uh as to where he was when he wrote this, and some think he wrote this in the in the later fifties, fifty-five to fifty-eight sometime A. D. But clearly, the message that we get here as we open up this particular letter is that he longed to be with them. He longed to encourage them. He longed to be encouraged. by them, he longed to proclaim the gospel to them. This afternoon, as we open up this letter, I want us to see that fruit, fruit is produced as the true gospel is proclaimed and received. Fruit is produced as the true gospel is proclaimed We'll see that in three points this afternoon. Three simple points. First, the fruitful writer. Secondly, the faithful recipient. And then finally the fullness of fellowship. And this is, in a sense, an introduction to the letter, but it's also getting into the meat. of the letter as well. It's both at the same time. Well first the the uh fruitful writer Well, right away in the first verse, we uh have identified, or can identify the author, Paul. It's the first word in the Greek, it's the first word in the English. Paul, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle. There is absolutely no dispute over who wrote this letter. He's identified himself right away, immediately, first word in the letter. He wants people to know. He wants those who are receiving the letter. He wants us to know. The Spirit wants us to know. This was written by the Apostle Paul. As we go throughout this letter, many commentaries will tell us it's good to remember who Paul was. Certainly, first he was a Pharisee. In his defense before King Agrippa, he tells him so very clearly that he had lived as a Pharisee Pharisee according to the strictest sect of our religion. That's who Paul was, so to speak. This is his uh as is recorded for us in Acts chapter 26, his manner of life from his youth up, this is how he lived as a Pharisee. according to the strictest sect. And as such, we might even say, and probably this is in some commentary somewhere, that he was the persecutor of the church, of the way. In Acts chapter 7, as Luke is recording all things for Theophilus, he records much about Saul. the Pharisee, the one who would become Paul, and tells us in chapter eight of Acts, Saul was in hearty agreement with putting him to death. And in the hymn is Stephen. Stephen, the first martyr, who is stoned, as he recounts really the history of redemption before those who were so upset with him that he was preaching and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ. He's put to death for his teaching, but as he does so, he just opens up the fullness of redemptive history before the Jews. And here is Saul who agrees with those who are stoning uh stoning uh um uh Stephen and and the way that Luke puts it, he is in hearty agreement with putting him to death. And then after Stephen dies, we read that some devout men buried Stephen and made loud lamentation over him. And then Luke provides that contrast, but Saul began ravaging the church. There were those who who were lamenting over Stephen's death, but but Saul is just the opposite. He he likely is rejoicing in the death of Stephen, and he uh begins to tear apart the church, entering house after house, dragging off men with and putting them into prison In verse chapter 9 of Acts, Dr. Luke records that Saul was still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord. He goes to the high priest, he asks for a letter that he might go to Damascus and and pull people back to Jerusalem that they might be tried and and put to death for following Christ. That's who Paul was. As John Murray puts it, he had a religious zeal for a way of acceptance with God that was the antithesis, means the opposite of grace and justification by faith. Paul lived a life of adherence to the law, or at least adherence to the customs that the Pharisees had set up. And this is the way he thought that one could achieve favor with God by living in such a way that pleased God. Paul was all about keeping a law, or at least keeping the traditions of Pharisees. Phariseeism was a religion of law. That's what John Murray writes. And that's who Paul was looking toward his works that he might earn life. Paul is also a Jew Well, you'd have to say, of course, a Pharisee, a Jew, yeah, one and the same. Well, a little different. And we learn about his Jewish background, his Jewish history, as he loves his brethren. In chapter 9, where Paul writes, this is Romans, I wish I could wish that I myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my countrymen. E so loves his brothers and sisters who are not yet in Christ, fellow Jews. He wants them to come and know the promises. He argues that circumcision is nothing. Now, this is amazing that a Jew would argue that circumcision is nothing. He's a Hebrew of Hebrews. They did have confidence in the flesh. They did have confidence in circumcision. They felt that if they kept this law, that they would be having favor with God. A zeal. Yes, Paul wasn't Jew. It's ironic. There's much irony that he would become the one who would so love his brothers and sisters in Judaism. that he longed to see them come into the true kingdom of God, even though he's being persecuted by them. And finally, Paul was the apostle to the Gentiles. He was a Jew of Jews, Hebrew of Hebrews, a Pharisee of Pharisees, and yet he is the one who is sent primarily to the Gentiles. So this is Paul. This is his background. This is his backdrop. And at this point we have to ask ourselves, which one of us would have chosen Saul to be an apostle To take the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ out. Which one? Who would do that? I don't think anyone would be raising their hands right now. None of us. No, no, we'd be looking for someone who had a Christian background, who grew up in a family that was full of family worship and Bible study and were godly, who loved the church. But here, God selects one who hated the church, who was adamantly opposed, so much so that he was breathing murderous threats against them. It just shows us the glory, the greatness, the splendor of God, doesn't it? For my thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, says the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. thoughts. God chose Saul and he recreated his heart. Such that he would become this Paul. Well, Paul doesn't spend much time as he opens up this particular letter on himself. He talks about himself as a bond servant, that is one way in which he describes himself, one of the few ways. Webster is 1828, says bondservant is one who is subjected to the authority of another, or whose person and liberty are restrained. That's kind of the idea, isn't it? A slave owned by another? Not free? Forced in a way. We might think of being forced to do the will of his master, but here it's forced in a in a positive way. That in a sense, Paul can't do anything else. He identifies himself as one who is belonging to the Lord Jesus Christ, fully submitting himself to Christ. To Christ's will, one who had been purchased by Christ, remember, it is Paul who who wrote, do you not know that Your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own. For you were bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Isn't that the idea that he's trying to convey as he he says he writes that he's a bondservant of Christ? He doesn't belong to himself. Any longer he belongs to Jesus Christ, who's purchased him, who's bought him. He owes everything to Christ, and now his desire, his food, so to speak, is to do the will of the Lord Jesus Christ, just as Christ's will was to do his Father's. That's the idea. Bondservant, slave of Christ, forced in a way, but willingly forced now as his heart has been changed This is a good point in time for us to ask ourselves, is this the way we identify ourselves Is this the way that you think of yourself? As Paul was writing to those in Corinth, he was writing about their sexual immorality and urging them to flee sexual sin and thus he talks about the body not being their own But it seems to have a broader application than merely physicality. Because he talks about Glorify God in your body and in your spirit. And as Paul speaks of himself as a bondservant of Jesus Christ, I think that has broader applications than just to the apostles. I think it has applications to us, to each one of us who claim Christ as our Lord and Savior Is this the way we live? Being owned, being purchased by Jesus Christ, that we are submitting everything. everything within us to the rule of Jesus. I think we should be praying along those lines. I know I need to Well, Paul was not only a bondservant of Jesus Christ, he was also called to be an apostle. Another one of the brief descriptions that he gives of himself, called uh and apostleship go together, according to John Murray. I'd have to agree with him. Paul did not appoint himself. Uh he was not a self-declared apostle, as sometimes today we have those, don't we? But Paul wasn't. Paul was uh uh ordained, he was anointed, uh he was appointed even by Jesus Christ. His authority is not a self-declared authority. His authority is directly from the Lord Jesus. He is called, called by God, divinely appointed and sent. The theological dictionary of the New Testament defines epistolos, that's apostle in Greek, this way. It never means the act of sending It's not what apostle means. It's not the act of sending or the object of sending. Always they write. uh denotes a man who is sent with full authority. That's what Paul was speaking about. That's what he was writing about. That's what he was claiming that he had been sent with full authority by the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who had appeared to him, the one who spoke directly to him, the one who called him out of his wickedness uh into this uh glorious service uh of being that one who is separated to the gospel That's our next descriptor. Separated to the gospel of God or set apart. That's how other versions translate that word. Set apart or separated, meaning ordained and anointed. called out for a particular purpose, not just given the title of apostle, but now given a particular task within that title, within that authority that he's been given You know, we think of being anointed or ordained many times in association with worship. Not always so, but many times, all of the implements In the tabernacle, in the temple, the temple itself, the tabernacle itself were all set apart. The ark, table of showbread, the lamp. Everything. Everything. Even the tabernacle itself was anointed. It was set apart. Along with Aaron, the priest, they had clothes specifically made for them that would identify them as having a particular role a particular function to go before God to minister to God on behalf of the people and then in return they would be ministering to the people. They were anointed, they were set apart. David, as king, was anointed and set apart. The prophets, Elisha, Elijah, set apart. Now, Paul, Paul has been set apart for the gospel of God. So the focus here, even though it was very short, from describing who Paul was now Now it's changing to be upon that which Paul was separated for, the work, the work that Paul was called to do. And the work really does define the author. It defines that which Paul was set apart for. It's not really a continuing description of Paul, the person. Well, let's get into it. Let's talk about this gospel of God. This is what Paul was separated to preach. This is what he was separated or set apart to proclaim the gospel of God. Even those words right there are very important for us to think about. It is the gospel of God. It certainly belongs to God. It is that which he possesses. But while that is true, I don't think that's the idea. I think the idea is a bit different. The gospel of God seems to point to the fact that it is the gospel that he conceived. That which he birthed, according to his holy will and counsel. The gospel is God's plan of redemption for his people. It is the way he's chosen to reconcile a people, his people, to himself. It's a way for Adam and Eve to get back into the garden. Where where there was a cherubim and flaming swords set at the only entrance to the tree of life, they had no way to get back in. And so here it is, the gospel of God. We might even think of it as the covenant. God's plan of redemption. So as we consider the gospel to be God's and to be his plan of redemption, his plan of reconciliation It engenders within us confidence and assurance. I think that's what Paul is doing. It's the gospel of God. Secondly, it's the gospel that was promised through the prophets. As Paul is separated to this gospel, he wants to tell them what gospel it is he's speaking of. Not only the gospel of God, but it's the gospel that he promised before, meaning before Paul wrote, before Christ went to the cross. before Christ was incarnate, before you can just list all the befores, promised through his prophets. Importantly, the gospel that Paul was preaching was not new. Remember, part of Paul's audience here. were Jews. Paul sought to preach to the Jews. He longed to see more Jews come into the kingdom And it would have been reasonable for Paul to think, and any one of us to think, that one argument against this particular teaching that Paul was proclaiming contained within this letter. Would be that it was something new, something different, not in accordance with the gospel which Moses taught But Paul immediately puts that argument to rest in this headline. This gospel comes directly out of what we know today as the old He didn't put it that way because it wasn't referred to as the Old Testament, and as Paul writes. But the gospel was in fact proclaimed by the prophets of God. throughout redemptive history. That's what the Lord Jesus does, is he opens up the gospel to those two on the road to Emmaus, doesn't he? He's taking what we have today is the Old Testament scriptures, and he's bringing them to life for these two on the road to Emmaus. He's saying, hey, look, this isn't a new gospel. No, no. This is what the prophets had proclaimed throughout redemptive history. God's plan of salvation, his gospel, has not changed. and never will. That's what Paul is saying here. Promises before through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. Thirdly, this gospel is about the Son. Very important. Very important. Concerning his son, Jesus Christ, our Lord. That's his focus The Son whose name is Jesus Christ, the Savior, the Messiah, the Promised One, described as our Lord The gospel then is that which proclaims Jesus Christ as master, as the one to whom believers owe submission and reverence. Our Lord. But that's not where Paul stops as he's as he's describing the Son, as he's describing what the gospel is centered on. Centered on Jesus Christ, who is born of the seed of David, according to the flesh. One who was fully man. Gospel is about that one who would sit on David's throne as promised by God, but not a temporary throne, not a throne of Jerusalem, which has been destroyed already once, which will be destroyed in 70 A. D. No, this is an eternal throne that this son of David, the seed of David, would sit upon. Fully man. But it also is the one who is fully divine. declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of Holiness by the resurrection from the dead Do you see? The gospel. The gospel is of this one Jesus Christ who has two natures. Fully man. fully of the seed of David, according to the flesh, but also fully God It declares the deity of the Son through the resurrection. Through the power of the resurrection, we see the deity of this one. This is the centerpiece of the gospel. The gospel is centered and focused upon the Son of God, even Jesus Christ our Lord. Well, fourthly, the gospel is that which calls men to faith. And which is to be taken to all the nations. Verse 5, through him we have received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations. Hmm. Wow. The gospel isn't to remain in your house. It's not to remain in in the church at Rome. It's fixed, it's centered upon Christ, who called them to take it out to all nations. And he calls them and he tells them, this is that which will bring men to faith. This is what that which will open the eyes, open the hearts, as the Spirit takes it and places it. In the deepest part of the souls of men, women, and children, received grace and apostleship for obedience to the faith among all nations. That's the gospel. That's the gospel that Paul was separated, set apart for. So as he opens up this important letter to the church in Rome, he desires that his readers set their minds first upon the Lord Jesus Christ, upon the center of the true gospel. Not upon himself, not upon Paul. There are only a few words here that describe Paul. The rest of it describes the gospel, all verses 1 through 6. And don't focus on me. Focus on that which I'm going to teach you about. And the center of that is Jesus Christ. Sometimes we can get caught up in the preacher, the teacher, as opposed to the gospel. Talk about that a little bit later on, about the heresies that that are proclaimed around the world. And it seems that the people are clearly getting caught up in the preacher. Christians' focus must always be upon the gospel, upon Jesus. Not upon the messenger. Not upon the preacher. If you see the messenger, if you see the preacher beginning to move the focus, the attention away from Jesus to himself, that is the time. to redirect the messenger. That is the time to tell him, stop. Place your focus on Jesus Well that's Paul. That's the that's the writer. And now we transition into the faithful recipient. From the fruitful writer to the faithful recipient. Who was Paul writing to? It's not a surprise. Verse 7 to all who are in Rome, beloved. of God called to be saints. Well, it's always important for us to know who wrote the letter and and to whom it was being written And here it's so very clear, there is no guessing, to all who are in Rome, Jews, Gentiles, all Not a particular group, but all who are in Rome. Certainly it's bounded by those who are beloved of God, called to be saints. We'll get into that in a minute, but I want us to see that Jews and Gentiles were receiving this letter, and we're going to see as we go through it that some of it is addressed to Gentiles And and things that they would have in their minds and hearts as they come to to see Jesus Christ and to know him and things that they need to deal with. And then some is addressed to Jews. And and as they come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, things that they have to deal with because of their background, because of things that they've been taught, and now they've got to get rid of those and and focus on Christ alone. And so do the Gentiles It's written to all. Everyone in the church. All who had come to faith and believed. Regardless of where they came from, whether a Jew or a Gentile, there's no difference. As far as the content of the gospel, the letter was for all, just as the gospel is for all. There's only one gospel. And it's true for everyone It sets forth the way for all to live before a holy God. It sets forth the way to live in Christ. And then as one is saved, tells us how to live before a holy God. Well, sending this to a church that he did not plant, a church in Rome, speculation. Speculation that at least uh from John Murray that there were some who came from Rome who were there at Pentecost. Who witnessed what happened there at Pentecost and they take this back back to their city and from that the church springs up and out. We don't know It's speculation. It's possible. But it's best for us now to focus on that which we do know. Verse 7, to all who are in Rome, beloved of God Or as Webster puts it, greatly loved, dear to God's heart, cherished, treasured, God Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, has poured out his love Upon these, as he has sent his son, his beloved son, to die for them. They were beloved of God As we read this morning from John 17. I in them and you in me, that they may be made perfect in me, that the world may know that you have sent me. and have loved them as you have loved me. Those in Rome who were beloved of God, as they trusted and love Jesus Christ. Well they were also called to be saints. The loved of God, called to be saints, they're called out. They're effectually called. There's a general call that goes out to all. Whether that's something we actually hear, the gospel being proclaimed. Whether it's a call within the heart, knowing that we've been created, that we have a creator who we are called to submit ourselves to, there's a general call that goes out. Jesus Christ speaks of it as as he proclaims the wedding parable. As the call to come to the reception is sent out, those who were invited say we're not coming The king wipes them out. What does he do? King tells his servants that the wedding is ready. Those who were invited were not worthy. Therefore go into the highways. And as many as you find, invite to the wedding. That's the general call. The general call goes out. He's speaking about those who were invited and who were not worthy. He's speaking of the nation of Israel. And now he's speaking that the call to come and believe upon Christ goes out. into the highways. Invite as many as you can find. So the serpents went out on the highways and gathered together all whom they found, both bad and good. The wedding hall was filled with guests But the king comes in and he sees one without a wedding garment, and he says to him, Friend, how did you come in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. King said of the servants, bind him hand and foot, take him away, and cast him into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen. It's a general call that goes out. It's only God by His Spirit that can make that general call effective. In the hearts of those he has chosen. Westminster Confession puts it this way: wherefore they who are elected, being fallen in Adam, are redeemed by Christ, are effectually called unto faith in Christ by his Spirit working in due season. That's the idea. These in Rome have been called, called by God to be saints They weren't called to be unbelievers. They weren't called to be rebels. They were called to be holy and set apart, sanctified in Christ Jesus. That's the idea. The call became effective in their hearts by the working of the Spirit, and they trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ for their salvation. So much so. That Paul could proclaim to them grace and peace. Look at verse 7. Grace to you and peace from our God. Our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul is writing to those whom the Lord had spoken grace to and peace. These were not enemies of God. These were not those who were at enity with God But he had entered into peace with them through the Lord Jesus Christ, through the gospel. Remember how the Lord thundered as he came down upon Mount Sinai with fire, with trumpets blasting. It wasn't a picture of peace. It was a picture of terrifying power. Here the Lord comes to the people in Rome, to the church. And he approaches his people offering peace through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ and the cross at Calvary satisfies the wrath of God. In his earthly ministry, he fulfills the law and all righteousness. In his resurrection, he crushes sin and death. and clothe the children of God with his righteousness. Only through Jesus can there be this offer of grace. And this declaration of peace. Well, called out to be saints They have an offer of grace. They have a declaration of peace. And what do we read? Paul is still very thankful for their faith And so powerful, so strong is their faith that it's been declared, it's been spoken of throughout the whole world. These have come to faith and so much faith. God is working so powerfully in their hearts that their faith is spoken up everywhere, so to speak. The world was a little smaller back then, but yet that's an amazing idea. It's an amazing truth. But Paul isn't lifting them up on a pedestal. He's thanking God He's thanking God for what he has done through the Lord Jesus Christ. This is how he begins his letter. He addresses it to them and he begins first with thanksgiving. Acknowledging that what's happened in their hearts is not of their own doing. It's of God's doing. It's of Christ's doing. It's of the Spirit's doing. The triune God has been at work. in this particular people, and he praises God. Yes, the faithfulness of the recipients. We get to our third point, the fullness of fellowship. Well, Paul as we said when we began, has not yet been able to visit Rome. He did not plant this church. He has not been in their fellowship. Verse 13, I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that I've often planned to come to you, but was hindered until now, that I might have some fruit among you. Paul, the pastor, longs to be in their physical presence. Let's just think about that for a moment. So much so. For God is my witness. John Murray takes this as an oath. Paul is saying, look, God knows I am testifying before God that I pray for you always in my prayers, and I'm requesting that I might come to you that by God's will I might be in your presence He wants them to know how much he longs to be in their presence. This is the heart of the pastor. He wants to give them spiritual gifts. He doesn't have material gifts that he's bringing along. Look, I've got a bunch of clothes that I want to give. No, no, no. He has spiritual gifts. He has spiritual truths. Things that will build them up in Christ. He wants to establish them. He knows that they've come to faith, but he's got more to bring to them, more truth, more doctrine, more love. More spiritual gifts, that they might be built up in the faith Paul is seeking to establish them in gospel truths. He seeks mutual encouragement, knowing of their faith, and knowing that that not only would they be encouraged by his words and by his faith, but he would also be mutually encouraged by their faith. You say, well, he's a pastor. It's an apostle. It's different. Brothers and sisters, I think that applies to all of us. So long to be with him. And I think he's giving us the spiritual truth that we indeed are encouraged when we are together by each one's mutual faith. It has an effect. As we're with one another physically, it builds us up. I did the bit of looking on the internet very quickly. And even the scientists Agree, apparently, that isolation, loneliness has a physical effect on men and women and children It increases things like depression, anxiety, high blood pressure. I don't know if that's actually true or not, but scientists believe it's true. That shouldn't be of any surprise to us that we are body and soul together and that we were made for communion. God made us in his image To be in communion with him and then with one another. Paul recognizes that So longs to be with them, that he might be encouraged by their faith. What a blessing it is when we are together How encouraging. Build us up. We need it. Well, there is more Paul is also a debtor, the Greeks and barbarians, wise and unwise. What does he mean by that? A debtor did he owe them money? No, that's not the idea He was given the task of preaching, of proclaiming the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was separated. He was set apart for this. He was made an apostle for this. This was his life. This was his work. This was his assignment, his task, his mission. And so he had an obligation to do it. Preaching the gospel is that which Paul longed to do. Not only was he assigned the task, but this was that which he so desired. So much so that he saw himself as being a debtor. He owed them preaching. He longed to be with them so that he could do it This written version is something he provides in lieu of being there physically present, but he's recognizing that that's much better. He wants to have some fruit as well, doesn't he? That I might have some fruit among you also, just as the other Gentiles. Now, not that he would produce fruit, but knowing that they've come to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior And they're trusting in him that as a result, naturally, they would be producing fruit. I'm the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him bears much fruit. He knows this. It's true. And these in Rome are producing fruit. He wants to go and be one who can see it with his eyes and be part of it. He wants to have some fruit. is chomping at the bit to be with them, to preach the gospel, to encourage them, to establish them, and to be encouraged by them. That's fruit, isn't it? He wanted to see the fruit being produced Well, how do we take this introduction and apply it to ourselves? I think there's much that we can do. I think there's some that we already have. But maybe the greatest application for us today in just this short introduction is that we need prayer. We need to be in prayer for more pause. Look at verse 14. I'm a debtor to both to Greeks and to barbarians, to wise, to unwise. So as much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you who are in Rome. Not that we should idolize Paul or place him personally on a pedestal But the church then needed zealous, committed, obligated, diligent preachers of the Word of God. The church today need zealous, committed, obligated, diligent preachers of the Word of God, those who see themselves as debtors. In this postmodern world, there is a void. What is it to be post-modern? That means that we're skeptical of explanations Which claim to be valid for all groups, cultures, traditions, or races, and describe truth as relative. That comes from Wikipedia. The idea is that in a postmodern world there are no objective truths, a great void. Which is being filled with untruths in Africa One writer wrote about the prosperity gospel. That's a false gospel. That's a heresy. The prosperity gospel is that God provides you with wealth and material things and everything that you want. It's not what the scripture tells us. But that's what's being preached in Africa. That's what's coming from America to Africa. It's leading many astray. We need more poles We need to speak truth into this world. We need to present the gospel to this world which is lost in darkness, this world which has cast off truth. This world which believes that truth is relative and is making up its own truth, and we see it every day in the news, Paul's work was to speak truth into a world of untruth. Paul's work was to present the gospel in all of its fullness, in all of its reality, and all of its truth. Paul's work was to speak against the untruths of the day, which were leading people to hell and damnation. Remember, the Lord has told us, the fields are already white for harvest. And the harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Brothers and sisters, we see Those that are preaching false gospels are ready to go. They are going. We need preachers of the truth to proclaim the true gospel. Here, here in Maryland, here in Washington, D. C. And in Africa, in Bolivia, and China, all across the world. And we, we need to be praying for it. Yes, fruit is produced as the true gospel is proclaimed and received. Praise be to God. Amen.