I ask you to continue to stand congregation as we read now from the Old Testament. And our Old Testament reading, we found if you're using the Pew Bible on page 153, Numbers 22, we're going to read verse 1 to 14. And Numbers twenty-two. So Numbers uh chapter twenty-two beginning of verse one hear the word of the Lord Then the people of Israel set out and camped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan at Jericho. And Balak, the son of Zippor, saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites. And Moab was in great dread of the people, because they were many. Moab was overcome with fear of the people of Israel. And Moab said to the elders of Midian, This horde will now lick up all that is around us. as the ox licks up the grass of the field. So Balak, the son of Zippor, who was king of Moab at that time, sent messengers to Balaam, the son of Baor, at Pethor, which is near the river, the river Euphrates, and the land of the people of Am, to call him, saying Behold, a people has come out of Egypt. They cover the face of the earth, and they are dwelling opposite me Come now, curse this people for me, since they are too mighty for me. Perhaps I shall be able to defeat them and drive them from the land. For I know that he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed. So the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the fees for divination in their hand. And they came to Balaam and gave him Balach's message. And he said to them, Lodge here tonight, and I will bring back word to you as the Lord speaks to me. So the princes of Moab stayed with Balaam, and God gave to Balaam and said, or God excuse me, came to Balaam and said, Who are these men with you? Balaam said to God, Balak, the son of Zippor King of Moab has sent to me, saying, Behold, a people has come out of Egypt, and it covers the face of the earth. Now come, curse them for me. Perhaps I shall be able to fight against them and drive them out. God said to Balaam, You shall not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for they are blessed. So Balaam rose in the morning and said to the princes of Balat. Go to your own land, for the Lord has refused to let me go with you. So the princes of Moab rose and went to Balach and said, Balaam refuses to come with us This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Now please will you be seated. So it's difficult jumping right in the middle of a book or just coming and preaching a uh one-off sermon. So uh let me tell you real quick this will not be a sermon on Balaam, and we're not going to look at uh Every uh detail here, uh th chapters twenty-two, twenty-three, and twenty-four all go together and tell this story, and it will come in a little bit later as it has impact also in uh Israel's history after after this. But what I want to focus on with you this morning, and I hope will be uh abundantly clear through the sermon and exposition is God's faithfulness God's faithfulness uh in blessing his people. So we're gonna look at uh God's faithfulness and to bless his people, but also, I hope, gain a bit of an understanding of what it means to be blessed by God. And hopefully fill out so that concretely so we can have in our minds an understanding of just what it is it to say, I'm of God's people and I'm blessed. And so I hope as we look this morning, that's what I'm aiming at, is remind us of our God's faithfulness, but also make it very concrete in our minds what it means to be God's blessed people. We just read this portion, and what I'm going to focus on is verse 12, but uh before we focus on verse 12, just a little bit of that context as we read. Israel has uh the 40 years of wanderings come to an end. They're gonna go now into the land. The Amorites thought to pick a fight with them, and God gave them uh their kings, uh, Og and uh Oh God. I should have I don't know I remember all the the Scion, there we go. Thank you, US V for headings. Scion and uh Og, the Amorites, have been defeated by the Israelites now, um because they thought to destroy Destroy them, but God has blessed them. And now Moab, who was in subjection as well as the Midianites to the Amorites, are wondering, are we Next. And seeing that this people is far too numerous for them to go head to head in combat, their thought is uh let's go get Balaam. Now Balaam lives off in the east in Mesopotamia or Babylon or near the river Euphrates, and he has some reputation as some sort of diviner. some sort of person with a powerful word, some sort of we might say the occult or dark magic and he has a reputation and if you go with these fees and you got the proper amount of money, you can get your enemies blessed. or excuse me, cursed, although maybe you want somebody blessed. You might get yourself blessed and your enemies cursed. And so his plan and the plan of these elders and leaders is to get the Israel cursed so that Israel uh might be destroyed and uh they won't be destroyed And so they send those uh people, the uh elders, to Balaam, and they come to Balaam, and we read in verse uh after We read in verse twelve after Balaam talks to them and tells them, wait till we see what God says. God does come to him. And verse twelve we read God's word to Balaam. You shall not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for they are blessed. Now, knowing what we know of the Lord God up to this point uh in redemptive history if you just started in Genesis and come to here of this story. And also knowing what we know of the Lord God, looking back from our vantage point here in And redemptive history where the promises of the prophets have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ, or what we call the gospel. It's Romans chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. Knowing what they know of God at that point, knowing what we know because of what God has revealed of Himself, nothing would lead us to expect any other response from Yahweh, from the Lord to. Bainum. For as the Apostle Paul had to teach the Corinthians, which we read this morning in our passage there in 2 Corinthians, Paul's faithfulness as a minister of the gospel, as well as the faithfulness of his message, were guaranteed by the faithfulness of God. If God's faithful and going to send his message, he's going to ensure faithful men are going to do it. But God's faithfulness is what stands behind its passage, because God had made promises to this people. So what we have this morning then in our text, verse 12 here of Numbers 22. is really a very comforting instruction, not so much to Balaam, right? God is speaking to Balaam here. But Balaam is not really comforted by these words. In his greed, he would rather it be otherwise. This is really comforting instruction to God's people. For in this passage, in this text, we find the grounds of the eternal happiness of God's people. They are irrevocably. Blessed the eternal or the grounds of the eternal happiness of God's people. They have been irrevocably blessed by their So let's look at this in a little more detail and pull it out. There's kind of three parts to our text. The first thing it says, God said to Balaam. Now I don't want to insult anybody's uh ignorance here, but the God we are talking about is the God that we read in Genesis 1, the God who made heavens and earth, the God who uh revealed himself to the patriarchs, and the God who came to Abraham and made promises, the God who visited Moses in the burning bush in the name of Yahweh, this is uh the God referring to, who uh we have come to know in the gospel of his son uh as the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. So this is the God here speaking, the God of Israel, the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And he's speaking to Balaam. I already said a few words about Balaam. But you might just be asking yourself, why is God speaking to Balaam? How how does Balaam know anything about Yahweh? How does he even know this name? How does he even come to be a associated with uh Yahweh. And the short answer is because word travels. How do you know about Jesus? Word's gotten out, hasn't it? Some events happened. It is not a little event when God goes down into Egypt. And brings a whole nation, millions of people out of Egypt. That's uh that's an event that took place in history. There has been a times or a Egyptian news or whatever, right? It would have been uh placarded on this, that all of a sudden this people have come out of Egypt and that word has traveled. And trade exists, and we know that uh word travels by trade. You can read in Genesis 37 about the uh story of Joseph, who was sold to a Midian Remember these are the Midianites who are wanting to destroy Egypt. And he was sold to a Midian who went down to Egypt and had trade with Egypt. So just through the trade of the day and this event Word has come to Balaam about some great power associated with the name Yahweh. And I think the best way to think about Balaam is to think about Simon the sorcerer in Acts 8. Or to think about the exorcist, the Jewish exorcists we read about in the gospel, who did not follow Jesus, but used Jesus' name to do works of power. And that's sort of what Balaam is. He wants to get on this power so that he can make a profit and have uh more money. So that's how um Balaam has come to know of Yahweh. Word travels, it has come to him, and now he's going to add Yahweh to the gods, the names that he knows, that he might increase his wealth and reputation. I'll say a little bit more about Balaam uh later on, but I'm not going to say any more at the moment. So God is speaking here to Balaam And then the second thing is God gives them his instruction. It's very simple, right? You shouldn't go with them. Don't go with these elders of the king who have come as his envoy, and they've come with uh gifts. Right, they've come with power and they come promising you a lot to make you wealthy. Don't go with them And he says, you shall not curse the people. That's God's instruction. Don't go, and you shall not curse. Now, what is it to curse somebody? Well it kind of depends. Cursing is the same thing, but it kind of depends on if you are God or if you are uh man. Let me read to you from 2 Samuel 3. Twenty-nine, I uh just reading through the course of scriptures in my daily reading, I came upon uh this great curse that uh David pronounced upon the um Joab after he had murdered Abner May it fall upon the head of Joab and upon all his father's house, and may the house of Joab never be without one who has a discharge. or who is leprous, or who holds a spindle, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread. That was a curse that David pronounced. But but notice the uh the grammar there, may it be, right? It's a prayer. So if you're a man, you will wish or offer a prayer to God that bad things will happen to somebody. That's what it is to curse somebody. As a man, of course, as God, you don't have to wish anything because you can do it. It is just to predict it or pronounce uh destruction, disaster. And so that's what Balaam wants. is for God to destroy this people and bring destruction upon them, weaken them in some way, uh, so that uh the Midianites and Moabites might continue their existence. So that's what is the curse. But then the lastly and finally what we're going to focus on here is why God says to Balaam, why he instructs him not to go and not to curse. And you find it there in those four words, for they are blessed. And that word for is offering the grounds or the reasons or introducing it as here is the grounds, Balaam, here is the reason. Why you're not to curse this people. Here's the reason, therefore, since you're not to curse them, don't go with them, because that's what they want you to do. They are blessed. Now, I'm going to tell you what this means, but I'm going to first ask you, what do you think it means? Now don't answer me. I've learned it's a rhetorical question, and I learned if I don't preface that I can answer two people. But what just thinking about it, what what does God mean here by his people being blacks? Think about the context. Here they are, living on the east side of the River Jordan, in their camps. What is it then when God says they are blessed? Is it because they have uh spouses? You know, the Moabites had spouses, right? They're married. Is it because they had children? Now these are great blessings, aren't they? These are gifts from God. Is it because they have children? The Moabites had children. Because they had clothes. Uh the Moambites had clothes, they probably had better clothes. Although God did preserve their clothes for forty years without being destroyed. But again, what's the source of the it's God. We're going to sing in our closing hymn today, Psalm 144, which ends with the words: Blessed are the people whose God is. the Lord. Their blessing is their God. And in particular, because God has promised Himself to us God's promises to his people. That's what it means to be blessed. I'm going to tell you that and then I'm going to show you that. So what it means to be blessed here. Is that God's people are experiencing the free promises of his love, that's the source of these, his free promises of his love being worked out in their lives. That's what it means to be blessed by God to have his promises, his free promises. No strings of dash, right? They're free, they're his. You don't purchase them, you don't earn them. His free promises of his love. Experiencing those and having them worked out in their lives. Now here let me show you that to you We're not going to look in detail at these four oracles, but if you know the story of this, Balaam then does go and he gives four oracles blessing the people. But each one of these oracles represents a promise that God had already made to the people. In Numbers 23, in verse 10, we read: Who can count the dust of Jacob? Or number the fourth parts of Israel. And then Balaam goes on to say, Let me die the death with upright, let my end be like his. He wants to join with them. But if you read in Genesis 13 Now remember, we're going back hundreds of years now, hundreds of years, half a millennium at least, God says to Abraham 1316, excuse me, Genesis 1316, I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth. So God had promised to Abraham when he was one man, and now there is this horde, this multitude, that's going to lick up the earth. They are experiencing God's promises being worked out in their lives now and forever. That's what it means to be blessed by God. God said, Abraham will make you numerous. He's numerous. And Balaam's looking forward, still going to be numerous tomorrow. So that's what it means to be blessed by God, to have his promises being worked out in your life. In uh chapter 23, verse 21. We read these words, a blessing. He that is Yahweh has not beheld misfortune in Jacob, nor has he seen trouble in Israel. The Lord their God is with them. And the shout of a king is among them. Look at that. The Lord their God is with them. Well, that's something promised to Abraham and sealed with a covenant and its sign of circumcision. Which we still rejoice and celebrate today in the new covenant, sign of baptism, but that same promise, and I'll read it here, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you Throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. God has been their God Let's understand a little bit what it means to be uh their God real quick. God hasn't held misfortune in Jacob. He hasn't seen trouble. Now, if you've read the story up until now, has Jacob been a sinless people? But yet God's saying, I don't even see that. Now God sees that, and yet He doesn't see that Because it's been covered in Jesus Christ. Well that's his promise to us. He remains faithful to us. They've been experiencing what it means to have this merciful, faithful God in their lives. Their forefathers experienced, and now their children are experiencing it, and oh, and uh Balaam's saying, and they're gonna keep experiencing it. That's what it means to be blessed by God, to have his promises being worked out in your lives. In chapter 24, verse 20, beginning at verse 5, this is the third oracle Numbers 24, beginning of verse 5. God had made a promise back in Genesis 15, sealed it again by another covenant and a ceremony with Abraham, a very solemn one. You remember at the The two animals being split in half and God in a smoking firepot walking through. But m if you remember what was that covenant about? It was about their inheritance. We read in uh Genesis 15, 7 and 8. And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out from Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess. But he said, O Lord, how mightst know that I shall possess it? And then he goes on and God says, here's how, I promise it to you, and I'm sealing it by this. Well here, let's read about this land uh in numbers twenty-four. How lovely are your tents, Jacob Your encampments, O Israel, like palm groves that stretch afar, like gardens beside a river, like aloes that the Lord has planted, like cedar trees besides a water. This is a secure, prospering, flourishing inheritance that God has given to his people and it goes on. So God had promised to his people an inheritance And they are going to have that promise. And here's maybe an example, right? They have not reached that yet. But this is what it means to be God's people that are blessed. His promises aren't only being worked out today But also tomorrow. God has promised things to us in Jesus Christ that we have not yet received. We don't have a new body yet. We don't live in a world wherein there's only righteousness in the new heavens and new earth. But we're still blessed because we have those promises secure for us in Jesus Christ. Just like God's people of old. One covenant people, right? One God, one covenant of grace, different dispositions. Dispensations. And then lastly, the fourth promise that God has reminded him of is in uh the fourth oracle, which is here in Numbers twenty-four, beginning at uh Verse 16. And what this one is about a great ruler, an anointed king, a conqueror who's going to destroy their enemies. Now we read here verse 17, I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. A star shall come out of Jacob. And a scepter shall rise out of Israel. Yeah, that's talking about a ruler. And I think the commentators who comment on this, you remember the wise men and the star? Where do you think they learn to be looking for somebody in Israel? Balaam. Remember, Balaam lives in the East. He brought this word back. And it got mixed in with their Lord, and God kept it alive, and here you go. Now these Chaldeans, now these people of the East know to come looking for the Messiah when their star arose. So one let me pause here, one point to make is you see Balaam's looking forward even into our day. He's talking about the Messiah here. That's our day Messiah has come. We're the ones who live in the messianic kingdom. We're the ones who believe in the Messiah. Balaam isn't just talking about blessings for Israel, then. Uh he is, but not just in that land, not just in the old covenant. He's even looking forward to our day in the new covenant It shall crush the forehead of Moab the scepter. It shall break down all the sons of Sheff. Edom shall be dispossessed. Seer also his enemies shall be dispos dispossessed. Israel is doing valiantly. And one from Jacob shall exercise dominion and destroy the survivors of the city. See, you get the picture there. Don't be God's enemy. It won't work well for you. Talk about Christ and his kingdom and it shall conquer. Now our enemies are flesh and blood. They are the spiritual force and our death, and Jesus Christ will conquer and overcome them. Well, where did God talk about this earlier in his promises to Abraham? Well Genesis 12:3, God said, I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. God says that again in 22, verse 18, after Abraham was faithful in the sacrifice of Isaac. There's this one person that God's going to bless these nations with. And your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice. And then in uh Genesis 49, where Jacob, forty-nine ten, Jacob on his death is this problem. Prophecy, the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until Shiloh comes. And to him shall be the obedience of the people. Looking forward to the Messiah that Judah would have the rule until the Messiah comes, and of course Jesus is of the family of Judah, and it shall be transferred to him. Now let me just briefly then show you some of the places in the New Testament where we see this conquering king, this anointed one, this one who has promised to bring blessings to the people, appears. In Acts 3. 25, we read Peter's preaching the gospel. It's the second sermon given to us. And he says, You are the sons of the prophets. And of the covenant that God made with your fathers. We've been reading about this, saying to Abraham, and in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed. God having raised up his servant sent him to you first to bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness. So God still is bringing this to pass in Jesus Christ, his irrevocable blessing of the In um Galatians three and eight, Paul will use this same prophecy of the Promised seed who bring blessings to the nations. Yeah, why don't we look at that and be strengthened in our understanding of What it is to be blessed by God, to have these promises. In Galatians 3:8 we read, and the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith. Preach the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. And down in verse 14 he goes on to say So that in Christ Jesus, it's in him in Christ, the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles So we might receive the promised spirit through Faith. So I'm picking on this final oracle of Baytam because it looked forwards clearly into our day of this Messiah and conquering king and anointed savior, and showing some places here in the New Testament where God's promises given to his ancient people are being fulfilled today in Christ, as we heard Paul say clearly, all of God's promises are yes in Jesus Christ. Actually, I just gave you uh working ahead of my notes. That's the next place that's going to go. Remind you of passage there in 1 Corinthians 20. And uh finally, last one in uh Ephesians one three. Um Where Paul blessing God, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And he goes on to enumerate why that is and his election of us and predestination of us and redemption we have in Christ. But every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, it's talking about our eternal inheritance in the kingdom of God. And what we really experience as Christians in this age and the blessings that we have in Christ, in the Spirit, really come from the future. As Paul said, you've been given with the Spirit a deposit. If you've ever put down deposit money on a house, you know that's actually money that goes towards buying your house God's put down a deposit. He's guaranteed something to you in the spirit. That comes from the inheritance you're going to get one day when Christ returns. So those are uh the promises and we're gonna look more fully at the promises, but you can see from these oracles that God uh uses the mouth of Balaam for to bless his people before his enemies. It's clear what God means for his people to be blessed. They are experiencing his pre-promises. being worked out in their lives today and tomorrow. That's what it means to be blessed by God, to have his free promises. being worked out in your life today and tomorrow. Now I said that those were uh promises of his love. If you turn in Deuteronomy chapter 23, Moses here giving right his sermon before the people go into land recalls this event to Israel. Because of Moab's disastrous choice to stand against God, they are now precluded from being in the covenant people of God. At least as it was in the old covenant, now of course in Christ. There is uh no distinction and all can come. But the Lord your God, we read in twenty-three verse five, but the Lord your God or let me go back to verse four. Because they, the Moabites, did not meet you with bread and with water on the way when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Baor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you But the Lord your God will not listen to Balaam. Instead, the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing for you because the Lord your God loved you. That's what I mean by these are the free promises of God's love. He loves his people It's his love and his love alone that determines his choice of them and calling of them, and the covenant with its promises that he makes to them, and because God loves them He will turn that curse into a blessing because they are blessed. He has said it. He has promised to this people, and God is faithful. So then we see in these words, for they are blessed, that God attests to the invincible grounds in character of Israel's existence, right? The invincible grounds. of their existence and character rest in the fact that they are blessed of God. And this existence, this blessing that they have as God's people, rests upon His free love and the unchanging purpose of his election. So what a comfort then indeed to God's people right then and today to hear they are blessed. So I uh I want to press on this a little bit further. I'm not done with it yet. I know there was much said there, but I haven't even got to application yet. So you've got to go a little bit further with me. I want us to really get what it means to be God's blessed people But also get the clear teaching here of what um what God is saying through the Prophet Balaam and what God is saying to us in his Word is that God's chosen people are irrevocably blessed in Jesus Christ. God's chosen people are irrevocably blessed in Jesus Christ Or put it another way as I've been saying it, God's chosen people have the covenantal promises of God's free love worked out in their lives now and forever through the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't have to go far to um prove this doctrine. You don't even have to leave numbers. Um this is what Balaam or what God says through Balaam before God's enemies. We read in uh Numbers twenty-three twenty. Behold, I received a command to bless. He that is Yahweh has blessed, and I cannot revoke it. I can't change that. As much as I would change that, because I'd be a very wealthy man, as much as my greed is blinding me to think I can actually get Yahweh to change his mind It's not gonna happen. I cannot revoke it. No matter how much you pay me or threaten me, I can't revoke it. God has said it, there is no altering it, there's no calling it back. He has said it. They are blessed. So God's people are irrevocably blessed. We can go to Hebrews and to a book that really deals largely with the new covenant, really deals largely with our mediator Jesus Christ and his priesthood. But we read there in chapter 8, in verse 10, which is a quotation from Jeremiah 31. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days. Again, God is promising to do something. I will make this covenant with the house of Israel, with my people, after those days. And obviously, uh, as Hebrews is expounding to us, That covenant is in effect through the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, through his priesthood and his sacrifice, this new covenant has come to us us and belongs to God's called and chosen people. But God has promised, I will bring this covenant to pass. Let me get clear for us on what grounds that happens. If you go in uh to the next chapter in chapter 9, verse 15, we read that therefore he, Jesus, is the mediator of the new covenant. So that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, think blessing, they may receive the promised eternal inheritance Since the death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the first covenant. Think of that. Yahweh made a covenant with Israel. Which we've been looking at, and we have seen how faithful Yahweh is to that covenant, but um the Bible reveals to us how unfaithful Israel was to that covenant. So what did Yahweh do? Did he just tear it up? No. He took on flesh, and he died for the transgressions of that first covenant. And also, we can even think of going back to the first covenant in Adam, the covenant of works. Yahweh takes on flesh and suffers the penalties of his own broken law. to redeem us out from that and make a new covenant in Jesus Christ that isn't going to get broken, because He's fulfilled it, He's obeyed, He's done the work, and then He calls us to enjoy. Those promise or the promised inheritance to be blessed, if you will. The wonderful thing in our Lord's grace that Yahweh would make a covenant An arrangement, a good arrangement, a faithful arrangement, and when his people are unfaithful, he takes home flesh and redeems them out of those transgressions. That they may be called to a new covenant, an unbreakable covenant, and to be blessed forever. Um Let me so those are some scriptural proofs I offer for you, but we can also understand to get at this teaching of why we are irrevocably blessed. This this also rests upon the foundation, and if this isn't clear to you, I I hope this is clear to you, will be become clear to you. See if I can find my place here. And that's the promissory nature of salvation. I uh I was I'm listening to a book right now. It's called Seeking Allah, Finding Jesus. Do you guys know this one? No. Oh, okay. That's off the basis. Some know this one? It's fantastic. It's insightful. This is why I've always enjoyed uh my little bit of exposure in seminary to the the classics and reading Greek and Romans, our pagan forefathers, it really illuminates the gospel, right? When you see what it is to live without it and this helps to shine the light. Because sometimes, you know, if you just grow up in the church, you You you get fresh insights when you go see how people live without it and it helps shine light on what you sort of just know and and live in, but It's very clear Islam teaches, as I was just reading, and maybe there's diversity, but salvation isn't come to them in a promise. Apparently a good angel sits on this side and a bad angel on this side and they record your deeds. And the day of judgment will be a matter of if you have more good deeds than bad deeds. At least that's what this man said in the Islam he was taught. Now that's salvation by works. As clearly as you can put it, right? That's not the Bible's teaching. On salvation. The Bible's teaching on salvation is that it is promissory in nature. Let me read to you from Titus chapter 1, the first two verses here. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth which accords with godliness. In hope of eternal life. So that's part of that promise that we expect from God, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began. And at the proper time manifested in his word through the preaching which I have been entrusted by the command of God our Savior, right? We've seen one man achieve that promise. eternal life, Jesus Christ. He is risen bodily, never to return to corruption. Death has been defeated for him, and in promise to all of his people, as we wait that blessing. But notice what it said there. God promised this eternal life before the foundation of the world. Salvation is promisory in nature for the Christian gospel, the true teaching of salvation. It is not by works. It's not something you achieve It is something God has promised and calls us to in Jesus Christ. And secondly, You know, just think about the kind of the second thing that butchers this is that teaching in a union with Christ. You know, we have uh originally been born in union with Adam But have been granted by God's grace as believers in Jesus Christ union with the Lord Jesus Christ. So here's what Paul says about that in uh in Ephesians 2. Beginning here at um verse four. For God being rich in mercy because of the great love which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, notice what he did, made us alive together with Christ. Now he's already said we're in him. He's made us alive together with Christ. When was Christ made alive? Easter morning By grace you have been saved, and he's raised us up with him and sees us in every place. When did that happen? In the ascension, when he was ascended into heaven. Sat down at God's right hand where he is. He's saying, no, no, you believers in Christ, you have been raised on Easter morning with him. You have been ascended with him when he ascended, and you are seated there in the heavenly places now Well what are we still waiting for here? Well we we've got that in promise we're experiencing the first part. But you see, because we have an unbreakable union with Christ, he's already achieved it And God has not severed us from Adam so that we could have another covenant and work it out ourselves again like Adam had to work it out. But has joined us to one who's achieved it and is in it. And it's ours to enjoy Jesus Christ. So on the just the foundation of the promissory nature of salvation That's this idea of being irrevocably blessed because God's promised it and he's faithful and he's not changing his mind. And as we've been called and united to Jesus Christ, we're already joined the one who's experiencing that blessing. And even himself will continue to in the new heavens and new earth and us with him. So in our union with Christ it is solidified and solid for us, that we are irrevocably blessed in Jesus Christ. Maybe finally, just to just drive home this teaching, right, can consider the whole scene in Numbers 22. You got the obstinate King Balak, right? He's hired dark magic against Israel to keep them right from their blessing. That promise and hair does one of their blessings. Remember, I want you to go away if someone says, What does it mean to be blessed? To have God's promises being worked out in your lives now and forever in Jesus Christ. That's what it means to be blessed. These are God's blessed people. waiting to get his their promise inheritance and yet you've got an obstinate king hiring dark magic against them. Now consider Israel itself, right? They are very slow to believe God's promises. We can be very slow slow as Christians to believe God's promises? They have been sinfully dragging their feet for forty years. We can very sinfully at times live below our calling to the worthy of God What chance do they have of entering in and taking the promised land on their own, right? None. Now it's the same with us, right? Because how obstinate is death? Who can who of us can overcome doubt? Well it's only because we have a promise. That's gonna happen. But not because we're gonna do it. Who of us has overcome sin in our life? How obstinate is your sin? You know one thing I found I've been a Christian called Christian for ten years now. I do do more holy things, praise God. I can see sins I've definitely left behind, but I also see just the real death and spiritualness that sin is. And I'm sometimes amazed at how sinful you can be and so be a pastor. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. Why are we gonna overcome sin? We have a promise that promise a new covenant. I will write my law in your hearts. That is graciously begun and shall be consummated. So we should be constantly praising God for the victory we have in Jesus Christ and that all of his promises are yes to us in Jesus Christ. So as a body we can say through him be Amen, which is our our response in faith saying. You've said it, let it happen, Amen. And so we say Amen. Alright, you think I'm done? I'm not done. I've got to apply this to you real quick. I'll try to be brief. But if this is true, right, that God's chosen people are irrevocably blessed in Jesus Christ. That means then that our happiness, the happiness of God's people, right, is eternally secure. I like to think of that in a couple ways of communion with God, right? And communion with the family of God. Because those are really those promises given to us in the New Testament. Because we have these new hearts, we can keep communion with God. Because God has promised I will be your God and you'll be my people. Because you'll know me. We can have intimate, real fellowship. That you know, we stay as married couples until death does us part. You notice that that's not in the covenant promise of God, is it? Because death doesn't do us part. But God's going to be our God. Remember what had Jesus had to teach the Sadducees, who didn't know their Bibles very well. But God said to Abraham, I am the God of Abraham. So if God's promise to be your God, it's implied in it eternal life. He's always going to be your God. And He's always going to know, and you're always going to know Him. And God's promise to be merciful to us I've had a lot of change in my life in the last ten years because I lived sinfully and been called out of it and just changed. But there's a couple things that I'm so happy have stayed secure and I have every confidence will And it is uh the ability to call God Father. I remember after being converted, I I just had to go be alone with God. I don't know how to explain. I'm so thankful to still have this desire to call God Father and be intimate with them. And it grieves me as a Christian and a pastor when people come to council and I ask them Well, have you talked to your Heavenly Father about this? And it says, look like, wait, I can talk to God about that stuff? I can be intimate on those terms or those details? Yes, you can. You need to tell him those things. And I can I I I can listen and give some counsel, but I'm and I tell the congregation I serve, I'm going to be pointing you to your father and you know to Jesus and in prayer about the things you're dealing with. So I'm so thankful that this communion with our Heavenly Father and this desire and need and ability to be intimate with him has not changed Because God's promised it, right? How wonderful. Though many changes in life, right? Earthly blessings are good, sometimes they go, right? We can be blessed in a land of freedom now where we can worship God without being harassed and free. But what happens if that changes? tomorrow. Are we unblessed? We have God's blessing being worked out and experiencing our lives. That may at times require carrying the cross. We our job place may be a nice place where we can, you know, be Christian and live and openly and nobody harasses us. Tomorrow you could get a new boss, like Joseph, there was a new pharaoh and they forgot about Joseph and it got really miserable for God's people. Are we no longer blessed by God? No, we got his covenant and his promises to us. Another thing that hasn't changed, the glory of Christ, you know, still just love the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Can't get enough of reading about Him and studying Him and coming to more and more depths of who he is. And finally, though I do it so poorly Uh and this is a big part of my conversion. I prayed, Lord, teach me to love like you love. The the life of learning now how to love other people like God has loved us Us. Though again grieved because do it so poorly joyful that uh learning how to love as as God loves. God tells us, Paul tells us the laws filled through love. If God's writing on our hearts, it means we're learning how to become more lovable and lovely, loving people. It also reminds us that if it is true, right, God's way, our Christian way of life is secure. Consider the context of this. This is actually maybe not a sermon that should be most properly delivered like it is this morning in the church, but before the enemies of God This is being preached before those who are sitting in council to destroy the church of Jesus Christ. I think this is really a sermon that should be spoken before the world. The church is blessed. Why do you think God let Abraham Balaam go in the first place and pronounce this? Not only to show his might and power, but to deal with Balaam's heart. The world should hear about the election of the Church of Jesus Christ. It's sure an eternal existence that they may do the only same thing and leave their idols and join it. It's sad that Moab sought to destroy this people when it would have brought them great blessing if they would have let Israel go into the land. See the true knowledge and worship of God. When I read the Old Testament and I read those laws there, we like to think, oh, laws are bad. Believe me, if you were living in that time, those laws were great. Rampant divorce that happened and no care for women, Yahweh wasn't endorsing that. He was putting constraints on it in his law. Provision for the poor and needy? A jubilee year, so you couldn't have a society where the rich get richer and the poor get poorer and there's oppression? Yahweh dealt with all that. What a light and blessing they could have been, and God intends his people to be. So yeah, we're the that least my next point. We are the blessed people of God. But we're also meant to be a blessing in the world too God has blessed us so that through our way of life, as His promises are being worked out, we can be alive. Because I don't know about you, but one thing I've struggled with, because I know how blessed I am in Christ, I know how undeserving I am of Him. that's like with a lot of guilt for being blessed, because we know that the document of election means some are not elected. They're reprobated. And we bow before the just and holy decree of God, who is equally merciful in his election and equally just in his reprobation. So I struggle with the guilt of it, but this text reminds us to be Christian de facto means to be blessed. No one way or the other. So I suppose even if you're an Armenian, and I d I I don't agree with anything it's wrong, but if you're just a Christian, right, you're blessed. You can't get away from it. Because it's promissory nature of God's salvation. You're blessed. You're having his promises worked out in your life today and tomorrow in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's part and parcel of being a Christian is to be blessed. And so I've had to learn to say, don't feel guilty for what you shouldn't feel guilty about. But also this blessing is meant to be lived out in our lives to be a blessing to others around us. And uh then finally, if um if God has uh irrevocably blessed us in Christ, then we should always be singing God's plaises, right, for blessing. Blessing us. You find those in Ephesians and Peter, right? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who blessed us. So we're blessed. Let's acknowledge that blessed as God bless us. God's called and chosen people, right? If you've remembered this is in Christ, you've got to be in Christ. You've got to repent of your sins. You've got to have a credible profession of faith. You have a real faith in Jesus Christ. You need to Make your calling and election sure by adding to your faith these virtues, not to save yourself, but again, Peter's saying, let's not have people narrowly entered. Let's have a big wide path and door for them because they know they are in Jesus Christ because their life is so changed, they're continuing to grow in it. Let us bless God because His choice of us, His election in Christ is the source of our love and our gratitude. to our God. So, as someone told me after I preached a sermon a few weeks ago, it reminded me of a song. On my best days I'm God's child, on my worst days I'm God's child. So congregation in the Lord Jesus Christ, on your best and worst days, you are blessed irrevocably in Jesus Christ. Your God is working his promises the salvation, his promises of the new covenant in your life, today, tomorrow, and forever. May his grace always be with you. Amen.