Let's turn now to continuing study in the book of Amos. From Amos chapter 5. And verses one through through four Amos five, one through four Hear this word which I take up against you, a lamentation, O House of Israel. The virgin of Israel has fallen. She will rise no more. She lies forsaken on her land. There is no one to raise her up. For thus says the Lord God, the city that goes out by a thousand shall have a hundred left. And that which goes out by a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel. For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel, seek me and live. I'm going to read on just a little further. But do not seek Bethel, nor enter Gilgal, nor pass over to Bathsheba For Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to nothing. Seek the Lord and live. Lest he break out like a fire in the house of Joseph and devour it, with no one to quench it in Bethel. You who turn justice to wormwood And lay righteousness to rest in the earth. Briefly, by way of review, let me just remind you of the The spiritual condition of the people in the northern kingdom that Amos is addressing this message to. We have seen this before. But there was persistent and repeated sin abounding in the land With ongoing refusal to repent, in spite of the fact that God had sent many prophets to his people urging them to repent Amos is among the very last of the prophets that will ever call Israel to repentance. And I by Israel here I mean the northern kingdom. Israel's Sins were manifold, but the sin of idolatry was perhaps the most widespread. They bowed down to all the various gods of the Canaanites, that the Canaanites worshiped. And their sin of idolatry is all the more aggravated because these are the people and their neighbors to the south, those in Judah. They are the only people on earth that God has entered into covenant with And part of God's covenant with his people was to do such things as to deliver their ancestors from Egyptian slavery to provide them with manna and quail during the 40-year conquest, during the 40 years of wandering. God was with them during the conquest of Canaan and brought the numerous tribes under their submission. And aside from God's interaction on Israel's behalf in history, these people alone have the scriptures. These people have seen God many times come to their aid. It's not because they are worthy of his aid, but because God is faithful to his promises. And it's particularly his promises to Abraham. Those promises that say, I will be your God. You will be my people. And from Abraham's seed, all the nations of the world would be blessed. Into this evil environment, God speaks To Israel through Amos, urging repentance, because the day of judgment is imminent. Devastation is depicted here as being so severe, the devastation that occurs from the conquest coming from another nation It'll be so severe that 90% of the people will perish. That's what's meant when it says in verse 3 The city that goes out by a thousand shall have only a hundred left. Or the one that goes out by a hundred shall have only ten left. Ninety percent of the people Of Israel will be destroyed, will be gone. God warns them. God seeks their repentance. And he promises to forgive them. In verses 3 and 4, He says, seek me. Excuse me, verse four, seek me and live. He not only encourages them to turn to him, but he promises them, if they do, they will live If you turn away, seeking me means that you turn away from your false gods. Turn instead to God, and if you seek me, you will find me. And if you repent, you will live. However, God will not plead for Israel's repentance forever. And the sad story Of this book of Amos is that Israel did not listen. And by 722 BC, that 90% devastation occurred as the Assyrians kept in uh came to the kingdom, the northern kingdom of Israel, and completely destroyed it. And it's always an issue when we're looking at the Old Testament to question What is it about Amos' words that connect with me or with you or the people of this age? And how do these words connect with the whole concept of salvation? Because whether we live, whether people live in Amos' day, or whether they live before it or afterwards, or whether they live in our day. The basic problem still exists, and that is sin before God And that and even and even and even the worshiping of other gods still goes on. And that's because the heart of man does not change unless unless God changes it. So God does have a solution to the peoples of the northern kingdom, Israel's problem. In Amos chapter 5, verse 2, he says, the virgin of Israel is fallen. And she shall no more rise. She is forsaken upon her land. There is none to raise her up. That is language that's a little bit poetic. But he's talking about by virgin, he's talking about the nation of Israel being his bride. Being his people, being those whom he has loved and cared for But he says, she shall no more rise. She is forsaken. And there is none to help her. There is none to raise her up. The covenant people of God, Israel, are supposed to love Him. They find themselves in an impossible Sin-based predicament of their own making. She shall not rise again. She is without ability to raise herself up. She cannot do anything on her own to change her situation. She can't save herself. She can't atone for her sin. And her stubborn refusal to seek God will seal her off from the only hope there is. There is none to raise her up. Her gods and her idols that she regularly bows down to and worships. They don't care. They have no love for Israel. They're not shedding any tears for Israel. They can't. They aren't real. They have not eyes. They have not hands. They have not compassion. Contrast that with verse 1. Hear this word which I take up against you, a lamentation. I think you all know that a lamentation is profound weeping. God is pictured in verse 1 as weeping. For the house of Israel, even though they have refused to seek his help. There is none to help her, none to raise her up This parallels uh strangely enough, it parallels a passage in Jeremiah Chapter 30, verse 13. And again, if you think about Amos being the prophet to the northern kingdom Jeremiah is the prophet to the southern kingdom. Both of them are prophesying to the two different kingdoms on the eve of destruction. And if you look at Jeremiah 30 and verse 13, listen to these words. There is none to plead thy cause. That thou mayest be bound up. Thou hast no healing medicines. All thy lovers have forgotten thee. They seek they not And by lovers, I take that to mean all the gods that they have worshiped and bowed down to. Unlike the past, both Jeremiah is saying and and Amos is saying Jehovah, your God, is not going to send anyone to help. There won't be another Moses. There won't be another Joshua. There won't, God won't raise up another judge to defeat the The nations that are oppressing them. There'll be no great prophet like Samuel, no great prophet like Elijah, no great king like David to go to war for them. There will be no priest to intercede. No one Will go to God on Israel's behalf and intercede on behalf of these people. and turn away his fierce anger at his people for their sins. No Moses. When God said to Moses, I will forget these people I will take you and I will make of you a great nation. There's no Moses To say what Moses said. No, Lord, these are your people. You promised You promised they were your special people. Besides, if you abandon them now, the nations will mock you and say God is not strong enough to take care of his people. Israel's predicament is brought about by her stubborn and callous heart. She refuses to repent. She refuses to embrace Amos' message. Amos and presumably God Israel have taken up a lamentation against the house of Israel. It is striking to think about God weeping for these people. People who won't repent of their sins in spite of every warning of impending destruction. And death. There is no one then. But that doesn't mean there is no one now. Because ever since the greater Moses came and the greater David And the greater Elijah came. The Lord Jesus Christ. There has been one man who helps sinners as vile as those in Israel. Israel, sinners who find them themselves in the hands of a just and angry God. I read earlier from 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 through 10. And the general point of that passage is the incredible display of God's great love for his people at the cross. The cross of Jesus Christ is the ultimate demonstration of God's love for sinners, for repentant sinners. Here in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sin. The origin of God's love does not come from us to God, but it comes from God to us. It's a love of sacrifice by which God gave his only begotten Son. And he sent his only begotten Son to be the propitiation for our sins. There was no one to propitiate the sins. Of Israel in the Old Testament during Amos' time. No one to turn away God's fierce wrath. No one to take that wrath upon himself. Israel had no one to help raise her up and avoid the eternal death and destruction. She could not do it, her gods could not do it, her wealth and her prosperity could not do it. There was no great servant of God that he sent to Israel during the times of Amos. No one then could turn away the wrath of God from the sins of Israel. But in Christ God sends to us sinners one who is greater than all he has sent before. A new and better and superior Moses, a superior Samuel, a greater prophet than Amos. A greater priest than Melchizedek, a better king than David or Solomon. Even as the Queen Asheba remarked in Luke chapter 11, verse 31. When she came. The scripture, she didn't remark, the scripture speaks of her this way in Luke 11, verse 31. The Queen of the South shall rise up in judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them. For she came for the utmost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. Behold A greater than Solomon is here. And that's speaking of Jesus. The greater helper than all is the Lord Jesus Christ. He transcends all who helped before. He is greater because he embodies all the great ones that God sent to help Israel of old Greater because he is the only one who is called the eternal begotten Son of God. He is the one who redeems his people from slavery. He is the better Joshua who leads his people to the eternal promised land. He is the better David who perfectly demonstrates without sin or fault that he is the man after God's own heart. He's the greater prophet than Samuel or Elijah, for Jesus himself is the word of God in the flesh. He is the better high priest, better than Melchizedek. His blood speaks better than the blood of Abel. And Christ, your high priest, also lives forever to intercede for him. us better than Moses ever could. He is a greater priest because he is the perfect sacrifice The spotless Lamb of God who removes sin as far as east is from west. By his righteousness, by him, right imputed to our accounts And we are justified forever in God's sight, as God declares that his righteousness now is ours by faith. He is greater because he intercedes before God on your behalf. We who by grace repent and believe are those he shed his blood for. He pleads with the Father to forgive us. His blood speaks for us to be forgiven. And the Eternal Father cannot fail to honor Jesus' request. He is the greater Provision for our salvation because the only beloved Son of God is the only propitiator that God accepts. Christ does that which no mere man could ever do. Moses did intercede with God, and God listened And benefited the people. But Moses' blood, even the great Moses' blood, was tainted by sin. And he could save no one eternally. And he did not turn away God's wrath forever Jesus and his blood turns away God's wrath from his chosen people forever He turns away the wrath of God. And only the blood of the perfect Lamb of God can do that. His blood removes sin as far as east is from West. And as the scripture speaks of Christ's sacrifice. Wherefore he is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever lives to make intercession for them. Israel during Amos' time had reached the end of God's endurance. She had fallen into evil. She could not help herself. Her false God, whom she adored, refused to help her. If she truly believed Amos' message and sought out God, God would have in mercy forgiven her. But she would not. She refused. She couldn't repent, and she wouldn't repent. That further compounded her sins. and stoke the flame of God's divine wrath even higher. But you, in Christ's sacrifice, have helped to turn to the God. You have Jesus, the propitiator, the one who turns away God's wrath on you because of your sin and takes that wrath upon himself. Your sins may be numerous as the grains of sand along the seashore You may have done something against Christ that disgraced him and are now afraid to repent of it. But I ask you simply to seek him and to believe. Believe what John said earlier in his epistle in 1 John 2, 1 and 2 My little children, these things I write to you that you sin not, but if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus the righteous, and he Is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world Do not believe the lies of the evil one, that God will never forgive you. In Christ, he already has. And as Isaiah, another prophet, spoke to another group of rebellious Jews in Judah. In the late 7th century BC. Come now, let us freezen together. saith the Lord, though your skins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Isaiah 1, verse 18. And let us not forget the words that Paul said to the jailer At Philippi, when he wanted to know what should he do to be saved. And Paul wrote those words, given to him by God, repent and believe believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. Those who are seeking to overcome sin's curse in their life, there is help. For you in Jesus Christ crucified and Jesus Christ resurrected. He and he alone cares enough to stand In the breach between you and the full fury of God's wrath, and absorb that wrath. And Savior. And what a help that is. And what a hope we have in Christ. Amen. Let us pray. A great and merciful God, we thank you, Lord, that You are a just God. And that, Lord, you do pay, you do expect payment for sin. And whether that payment comes, it can come from sinners who refuse to repent. But we trust, O Lord, that in our case it has come through Jesus, who died on our behalf. He paid the price for our sin. And that price was a once for all sacrifice of himself. And contrary to Belief, our own belief, Lord, the fact that He paid for all of our sins once for all does not make us Does not give us license to sin with impunity, but instead out of respect and out of love for Him. It motivates us, Lord, to live for Him and to put a curve as much as we possibly can upon our sinful heart. We thank thee, O Lord, that you have delivered us from the ways of the world and from the ways of the people of during Amos' time. You've delivered us from worshiping other gods and trusting in our own sufficiency. And believing, O Lord, that we have the ability to take care of any problem that comes our way, you've caused us to see, Lord, that we cannot We cannot by ourselves deal with our sin. We cannot overcome it. We cannot pay for it. We cannot do Anything that will motivate you to save us because of what we have done. But we thank thee, O Lord, that You save us because of what you decreed forever in eternity, that we should be yours through Jesus labors Through his death and resurrection. And we thank you, we praise you, and it's with a grateful heart that we adore you. We ask now these things in Jesus' name, amen.