Amen. We'll be reading there beginning at the first verse. And we enter into the account of Jesus before Pilate. Let's give attention to God's word. John chapter 19 and verse 1. Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him. And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe. They came up to him saying, Hail, King of the Jews, and struck him with their hands. Pilate went out again and said to them, See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him. So Jesus came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, Behold the man. When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify Him! Crucify Him. Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God. When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered him, You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore, he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin. From then on, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out: If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at the place called the stone pavement, and in Aramaic, Gababatha. Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, Behold your king! They cried out, Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered them over to be crucified. So they took Jesus and he went out, bearing his own cross to the place called the place of the skull, which in Aramaic is called Galgatha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but rather this man said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. So when the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom, so they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture, which said they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So the soldiers did these things. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister Mary, the wife of Clopus and Mary Magdalene. And Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your son. And he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. From that hour the disciple took her into his own home. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said to fulfill the scripture: I thirst. A jar of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on the hyssop branch and held it to his mouth. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and he gave up his spirit. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we pray, add your blessing now to the reading of your word. A difficult passage for us to hear. And so we ask now for your help. Illumine our hearts, Father. Draw us nearer to Christ. We pray these things in His name. Amen. This particular chapter in the Gospel of John obviously is found at the end of John's Gospel. Jesus' earthly ministry is now close to being completed. Indeed, as we read this Last verse on this particular passage, we hear the words of Jesus Himself saying it is finished. But in order to understand the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, we need to understand the gospel. We need to understand who we are and who our God is and what He's done and how He's loved us to the end. We need to understand who Jesus is and his person and his work, and indeed that's why we've read so much scripture tonight. It's a critical passage. These are critical words for us to grasp and to understand tonight as we think upon the death of our Savior. Tonight, I'd like us to see that the shedding of the pure blood of Jesus Christ was necessary for the salvation of sinners. The shedding of the pure blood of Jesus Christ was necessary for the salvation of sinners Three simple points tonight. Jesus' blood was necessary. Secondly, Jesus' blood was pure. And thirdly, Jesus' blood was shed. Well, first, Jesus' blood was necessary. Throughout Scripture, we have the truth that the punishment for sin is eternal death. Adam was clearly told that in the garden. As he had been placed in the garden as God had given him that one single command. You may eat of every tree of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. Very clear command. No gray areas to it. For in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die Adam knew the punishment for sin was death. He knew that he had been called to perfect obedience before a holy God. The apostles knew of it and taught of it We've we're clearly close to the end of the Gospel of Paul, the letter to the Romans, or to those in Rome. And in the middle of his gospel, he writes, For the wages of sin is death. Paul knew it. Paul preached it. And so did the Apostle James. Indeed, he opens his letter by stating such, let no one say when he is tempted, I'm being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted with evil But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death. The apostles knew it. In a sense, merely repeating what they had learned from the Old Testament scriptures, but also repeating that which God himself had inspired them to write. Punishment for sin is death for the life The life of the flesh is in the blood. We read that in Leviticus. As the temple of God, the tabernacle of God was constructed, put together, the place of worship. Now erected and ordained by God. Now God was telling them how they might be able to approach him in the book of Leviticus. And the book of Leviticus is filled with blood. And God tells them exactly why it is that the blood is so important for the life of the flesh is in the blood, and he gave it To the Israelites on the altar to make atonement for your souls. See, even in Leviticus. God was informing the Israelites that he was going to provide a substitute. Indeed, he was providing substitute. And Leviticus is telling them even how to make that atonement for their souls, that which was pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ, pointing to the night that we've even read about this evening. For it is the blood that makes atonement by the life. The Israelites knew it. Indeed, as the Hebrews were in their houses waiting for the destroyer to pass over them, they knew That the blood was that which protected them from death. The congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs at twilight. and put the blood on the two doorposts and the lintel. It was the blood that the destroyer looked upon and then passed over their homes, so that the firstborn would not be slain. And as the Israelites wandered to the wilderness, even as they got to Jerusalem and erected the physical temple day and night. They knew that blood was required for them. Now this is what you shall offer on the altar two lambs a year old, day by day regularly. They knew they were sinners. They knew they needed blood to cleanse them. And morning and night a lamb was offered. Pointing to the cleansing that they needed, and the only way they could be clean was by blood. Even the writer to the Hebrews. In chapter nine, therefore, not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood. Think of circumcision, a blood-filled sign and seal of the covenant of grace. Without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. Indeed, Jesus Christ was sent to shed his blood. As Nicodemus comes into him, he tells him so very clearly: Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness. So must the Son of Man be lifted up. Jesus was saying, My blood must be shed to cleanse. Each and every child of God from their sins. That's the background. That's the backdrop to what we have in John 19, isn't it? Indeed, in John chapters 18 and 19, Jesus Christ was surrounded by sinners. I think all of the gospel writers capture that to remind us Why Jesus was going to the cross, why he hung on the cross, he was surrounded by sinners We didn't read John chapter 18, but even there we see that Jesus was surrounded by sinners as he was led from Caiaphas' house to the governor's headquarters in the early morning. They, meaning the Jews themselves, did not enter into the governor's headquarters so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. They were so concerned about the outward appearance. They were so concerned about this whitewashed tomb that they might keep it clean. Even though they were rotting from the inside out, even though they were taking the Son of God to be crucified on the cross. I still wanted to be able to eat the Passover. Jews cried out to Pilate that Barabbas might be released. A true sinner, a murderer. This is the one that they wanted back into their community while the sinless one they wanted to send to the cross. Even Pilate, as he takes Jesus Christ and has him flogged for no reason, the innocent one having flesh stripped from his body. The soldiers who weave together a crown of thorns and place it upon his head and array him in a purple robe and mock him, hail King of the Jews, and struck him with their hands were sinning against Jesus against the Son of God, the chief priests, as they themselves cry out, Crucify Him, crucify him. We're calling for death. For the Messiah, the sinless one. Indeed, as they cried out to Pilate, we have no king but Caesar Denying the kingship of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, God Himself And Pilate hands him over to be crucified, pronouncing death upon the one that he knew was sinless. Indeed, Jesus Christ was surrounded as he's crucified between two criminals. Surrounded by sinners, and those who pass by wagging their heads at him, mocking him. Brothers and sisters, we are no different than those who surrounded Jesus Christ during his final hours. We know that Psalm 14 is not merely applicable to the Old Testament saints, but the Apostle Paul used it. As he wrote to the church in Rome, they have all turned aside Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, no, not even one, and we know that we can substitute the pronouns we for they. For we have all turned aside together in Adam. We have all become corrupt. None of us does any good. No, not one. There is then the problem. Each of us here tonight deserve death. We deserve the punishment For our sins committed against the holy God. We've sinned against God in Adam and in ourselves with each one earned death and damnation. Along with Isaiah, we can say, Woe is me, for I am lost. I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. And thus, if anyone is to be saved. We need the blood of the Lamb. We need to be washed and clean, pure, blameless, blemishless, if that's a word blood. Isn't that what John wrote in Revelation? As one of the elders addressed him, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes and From where they come, and I, meaning John, said to him, Sir, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. It's no coincidence that Psalm fifteen follows Psalm 14. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart. Brothers and sisters, we need to become blameless. And none of us can do that when the punishment for sin remains in our account before a holy God. We need The blood of Christ. Brings us to our second point: that Jesus' blood was perfect and pure. The call to Adam was to be perfect in his work. But the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. The call to Adam was to keep this perfectly. It's one command. You've got all the other trees. Don't eat from this one that I've indicated, I've pointed it out, I've revealed it to you. Do not eat. From the day that you eat it, you shall surely die. But Adam didn't. He did that which God had prohibited from him from doing. He did not keep the law perfectly. And the blood needs to be pure if it's going to be cleansing. That's the picture we have of the Old Testament sacrifices that don't we the picture of an unblemished lamb. Only the blood of an unblemished lamb could be placed on the lintels and the post to keep the destroyer from entering into the Hebrews' homes. Before their exodus. And Leviticus tells us once again of the kind of animal, the kind of offering that the Israelites were to bring. If it is to be accepted for you, it shall be a male without blemish. You shall not offer anything that has a blemish, for it will not be acceptable for you. In Deuteronomy chapter 17, Moses says he's wrapping up and repeating the law. He reminds them, you shall not sacrifice to the Lord your God an ox or a sheep. In which if they blemish any defect whatsoever, for that is an abomination. It's not just that it wasn't permitted, it was an abomination to God And yet the Jews kept on offering blemished sacrifices The prophet Malachi records it. And remember, the prophet Malachi comes along after the Jews have come out of exile. The last Old Testament prophet given to us. And he writes, But you say, How have we despised your name? This is God speaking to his people. And he tells them, by offering polluted food upon my altar. And the people say, How have we polluted you? By saying that the Lord's table may be despised when you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? God tells him that He's a great King, the Lord of hosts. But his name will be feared among the nations. And so he pronounces a curse upon those who bring blemished sacrifices, you see, it keeps on getting worse Not that it was just not allowed, it was an abomination, and God sees that if you bring a sacrifice which is blemished, you will be cursed. But Jesus was obedient. Jesus was obedient to his father. To the point of death on the cursed tree. Indeed, even as he's hanging on the tree on the cursed tree, Jesus was obedient even to the end, loving his mother. Can we even imagine? As our Savior is engulfed in pain and suffering, that He would look upon His mother and care for her. That he would look upon the disciple whom he loved and care for him. Jesus was blameless and pure, and his love was so deep. That he would even pronounce it in the depths of his suffering Think even of the statements that were made about Jesus Christ as he's going to trial. As Pilate is met by the Jews and he's asking them, What charges do you bring against this one? They they respond by saying, If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you. Notice that John does not record any allegations by the Jews against Jesus to Pilate. There weren't any. Only a generic bald and false lie. Maybe the most powerful statements of Jesus' innocence come from a Gentile, even from Pilate. Who said three times I find no guilt in him? Three times that The number of completeness within Scripture offered up many times. And Pilate speaks it. John records it three times. The civil authority, the judge, the trial court, speaking through Pilate, he had all of the evidence Pilate had heard from all those who were vehemently accusing Jesus of high crimes and now recognized Pilate had all the incentives set before him to condemn Jesus immediately The chief priests were calling for his blood. The Jews were crying out for his crucifixion. It seemed as though the crowd was ready to riot. The easiest thing for Pilate to have done would have been to say, fine, let's just get it over with and send him off, but he doesn't. The innocence of Jesus Christ was too much, too powerful. Too clear. He could find no guilt, only innocence Certainly the most powerful description we have of the Lord's innocence is in the scriptures, isn't it? Pilate didn't have the final say. Prophet Isaiah told us. His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace It's not possible that the Lord Jesus Christ could be the Prince of Peace and harbor within himself some sort of sin. It's not possible that he could have somehow broken God's law and yet be the Prince of Peace. It's not possible that he would be the one with justice and uprightness from this time forth forevermore to rule over and establish his kingdom. It's not possible. If you were breaking the covenant or breaking God's law or failing to please his father in all things. That's the only way that he can rule with righteousness and justice and be the Prince of Peace He is the blameless one, the one whose blood is pure, innocent. A faithful witness. The only blood that could satisfy the justice of God. That brings us to our third point. Jesus' blood was shed. Pilate pronounces the verdict that the crowd was crying out for. In sin, he delivers Jesus over to be crucified. And Jesus Christ does exactly that which he called his disciples to do. He went out bearing his own cross Remember, as Jesus was teaching his disciples, as they had finally come to the conclusion that he indeed was the Messiah, not really understanding exactly what that meant. The Christ, the Son of God. Now Jesus followed up that identification with these words: if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. And Jesus is not one who would call for his disciples to act when he was not willing to act in the way that he had proscribed. So now Jesus goes out. The verdict has been announced, it's been proclaimed. And in obedience to his father, He bears his own cross. What was it for Jesus to bear his own cross? And our minds were probably thinking of Jesus Christ taking a very heavy cross on his back and carrying it to the place of crucifixion. And and that very well may be the case, but I think this is full The statement is full of who Jesus was and what Jesus did and being born and that in a low condition, made under the law, suffering the miseries of this life, allowing slander and lies to be levelled against him, being flogged, being scourged suffering the humiliation of being mocked by the soldiers, being disbelieved by his own people, being paraded out in a crown of thorns and a purple road spat upon and slapped, he was oppressed, he was afflicted, and yet he opened not his mouth like a lamb led to the slaughter But the worst of Jesus' sufferings occurred as he hung on the cross We must include that within our meditations, within our knowledge, within our minds, within our hearts, the bearing of his own cross primarily occurs as he hangs upon the cross. And here I'm not really referring to the nails that were driven through his hands and feet. Certainly Jesus bodily suffered excruciating pain of the crucifixion, but more so the spiritual pain that he was suffering, the agony Of having the sins of the world laid upon him. We don't understand that. We don't grasp what that means. We're sinners ourselves, and we don't understand the holiness of God. And yet Jesus bore his cross As the sins of every single child of God, past, present, and future, were laid upon him. The spiritual pain, the spiritual agony of having this filth. Poured upon him the wrath of God, as he was separated from his father. That was the cross that Christ was bearing at that moment. There is the ultimate pain, the ultimate suffering, the ultimate cross-bearing, the ultimate denial of self. As Jesus laid down his life, set between two criminals, real sinners, Jesus hung on the cursed tree, and his father poured out his wrath upon his son. This one identified by Pilate as the man suffered in our place. In his human nature, Jesus thirsted In his human nature, he bowed his head. In his human nature, he gives up his spirit. The human nature of Jesus Christ being fairly exposed. And his precious blood was being shed. Let's not miss the picture of the sour wine. The sour wine that apparently the drink of the poor. Apparently like vinegar. Jesus in his humiliation, in his suffering, received that which is the picture of his true suffering, the sour wine, the picture of the sins of the world, the sins of every Child of God, past, present, and future, had been laid upon him as he hung upon the cross, as he was taking up our yoke And giving to us his yoke. For our sake he made himself to be sin, who knew no sin so that in him we might become the righteousness of God Jesus was sent by his father to accomplish salvation, to do in a sense that which Adam had failed to do in the garden. Jesus was sent to save. He was given work to do, to be obedient even to death on the cursed tree. Tonight, if you're believing upon the Lord Jesus Christ, you can rest because He finished the work of salvation. He did indeed allow his blood to be shed, the cleansing, the purifying, the blood of the Lamb, even Jesus, has been shed for you. Who are trusting in his blood. He's washed you clean. And so tonight, as was prayed You can rejoice in the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes. The shedding of the pure blood of Jesus Christ was necessary for the salvation of sinners. Praise be to God. You pray with me. Father in heaven, our hearts are quiet before you tonight. As we see your perfect love and your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, has been poured out upon us. And so we praise you and thank you. Help us to meditate upon the perfect atoning sacrifice. Of the Lord Jesus Christ and give you all the praise. We ask that