So for the sermon text, here we are in Philippians chapter 2, verses 12 through 18. Paul continues his letter to the Philippians and You'll notice, as I mentioned a little earlier, verse 14 talks about not complaining and disputing. So probably a reference to Israel in the wilderness there. Verse 15 uses language straight out of the Deuteronomy passage, Deuteronomy 32. Children of God in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. That's language that was used in Deuteronomy Paul is telling the Philippians not to be like Israel was in the in the wilderness and in Deuteronomy. You know, we we often think of these verses of God working in us to will and to work, both to work and to will, for his good pleasure. And yet, what is Paul thinking the Philippians should be willing and working for God's good pleasure? In Philippians it has to do with not grumbling in the midst of difficult sufferings Because that is the circumstance. Both Paul and the Philippians are suffering for Christ. And in this situation Paul tells them, God is working in you so that you will not grumble or dispute. But the reading comes from Philippians 2, verses 12 through 18. And once again, give your attention to the reading of God's Word, for it is just that, the very Word of God. So listen to it as such. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who works in you. Both to will and to do for his good pleasure. Do all things without complaining and disputing. That you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without fault, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. Among whom you shine as light in the world, holding fast the word of life, so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ. That I have not run in vain, or labored in vain. Yes, and if I am being poured out as a drink offering, on the sacrifice and service of your faith I am glad and rejoice with you all. For the same reason, you also be glad and rejoice with me. The reading of God's Word. Yeah, he blessed it. Now again, isn't that interesting? Paul is contemplating being put to death for his faith. Being poured out as a drink offering or as a sacrifice, and he tells the Philippians that he is glad. And he rejoices, and tells them also to be glad and rejoice with him in the midst of what They they are suffering, both he and they. He possibly being put to death, but they suffering in some other way that we're not sure of, but that is referred to in Philippians. And even though both Paul and his readers are both suffering for Christ, both suffering hardship on account of the gospel. Again, what is the mindset that he tells them they should have? What is the attitude they should have in the midst of even difficult sufferings? Again, Paul's facing the prospect of death for his faith. Yet, what is his attitude? He rejoices and is glad. But therefore calls the Philippians with him in the midst of whatever they are suffering, which we don't know. Whatever they are suffering, they too should have what attitude? Rejoice and be glad. Again, you could go to verse 14. Paul tells them not to complain, not to dispute. Whatever they're going through, don't let it lead to complaining. Or disputing in their ranks, disagreements among their ranks, disagreements among each other within the congregation of God's people, complaining, complaints directed to one another, complaints directed to God Yes, their sufferings are going to be difficult. Nobody's denying that. Paul's not denying that. But he is saying that when you suffer, Be careful how you respond to your sufferings. Be careful that you don't respond out of complaining. Possibly could have been translated also grumbling. And that language clearly takes us back to Old Testament Israel, especially Israel in the wilderness. You know, the passage in Deuteronomy, some clear links in language between Deuteronomy 32 and this passage. But also just that theme of complaining, grumbling, disputing. You don't have to read very much of some portions of Exodus, some portions of Numbers, a lot of portions of Numbers, some of Deuteronomy. Different parts in which the Lord is leading his people through the wilderness, his people Israel, whom he's brought out of Egypt. And what is their response? When they face deprivation, When they are lacking something and they don't know where it's going to come from, even though they should trust that it will come from God. When they are facing such instances of lack and deprivation. How do they respond? Too often we see them complain. Too often we see them grumble. Too often we see them do just what Paul tells the Philippians not to do. And the Philippians are suffering. The Philippians are suffering. Israel was suffering lack of things that they needed. Things they really did need and things they thought they needed. But they were, as they were suffering lack, they were quick to complain. Paul tells the Philippians, don't do what Israel did. Now again, notice verse 15, you see that language. Paul's telling the Philippians, be what Israel was not. Because what was Israel? Some of that language in there. Children of God, in the midst of a crooked, perverse generation. Well we we heard earlier from Moses in Deuteronomy 32. Deuteronomy 32 here the beginning of of that chapter. Moses had said that Israel had become not the children of God, and that they had become a crooked, perverse generation. Paul tells the Philippians that they ought to stand out from what Israel had become. They should not be what Israel was. Again, Israel when they were lacking bread, when they were lacking food. Sometimes they desired to go back to their former bondage in Egypt instead of trusting in the Lord to provide what the Lord would provide. And what the Lord did provide. Bread in the wilderness. Water in places where they had no right to expect water. The Lord provided for them. They should not have grumbled. They should not have complained. Paul tells the Philippians to not be like Israel. Don't be a crooked and perverse generation, but stand out from the crooked and the perverse. Stand out, shine as lights. Let your attitude look different. Let it look different from Israel. But if their attitude looks different from Israel Who else is their attitude going to look different from? Everybody. Who in this world naturally Rejoices in suffering. Raise your hand if you do. By nature. None of us does, right? Not even us. Who rejoices and is glad in suffering? No, by nature we all do what Israel did. We all grumble. We all complain. We all get are ready to dispute. We're ready to turn on each other when something's going wrong. Remember Israel often turning on their leader Moses, often saying, It's your fault, you led us here. And then Moses would then go to God and say, whoa, um Lord, you led us here. But but can you see um that's what we all do? That's what we're all quick to do. Grumble and complain. Lord, it's your fault. Or otherwise, we turn on each other and point the finger at each other. So it's it's it's always pointing at the Lord But it's often included in that is pointing the finger at one another. And what is Paul saying to the Philippians here? He's saying, don't do that Don't be like Israel. We know it's not natural to rejoice in suffering, but that's still what Paul's saying. He's saying find a way to rejoice in your sufferings Find a way to be glad even while you are suffering. And Paul says, I found a way to be glad. I found a way to rejoice. You rejoice with me. You be glad with me. Even though I, Paul, says Even though Paul's saying, I am being poured out unto death as a drink offering. How can you do that? How can you find joy in your suffering the way Paul finds joy in his suffering? Because that's clearly what Paul is calling us to do. It's what he's calling the Philippians to do, but that's also what God's Word is calling us to do. We are to rejoice and be glad, even in our sufferings. The Philippians were supposed to do it. Paul did it. Paul was doing it. How can we do it? Again, we know that it's not natural. And nobody here is saying that it is natural. Paul's not saying that. I'm not saying that. It's not natural, it's not easy. How does Paul find a way to do it Well that language there of drink offering and sacrifice that Paul uses in verse 17 shows that Paul is taking Even the instance of his death, the event of his possible death, he's looking at it in such a way that it is. An opportunity to bring glory to God. And that's what Paul is doing. He is looking at what he is going to suffer as an opportunity to bring glory to God. He's taking his sufferings, and he's looking at them as opportunities to bring glory to God. And by doing this, you know what he's doing is he's doing the very thing that he had said earlier. For back in chapter 1, verse 29, he had told the Philippians to count their sufferings as a gift from God. To consider what you suffer as a gift from God. How in the world can it be a gift? It's only a gift if it is an opportunity to bring glory to God. If you see it as an opportunity To rejoice in God, to rejoice in the sufficiency of God in the midst of what you are suffering. It cannot be something you find joy in any other way. Because if you're looking at your sufferings and you're thinking, well, the only thing that's going to give me satisfaction in these is once these are removed. That's not going to bring you joy. Unless the Lord does indeed remove those sufferings. But we don't know if he will, and we don't have the promise that he will in this life. We know that he will one day, and so we know that we will be glad then when he re removes all sufferings and all lack. But in the meantime, how do you take those sufferings now, those that he does not remove? We gotta take them the way Paul takes them. It's an opportunity to bring glory to God, and this can bring us joy. We can reflect God's glory in the way that we suffer. In the way that we accept suffering. If we accept it not like Israel accepted it or else didn't accept it, if we accept it not the way Israel did, Then we can take it as an opportunity instead to reflect God's glory. And this is what we should do. This is what Paul did, even though he was possibly being poured out to his death. As a drink offering. He took it as a gift to the Lord. He took it as a gift from the Lord to show the Lord's glory, even in the midst of what he was going through. Now again, how can we do this? Nobody does this by nature, do they? Is there a reason why Paul wrote verses 12 and 13 connected with this text? Connected with the things he was going through? What did Paul think that it took for people? To do all things without complaining and disputing. Well, did you notice in verse 13 of the passage? That Paul believes that what it takes to go through your suffering without complaining and instead to rejoice in God, what it takes is God working in you. Where this is what Paul says in verse 13. If the Philippians would take their sufferings in such a way that they would not complain or dispute, It has to be the working out of what God has worked in them. For this is what Paul says in verses 12 and 13. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to do, for his good pleasure. And what is it for them to work out their salvation? Well, in this instance, it is to not complain, to not dispute, even though they are suffering real difficulties. It is for them to rejoice, to be glad. Not to deny that the difficulties are difficult, but still To find a way through faith in their Savior, to rejoice, to be glad, to not complain, to not grumble the way Israel did. And if they should do these things, then they will shine as lights in the world. They can only do this if God works it in them. And if God works it in them, they can do this. And if God has worked it in them, they ought to work out what God has worked in them If God has worked in them the ability to rejoice and not complain, then they ought to act out from that and therefore live so that this is manifest in their lives And therefore, not grumble, not complain, not dispute. That's what Paul's getting at here in these verses They need to look approach their sufferings the way that Paul is approaching his suffering as he's about to be poured out unto death for the sake of his Savior and for the sake of Christ. They need to approach their sufferings the way Paul is approaching his sufferings. Not complaining, not disputing, but instead rejoicing in God, finding reason to be glad in God. How can they do this? They can't do it by themselves. How can we do this? We can't do it by ourselves in our own strength. The only way it's possible is if God works this in you. So how do we do it? We need God to work it in us But we can't do that. Only God can do that. We need God to work it in us, don't we? And that's what this verse is pointing to. In order to be glad in our sufferings, in order to rejoice in God in our sufferings, we need God to work it in us. And what does this mean? This means that if you find yourself able to rejoice in the midst of suffering in God, whom do you need to give the credit to for that? You need to make it very clear in your own heart and your own mind that it is not you who has done that. It is not you who has made yourself able to do that, right? So the scriptures are pointing us to it is God who works such things in us. So one thing we ought to do is give credit where it is due. Not to ourselves. If we find ourselves able to rejoice in the midst of our sufferings, we ought to say, God has granted this to me as part of the salvation that He has given to me in Jesus Christ. So if and when we find ourselves able to rejoice, say, thank God, praise God, and again, this is evidence that He has saved us. If we see such attitudes arising from our own heart and from our own mind. Because we know that they haven't arisen from our own heart and mind. We know that they have arisen from his work within us. But the other question then, beloved, is what do you do if you don't find yourself able to rejoice in the midst of suffering? What do you do if you're not able to be glad in your sufferings? What do you do? Where do you find the ability? If only God can work it in you, where do you find God working this in you? Did you notice that there's something that Paul has pointed us to in verse 16 of our text? He has pointed us to where it can be found. So verse 16 shows us that If the Philippians are able to greet their sufferings without complaining or disputing, this is evidence that they are holding fast to what To the word of life. Okay? And what is that word of life? That's thinking especially of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but it's speaking to the wholeness of God's Word. So, how can you find the strength through which you can meet your sufferings without grumbling, without disputing? How does God work this in you? Where does God work this in you? He works it in you through the word of life. And so, people of God, we do need to be aware. If we find that we are not able to meet our sufferings with rejoicing and with gladness, We shouldn't be surprised if that is true and we are not taking in God's word regularly. We shouldn't be surprised if that is true if we are not regularly listening to the right preaching of his gospel. Where do you find the joy in the midst of suffering? Where do you find joy in God in the midst of your suffering? The only way you can find it is through the preaching of the Word of God and through taking in His Word in other ways. So again, if you need God to work this in you, And don't we all? Don't we all need him to work it in us more than he has even? But if you need God to work this attitude in you, Go to his word. Come to his word. Come to the proclamation of his word. Listen to his word preached. Listen to his gospel preached. Take in his word in other ways. For where do we find such ability? How does God work it in us? He works it in us through the word of life. And so we ought to be careful to come to that word with expectation that when he speaks through his word. That he will give us the blessing of being able to approach our sufferings without grumbling, without complaining. And so here now is the conclusion of the matter. The scriptures show us the glories of Jesus Christ, and as that word of life comes to us, we ought to look for God to work in us. The ability to will and to do for his good pleasure, so that we work out our salvation with fear and trembling. But what this means is not complaining, not disputing. This will make us stand out in the midst of this world. May this be true of us by the work of God May he indeed work this in us, especially through his word of life. Amen. Let's pray. And Father, we come to you today and we recognize in your word a reflection of The deficiencies of our own heart. Yes, we saw it in Israel. And yes, we we are able to recognize their deficiencies, but we don't we're we aren't able to point the finger at them. As if that's not us too. So we do indeed recognize that we are too often like Israel, um grumbling, complaining. In your lack of provision, what it would seem is your lack of provision. And yet, O Lord, we also fear the instructions of your word. Telling us, don't be like Israel, don't grumble, don't complain. Be children of God, be faultless, shine as stars Don't look like the rest of the world who always grumbles about what God has done or thinks or what they think God hasn't done. Be different from that Lord, yes, we hear that uh we hear that instruction and we and it strikes us because we know the ways that our hearts have been too quick to complain and to grumble. And yet, O Lord, thank you that you do work in us. You have begun to work in us. You have begun this work by the preaching of your gospel, by the hearing of your word. We ask you to increase that work in us to make us more and more into children of God who shine like lights in this world. May it be evident in us in the ways that we accept suffering under your hand. May it be evident to the rest of the world that we are your children and that we do stand out. Owing to the ways that we accept suffering and deprivation under your gracious, loving, sovereign hand. Grant that these things would be true of us, O Lord. We know that we can't make these things true of ourselves By forcing ourselves to be this way, we know it's not natural. We know it takes your work. With these things in us, we pray. That your glory might spread, that your glory might be reflected, yes, even in the ways that we suffer, and even in the ways that we accept suffering, under your hand. We ask these things, knowing the insufficiency of our own hearts, the insufficiency of ourselves, but knowing that you are able and you are sufficient. And so we pray these things to you in the name of Jesus Christ your Savior. Amen.