If you turn in your copy of God's Word now back to the prophet Joel, that you'll find that on page 907 of your Pew Bibles. Tonight we plan to finish our study. We'll be in chapter 3. Just reading the last five verses of the prophet Joel tonight. Let's give attention now to God's very word. So you shall know that I am the Lord your God who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall never again pass through it. And in that day the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the streambeds of Judah shall flow with water And a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord and water the valley of Shitam. Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom a desolate wilderness For the violence done to the people of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land. But Judah shall be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations. I will avenge their blood. Blood I have not avenged, for the Lord dwells in Zion. Or in the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we now seek to finish our study of this prophet, Finish this study of this portion of your word. Help us to understand, Lord God, that we will never be finished. Studying and reading and pondering and meditating upon your very word And so we ask tonight, Lord, reveal to us yourself, reveal to us your Son, Holy Spirit, work powerfully in us tonight, that we might see all that you have for us this evening. And that you'd use this passage, Lord, to carry us forth into this week. That we would be those who would seek to serve you and serve you well. Teach us now. Convict us, Lord, of sin, and remind us of all the promises of Christ. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, where will you spend eternity? Have you thought about that? Have you even asked that question of yourself? Pope Francis died this week. Our news reports that over 250,000 people filed past the open casket. at St. Peter's Basilica, to what some would say to pay their last respects The problem was that Francis was not there. He had gone to one of the two places. That the Lord has now provided. And in fact, as we read Matthew's gospel this evening, the Lord Jesus Christ discusses that there will be two places. In eternity. And he provides that image of the Lord returning, the Son of Man returning, meaning himself returning and separating everyone into two groups, the sheep and the goats. The sheep will inherit the kingdom prepared for them from the foundation of the world. The goats, the goats will inherit the eternal fire. Prepared for the devil and his angels. Only two places It seems that that's exactly what our text tonight is dealing with As the prophet Joel finishes that which he was communicating to the people of God of that day. If you remember, this prophecy comes about sometime around 800 BC, something like that. We're not exactly sure when. It seems to be addressed to the inhabitants of the land. That's exactly the words that Joel uses. Hear this, you elders, give ear, all inhabitants of the land. He was addressing the people, certainly the elders And his focal point seems to be calling them to recognize that there will be a day of the Lord. It's coming. Judgment is coming. That seems to be the overall theme. But throughout Joel's contrasting the day of the Lord, which is great and awesome, with the mercy of God, calling the people to recall that He's a gracious Merciful, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love, God who relents over disaster. Throughout his prophecy he's been calling the people of God to return. To return to the Lord. Tonight, as we consider these final five verses of Joel's prophecy. I'd like us to think upon this. Every person will spend eternity either in abundant life with God. or in everlasting destruction without God. Every person will spend eternity either in abundant life with God or in everlasting destruction without God. See that in three Three doctrines, three truths. First, the dwelling place of God is abundant life. Secondly, the dwelling place of death is destruction And finally, the dwelling place of the new Jerusalem is eternal. As we go through these last verses in Joel, I'd like you to be again asking yourself that question, where will I? spend eternity. First, the dwelling place of God is abundant life It seems in these last five verses that Joel is kind of summing everything up as he puts it all together forth forcefully proclaiming the conclusion of all things, not just his his prophetic book, but of all things. The God of creation will create or bring about two places, two locations, two dwellings. In one of these two dwellings, every single person, whoever was, whoever is, and whoever will be, will be placed and exist for eternity. The first is the place of life. Look at verse 17. So you know that I am the Lord your God who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain and Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall never pass through it again. That's a description of the place of life. And then secondly describes the place of death, which is Egypt, Egypt shall become a desolation, and Edom a desolate wilderness. There are no others. Just the two. And to understand this, we actually need to go back to the garden that should cause us, as we think upon that, to go directly back to the beginning of creation as God made all things very good in the space of six days. And place the two humans that he had made to exist, to be, to live in that one place which we refer to as the Garden of Eden. Our first parents molden and shaped by God, given breath, given life, made in his image, were placed in one place, the only place for the created humans created in his image It's the only place where they could and did dwell in unity and fellowship and communion with the living God. It was a place where there was no sin, there was no disobedience, there were no tears, there was no suffering. There is only purity, innocence, holiness, righteousness, and joy, and peace and pure love. There was no other place. There was no need for another place for humans to dwell. For all was perfection and glory. We've got to see the glory of God shining brightly in that pure garden of Eden. And then they sinned. And they fell from graze. And now, as man was sinful, there was a need for a second place for humans to live. A sinful man could not exist. Adam could not remain in the presence of a holy God. He needed to be removed immediately, so God provides another place outside of his immediate presence for humans to live. Therefore, the Lord God sent him out. from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. So there's a sense now in this prophecy of Joel, he's setting forth these two places. Not of the present, but of the eternal nature. As he's calling the people of God back to himself, this entire prophecy has been just that, the call of Joel to call the people back to himself where they had strayed. They'd gone after other gods which are no gods at all. They had neglected the living God. They had forgotten the way in which the God of creation had cared for them and provided for them and loved them. They had forgotten it was the Lord who brought them into the land flowing with milk and honey. They had forgotten the people had determined to worship other gods, idols, false gods, themselves, and they had placed themselves in a dark place away from God. And so Joel recalls the use of the swarms of locusts coming one after the other, destroying, wiping out everything consumed, such a small insect. But in such large numbers that the people could not stop that which the Lord was doing in their midst, ultimately using that devastation to call them back to himself to return. The locusts were a precursor to the day of the Lord, the judgment day. And so Joel pronounces it. Helping the people to visualize an unstoppable, a well-organized, a devastating army of God, much like the locusts And so he provides that graphic picture of the day of the Lord, the terror of judgment, the terror of the wrath of God, the terror of being in the hands of an angry God. Calling the people to return. As Joel prophesies about the coming day of the Lord, not only was it and is it true, Not only does he speak the truth of the coming day, but his proclamation was meant also as that which would call the people to return to their living and loving God. Clearly it said in contrast to the mercy of God. Joel set that forth in his second chapter, for the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? And the very next verse, yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart. Return to the Lord your God, for he's gracious and merciful. Abounding in steadfast love, slow to anger. He's setting forth the contrast. The wrath of God is coming. And yet, he's a merciful God, a gracious God. Jonathan Edwards Preaches that this is the typical way that God works. Tis God's usual method before remarkable discoveries of His mercy and love to them. In a special manner to humble them and make them sensible of their misery and helplessness in themselves and their vileness and unworthiness either by some remarkable humbling dispensation of his providence or influence of his spirit. That's exactly what the Spirit was doing as Joel writes this prophecy. Setting forth the misery of living in sin and the glory of the abundant life that's available in God through his Son Jesus Christ. And that's what he sets forth. Look at verse 18. As he describes this place of the dwelling of God, this place of abundance, and in that day the mountains shall drip sweet wine, the hills shall flow with milk, all the ship streambeds of Judah shall flow with water, a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord and water the valley of Shidam. It's a bit of a picture of the garden, isn't it? Remember Adam and Eve were set outside the garden with the flaming sword and the cherubim placed and posted so they couldn't get back in and You can picture them wondering, how are we going to get back? And now here in Joel is this picture, picture of the Lord saying, Here it is. I'm making this for you. A place for you to dwell. A place for you to come back to. A place for you to return to. It's possible to get back. It's said in stark contrast to the way Job begins his prophecy. Verse 12 of chapter 1, the vine dries up, the fig tree languishes, the beasts of the field pant because the water brooks are dried up, and now he's setting forth this Abundance, abundance of wine, abundance of milk, abundance of water, even so much water that it waters the valley of Shitam. You're wondering, well, what is that? Kyle and Dilich write this about Shidam. It's taken from the last encampment of the Israelites in the steps of Moab before they enter into Canaan. Think of that. The Israelites are in Moab. They're looking out now in the promised land. They're about to enter, but they're not there yet. They're in a dry place. They're in a place, in a sense, without God. And looking at that place where God will dwell. And here Joel says that the water, the fountain that comes forth from the house of the Lord shall water even the valley of Shittim. That dry, dry place As you can imagine, the Israelites lived in a place that was subject to famine and drought and sometimes a darth of food, even a desert, and now this picture of abundant water. Fountains of water, stream beds flowing with water, sweet wine and milk. It's a picture of life itself. See, we don't encounter those things in in our lives in this country. We have water pipes and grocery stores. refrigeration and freezers. But for the Israelites, that was that was life. That was abundant life. And it should be one for us today as well, a picture of life in abundance, and that's exactly what Jesus came to give, didn't he? The thief comes only to kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. That's what Jesus Christ has done, isn't it? Isn't that what, in a sense, Joel's referring to? That living water? That Jesus Christ refers to the woman at the well to? If you had asked me, I would have given you living water. Joel's describing it here. You see, we don't even grasp this idea of This abundant life in this place, even with all the food and water we have, because this place is filled with sin and sinfulness It's filled with the breaking of God's laws. It is filled with the abomination of transgressing that which the King of Kings and Lord of Lords has graciously given us. It's a place stained with our sin. It's filled with death. With the ceasing of life as we know it, the separation of the soul from the body and the return of our flesh to the ground to be consumed by worms and Returning to the dust. But in this new place, this new dwelling place in the presence of the Lord, at the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ, there will be everlasting life without sin. Seems to be that that's what the picture is that Joel's describing. We make the mistake of thinking this is the place where there's a lot of food and water, a lot of eating, and sustaining our bodily existence But I think Joel and the Spirit certainly would have us to look beyond the material aspects of the language in this passage, for it seems that Joel writes clearly about the supernatural and spiritual life. A description of abundant life is found here. So you shall know that I am the Lord your God who dwells in Zion. The Lord dwells in Zion. It's actually mentioned three times in these five verses. And it's confirmed by John in Revelation, isn't it? I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. They will be his people. Joel was writing about that a few years before John. This dwelling place of God and abundant life is just reinforced by that picture of abundant water, isn't it? Streambeds of Judah shall flow, fountains shall come forth. Again, John, in the last chapter of the Bible, writes this: the angel showed me the river of the water of life. bright as crystal flowing from the throne of God and the Lamb. No longer will there be anything accursed But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it. And his servants will worship him. Do you see this call to return culminating in the promise that God will be with his people forever? That he will recreate and and usher in the new heavens and the new earth, that he himself will dwell in this place, where he will invite and welcome each and every soul that believes upon his son, that trusts in his son, that is abiding faith in his son. And in his son no one will be excluded. Not one will be lost. Not one will be forgotten. No, each and every one will enter this divine place in this divine paradise. holy, holy, holy dwelling place. And that's truly abundant life. The special presence of God makes that dwelling place holy. Look at verse 17. God who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. Why is the mountain holy? Because that's where God dwells. Remember what God said in the bush that was on fire and yet not consumed as as Moses approaches, he says, Do not come near, take off your sandals, off your feet, for this place on which you are standing is holy ground, made holy because of the presence of God Himself. And as a result of His holiness, as a result of His Son's holiness, all of His children will be holy God who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain, and Jerusalem shall be holy. Now there I believe Joel's not speaking of the ground at Jerusalem. I think he's speaking of those who inhabit Jerusalem. The occupants of Jerusalem will be holy. They shall be. Paul puts it this way in his letter to the church at Ephesus. The church so loved that Christ so loved the church and gave himself up for her so that he might present the church to himself in splendor without spot. or wrinkle or any such thing that she might be holy and without blemish. Do you see? Jerusalem shall be holy. The people of God shall be holy because they will be then in the presence of the Holy One. It's a bit difficult, if not impossible, to imagine, isn't it? Being holy. Being the presence of the Holy One. Even John writes this: Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him. You see what John is saying? He's saying the same thing that Joel is saying. That all those in Christ will be holy. Now we're immersed in and surrounded by sin. But a holy life is devoid of sin. In a holy life, sin doesn't exist. It's not present. It's not even a thought. A holy life is abundantly pure. Every thought is pure and righteous and innocent. Every thought. Remember what what the Lord said about the people as he looked down. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. As you enter into glory, just think of this. Every single thought will be pure and righteous and innocent. Every word will be seasoned with grace as they flow from a heart which is without spot or without wrinkle or any such thing. Every action will be pleasing to God and to the Son. For he will have made you holy and blameless and sinless and innocent and pure. He will have made you to desire nothing other than thinking upon and meditating through and doing the will of the Father. That's abundant life. That's abundant life. Abundant life is the one in which you think God's thoughts after him Abundant life is the one in which you constantly learn and grow in the knowledge and the wisdom of the triune God. The abundant life is one filled with intimate communion and fellowship with the Father, Son, and Spirit, just as John described in his first letter. Life that was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testified to you and proclaimed to you eternal life, which was with the Father, and was made manifest to us that which we have seen and we have heard, we proclaim to you So that you too may have fellowship with us, and our joy may be complete. That's abundant life. It's one of perfection and union and communion, not only with the triune God. But then with every other child of God. No distress No disagreement, just perfect unity in Christ It's a dwelling place of abundant life in God. That brings us to the contrast, our second point. The dwelling place of death is destruction. Interestingly, Joel nearly ends with Egypt. That's the second place. Again, there are only two. Dwelling in Zion with God or dwelling in Egypt? And Joel brings this almost at the end of his prophetic book, and you have to ask the question, why? Why now? Why not end with the good news, so to speak, that God is making a place for his people, for the chosen, for the elect, for all those who believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ to be with him? Why not just stop there with verse 18? Why not end with the good news of Christ? What's the significance of bringing Egypt in at this point? Verse 19, Egypt shall become a desolation and Edom a wilderness, desolate wilderness. I have to understand what these represent Edom represents the people with whom God is angry. Esau. Esau said to Jacob, let me eat some of that red stew, for I'm exhausted. Therefore his name was called Edom. You see, Esau and Edom can be exchanged. These are the generations of Esau. That is Edom in Genesis 36. And in Malachi chapter 1 we read this. I have loved you, says the Lord, but you say, How have you loved us? Is not Esau Jacob's brother? declares the Lord, yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated. Malachi continues, if Edom says, We are shattered, but we will rebuild the ruins, the Lord of hosts says, they may rebuild, but I will tear down. The people with whom the Lord is angry forever. The people, as Isaiah puts it, who have been devoted to destruction. That's Edom. Egypt was the place of bondage. It was the place of slavery. It was from that place that the people of God cry out to him and he hears them and he rescues them. Egypt was truly For Joel, a place where the people of God were oppressed, carrying the heavy burdens that were laid upon them by their oppressor, Pharaoh, it represents a place where poor sinners remain in bondage. Egypt represents the place of eternal slavery. It represents the place of death. And yet Egypt was the place that the Israelites wanted to go back to time and time and time again. As they were neglecting and distrusting the one who was saving them, God Himself. Egypt was the place that those desired to go who were rejecting God the Father and His Son And in a sense, the people of God to whom Joel was writing here were occupants of Egypt as they had spiritually gone back. And so Joel seemingly places Egypt here as the as the last word, as the last call to return to the Lord. He set forth the goodness of God and the promise of life, and now one last time he reminds the people of the consequence of not returning to the Lord, but remaining in their sin. Egypt is the place of sin. Egypt is the place of slavery to sin. Egypt is the place of oppression. It's the place of eternal burdens. Set forth by a wicked and evil king And thus, in a sense, Egypt represents hell and damnation and everlasting bondage and slavery to sin. That's the place of the eternal day of the Lord. Egypt represents an eternal rejection of the Savior Jesus Christ, and Egypt represents a hatred of God and a rejection of His love. And so Joel ends his plea with if you remain here, Egypt shall become a desolation and Edom a place, a desolate wilderness. Remember the ten plagues on Egypt. Even after the seventh plague, before the eighth plague of the locusts. Pharaoh's servants come to him and say, How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go that they may serve the Lord their God. Do you not yet understand that Egypt is ruined? And so Joel is is pleading with the people, run, run from sin. Run from everything that is not God. This was his call to the Israelites, to Judah. And this is the call to you tonight. Be warned. Heed the call to return to the Lord. For there are only two places that you will spend eternity. If you deny Christ, if you continue to live in your sins, if you continue to hate God. even though you might deny his existence, if you continue to love transgression and breaking the holy and perfect law of God, seeking your own way, your own will, you will be cast into outer darkness. To exist forever in Egypt, in hell, without life, without your Creator God, existing in an eternal and constant estate of destruction. Not a once-in-time. Constant destruction. No breath, no communion, no pleasure, only torment, only fire, only agony, unending pain. And that's why Jesus uses the reference to the worm, isn't it? A worm that doesn't die, but continues to consume. Jonathan Edwards describes hell in his sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, based upon At least this portion upon Isaiah sixty-three. It is possible It is perhaps impossible to conceive of words that carry in them greater manifestations of these three things, contempt, hatred, and fierceness of indignation. If you cry to God to pity you, He will be so far from pitying you in your doleful case. Or showing you the least regard or favor, that instead of that he will only tread you underfoot And though he will know that you cannot bear the weight of an omnipotence treading upon you, yet he will not regard that. But he will crush you under his feet without mercy. He will crush out your blood and make it fly, and it shall be sprinkled on his garments so as to stain all his raiment. And he will not only hate you, but he will have you in the utmost contempt. No place shall be thought fit for you, but under his feet. To be trodden down as the mire in the streets. That's Edwards describing an existence in hell, an existence of eternal destruction. So Joel was using his description as a means to call the people back to God. Where will you spend eternity? That brings us to our third doctrine, a third point. The dwelling place of the new Jerusalem is eternal. The final word of Joel is a complete contrast to what he just stated with regard to Egypt and Edom. Verse 20, Judah shall be inhabited forever and Jerusalem to all generations. He sets forth eternity now, eternal life. Yes, abundant life. But now a eternally abundant life. Eternal life, a habitation with the God of creation which will have no end. The people of God Those whom He has chosen, those whom have been reborn, those who trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ will drink of the living waters forever. And Jerusalem shall be holy. And strangers shall never again pass through it. Think of that. That was the estate that Adam was to inherit if he had kept the covenant. Strangers will never enter this garden. Not one. But that's the estate that Adam didn't keep. It is the estate that Jesus Christ inherited. As he kept the covenant, isn't it? Strangers shall never again pass through it Strangers to holiness are sinners, aren't they? And so there will be no strangers in glory. Only children of God, only true citizens will reside there. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain, for the former things have passed away. Strangers shall never enter this place. And as their life eternal in Jerusalem, the new Jerusalem, the new heavens, and the new earth In one sense, that's because there's nothing to disturb or interrupt or interfere that perfect and pure life of those who will dwell there. Verse 21, I will avenge their blood. You see, today in this world, in this place, there is suffering for those who follow Jesus Christ. Peter tells you that you should be expecting it. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something strange. So just as Jesus suffered, not to that extent, but in that way, the people of God, the followers of Jesus, have been and will continue to suffer until He returns There will not be divine perfect justice in this place. But there will be divine and perfect justice. In the day of the Lord. I was recently with a friend and mentioned Edward's sermon Sinners in the hands of an angry God, and my friend said to me, I don't believe that God is angry, which raised a discussion about righteous anger. The Lord will avenge. The Lord will bring about vengeance upon those who have shed innocent blood sinfully. I will avenge their blood, blood that I have not avenged. He will execute judgment on the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. Psalm 110. Speaking of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord will bring vengeance. His vengeance upon those who persecuted, who mistreated, who mocked, who scorned, who tortured and killed the people of God. Is that not what Joel refers to here as he once again states and proclaims that the Lord dwells in Zion? The Lord dwells with his people in Zion. The Lord cares for his people who dwell with him in Zion. He'll provide. He'll keep his people who dwell with him in Zion. And so to do so, he will pour out his vengeance Upon those who harmed and persecuted and killed, and constitute a present threat to the further violence and injury and insult to his people. The Lord will keep his people. And it's at this point in time when Jesus Christ returns that God, the triune God, will pour out his vengeance on all those who are not in Zion. There will be justice in Zion for the people of God. There will be no strangers in Zion, no persecutions, no suffering, no pain, no death, no tears, no sin. All of those Will be captured and held within the pit of destruction as the Lord pours out his vengeance, his eternal wrath, upon all those who hate him, and hate his anointed one, the Son, the Lord Jesus. Isn't that why the psalmist writes, O King, be wise, be warned, O rulers of the earth, serve the Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling, kiss the Son, lest he be angry. And you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Where will you spend eternity? This prophecy of Joel is a prophecy of hope, isn't it? Of eternal happiness in the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet it contains a warning. It's a call to return to the Lord. And it's a message that there's still time to repent and believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. This prophecy is intended to do that, isn't it? To draw back all those who have backslidden. As a light to all those who are lost and straying. As a warning to those who remain in unrepentant sin today, those who today hate the Lord Jesus Christ, to turn. As Peter finished his first sermon as recorded by Dr. Luke in the book of Acts He said, let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord in Christ, this Jesus, whom you crucified. And when Peter preached that, the people say, brothers, what shall we do? He said, repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins. Save yourselves from this crooked generation. Friends, today is the day of salvation. Christ is calling out to you through the prophet Joel. Save yourself. Call upon Jesus tonight. Are you hearing that call? Where will you spend eternity? Every person will spend eternity either in abundant life with God or in everlasting destruction without God. So many filed past the body of Pope Francis, seeking something. But he wasn't there. He had gone to one of these places. Just as the Lord Jesus said, the goats and the sheep will be separated. There's eternal life and there's eternal death. Where will you spend it? Call out to Christ tonight. Asking for your sins to be washed away and cleansed so that you'll spend life abundantly with God in glory. Amen. Our Father and our God, this is a somewhat difficult prophecy. And yet you've set forth before us life and death. You've given us pure and perfect truth. And so we ask, we thank you, Lord Jesus, for revealing to us the mercy of God in yourself. And Father, we ask that you'd use this, use this passage, use the preaching of your word to draw more sinners to yourself. Help us, Lord, we're weak and frail. Conform us more and more to the image of your Son. And be glorified. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.