Please uh remain standing, turn now to Hebrews chapter seven. Hebrews chapter seven And we'll begin reading at the 18th verse. Read on through the end of the chapter. And our focus will be today on verses twenty-six uh through twenty-eight. Let us hear God's word. For on the one hand there is an annuling of the former commandment because of its weakness and unprofitableness, for the law made nothing perfect On the other hand, there is the bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near to God. And inasmuch as he was not made priest without an oath, For they have become priests without an oath. But he with an oath, by him who said unto him, The Lord has sworn and will not relent You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. By so much more Jesus has become the surety of a better covenant. Also, there were many priests because they were prevented by death from continuing. But he, because he continues forever, has an unchangeable priesthood. Therefore, he is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. Since he always lives to make intercession for them. For such a high priest was fitting for us. Who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and has become higher than the heavens. Who does not need daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for the peoples For this he did once for all, when he offered up himself. For the law appoints as high priests men who have weakness. But the word of the oath, which came after the law, appoints the Son, who has been perfected forever. Thus far it ends the reading of God's word. Please Be seated. Today, as we uh continue our way through the book of Hebrews, we come to the Concluding remarks of the seventh chapter. This section that has to deal with Christ's High priestly ministry as he is compared to the Levitical priesthood, but also as he is revealed as the one who comes in the order of Melchizedek. This is a um this tells us the the many ways in which Christ is superior. a superior high priest for you, his people. And there is the author has employed comparisons and contrasts throughout this section. comparisons with the old Levitical priests and uh and Christ. But all of these comparisons that we see here point to one final conclusion And that conclusion is, brothers and sisters, that we sinners who believe in Jesus Christ have a great high priest. He's one that's not made according to the law, but made according to the power of an endless life. made according to the sworn oath of God, who has said, You are my son. This day I have begotten you. And I have sworn forever that you are a priest after the order of Melchizedek. Isn't this doesn't this thrill you? Isn't this wonderful? The mighty God of all creation has designed a perfect high priest for you. A high priest who addresses your need for redemption. A high priest who intercedes for your sin. A high priest who is with you all the time, giving you access to the very holy God you worship Today we come to the final few verses of chapter 7. They speak to us again, explaining how Jesus God, who is with us, the Emmanuel of God, meets our every need as our guide-given high priest. We start out with verse 26, which contains within it a clear statement of fact. That fact being, a high such a high priest became us King James, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens. The King James renders this word became us Um it's not really a helpful translation because when you think about became as it's currently used, you're thinking that cr is he is it saying that Christ became human, which is true from the point of view of the incarnation. But it doesn't fit with the rest of the text where it says, who is holy, harmless, undefiled? Christ is not becoming us in the sense of our being holy, harmless, undefiled. This must mean something else. And I think the New King James is helpful because it tells us that Christ is became, is proper or fitting for us. He is fitting for us. Such a high priest is fitting for us because he is wholly, harmless, and undefiled, and that's precisely what we need with all our sinfulness. to ever be redeemed. Fitting. We use that word in our own vocabulary. We sometimes say Something suits us well. For example, when we say, that car, that dress, that top coat fits you well Christ fits you well. Christ matches your needs He fits you not simply well, but perfectly. He fits your needs perfectly. Now, after this statement of fact, the writer then goes on to tell us why Christ fits us perfectly And he points out four things. He says These four things reveal why Christ is uniquely suited to be our high priest. Number one He is holy, number two, he is harmless, number three, he is undefiled, number four, he is separate from sinners. And sometimes this word for holy is um translated As one who is devout or pleasing to God. Our God is perfect. His ways are just. He is true without sin. He is a judge. All that's right, God is. All that's true, God is. All that's holy, God is. All that's without sin, all that's perfect, God is To say that Jesus is holy, devout, and pleasing is to reveal why he is fit for us. Because you see, God places a premium on holiness. He places a premium on holiness. So much so that no one can come into his presence unless they are holy. Be ye holy as I am holy We have no holiness. And certainly not perfect holiness. And we're not God to intercede to change that situation. None of us could ever be in his presence. All of us would be obliterated by His holiness because we are the antithesis of holiness. But Christ alone before God is perfect. Christ alone before God is holy. He is upright in heart, morally pure before God. Righteous to the nth degree versus us. There is none righteous, no not one, that doeth good. None of our hearts are morally upright in the sense that we could just walk in and be in God's presence at any moment. But Jesus can. And he offers that, or he brings that to you through faith in him. He is holy, pleasing to God. You have such a high priest. You need such a high priest. As Revelation chapter 15, 4, speaking of the Lord Jesus, says, Who shall not Fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name, for thou only art holy. All the nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are made manifest. God, Jesus, our great high priest, alone is holy. We need His holiness to stand before God and He fits us because He alone can redeem us and He alone can Justify us in the sight of God. That's how it happens, through faith in Christ. God gives us the marvelous benefit of justification, wherein we are declared holy in his sight. It doesn't it doesn't just end there, of course, because as long as we live, the Holy Spirit is active in our lives, and the Spirit is is continuing the work of Christ's justification in our life. And he's making us more and more holy through the process of sanctification. His righteousness is now yours. I couldn't do that. I mean n none of you could. I couldn't give it to you even if I wanted to. And I'm sure none of you would want mine. But Christ we need if we're ever going to be united with our Savior, if we're ever going to be right with God Well, holy he fits the holiness criteria Then it talks about it being harmless. Harmless Now to some degree, that word in English also does not give the right idea here. Because sometimes when we think about someone who's harmless, we think of someone who is weak. Someone because of their weakness we don't have to take seriously We think of that person as unable to cause us any problems. They're harmless. But let's look at how this particular Hebrew word is used in some other places to see why we need a harmless high priest. Proverbs chapter 2, verse 21. The upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it. There the word is not translated harmless, but it's translated upright, which is another word for holy or just or morally pure. Job chapter two, verse three, and the familiar incident between The Lord and Satan. The Lord said to Satan, Hast you not considered my servant Job? There is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man. Who fears God and hates evil. See, someone who fears God and hates evil upright That's the sense of the harmless here. An upright man. Jeremiah though doesn't use 11 verse 19 though doesn't use the word harmless. It gets at this in a different way. It says, I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slaughter, and I knew not that they had devised devices against me. That whole picture as you transfer that to Christ speaks of his innocence He was like a lamb led to the slaughter, the sheep to his shears, his dumb. And he spoke no words of defense. Not innocence in the sense of naivete, but innocence in the sense of innocent. He was not guilty. We need a not guilty priest. In the eyes of God. So this word seems to be rendered innocent or upright. Clearly, we believe that Jesus has done nothing morally wrong before God to disqualify. him as our high priest. In God's eyes, as a matter of fact, Jesus Christ has done everything right In God's eyes, Christ is upright. In God's eyes, he is righteous without sin. In God's eyes, he is without fault. This can never be said about any Levite or any other human priest, but it is said about Christ. And because he is innocent and upright before God, he doesn't have to make offerings for himself before he does so for his people. Though some falsely accuse Jesus of sin, not one person, not even Pilate, could find Christ guilty of any wrong Neither could Rome nor the law of Moses Yet God allows us sinners to come to Him through this holy high priest. He is perfect. He is innocent. He is God with us. And therefore we are exhorted in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Such a high priest is fitting for you. And finally, among these holy, harmless, and undefiled The word is pure, unsullied, undefiled, pure. He is a pure high priest. He is the Remember how in the Old Testament the sacrifices had to be the firstborn and the spotless lamb? You see, that was all prefiguring. the purity, the the the the the the the the the the firstborn uh Christ as your high priest is undefiled before god he is the absolute purest sacrifice that could be found, that could be given. It wasn't that God gave you a defective high priest He gave you the very best. He gave you the very purest. He gave you the very purest in his eyes. His own son. He gave you the very purest, not simply because he was his own son, but he gave you the one who would keep all of God God's laws perfectly and be pleasing to the Father. You have, as Peter wrote it, an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and fades not away, reserved in heaven for you. When you believe in Christ as your high priest, you are clean from sin. Clean in your hearts. Clean in your mind, clean from sin's filth, clean from the temptations of the world. We need this high priest. And we need no other. No other why why why anything else? It doesn't work. It isn't pure. It's contaminated. Everything else is wrong. It's unholy. It's unrighteous. Why turn to that with what God has given to us? And finally, the text goes on to say that he is separate from sinners. Separate from sinners. It's not. Again, all of this, I mean, that that maybe is a summary for holy, harmless, and undefiled. We do have such a high priest. This is what God has given to us. And therefore, God is telling us that through faith in Christ Jesus, we are guaranteed to have a place with him forever. Christ is the one That God has planned to be yours from all eternity. I want to just say that again. Christ is the one. to whom God has planned to be yours from all eternity. You see, it was not the case that God waited until man came into the world. Sinned, and then figured out what to do about it. It is not the case that God waited until the people engaged in all kinds of vile behavior before he decided to act It was not the case that he took a people for his own, gave them a land flowing with milk and honey, only to see them despise his name and rebel, and then determined to act. It is not as though God waited until man had exhausted all of his attempts to be righteous in God's eyes. Through man's good works and intentions, that God finally decided to give man his son as a sacrifice for their sins. It's not that God finally decided to give us his son, who is the great high priest after the order of Melchizedek. His son, who is the only high priest who is made by the power of God's oath. It is not as though God decided, after seeing all of our sin and our death, that he gave us a high priest with the power of an endless life. It is not as though God had to wait to see what could what we would do with Christ so that we could give He could give us the high priest we needed, one who was wholly, harmless, and innocent. No, it's none of that. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit designed the high priesthood of Jesus Christ. with all of its perfect particulars, resulting in blessing, salvation, justification, sanctification. And the triune God designed this atonement. In eternity before the foundation of the world He eternally decreed such a salvation and worked it out in human history and time by his providential care Even through the use of second, third, and umpteenth causes. All so that God gets the glory. And so you might be saved from your sins and made holy in God's sight, so that you might have a great high priest who is fit for you. Upon whom you can cast all your cares because he cares for you. He was designed to care for you. Incredible, is it not? Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God, expand our understanding of your word, especially, Lord, as we have opportunity to think about the wonder of Your redemptive work in Christ Jesus, how that impacts us. Lord, even though we benefit from that work, help us not to be too man-centric in our thinking. Let us think about let us think about you and um and what it is that you did And let us have our hearts and our minds open to see who you are and how you work. Granted with an understanding that the secret things belong unto God, and we're not proven there. But, Lord, as you help us understand you more So we pray, oh Lord God, our love and devotion to you will grow more. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.