You turn in your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel. We'll continue our study this morning in chapter 26. I believe that's on page nine hundred and eighty-eight of your pew Bibles And we'll read the first sixteen verses there. Jesus has just described his return to his disciples and the final judgment. And now we read this. Let's give attention to the Word of God. When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples, You know that After two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified. Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas. And plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. But they said, Not during the feast, let there be lest there be an uproar among the people. Now, when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, a woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of very expensive ointment. And she poured it on his head as he reclined at table. And when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste? But this could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor. But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me. For you always have the poor with you, but you will not always have me. In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her. Then one of the twelve, whose name was Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests and said, What will you give me if I deliver him over to you? And they paid him 30 pieces of silver. And from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him. As far as the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God As we read of Jesus' path to the cross, we ask Lord that you would Work on our hearts. That you would powerfully by your Spirit convict us, Father, of sin. of the need for continued reformation. And that by and through your word preached, you would transform our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What is your heart filled with this morning? Jesus was and is very concerned with your heart. If you remember as we began studying this gospel of Matthew The first sermon preached by Jesus, as Matthew records it, we call the Sermon on the Mount And as he begins that sermon, he begins by saying again and again and again, blessed are, blessed are, and he's referring to the heart. And what he's saying is those who have these kinds of hearts will be in heaven. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Jesus was very concerned about the heart. And that doesn't stop with the Sermon on the Mount. It continues. As Matthew continues to record his gospel, it continues even in this passage that we have before us. this morning. As we know, Jesus has left the left the temple. He's on his way to the cross. He has told his disciples that they need to prepare for his return, and he's used those two Parables, the ten virgins, five who were prepared, five who were not, for the return of the bridegroom, and then uh the parable of the talents As the master had left and he puts to work, so to speak, the three servants, and two of them put the talents to work and one doesn't, and he praises the two that put the talents to work and he condemns the one who didn't. Jesus was teaching his disciples of their need to prepare for his return and to work until he did. And then we came to that passage in which Jesus described the final judgment. His return will include the final judgment. Not exactly what the disciples were contemplating. That brings us to our text this morning. The preaching and the teaching of Jesus on the preparation for his return, the signs of his return, the judgment of his return, the effect of his return is over. That's complete. Now Jesus reminds his disciples of the coming crucifixion. And those who will be involved in the events leading up to his being nailed to the cross. Here in this passage this morning, we have three different people. The chief priests who plot to kill Jesus, the woman who has this perfume or ointment. Which she uses to anoint his body for burial, and then Judas, who betrays him to those who would see to his death. Three different kinds of hearts. set forth in this passage before us. We might sum up the teaching here and seek to open it up with three documents, but this seems to be the the overall meaning of the passage that Jesus transforms some sinners through the cross, such that they are able to love him with their whole heart. Jesus transforms some sinners through the cross such that they are able to love him with their whole heart. We'll see that in three heads or three doctrines this morning. First, some have hearts filled with hatred. Some have hearts filled with love. And finally, some have hearts filled with worldly desire. As we go through this passage this morning, again, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question, what fills my heart? Well first, some have hearts filled with hatred. Consider the first two verses here in chapter 26. When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples, You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified. Now this is not the first time that Jesus has spoken of this. He did it back at what we have is chapter 20. After he finished the parable of the laborers in the vineyard, he tells his disciples, We're going up to Jerusalem, the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes. They will condemn him, deliver him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. He will be raised on the third day. This statement by Jesus here at this point is not new information to the disciples. It would not have been surprising. They've heard it before. But they didn't seem to understand it the first time he said it and probably didn't understand it this time either. So why is it here? It seems that it forms the backdrop. This repetition, this statement, this rehearsal by Jesus of his coming crucifixion sets the backdrop For what's to come. In a sense, the rest of Matthew's gospel, from this point forward, is all about the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And so this declaration by Jesus, this reminding his disciples that he will be delivered up to be crucified, sets the backdrop for everything, every event, every interaction that's to come, up until he gives up his spirit. It's helpful to see everything in the light of the cross. The self-sacrificial, the atoning work of Jesus. the unthinkable and unanticipated demonstration of the love of God for his people. So that's the approach I'm going to take this morning. But these first two verses set the backdrop to everything we're going to read this morning and going forward. So Jesus has told his disciples, now he's headed to the cross, he's headed for the crucifixion. And notice the first group of people that he describes here. As Matthew records it. Then the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered in the palace of the high priest, whose name was Caiaphas. He's a group gathered together, a group of powerful religious, if we can use that word, men, leaders in the church. Chief priests, the elders, they gathered together. These are, so to speak, the kings, the princes of the Israelite nation, the people of God at that point in time. They are the rulers of the religious estate of the people of God, and they've gathered themselves together, forming this group, this assembly. Those who oppose Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the anointed one, the Messiah, the Christ, it must remind us of Psalm 2. That's why we read it this morning. Why do the nations rage and peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together. Psalm 2 says there's this gathering of the powerful people, so to speak, who are taking counsel together. They're gathered together. And that's exactly what we have as we read this passage, the chief priests and the elders of the people gathered. It's an assembly. But this not merely reminds us of Psalm II, of taking counsel together. It's Psalm II unfolded and played out, at least in part. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain against the Lord, against his anointed? The kings of the earth gathering together to oppose God and to oppose his anointed. That's exactly what was happening at that very moment as the chief priests and the elders gathered themselves together. They were fulfilling the prophecy of Psalm 2. Not that it wasn't fulfilled in other places, but certainly here. These chief priests, these elders were not for Jesus. They were not for his ministry. No, they were against Jesus. They were against his ministry. They were against God, just like we have in Psalm 2. And what was the plot? What was the plan? Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. Cast away their cords. Freedom from our Maker. That's what the kings wanted in Psalm 2. That's exactly what the chief priests and the elders wanted. Plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him. Freedom So why? Why the gathering? Why the plotting? Why the desire to kill? Those questions should immediately come to our mind. They were gathered together for the purpose of opposing Jesus Christ. We get that, we understand that. But you may be thinking, well, this isn't the first time we see that they these religious leaders were opposed to Jesus. We see it throughout Matthew's gospel. Yes, of course. But this is different. This is a unique gathering of all the chief priests, all the elders. It has one purpose to rid themselves and the nation of this Jesus. But why? What stands behind this? Why do they want to kill Jesus? Why do they want to rid themselves of him? And especially as it is set against this backdrop of Jesus voluntarily laying down his life on the cross for the people of God, for their sins, to atone for their sins. That they might be made clean and blameless, to be spared the eternal wrath of God. That's the backdrop, and we have the desire of these men to kill Jesus. Against that backdrop, why would these religious leaders These chief priests gather together for the death of Jesus. It must be found within their hearts That's where the answer is. This meeting, this gathering, the hearts of these men, these chief priests, these elders, these religious leaders, their hearts are open now for everyone to see Their disdain, their abhorrence for God, and for the things of God, and thus for his word. is so great that the only thing they can think of, the only topic that comes collectively to their minds is the death of the Son of God The one who is sent to gather the fruit from his father's vineyard. Remember that parable? Finally, he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the tenants saw them, they said to themselves, Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance. And so these tenants, these religious leaders, would have no part in the giving of their fruit to the rightful owner. These religious leaders of the day had so corrupted their view of the temple and of the worship of God, of his sovereignty and of his son, that they only saw the Son as one who had come to take away that which was rightfully theirs. They had declared the temple, a complete transformation of the temple, from that which served God to that which served them. And so they rejected the Son. Because he had come to restore the temple, to collect the fruit for his father. And so to hang on to their positions, their titles, their honor, to hang on to their pride, their sinful pride. The only choice they had from a sinful world view was to rid themselves of the Word of God, to rid themselves of the Son of God, to silence the one. Who would rightly take the temple from them? And so their hearts were filled with hatred. In one sense there was nothing other than hatred for God and for his son within their hearts. They despised the Word of God, they profaned the name of God, and they would not hear of anything other than death to this Jesus. Merely stopping their ears to the proclamations of the preaching of this Son of Man was insufficient. It wouldn't do They needed to put the word to death so that he would no longer speak. So that he would no longer be heard. So that the word would no longer ring in their ears. You see the contrast to Jesus' heart? You see why I think Matthew has set the backdrop of the cross to this gathering of the chief priests who were willing, desirous to sacrifice Jesus? At this point in the history of redemption, Jesus was willing to sacrifice everything. All that he is, all who he is, everything that he has. including most especially his intimate relationship with his father. Jesus was willing to sacrifice his purity, if we can put it that way, as he heads to the cross. Jesus is willing to sacrifice his close relationship with his disciples, his friends, as he knows that his path to the cross will cause them, each one of them, to leave his side, to flee from him. And Jesus is willing to sacrifice the peace of his heart, as he knows that Judas, the one whom he had ministered to Whose feet he would wash would betray him But these men, these chief priests, these religious leaders are unwilling to sacrifice anything of what they think they have, even though in reality They have nothing of what they think they have. You see the power of the love of Christ here It comes out, doesn't it, as we as we look at the chief priests and the elders and see their hearts against the backdrop of Jesus' heart. Brings us to our second point. Some have hearts filled with love. Now this woman is said in contrast to both the chief priests, the elders, the high priest, the disciples, even Judas. As Matthew records the act of this unnamed woman, look at verse six Now, when Jesus was at Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, a woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at the table. It seems to be unconnected, but this event is directly connected to the theme of the cross. Jesus tells his disciples, in pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial This event is directly connected to the cross. And as he in Hamilton puts it as he preaches on this passage, he says, Look, this this woman is sandwiched in the middle of these two bookends The book ends being the chief priest who seek to put Jesus to death and Judas who's helping the chief priest She's in the middle, she's bookended by the wicked. And so Matthew records that She comes to Jesus with an alabaster flask of very expensive ointment. Assuming that John records the same event in in chapter twelve of his gospel, he says, Mary therefore poured a pound of expensive ointment made from pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume Think of that just for a minute. The ministry of Jesus continues, even though he's on his way to the cross, he's in a leper's home. Now, most likely, as some commentators put it, the leper was probably healed at that point, because there's a gathering in his house. But it demonstrates Jesus' love, doesn't it? That he would go to this house of this one, maybe who he healed, likely, but the one who was in need of a physician and who received received that physician's care, meaning the care of Jesus Christ. That's the backdrop. It's part of the backdrop, isn't it? And in that backdrop This woman who is unnamed here in Matthew's gospel takes this ointment or this perfume which is very expensive that's noted by everyone there, everyone recognizes it. Very valuable, and quite a lot, as John notes, a pound, an extreme amount. I don't know much about perfume, but my understanding is it just takes a little bit of it to make a person smell like the scent in the bottle. But here the so much was used that the house was filled with the fragrance. Anointing Jesus' body. The significance of what has happened or what did happen that day is captured by Jesus' statement, Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what she has done will also be told in memory of her. Why would the whole world remember this unnamed woman? It seems to be because of the symbolism of her act. And notice the disciples' reaction. At this point they can join the crowd of the chief priests and Judas as far as the reaction is concerned. They're indignant. Why this waste? This could have been sold for a large sum, given to the poor. Mark records that they scolded the woman. They consider the use of this very expensive ointment or perfume on Jesus' body to be a waste. In other words, Jesus wasn't worth it. They clearly were not of the same mind, or more accurately, of the same heart yet. As was this woman. She obviously didn't consider this use to be a waste. This was her very expensive ointment or perfume. And she had a lot of it. And her heart led her to pour it out on Jesus. You see, it's it's the crucifixion that stands behind this passage. And it's the crucifixion which which is the meaning of this passage. And it's the crucifixion which leads this woman to do what she did. It's the crucifixion which fills her heart with love for this one who would go to the cross It's the love of Christ expressed on the cross at Calvary that stands behind this passage that works in the heart of this woman to bring her to the point where she can take this very valuable ointment And we don't even have a concept of of how valuable it was, but she takes all of it and pours it out on Jesus' head and feet and body And so the message of this passage is is really the message of Christ's love, isn't it? Ian Hamilton preached the way that way. I think I would agree with him. Many times we get absorbed with This woman and and who she was and what she did and and what a good thing she did, but this is all about Christ. This is all about Christ's love We need to see that. We need to see how the cross is there. Constantly there behind all these events, especially this event, which led this woman. To give all this very expensive ointment to Jesus. Preparing him for burial. Brings us to our third point. And some have hearts filled with worldly desire. In a sense, this brings us to Judas. We'll come back to this woman in a moment, but we need to talk about Judas. We need to see this passage that speaks of Judas and his desire to betray Jesus Christ. This is a third type of heart that's shown forth in this passage. The the chief priests and elders have a particular kind of heart. The woman was heart was filled with the love of Christ and now Judas demonstrates a a third kind of heart. As he goes to the chief priests and offers up Jesus. The woman pouring the ointment or perfume on Jesus' body separates the priests and Judas for a moment. But then Matthew joins them together. As Judas provides that with the ch which the chief priests needed. The defector, the betrayer. And so while the chief priests were bent on ridding the world of the word, which spoke against them and against their traditions and against their positions. Judas's heart was focused slightly differently and fixed upon what riches he could receive in lieu of and instead of continuing his communion with Jesus. In other words, Judas' heart was fixed upon the world and the things of the world. It reminds us of the parable of the four soils. Judas seems to be the third type of soil. Other seeds fell among the thorns. And the thorns grew up and choked them. Remember there are four kinds of seeds. One fells by the roadside, and the birds come and snatch it away before it penetrates. The other uh is is burned up in the sun, the roots aren't deep enough. And now this third type it falls among the thorns. And the thorns grow up and choke them. And Jesus takes this analogy and he says, as for what is sown among the thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but he care the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches Choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. Even though the seedling begins to grow, ultimately the seedling is choked out by the weeds and thorns which it's growing beside. It was a picture of the heart where the word is heard, and yet the lust for the things of the world choke the word. Judas is an example of that kind of heart. Judas received and was the beneficiary of the preaching and the teaching of Jesus Christ. For three years, Judas received that. And then we see here in this passage that Judas allowed the word to be choked by his desire for money, for the things of the world. And so while we see an alignment with the chief priest, and thus a complete contrast with the woman, Judas's heart was set upon his personal gain. The woman was set upon Jesus and gave up what she had because she had been given Jesus. Judas desired the 30 pieces of silver as opposed to his fellowship and friendship with Jesus. Judas was willing to exchange that fellowship with Jesus for 30 pieces of silver of silver. Exodus 21 tells us that that's the price that the owner of an ox who gores a slave is to pay the slave's master. Thirty pieces silver. That's what Judas received to betray Jesus Christ. An extremely small price. For that extremely small price, Judas was willing to give up all that he had in Jesus. To barely fill his pocket with silver. So one like the woman who was willing to give up much to honor Jesus, Judas was willing to give up Jesus in exchange for very little. Think about how Jesus' heart compares to Judas's. What was Jesus' desire in comparison to Judas' desire? Jesus' heart was was set upon and filled with his desire for fellowship with his Father. We see that throughout the Gospel of Matthew. Jesus' desire was to be in communion with his father and union with his father and fellowship with his father. It was Jesus' love for his father that overrode everything. Yes, Jesus cared for the physical. We see that as he cared for people by healing and providing food, even wine at the marriage feast. But that doesn't seem to be what moved Jesus. That's not what Jesus' heart was filled with. He was filled with his love for his Father. That's what set Jesus apart. That's what sets Jesus apart. Certainly that's what separated Jesus from Judas. What about you this morning? As we look at Judas, his third kind of heart, one which is bent, inclined, and filled with the desire for material things, worldly things, the temporal things, the temporal creation. Is that your struggle? You see, God didn't create all things for you to set your heart upon them. No, he created this earth as a dwelling place for you and to provide for you so that you would then be able to fellowship with him. See, that's the purpose of everything. Do you understand it that way? Do you understand your bank account that way? Do you understand your refrigerator filled with food that way? See Jesus did. Nothing within the Gospels, nothing within Matthew's Gospel tells us that Jesus set his heart and mind upon his physical needs. Just the opposite. Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. And as the disciples return going to get food, and Jesus had been talking with the Samaritan woman at the well, he tells them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me to accomplish his work. Does that describe you this morning? Have you looked deeply into your own heart to examine it? Are you selling Jesus? Are you trading Jesus for the things of this world? I would assume most of you are saying in your hearts right now, no, no. Consider for a moment we have two services here at this church. One in the morning, one in the evening. Some of you are in the routine of coming to one, but not the other. I know that some are providentially hindered. But for you who are not, you might want to search your heart. Are you trading Jesus for something that you've determined is more valuable? Meaning maybe you're trading evening worship for something you consider to be better. I'm speaking of a choice. But you found something better than joining the assembly in evening worship. The same can be applied to spending time in prayer, in private prayer, in private reading of the Bible. If you're not engaged consistently in those things, and we all can do better, have you found something better? Judas, at the moment he received the 30 pieces of silver, found that the silver was better than fellowship with Jesus. Friends, we must examine our hearts, not just with regard to these two examples, but with regard to everything. How are we walking day by day? Is it in furtherance of our relationship, our fellowship, our communion with Jesus Christ? Or is it our desire for worldly things? I want to leave us this morning with this thought. We all struggle. We all struggle with seeing that there may be things that are better than Jesus. But you see, this woman who anointed Jesus had come to the conclusion that he was so valuable to her. That he would give up, she would give up this expensive ointment, this pound of pure nard, because Jesus worked in her heart. See, that's what happens to the hearts of some as Jesus works upon them. Recognizing that Jesus went to the cross, this woman, identified by John's gospel as Mary. Knew that Jesus was headed to the cross for her. Now did she actually know that's exactly what was happening? We don't know But Jesus has said that he's going to the cross, he's going to be crucified. Maybe she was listening, but more likely she recognized that Jesus was indeed able to and was forgiving her sins. You see, that's what Jesus does when he opens the heart of the eyes of people When sinners are unable to see Jesus Himself going to the cross for them, it changes everything. Who can place a value on the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ? You see, when you realize Jesus' precious, infinitely valuable blood was poured out for you. Doesn't that change what you love? Doesn't that change how you value worldly things? Doesn't that change how you look upon all of creation? Doesn't that cause you to release your grip and long for Jesus Christ? I think that's the message here in this passage. I think Jesus is driving that message home again and again and again. Yes, Jesus transforms some sinners to the cross such that they're able to love him with their whole heart Jesus cares about the heart. So much so that he transformed this woman. Transformed her heart. He filled her heart with his love. Oh, that the Holy Spirit would continue his work in us. Fill up those spaces in our hearts. But the love of Christ hasn't taken hold yet. Could you pray with me? Father and our God, we confess before you that at times we value the creation in such a way, we grip the creation in such a way that we we neglect Christ. And so we ask, Holy Spirit, that you would take that which you've done in our hearts, this conversion, this change, this regeneration, and and that you'd continue filling our hearts with the love of Christ. We confess there are gaps, there are holes, and we stray And Father, we're not asking that you make us like this woman. Father, we're asking that you would continue to fill our hearts with the love of Christ. As a Holy Spirit, we ask work powerfully enough. Help us to get our minds off of the world. And not only to follow Christ, but to be filled with His love. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.