You turn your copy now of God's Word to the prophet Joel. As we start our study tonight, we'll be in that first chapter. I think you'll find that on page 903 of your Pew Bibles. It's just after Hosea, the first of the minor prophets. Let's give attention now to the reading of the very Word of God. The word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel. Hear this, you elders, give ear to all inhabitants of the land. Has such a thing happened in your days? Or in the days of your fathers. Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and the children to another generation What the cutting locust left, the swarming locust has eaten. What the swarming locust left, the hopping locust has eaten. And what the hopping locust has left, the destroying locust has eaten. Awake, you drunkards, and weep, and wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine, for it is cut off from your mouth. For a nation has come up against my land, powerful and beyond number. Its teeth are lion's teeth, and it has the fangs of a lioness. It has laid waste my vine, and splintered my fig tree. It has stripped off their bark and thrown it down, their branches are made white. Lament like a virgin wearing sackcloth for the bridegroom of her youth. The grain offering and the drink offering are cut off from the house of the Lord. The priests mourn The ministers of the Lord, the fields are destroyed, the ground mourns, because the grain is destroyed, the wine dries up, the oil languishes. Be ashamed, O tillers of the soil. Wail, O vine-dressers, for the wheat and the barley, because the harvest of the field has perished, the vine dries up, the fig tree languishes Pomegranate, palm, and apple, all the trees of the field are dried up, and gladness dries up from the children of man. Put on sackcloth and lament, O priests. Wail, O ministers of the altar. Go in, pass the night in sackcloth, O ministers of my God. Because grain offering and drink offering are withheld from the house of your God. Consecrate a fast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land of the house of the Lord your God and cry out to the Lord, Alas for the day. For the day of the Lord is near, and as destruction from the Almighty it comes. Is not the food cut off before our eyes? Joy and gladness from the house of our God? The seed shrivels under the clods. The storehouses are desolate. The granaries are torn down because the grain has dried up. How the beasts groan. The herds of cattle are perplexed because there's no pasture for them. Even the flocks of sheep suffer. To you, O Lord, I call For fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and flame has burned all the trees of the field, even the beasts of the field pant for you because the water brooks are dried up, and fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness. As far as the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Are you praying? Our Father and our God, as we begin this important prophetical book, we ask for help. The things that we've just read are difficult for us to grasp or to picture or to understand. And so we need the Spirit. We ask Holy Spirit, work powerfully in us tonight, guiding and directing us. That we would not merely see this as an event that occurred many, many, many years ago, but that we would see it and understand that as that which applies to our lives even now, even today. As those who seek to follow Christ, as those who seek to know Christ better, help us. Help us, Lord, to see Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen. Is there a need for humility in your heart? As I ask that question, I want you to consider the Apostle Paul and that passage that we read earlier this evening from Romans chapter 7. Romans is a book which is referred to as the gospel, Paul's gospel, that he's providing to the saints in Rome. He's writing to them of their wicked estate in their sin, their need for salvation, and the only way of salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ. That they're justified by faith alone, and that works will have no bearing upon whether or not they enter into glory. Paul has assembled this gospel of his, which he's preaching, and he wants to share it, and he has shared it, with the church in Rome. But then he gets to chapter 7. And in chapter 7, Paul confesses for in fact the whole world to see that he was a sinner. I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Consider again where that passage is found, the great apostle Paul. Writer of somewhere around thirteen letters contained in the very Word of God, the one who is inspired by God worked in by the Holy Spirit to to proclaim the very Word of God now confesses that he was a sinner. He's humbling himself, admitting, indeed, before the world, before the entire body of Christ, that he was a sinner. And that he needed Christ. Consider who he points to in his humility. Thanks be to God. Through Jesus Christ, our Lord. That seems to be a good introduction to our text this evening as we begin to open up this prophetical book with the English title of Joel. We understand that it was Joel who wrote this book. That's what we have in the very first verse, the word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethwell. We don't have much more information about Joel than that statement itself and the book that he wrote. As far as when he wrote this, many commentators are divided on the exact timing. But uh as far as one commentator is concerned, he wrote this sometime around eight hundred and thirty BC, or during the kingship uh of Joash. in the southern kingdom. It's not quite clear who it was addressed to, whether it was the Northern Kingdom or the Southern Kingdom. We know that it was addressed to elders. He writes that in verse 2, hear you elders, give ear all inhabitants of the land. So it wasn't merely to the elders, it was indeed to the whole church. Put on sackcloth and lament, O priests, wail Oh ministers of the altar, he's writing to elders, he's writing to ministers, he's writing to priests, he's writing to every single inhabitant of the land. And the focal point of the entire prophetical book seems to be written in the second chapter. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble. For the day of the Lord is coming. It is near. A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thickness. That seems to be his focal point, why he's writing, to explain to those who would read this, to explain to the addressees, to the church. But the day of the Lord is at hand. Judgment is coming. For the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? He wants them to know that it will not be a pleasant day for all of those who are outside of Christ. In chapter 3, he writes, I'll gather the nations and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat, the valley of judgment. I will enter into judgment with them there on behalf of my people, my heritage Israel. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. There will be a day of judgment. And he again repeats that throughout this short prophecy. Yet he also wants to know, wants the people to know that God is merciful. In chapter two we'll read, Return to the Lord your God, for he's gracious and merciful, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love. He relents over disaster. And the Holy Spirit will be poured out. It shall come to pass afterwards. I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh. And see, he is prophesying about what is to come in the future, not only what has happened to these people in that particular day, and that there will be restoration. The first chapter begins with destruction. But Joel, as he proclaims God's word, promises Restoration. The Lord is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel. We could say to the church. And in that day the mountains will drip sweet wine and the hills shall flow with milk. The stream beds of Judah shall flow with water. A fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord. Quite a contrast with what it we begin with tonight in chapter one. In chapter one, the prophet recounts of a locust invasion. Some commentators don't believe that it actually happened, but it seems that he is he's proclaiming actually a a supernatural event. Devastation upon devastation. Even look at verse 4. What the cutting locust left, the swarming locust has eaten, what the swarming locust left, the hopping locust has eaten, what the hopping locust left, the destroying loc Küstersieden complete and utter destruction. Again, a supernatural event that hasn't happened before. Verse 2, has such a thing happened in your days? Tell your children of it. He wants them to see that the Lord has brought about this physical destruction. And that this is an event that needs to be told and retold and retold because of the spiritual fallout. You see, it wasn't just a physical matter. There was a spiritual event occurring. There was a cutting off Of the people from the house of God as a result of their sins. Such as the prophet calls out, calls the people to return to God, to cry out to the Lord, to assemble themselves together. And humble themselves. Tonight, as we look at this first chapter of this prophet Joel I want us to see that a sincere, humble heart enables a sinner to experience joy and gladness in the house of God. A sincere, humble heart enables a sinner to experience joy and gladness in the house of God. We'll see three doctrines underneath that head. First, the material effect of sin is destruction. Secondly, the spiritual effect of sin is separation. And finally, the desired effect on sinners is humility. Well, as we go through this first chapter tonight, I want you to be ruminating, asking yourself that question, is there a need for humility in my heart tonight? That brings us to our first point. The material effect of sin is destruction. It's clear that the people to whom Joel writes are in sin. Unrepentant sin. Remember his audience, give ear, you elders, give ear all inhabitants of the land, awake you drunkards. Verse 5, weep and wail, all you drinkers of wine. Verse 11, be ashamed, O tillers. Wail, O vine-dressers, verse 13, put on sackcloth and lament, O priests, wail, O ministers of the altar. Clearly The inhabitants of the land are in unrepentant sin, drunkards, be ashamed, put on sackcloth, lament. And then possibly the the centerpiece of the entire book is what that's what Joel is getting to, return to the Lord. You've strayed. That seems to be the idea. Certainly in this first chapter, the people have strayed from God. They have sinned and they remain in their sin. Necessitating this message, this word from their Lord, their God, necessitating this destruction as they've strayed. And the prophet is calling the people back to the Lord, causing them to look upon what has happened as a result of their sin, and reminding them That God is a chastising father. As a good father, the Lord disciplines his children, and that seems to be exactly what's going on here. as the this four swarms of locusts come in and devastate the land, the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives Hebrews chapter 12. And so we see there are consequences that flow from disobedience or being in sin as a child of God. We saw this very thing at the fall from grace in the garden. The Lord had provided an abundant garden for Adam and Eve to live in, to exercise dominion over. He'd given them the trees, all the trees, with the exception of one, to eat from. A beautiful place, a place where he could meet with them, commune with them, and then as a result of their sin. Adam had ruined the garden. He had defiled it. Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. The entire land destroyed, so to speak, because of Adam's sin. And he's removed from it He's removed from his defilement. He's driven out. And the Lord placed the cherubim and the flaming sword at the entrance, guarding the way to the tree of life. That very thing seems to be repeated here as Joel recounts what was happening in the land The abundance had been removed. Discipline was being meted out, passed out, doled out, dished out by God What the cutting locust left, the swarming locusts has eaten. What the hopping locusts left, the destroying locust has eaten. Not just one invasion Four different swarms, four different kinds of locusts. I didn't even know there was more than one kind, ensuring complete devastation of the crops. And if that were not clear enough, now Joel provides a description of the result of those four swarms, those four separate invasions. It has laid waste my vine and splintered my fig tree. Those two things that the Israelites just relied upon As an illustration of how they'd been blessed sitting under my vine. Eating figs from my fig tree. Now it's been stripped bare, thrown down, branches made white. The devastation is so complete that the ground cries out Verse 10, the fields are destroyed, the ground mourns, the wine dries up, the oil languishes It's a powerful, strong, and painful sign that the people are being disciplined, they're being chastised. A description of the material, a physical chastisement, the people being disciplined in their material welfare, their abundance being removed. In a sense completely before their very eyes. The Lord will not allow them to remain in their unrepentant sin in comfort But this material picture of this devastation provides an image, a picture of their spiritual estate, doesn't it? It's a picture of the spiritual estate of the Israelites, whether it's the northern kingdom or the southern kingdom, or maybe it's both. They'd been stripped bare of their love for their Savior. Don't you see that? It has laid waste my vine, splintered my fig tree, that stripped off their bark and thrown it down, their branches are made white. That idea of being removed from the vine, the branches are dying as a result of their disconnection from the Lord. The ground cries out, it mourns, the granaries are torn down because the grain is dried up, the beasts groan, the cattle are perplexed, the beasts of the field pant. But the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness. But the problem is the people weren't seeing. See, the ground mourns, the oil languishes, they're personified, as Joel writes about them, but the people are blind. You see, sin puts one to sleep. Awake, you drunkers. They're drunk with sin. Sin blinds one to reality. Is not the food cut off before our eyes? Joel was saying, wake up! Look at what God has done. The food's been cut off because of your sin, because you don't repent. Have you experienced that kind of effect of sin? A besetting sin? Have you been blinded? Maybe you're thinking, no, this really doesn't apply to me. But it does. This passage serves at least as a warning to every single Christian. What is it that keeps you from falling into blindness as a result of your sin? What is it that keeps you from entering into dark hallways? Not seeking Christ. It's only the Spirit. It's only your pleading and petitioning God that He would keep you from such things. That he would allow you to escape from besetting sin, that the Holy Spirit would continue his work of sanctification within you. Yes, this is a warning tonight. We can each, outside of Christ, fall into blindness. So we need to keep petitioning Christ to intercede for us, that He would keep our eyes open by the work of the Spirit. Convicting us constantly of sin, helping us to recognize it and turn from it and repent. That brings us to our second point. The spiritual effect of sin is separation. Well, we know the Lord is concerned for the spiritual. He's certainly concerned for the physical well-being of his people, but he's more concerned for spiritual well-being. Here we see the physical set forth for us. But we know that Jesus was so concerned for your spiritual well-being. In fact, as we're going through Matthew and Chapter 18, we just recently have read Jesus' preaching, if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off, throw it away. It's better for you to enter life, crippled or lame, than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire. He's so concerned for your spiritual well-being. He's telling you to remove that which causes you to sin, even if it were to make you lame. Jesus' concern for your spiritual well being is the utmost He desires you to see his glory. And if you remain in your sin, you can't. We tend to think or consider that the material things or physical things or health, our shelter, our food, are the most important. But the Lord Jesus Christ consistently pointing his disciples and those he came in contact with the to the spiritual aspect of their existence, didn't he? Think of Nicodemus. As Nicodemus comes to him and And tells him that he knows he's from God. Jesus says, you can't even see the kingdom unless you're born again. And Nicodemus immediately goes to the material. How can I be born again? And when I'm old, how can I enter into my mother's womb again? And Jesus says, No, you're thinking wrong. I'm talking about your spiritual well-being. Think of the woman at the well. She is fixed upon getting water out so she can quench her physical thirst. Jesus is saying, if you knew who it was who asked you for a drink, you would have asked me and I would have given you living water. And she's still fixed upon the water. her mind upon her body. And Jesus says, no. No, I want you to fix your mind upon your spiritual being. Make no mistake, the living God was teaching his people as a good father here. in Joel's day, that their daily choices, their transgressions, their idolatry, their neglect of him had spiritual consequences. You may say, well, where is that here in this first chapter? Consider the grain and wine. Be ashamed, O tillers of the soil. Wail, O vine-dressers, for the wheat and the barley, because the harvest of the field has perished. And so is the wine. The grain offering and drink offering are withheld from the house of your God, verse 13. Well that's critical. That's critical for worship. You see, grain and drink offerings were no longer possible as the locusts had now destroyed these crops. And now the people, the priests, can no longer offer the morning and evening sacrifices because they didn't have the grain. They didn't have the drink offerings. In Exodus chapter 29, we learn That there were two offerings to be offered daily, a morning offering and an evening offering. And the morning offering was to be a first lamb. A tenth of a measure with that first lamb, a tenth measure of fine flour, grain offering, mingled with a fourth of a hint of beaten oil and a fourth of a hint of wine for a drink offering. They were to go together The same thing was to happen in the twilight offering, a grain offering, and its drink offering, as in the morning, for a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the Lord. How could they perform their daily offerings? Their daily sacrifices would not be complete. Their worship would not be acceptable in the sight of God. Do you see the result? Well you say, well, yes, the result was famine, physical hunger, and that likely it was, but that's not the emphasis. Joel is emphasizing the house of our God. It's been mentioned four times in this first chapter. That's the point. That's the theme. The corporate sin of the people cut them off from true worship as called for by God. It cut them off from the house of God. There will be absolutely no entry into the house of God when your hands are filthy with sin. And so as we think of the grain and the wine being destroyed, they couldn't worship in the way they were called to. And then hear this. Verse 16: Is not the food cut off before our eyes? Joy and gladness. From the house of our God. You see, joy and gladness was cut off, it was terminated. This is radical. We tend to consider that joy and gladness are directly connected to our material well-being. But in this single verse, the prophet connects the people's joy and gladness not to the food. But to being in the house of God, or in this case, the ability to truly worship Him. And because the grain and the wine were cut off, they couldn't any longer truly worship the living God. They couldn't truly enter into the house of God because the daily sacrifices could not be fully and completely performed. Their joy and gladness was in the house of God, and they couldn't get in. Do you think that way? Do you consider that? That there can be no true joy and gladness outside of the house of God? We might tend to connect our joy and gladness to our bank account or our retirement accounts or our family relationships. Or our success at work or school, or even recreation. But in the house of God, in worship? Absolutely. Indeed, the only place where true joy and gladness is found is in the house of God. Moses writes that in Deuteronomy. You shall seek the place that your Lord your God will choose out of all your tribes to put his name and make his habitation there. There you shall go. And there you shall bring your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, your contributions, and there you shall eat before the Lord your God, and you shall rejoice. You and your households, in all that you undertake, in which the Lord your God has blessed you. Moses was saying there's going to be a place for you to meet with the living God, a place to bring your offerings. And that's where you're going to eat before the Lord. That's where you're going to rejoice. He didn't say you're going to rejoice at home. He didn't say you're going to rejoice when you're with your family. Now, yes, we do rejoice with our families, don't we? But that's not where true joy and gladness is found. It's found in the house of God. Psalm 43, then I will go to the altar of God to God my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with a liar. The psalmist knew that God was his exceeding joy. And then we have that wonderful passage in Psalm 84, how lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts. My soul longs, yes, faints, for the courts of the Lord, my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God. Blessed are those who dwell in your house. For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness, for the Lord God is a son and shield. Where else can you find your life? Do you think of that? That God is life? That Jesus Christ is the light of the world, he's the life of men. Where else could you find the joy and gladness? But in the very Son of God in Jesus Christ. See, isn't that what David understood? One thing I have asked of the Lord that I will seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. That's where joy and gladness is truly found. Brothers and sisters, Sometimes we're looking forward to the end of the Lord's day Sometimes we're looking forward to the end of the worship service so that we can get on with shopping or sports or just spending time with the family. And that's not an exaggeration. Consider the people of God in Nehemiah's day. In the very last chapter of that book, Nehemiah has to admonish the people because they were treading wine presses on the Sabbath. They were bringing heaps of grain and loading them on donkeys on the Sabbath, and wine and grapes and figs and all kinds of loads they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath And so what does he do? He locks the gates. You can't bring him in on the Sabbath. And so what did the people do who wanted to sell? The merchants and sellers of all kinds of where's lodged outside Jerusalem Waiting for the gates to be opened, waiting for the Sabbath day to be over so that they continue with selling their goods Nehemiah warns them, why do you lodge outside the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you. And so he stations guards. I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves and come and guard the gates to keep the Sabbath day holy. Brothers and sisters, we think our joy and gladness is connected to our physical well-being, our material well-being. Was that not the error of our first parents? When the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that was delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit and ate And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. They were looking at the material, the created world. I thought that's where their joy and gladness would be found. Brothers and sisters, I think it's I think it's reasonable to call us all to repent. Our corrupt hearts need reformation. And that's exactly what the Lord was doing in Joel's day. He was calling them to be reformed. He was separating them from their true joy and gladness so they would miss it. And come running back to him. Let's plead that the Lord would reform our hearts, that we would see that the only place of true joy and gladness is in the house of God, with our Savior, even Jesus. That brings us to our third point. The desired effect on sinners is humility. This is a mere glimpse to the day of the Lord. It wasn't. This destruction wasn't the day of the Lord, but it was a precursor. For the day of the Lord is near, verse 15. It was called God called for it to be for a desired effect on the people. Put on sackcloth and lament. Priests, wail, O minister of the altar, go, pass in the night in sackcloth. It was a call to humble themselves. Sackcloth was an expression of mourning, and so was lamenting. Sackcloth was physical. Lamenting was vocal, a vocal expression of mourning or sorrowing over their sins. To humble yourself is the first step in true repentance And then he told them, Consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders, all the inhabitants of the land, to the house of the Lord your God, and cry out. You see the congregational nature now of their estate, of their sin. Fast That was clearly a means of humbling themselves along with a sackcloth and lamenting, a way of denying themselves that which they had rejoiced in. Voluntarily giving up that which had led them to sin as they considered their grain and new wine as more joyful than being in the house of God. The call was to come together as an assembly, to come back. It's a noteworthy call by the prophet. Return. Return to seek the face of your God. Come back together as a congregation, as an assembly before the living God. Call out to him, cry out to him, humble yourselves before him. The desired effect. Paul knew. Paul knew of his condition That which apparently the people of Joel's day were blinded to. Paul knew that nothing good dwells in me, meaning in my flesh, as he had the desire to do what was right, but not the ability to carry it out. And Paul knew what he needed as he humbled himself. Who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ, our Lord. See, that's the desired effect. Of the supernatural event. God was calling his people to humble themselves before him. Do you are you humbling yourself before the living God? If Paul, the apostle, the inspired apostle, can say, With my flesh I serve the law of sin, we know we can say that ourselves as well. Paul was humbling himself before the world. Are you humbling yourself? Jesus did. Not in the same way. There's a sense that Jesus Couldn't draw near to his father without humbling himself. And so Paul records In his letter to those at the church at Philippi, have this mind among yourselves which is Christ, which is yours in Christ. Who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant being born in the likeness. of men. And being found in a human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. You see, it's Jesus' humble heart, his contrite heart, which enabled him to obey God to the point of death, even death on the cross. There's no locust plague tonight. But the desired effect is the same. God, through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is calling us To have that mind in yourself, which is yours in Christ Jesus. That mind of humility, that mind of confessing your sins, recognizing how you have offended a holy God, humbling yourself before Him and recognizing who it is you need The Lord Jesus Christ. Call tonight is to humble yourself before Christ. Yes, a sincere, humble heart enables a sinner to experience joy and gladness in the house of God. Jesus Christ certainly knew what it was to humble himself. As he did, Paul followed. And I think tonight, as we read this first chapter in Joel, we can see the desired effect that God intended is for his people to humble themselves before him. That they then would be able to experience and know true joy and gladness of being in his house. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, this is in a sense a very difficult passage to read. It seems that, Father, there is no joy in this first chapter, but that's just not the case. As Joel was pointing the people who would receive this prophetical book to where they could find true joy and gladness. Oh Holy Spirit, help us. Help us to learn. Learn from this statement, this revelation of the history of redemption. Help us to, Father, take this to heart. Help us to know that God desires us to humble ourselves before Him through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh Father, we're weak and frail. Help us to cast off our prideful hearts. So that we might indeed enter your house and fully and completely enjoy The joy and gladness of being in communion with you. We ask this in Jesus' name