Encourage you to turn with me now in your copy of Scripture. If you did not bring a copy, there should be Pew Bibles there. And I'll read from the book of Acts, chapter 8, verses 1 through 25. And inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching For reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Since that is so, let us now hear, not simply hear, but heed. Follow, prayerfully ask the Lord to imprint upon our hearts the truths of this His Word, that we might not simply have heard them, but we will now act upon them. The book of Acts, Acts, chapter 8, verse 1 and following. Saul was in hearty agreement with putting him to death. And on that day, a great persecution began against the church in Jerusalem. They were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, excuse me, except the apostles. Some devout men buried Stephen, and made loud lamentation over him. But Saul began ravaging the church, entering house after house, and dragging off men and women, he would put them into prison. Therefore, those who had been scattered went about preaching the word. Philip went down to the city of Samaria and began proclaiming Christ to them. The crowds with one accord were giving attention to what was said by Philip, as they heard and saw the signs which he was performing. For in the case of many who had unclean spirits, they were coming out of them, shouting with a loud voice. And many who had been paralyzed and lame were healed. So there was much rejoicing in that city. Now there was a man named Simon, who formerly was practicing magic in the city and astonishing the people of Samaria, claiming to be someone great. And they all, from smallest to greatest, were giving attention to him, saying, this man is what is called the great power of God. They were giving him attention because he had for a long time astonished them with his magic arts. But when they believed Philip preaching the good news about the kingdom of God in the name of Jesus Christ, they were being baptized, men and women alike. Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized, he continued on with Philip. And as he observed signs and great miracles taking place, he was constantly amazed. Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the Word of God, they sent them Peter and John. Who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit, for he had not yet fallen upon any of them. They had simply been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Then they began laying their hands on them, and they were receiving the Holy Spirit. And when Simon saw that the Spirit was bestowed through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money. saying, give this authority to me as well, so that everyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have no part or portion in this matter For your heart is not right before God. Therefore, repent of this wickedness of yours and pray, the Lord, that, if possible, the intention of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness, and in the bondage of iniquity. But Simon answered and said, Praise the Lord for me yourselves, so that nothing of what you have said may come upon me So when they had solemnly testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they started back to Jerusalem and were preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. This is God's true word. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you give us examples in your word from Both the Old and the New Testament of what we read today. We have not changed. Men and women have not changed from that time we are yet like this. We are yet sinners in need of your grace. Oh Father, we pray that you would cause us As do the people there who receive the gift of salvation, the gift of the Holy Spirit, you would cause us to be joyful and appreciative, likewise as they were. And let us learn from the power of negative example, of how not to be, of the example with Naaman in the Old Testament, and the example of Simon in the New, a people whose greed obscured what should be joy over the gift that comes from God And Father, in the preaching of your word, I pray that you would, for your people here present, in their listening, that you would edit out any errors of human wisdom that they might hear. And you might for them enable them to remember and act upon that which is true from your word. I asked this, and we asked this. Jesus' name. Amen. Well unfortunately this What this passage talks about here today is not a rare occurrence That is a sad thing. It would be nice if I could we could look at this kind of example. We could look at the example from the Old Testament and the New Testament of somebody trying to get something for themselves out of out of out of out of God's word. We wish that we could you could point to it as some historical example that has not been seen for generations. Sadly that is not that is not so. You can turn on the TV and have somebody tell you that if you If you call now you can get this prayer cloth that he prayed over, uh if you send a certain amount of money to him. And that kind of nonsense. I even saw something where uh Jim Baker of Jim and Tammy Faye Baker fame of some thirty plus years ago, thirty-five years ago Now, uh was selling some kind of health medicine or something. I'm not sure what it I'm not sure what it was. I'm not sure if it was blessed by God or whatever But just as there is joy of salvation then and there was joy of salvation now, there was greed then and there is greed now. But that that that accompanies that accompanies us men and women just like Our sin accompanies us wherever you go. I remember hearing somebody once talk about how things were bad where they were and people didn't you know, people, you know Um they knew uh knew his reputation, things were tough for him, etc. etc. And he thought, well maybe I should just move and go someplace else. I heard the person say in response, he says, The problem is that wherever you go, you go there too. I mean you're the same person unless unless you change. Unless you change Unless you turn away from the sinful desires and behaviors, it will repeat wherever it is you go. Well, here in the lesson we have today, in the passage that we have today This wonderful one that starts off with the wickedness of those who are persecuting the church. Um it reminds us we we can look back to the very beginning of the whole book of Acts, the whole book of Acts starts With Jesus leaving the disciples. Jesus ascending. He's been with the disciples again. He resurrected three days after the crucifixion. And he stays with them for some thirty days. He's he's seen by by hundreds, by I think by a couple thousand. And it open, you know, the book opens with his words with sort of a blueprint for evangelization. Verse 8 of chapter 1. He says, You'll receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. And you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria. It's like concentric circles further and further away. You know, even to the remotest part of the earth. So in other words, basically everywhere, my word will spread through you. But of course, the outreach of the church wouldn't have even gotten past Jerusalem if it had not been initially through the an act of a wicked act of wicked men. The death of Stephen that happens just before this. after which people scattered because of the persecution, brought about the spread of the gospel throughout that region. The opening verses of chapter 8 talk about this where we have the death of Stephen. He just died. Persecution breaks out, and then people are scattered through Judea and Samaria. Well, if somebody was just saved by God, if somebody just had their sins forgiven by God, if somebody who'd who'd been who'd been sick or ill or lame Or deaf or dumb or who knows what, and they've been healed by one of the apostles, or by Jesus a c a year ago, or something like that. If all of a sudden these people are scattered, do you suppose they might say something about it where they move to? Well, of course. If that had happened to you, of course you would tell someone else. And that's what happened. Now there's there's huge opposition and we have Paul you know it talks about you know Paul ravaging the church And Paul himself boasted about this in in chapter twenty-two, verse four of Acts. He says, I persecuted the way, meaning that's what they called the early Christians the way. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. They referred to those who followed him as the way. He said, I persecuted the way to the death. Binding and putting both men and women into prisons. So it's it you know we have the church being attacked and hunted, but then We have this spread, and two wonderful things happen. The gospel invades Samaria and and fulfilled the second step in Christ's blueprint, Judea, Samaria, the outermost parts of the earth And it goes out with amazing spiritual power, just like Jesus had promised. He had said that would happen, and it did. So as we look at the spread of the gospel into Samaria, we see many people experience spiritual power. And some people become channels of it, and others seek it and we're denied it. But in looking at this, it points at how it is As God's people, we can acquire and continue to experience the power of the Holy Spirit. Learn from these lessons. Well, the first thing we see is the spread of the Word. The spread of the Word, verses 5 through 8 here. The miracle begins with Philip. And now this is not Philip the Apostle, but Philip the Deacon, one of the seven Greek-speaking men appointed to serve the widows in Jerusalem that we looked at last. time. And as a Hellenistic or Greek-speaking Jew, he was not especially welcome among many in Jerusalem. They wanted the people who spoke Aramaic, which is sort of the the, for them, the modern-day version of Hebrew. And so and as a Christian, of course, he was less welcome amongst other people as well. So when the persecution begins, Philip the Deacon goes off to Samaria. And you know, it says, those who have been scattered went about preaching the word began proclaiming Christ to them. I mean, these are not technically ministers, but they're people who knew something of the gospel. How'd they know it? Because it the gospel was their lives having been changed. Let me tell you about what happened to me. So he here it is, you know, he may not have realized what a big deal it was sharing the gospel there, but he He he begins to do it. The Holy Spirit is basically breaking new ground. And it's interesting part of the miracle of what's happening here, it isn't simply that that sinful hearts are being changed, but it's the fact that it's the Samaritan. I mean we've heard expressions about if this is a church out somewhere out west, this might hit home even better. But if when you think about people out west, remember having the old stories of of you know, Native Americans and stuff. Sometimes you were here to refer someone referred to as the half breed. And somebody was like half breed, is like half Indian, half something else. And sadly you have people refer referred to with other ethnic groups. Half one ethnic group, half some other ethnic group. So neither fish nor fowl kind of thing Well here Samaria was a was an area that Jews down in Jerusalem just hated. Why? Well because in 721 the Assyrians took control of Israel, the northern kingdom which is where Samaria is, and they took them off to Assyria, and Jews intermarried while they were there with the Assyrians. They were not supposed to do that. You're supposed to stay with Jewish believers. But they intermarried. So when in 587 And in 587, the people of the southern kingdom, Judah, were taken captive into Babylon. The Lord blessed them by leading them to be more faithful. They did not intermarry with local Babylonians. So when the Jews come back to their homes, when everybody's able to come back from basically being taken off into exile, it was interesting. I was actually talking to a woman uh yesterday who had a thing around her neck that An image and she said she said it's um Cyrus the Great. Cyrus the Great. She said, yes, I'm from Persia. I said, oh, Iran. She said, yes. And she she had a picture of Cyrus the Great. But of course he was the he was the one who allowed the people to return from the exile. So all these people were way off in Iran or somewhere near Iraq, that kind of that kind of area. And then they were able to head back west. to to Jerusalem. But the Jews, Samaritans, once everybody moves back, you have the people the descendants of the Southern Kingdom people in the South and descendants of the northern kingdom people in the north. Well the ones up north are were thought of as half-breeds. Because they had been marrying Assyrians. And the Jewish rabbi said, let no man eat the bread of the Samaritans. For he who eats their bread is as he who eats swine's flesh. Of course, Jews did not eat any pigs. A popular prayer in those days was, and the tagline at the end was, and Lord do not remember the Samaritans in the resurrection There's love your neighbor as yourself, not not. You can be sure the Samaritans, many of them, felt the same way about the Jews. I mean, remember the story when Jesus meets this woman at a well. Where was it? Samaria. That's the Samaritans. And that's in fact why when Jesus tells the story about the Good Samaritan, it's like, what do you mean good Samaritan? There aren't any good Samaritans So I mean that's not the way they looked at these people. So, I mean, why was Philip's preaching so successful? He's a Greek-speaking Jewish Christian. And the Hellenistic Jews were tolerated but not accepted by Hebrew-speaking Jews. And as Christians, they're sometimes disowned or neglected, as we saw in Acts 6. So this may have fostered a kind of kinship you're on the outs with those guys too. You know what it's like to be looked down upon by by those you're supposed to be part of the group. And, you know, along with that, Philip's Christ-centered message discounted the importance of the Jerusalem temple. Which of course Christians should, because once the one toward whom the temple was pointing came, Christ, the final sacrifice The temple veil, remember how when Jesus died, the temple veil was torn in two. The entrance to the Holy of Holies was now opened. Basically it's God could have had an earthquake he did, but he could have had one so strong the whole temple collapsed. It might as well have. Because there was no longer any reason to ever offer a sacrifice at the temple again. The final sacrifice. sacrifice had come. And so he discounts the temple, and and Samaritans thought, great, we didn't really care as much about the temple a anyway. I mean That was pointing back to an error there over the years. They should have come down to worship at the temple until the Messiah came. But um It's interesting. They wind up hearing Philip say that Jesus was fulfillment of prophecy. And of course that makes sense. Deuteronomy 18, 15, Moses says, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me. And that's thought of as Jesus. So socially and theologically, the Samaritans were open to Philip. It's like, tell us, you know, tell us what this what you know about this man Jesus And I think he fared better than the apostles would have. Obviously, God brought the right man to the right people at the right time, so it would work. Primarily, however, I think Philip preached with power. Why? Because he loved Jesus. And of course, as we know, he only loves Jesus because Jesus loved him first. And only those who can only those the Those only can love God who have been first been loved by God. We love because He loved us first. And He and He was not an apostle, He was not a big shot He was in fact a refugee, as it were, in a hostile environment. You know, kicked out by the persecution. And he might have liked to have stayed in Jerusalem if he could have, but once he's in Samaria, he was so full of love for Christ that he could not tell he could not stop telling people about Jesus. He'd tell you about Jesus. You know, his power came from a heart love for Christ. And before he knew it, he had a revival on his hands. Miraculous power was his. So the word is spreading Next thing we see is the work of the Spirit, verses 6 and 7. It says, you know, verse 6 says, the crowds with one accord giving attention to what was said. You know, many had unclean spirits, they were coming out of there being cast out. Many people who've been paralyzed and lame are healed. All this happens. And verse 8 says, So there was much rejoicing in the city. Well I would think so I would think so. I mean remember what happens when that woman at the well was talking to Jesus. He just simply looks into her, and he, of course, being omniscient, knows her past. But, I mean, he just looks into her and she realizes he knows things that somebody who doesn't know me could not have known. He must be from God. And then she goes and tells other people. So there's a way in which God had fertilized the land before Philip got there. He had planted seeds before Philip got there. Philip got there. And now they're coming to great growth. And so there's vibrant spiritual power that's happening here in Samaria. And the power is especially evident in its effect upon Simon the Sorcerer. Or Simon the Wizard, whatever you want to call him, Simon the magician. Who formerly was practicing magic in the city, astonishing the people of Samaria, claiming to be somebody great. And all of a sudden, in comes somebody really doing it. It's one thing to pull rabbits out of a hat. It's one thing to pull a whole bunch of napkins out of your pocket of different colors and have it like never-ending. That's interesting, that's neat. Or make something go poof. It's quite another when you have somebody who everybody has known as for the last 22 years has had a bad leg. All of a sudden have any Another thing when you have somebody who's in their fifties who's never been able to see, and you know it. Everybody sees them every day in the town square. And all of a sudden he sees. That's a lot different. That's not magic. That's God. You know, it's a modern expression. I've heard some people say it's a God thing. That's that's that's God. That's not that's not that's not that's not you know, that's not, you know, pen and teller or something And verses 10 and 11, they referred to him as the great power of God. And Simon obviously loved the attention as a magician. But of course, when he wind up seeing Philip, he knows things are different. He knows something is different here. And um obviously the crowds and everybody else around him saw things different too. And he may well have thought, if you can't beat him, join them. Don't know. And Simon, you know, he he winds up making a public profession of faith and was probably baptized. But we you have any sense And it says he believed, but we've got to be careful looking at that because of things said later about him in the text. Because you remember the expression Where it says that the demons believe and they shudder. To say believe does not necessarily mean a born-again belief. He may have had, as the cliche goes, head knowledge. I'm not always happy with the idea of the head knowledge, heart knowledge uh description. But nonetheless, for him, it may have been a kind of belief, but it was a very superficial one. And so here you know here we see we for Simon where you wonder what's going on because of what he wants to do. And of course that's obviously why I chose what I read in the Old Testament. We have a mirror image of that kind of behavior. And uh and it's interesting, you know, we have reason to think that he did not come around Because subsequent history and legend portray Simon as an archvillain of the early church. Irenaeus, a church father who lived in the late 100s, says he was the father of Gnosticism And what we have here is the devil trying to join the church. And as as Paul, you know, no wonder, because Paul says in 2 Corinthians 11, 14, Sat no wonder for even Satan disguises himself as an angel angel of light. Therefore it's not surprising if his servants, Satan's servants Disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, whose end will be according to their deeds. So his conversion, as it were, made a vast impression on the Samaritans And you know, they think, wow, even this guy who's the big magician here, he became a Christian, isn't that neat? And it seems to think that like the power of God is great. And of course it is But Simon shows himself to be maybe not changed. And Verses 14 through 17, we wind up having the gift of the Holy Spirit coming upon people. And again, this winds up, we see this during the early part of the church. Where you have Jesus Himself first, and then of course the apostles. Not all those who follow Jesus, but the apostles, and obviously here for Philip the Deacon, in this particular place You basically get it's almost like having having validation from God or a calling card. You know it's from God because this this can happen. And sort of breaking the initial ground in these different areas So here he has this power. And the and the the apostles hear about these people have been converted, and they wind up saying, you know, let's go check it out, find out what's going on. And when they find when they get there, they find out, yes, everything's as it was described. The believers are genuine, and they had not received the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. So they laid hands upon them. They imparked the Spirit. And the apostolic bestowal confirms that the Samaritans were not second class believers, which would have been the normal response of Jews, even God fearing Jews, even Christian, formerly, you know, former Jews. And so for Simon, this was maybe a dazzling display of power, and he seems to want to try to grab it. So here we have the work of the Spirit changing the Samaritans, but then the last thing we look at here is the greed of a man. Great of a many. If you look in your own heart, you can imagine yourself acting like Simon, I think, for many of us. Maybe not lately. Maybe it's been years since you've been like this Maybe you can look at it and go, yep, I can see myself possibly doing that now. But verses eighteen and nineteen, he said, Give this to me so that those I lay hands on. Well, why does he need to do it What is he going to do it for? And instead of asking, and the thing is, instead of asking for the Holy Spirit himself, please send the Holy Spirit upon me That I might be more godly. Send the Holy Spirit upon me, that I might know the fullest blessing by God, able to be used by Him for His service. Not send the Holy Spirit upon me So that I might be able to turn away from sin and wickedness. No. He said, Will you give me the power to do it too? It was almost like he wants the franchise Can I do that? Can I do it too? I'll have the Holy Spirit give her a franchise, whatever. And you know, he thought he could buy the authority to bestow spiritual power on others. And we can laugh at this, but other Christians have believed this too. In church history, it's actually, you would actually, if you look in the old in the old church history, it's actually referred to as simony. That's taking the name Simon and putting a Y on the end. It's named after him. That's not a good thing. That's like calling somebody a Benedict Arnold. You know what you're talking about. He's a traitor. Talking to somebody who's a Judas, a betrayer. You know, likewise, here, this is a this is a bad thing. And one historian I read said the church became part of the state at the time of Constantine's conversion, early 300s. And simony was practiced, but increased in the buying of church offices and benefits. A bishop's office could be bought for so much money. The same was true of an archbishop's office, a cardinal's hat, a church living in the churches and in monasteries. And finally it gave rise when all over Europe at the time of the Reformation, uh what they called indulgences, which is sort of buying time off people be spending time in purgatory or whatever Which is not in the Bible, but don't pay any attention to that. But paying money to the church to get spiritual benefits I mean, we can point to some of some of the same thing that happens today. And like I say, I mean you can change you can flip channels. You know, and you there are now hundreds to look at. And you can find people selling little pe cloths that they've prayed over, and things like this. That's not what that's not God would that's not how God works. That's not how God acts. He wants his people to give because his people want to give. We're encouraged to give cheerfully But if we're truly seeking to follow the Lord and do what he says, we want to give. He who has given us so much, how can we not give Of course we can give. It's almost like the Apostle Paul talks about at one point how some people were so generous in their giving for the need in Jerusalem that he almost basically said, You have to slow down. Stop giving so much. They were wonderful At the time, at one point in the temple in the Old Testament, Josiah was collecting funds for the rebuilding of the temple, and they got way more than they needed. So God's people, we want it, we want to give. But we're not giving it because we're bought we're buying God off. And we're not giving and and the person who serves God in his church is not doing it so that he can be paid a lot of money. Sadly, there's some pastors like, I need a fancy car to do God's work, or I need a little jet to jet around and do God's work. Like, you know, it might be that if you're doing God's work it's possible that you might you might fly a little bit here and there. But I mean, no, I mean that's not what you're about And Simon should have realized that God does not belong to the magician's union. Peter's response to Simon was firm, but he told him the truth. He says, may your silver perish with you because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. And Peter's answer ended with grace as he explained that Simon had a heart problem. You have no part or portion in this matter. In other words, like. I don't care what you said yesterday or if you walked up an aisle last Sunday or if you signed some register someplace, your list your name is in the list of people for this church, you have no part or portion in this. Why? Because your heart's not right. You're showing me by what you're asking that you don't really know God. You don't really understand. You know, that's not what God would God does not lead somebody to to talk that way and to ask for those kinds of things. He then follows by saying, I see you're in the gall of bitterness And the bondage of iniquity. A person who is truly the Lord, hearing that from one of the Lord's servants, of all people, the Apostle Peter. Should be basically almost like fall to his face on the ground and say, God, you know, please pray for me that I would turn from my wickedness and live. Cause the Lord to show me my sin I mean the gall of bitterness suggests wretchedness. Bondage suggests that that Simon was a prisoner prisoner of his own sin. Basically he'd not yet been saved. Because a person who was yet a bondage to their sin is is a statement about all unbelievers. We're all prisoners of our sin before We're saved. We're only able to not be once our hearts are changed. And Peter goes all out for his soul when he says in verse 22 Repent of this wickedness of yours. Repent isn't just some, I'll jit up repentance. I'll make myself repentance. But I mean, if if someone's telling you to repent What they're doing is basically telling you, throw yourself upon the Lord's mercy. Ask that He would show you truly and fully what your sin is, that you might hate it. And ask the Lord, and ask the Lord to bless you with repentance because you can't make it yourself, that you might be good, and enable you to turn from that sin and follow I've always thought it like it's almost like like a flat line thing and you have a dial that pivots at the middle All the way one way is sin, bondage to bondage to sin, and repentance is turning the dial the other way. It's now 180 degrees opposite of what it was before. Now sadly we flo- we fluctuate over here because we still sin. But over there, we're pretty much locked over there. Until the Lord changes it. And then we're able to follow. We're able to obey. He says, repent of this wickedness of yours. And then he says, and pray, pray, Lord. Pray to the Lord if possible. The intention of your heart may be forgiven you. Make me yours. Have me want the things you want. Have me hate the things you hate, Father. And unfortunately, Simon may never have repented. We don't know. Just like the rich young ruler, we don't know what happened to him. I mean it's one of those things I don't know so much about what what what heaven will be like. And there's the questions I have now I wonder what the answers are. I could find them out in heaven. I don't know if I'll think about it when I get there. I think my focus will be away from those questions. But nonetheless, it's one of those things you wonder, is he there? I don't know. His replies, we don't know how strong this is. Pray yourself. Ooh, Peter just told you to pray, and you're telling him, no, you do it Well, you may want Peter to pray for you, but if he's suggesting or directing you to pray, I think you should be doing that. And he says nothing so that nothing of what you said may come upon me. Well of course he doesn't want that to happen. Of course he doesn't want those bad things to happen. I mean, he only seemed to be slightly moved by Peter's rebuke, and he doesn't pray for forgiveness, but he asked Peter to do it for him. I mean yes, I want someone else to pray for me, but I I need to pray to the Lord myself. If I'm His, He I know the Father will hear me. And if I'm unwilling to pray, maybe I know better about my condition Then I'm letting on. Like I know he won't hear me. Now his light now his name lives in infamy in history. anyway, Semine. What do we learn from all this? We learn some wonderful things. The gospel has astonishing effects The gospel has astonishing effects. I mean it's so so neat yesterday I was I was actually in a driver's I was in a driver improvement class because a few months ago I was in too much of a hurry driving to church to preach. over in Virginia and got a speeding ticket. So I don't get points. I went to a driver improvement class yesterday with a bunch of other people, most of whom are younger much younger than I am I am. And I was there and there was a map on the wall behind the instructor. And I you know I looked at it and I the the bodies of water at the top and the bottom had some script in them and I couldn't quite I it wasn't in English. And I looked at it and saw and I have a decent knowledge of geography. I said I said, is excuse me, is that Iran? Or Iran Um she was actually glad I knew how to pronounce it better. Um and she said, Could you read that? I said, No, it just sort of looked like the side I've seen pictures and that and that's And I wound up learning that she had come I don't know when she came to faith, I think since coming to this country. But she and her family had basically fled there around the time of the revolution forty something. Some years ago. And she she may be she might have a child as a Christian, but and she's she calls herself a Christian as well, but she has some questions. And I was there for a better part of an hour after the class chatting with her and trying to help her with some some Some sounds like she's sort of going down some odd paths in some ways. But just chatting with her. But here we have Here we have the result uh in a in a dark place for many, Iran. Um people are coming to faith in Christ there even today. And people did years ago, even though it's a largely non-Christian land. So the gospel can and will reach anywhere Uh it's i in China. I understand the underground church, as it were, is exploding. God can use it, we saw here, God can use a layman like Philip. I mean he's not a full layman, he was a deacon We obviously saw what Stephen the deacon was like. But, I mean, he's not per se the man who's normally taught to be the main teacher. as pastor or even an elder in the church. And yet obviously he he he wanted to share and he did share. And he influenced this whole area, Samaria, for Christ. And people were healed. I mean yes you had the you had the the as it were symbolic healing of people with with who were lame who And so, you know, any of us can become fountains of divine power. Right where we are, being used in simple things like this with sharing. With people you know in your family who don't know Christ or or doubt the Christian gospel. Share with them, share them with them what you know. We also learn that spiritual power cannot be bought. We should know this, but I mean, you know, it's it we can forget it. You know, and you can help you understand who's a false teacher. Somebody whose emphasis is is upon you know that they live high on the hog as a quote-unquote minister And they're talking about selling trinkets and baubles as though that's a symbol of their interest in you. That's, you know, shy away from that person. Shy away from that pastor because people want to make money on the gospel. Philip's power came from the fact he loved Jesus. Not because he was sort of handing out the ability to bring healing and things like that. As a nineteenth century Scottish Christian named Alex McLaren wants put it, a heart right in the sight of God is the indispensable qualification for all possession of spiritual power or of any blessings which Jesus gives. Heart right in the sight of God. Is your heart right in the sight of God? I mean you hear the old expression, sometimes people still use it today, because somebody is very old, somebody's very ill, somebody's close to death. Are you right with God? Well, I mean that's just it. Are we right with God? Because the human heart, any man or woman, boy or girl, once they're old enough to think about it, you think to yourself, What if there's a God And I know I've done things wrong. How what how does that where am I with God when if all of a sudden I I went to God. I mean, that's at core. That's our big thought and fear. Is there a God? And if there is, how does how I live square with Him? Well, there is an answer to those questions. There is a God and this is who he is, and and the Bible confirms our diagnosis about ourselves, the right and wrong of la of things in life. And there's a and he gives us a way. We can know him. We can be right with him. And it's because of what he's done, not because of us. Um because of what he is because of what he did So have your heart right with God. Trust in his power. And ask to be used. Lord, use me. Give me a circumstance. Give me a circumstance. I wasn't expecting the opportunity yesterday to chat with this woman and hopefully be used by God to strengthen her faith or pull her into that direction. It just it just happened and and there it was. But I also pray that the Lord gives me opportunities and circumstances and situations, and so he happened to give me And he will do that for you as well. And again, you can be you're you're a non-minister just like Philip wasn't a minister. But he can use you. Just as wonderfully. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the history of your church. What we read of how you worked in people's lives in the past, you have a man, the king of Aram, who praises God for what you have done for The servant naman, your name is praised by people who come from pagan backgrounds. You have a people who are discriminated against because of the errors of their ancestors. Discriminated against at times by your people. And yet you bring the word to them because your word is for all men and women across the world. O Father, cause us to know and to see that this gift, which was free for us, is free for others as well, but it comes to them They may first hear it, may first hear truths about it. Through people like us. Father, cause us not to be scared or nervous. Or even with the fear and the nervousness To still go ahead and share. Because it may well be, and oftentimes you will bless that. Oh, please do that through us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.