If you turn in your copy of God's word now to the prophet Joel, I believe that's on page 528. I may be wrong about that. Nine hundred and six, I was close. Prophet Joel, we'll be reading there tonight in verse one of chapter three through the sixteenth verse. Let's give attention to the very word of God. For behold, in those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem, I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat. And I will enter into judgment with them there, on behalf of my people and my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them. among the nations, and have divided up my land, and have cast lots for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine, and have drunk it What are you to me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you paying me back for something? If you are paying me back, I will return your payment on your own head swiftly and speedily. For you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my rich treasures into your temples. You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks in order to remove them far from their own border Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them, and I will return your payment on your own head I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the peoples of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabaeans, to a nation far away, for the Lord has spoken. Proclaim this among the nations. Consecrate for war. Stir up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near. Let them come up Beat your plowshares into swords and your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, I am a warrior. Hasten and come. All you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves there. Bring down your warriors, O Lord. Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat. There I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the wine press is full, the vats overflow, for their evil is great. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision. For the day of the Lord is near, in the valley of decision. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. The Lord roars from Zion, and he utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earthquake But the Lord is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel. Amen. Praise be the Lord. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, as we come now As we continue to learn about the day of the Lord, the day of judgment, we pray that you would strike at our hearts, that you'd convict us, Lord God. Convict us of how you call us, even us, to prepare now for this coming day. Work in our hearts, Father. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, how are you preparing for the day of the Lord? Think of the thief on the cross, the two thieves, one on either side of Jesus Christ. One of the criminals who is there As Luke records it, railed at him. Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. How is he preparing for what he was about to experience? The day of the Lord, the day of judgment, his death. But the other, who we might be even more familiar with, rebukes this thief, acknowledges that he was rightly suffering the condemnation of men. And then turns to Jesus and asks that he be remembered as Jesus comes into his kingdom. Well, we might think that that thief's life, prior to that point in time, was not lived in preparation for the day of judgment. We see at that very moment. Something had happened, a change that caused him even in that very, very short bit of time, To prepare for the coming judgment, asking that Jesus would remember him. Tonight's text in Joel really is asking us that question: how are we preparing for the day of the Lord? Joel has been writing much about the day of judgment, the day of the Lord. It began in the first chapter as he writes of the invasion of the locusts upon locusts upon locust, the devastation that had occurred in the land that that no one had ever seen before was a picture of the coming day of the Lord, coming judgment of God, which he opens up in chapter And he likens the day of the Lord to an army, an unstoppable army, which comes and invades, which cannot be stopped, which cannot be repelled. Which will bring judgment upon all. But then Joel provides comfort as he once again reveals to the people of God, once again telling them that he is a gracious and merciful God that He calls them even at that point in time, and that's what Joel was doing. Return to me, calling his people back to him in light of the coming judgment of God, in light of who God was and is one who abounds in steadfast love, calling them to blow a trumpet, gather together, seek the face of God. And we see even there in chapter 2 that the Lord relents and sends them grain and new wine. But that's not the end of the prophecy, is it Now we have this passage before us this evening, which tells us that the Lord will gather all the nations and bring them to the valley of judgment. Tonight, as we go through this passage, I'd like us to see that the reality of the day of the Lord should move Christians to show the love of Jesus to the lost and dying. The reality of the coming day of the Lord should move Christians to show the love of Jesus to the lost. and dying. See three heads here, three truths, three doctrines that I'd like us to focus our minds upon tonight. First, judgment begins at the household of God. Secondly, judgment continues with all nations, and finally, judgment ends with destruction and refuge. Well, as we go through this passage, keep that question before you in your mind, in the front of your mind, how am I preparing for the day of the Lord? Well first, judgment begins at the household of God. Think of this prophecy of Joel, if it were taken up by someone outside of the church, or in in Joel's day, someone outside of Israel, one of the surrounding nations, somehow his prophecy gets into their hands And they're reading this prophetical book, and they begin reading the first two chapters, and they're likely concluding that Israel is in trouble. That the God of creation was not pleased with his people and he would judge them. In fact, he had judged them by Bringing the locusts upon them, devastating their land, everything gone, unable to truly worship because the The grain and the wine that were required for worship was devastated. God had poured out his judgment, his temporal judgment on his people. They had been his focus. Everything had been on the people of God. It's as if this uh island of Israel was afflicted with God's wrath. No one outside of Israel was suffering in the same way. And so this one who's reading Joel's prophecy, it had not yet opened up chapter 3 Might be thinking that he was safe. I'm out I'm outside of Israel. All of this is coming upon the people of God Judgment does begin with the house of God. And I think that's exactly what Joel was bringing to the people of God. Judgment begins with you. That's exactly what Peter writes in his first epistle. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial. It comes upon you to test you As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice as you share Christ's sufferings. As he goes on, he says as Time for judgment to begin at the household of God An interesting statement, a truth for Peter to bring forth. It's time for the judgment to begin at the household of God. It would seem that Peter was relying, at least in part, as the Spirit was moving him, on Joel's prophecy. Because that's exactly what Joel brings forth to the people of God. If God's judgment begins in his own house, the locusts swarm destroying all, and then the coming day of the Lord is linked to the locust invasion. It's a biblical truth. Judgment begins with the household of God. Have you experienced it? I think we can all answer yes to that question. We've seen it here in this church. If we think of discipline as the judgment of God, we have seen it here. We've seen members disciplined. We've heard of it as disciplinary cases have made their way through the Presbytery and up to General Assembly. This is one means, one way used by the Spirit of God to judge his house. But have you experienced it personally? Now we're not speaking of judgment in terms of the ultimate final judgment of God, the wrath of God being poured out. That's not what we speak of. And that's not what Joel was writing of as he opened up his first chapter in the locust invasion. So have you personally experienced the judgment of God? It must include tonight chastisements, afflictions, maybe trials and tribulations that have been brought to your door by the living God. In a certain sense, that can certainly be thought of as God's judgments, seeking to cleanse and purify you. As a father disciplines his children, your heavenly father disciplines his sons and daughters, of whom he cares so much for that he would take the time. So to speak, from a human perspective, and the effort from a human perspective to lead you back. And so judgment begins with the house of God. At this point, we should be asking that question, why is that? Why is that judgment begins in God's house with God's people? You might think as if you're older like I am and as you grew up uh you you had friends at school Maybe in your neighborhood, and you saw that some of them had really good behavior from your perspective, and then others didn't. Kind of running wild. And you might have thought at that point in time, well the well, the parents of this one really have have led and disciplined this child in such a way that they would have a behavior which is honoring and And good. And the parents of this one, whose behavior was not good in your eyes, who misbehaved and didn't treat you well. You might have thought, well, their parents really didn't care for them and discipline them such that they would have this kind of behavior. Isn't that what God does with us? Isn't He a good heavenly Father who disciplines his children? In such a way that we would have that kind of behavior which brings glory to Him and which the world is watching. Isn't that part of the reason that God's judgment begins in his house? That the world watches the house of God and is affected by it. We looked at Acts very briefly. This morning, at the end of Acts chapter two, we saw that Day by day, continuing one mind in the temple, breaking bread from house to house, the church the church was taking their meals together with gladness and sincerity and selling their possessions, giving to all as they had need. And what happened The people around them were affected. They saw the love of Christ working in the hearts of these people, that they saw the discipline of the Father working in them. They had favor with all the people, and many were saved. Yes, the world watches the house of God. And so judgment begins there, but even more so, God is cleansing and purifying his house in preparation for eternity, isn't he? If we were to turn to Revelation, in the last two chapters of Revelation, we have that description of the new heavens and the new earth. And as John receives this vision, receives this revelation, he's told, Come and I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb, and he carried me away to in the spirit to a great high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem coming down from heaven, from God And he continues. By its light will the nations walk, the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day. But nothing unclean will ever enter it. Nor anyone who does what is detestable or false. It's a description of the people of God as they enter into their final dwelling place. Isn't that why judgment begins with the house of God? Because he is preparing a people to live with him for eternity. Well, that brings us to our second head. The judgment continues with all nations. We're following Joel's prophecy now. Look at verse 2 of chapter 3. I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat, and I will enter into judgment with them there. The judgment of God arises as a result of disobedience. And now it seems that Joel is referring to the final, ultimate judgment of God. We see we see the truth that the judgment of God results from disobedience throughout Scripture. We saw it immediately in Genesis 2 as Adam and Eve uh we're about to sin against God and he tells the man uh in the garden that he may eat from every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat from the day that you eat of it you shall surely die Judgment arises as a result of disobedience. In Leviticus, we read: But if you will not listen to me and you will not do all these commandments, if you spurn my statutes, if you abhor my rules. Then I will do this to you. I will visit you with panic, with wasting disease, with fever, and to consume the eyes and make the heart ache. In Deuteronomy in chapter 28, after God goes through the blessings that the people will have if they obey him, then we enter into all of the curses. Which are multiple. If you will not obey the voice of the Lord your God, or be careful to listen to his commandments, cursed shall you be in the city. Cursed shall be your basket, your kneading bowl. Cursed shall you be when you come in, cursed shall you be when you go out, and it goes on from there. This idea of judgment of God is throughout the scriptures, from Psalm 1 to Isaiah. Therefore the wicked will not stand in judgment. He will judge the world in righteousness, for God will bring every act to judgment. The Lord of hosts will be exalted in judgment. Some may attempt to confine the judgment of God to the Old Testament, but that's a mistake. That's an that's erroneous. God is unchangeable. He is a God who will bring forth his pure and perfect judgment. It will be satisfied. Think of Ananias and Sapphira. As they sell their property and they bring the proceeds or portion of the proceeds to the apostles and represent that this is everything. What happens is they keep some back for themselves and seek to lie. I told you you've not lied to man but to God. Immediately, Ananias breathes his last. Judgment as a result of disobedience. And yet this judgment is that which is denied. First by Satan, as he Engages with Eve in the garden, you shall not eat the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden. This is what God said to her. And the serpent said, You will not surely die. Satan, seeking to deceive Eve, misleads her and denies the judgment of God. Some will even question today, how can God be a loving God and also a God who judges? Isn't it out of love that our God judges? Well here, it cannot be denied that God will judge. It's throughout all scripture And in this passage we see the judgment will be for all. It seems to be the thrust of this passage. For that one who picked up this prophecy and was reading it and who was outside of Israel and thought he was safe as he gets to chapter three, he says, Oh my Judgment is for all. I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat. I will enter into judgment with them there. Joel plainly states that there is this coming day. He begins this chapter and saying, For behold, in those days and at that time he's referring to the same day that the Lord would judge Israel, the church. The same day he'll also judge the nations. When the nations who have opposed God and his people will be judged, every single person descending from Adam by ordinary generation. Into every human being except for Jesus Christ, every nation, every people, every tongue, every tribe, every language Whoever was, whoever is, and whoever will be, will be gathered together in one place to stand before the throne of God to give an account for everything they've done. There will be a great assembly of all who confess God as Maker and Lord, of all who refused to submit to the Lord Jesus Christ and denied obedience to the living God. Everyone gathered together and judged. Isn't that what Jesus writes of, what he speaks of, as he preaches in Matthew 25, when the Son of Man comes in his glory? He will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations. And he will separate people one from another, as a shepherd separates sheep from the goats. Those on his right will inherit the kingdom. Those on his left will say, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. And while we read of the judgment for the Israelites or the people of God, here we read of the judgment for those who are not the people of God. I will enter into judgment with them there on behalf of my people, my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them among the nations and divided up my land. And have cast lots for my people and have traded a boy for a prostitute and have sold a girl for wine and have drunk it. Do you see judgment for the church? Now judgment for all the nations which have opposed God, which have opposed his church, which has opposed his anointed. Everyone. There are only two categories. Only sheep and goats. Only those who are the Lords and those who are not. And we see here so very clearly that judgment is not optional. There will be no opting out. There will be no decision to be made whether or not you will come. No one will ask whether or not you have a ticket to be granted admission. No one will be asked whether you would like to come or not. No one will be denied entry. No one will be able to say no thank you. There will be mandatory attendance. Whether dead or alive, all will come, all will be brought, all will stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. To be judged. Judgment is not optional. And make no mistake This passage, this is the second time that Joel has written it, for the day of the Lord is near I'm wondering if we really believe that. The day of the Lord is near. This is the second great deception of Satan. First deception is you won't be judged. The second deception is, well, don't worry, it's far off. For those who might not go all the way with Satan and believe that judgment is actually coming, but just not today. But I have time. This is the second deception of Satan. There's plenty of time. Live life as you like now. Judgment, the end, death is far off. How many put off It's the Lord thinking just this, for the day of the Lord is not near. One writer on the internet, and I believe this is uh actual historical, that Constantine wanted to be baptized But he waited until his deathbed, thinking that baptism actually saved him, baptism actually wiped away his sins so he could live how he wanted. Up until the day he was about to die, get baptized, and now he's good. It's clean Caught up in that idea is this idea that judgment is far off, that the day of the Lord is not near, and I'll just wait. Jesus said the day and the hour no one knows. Not even the angels of heaven, nor the sun. For as in those days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark, and they did not understand until the flood came. They didn't understand until it was too late. Brothers and sisters, friends, the day of the Lord is near. How are you preparing for it? Brings us to our third point. Judgment ends with destruction and refuge. As Joel called the people of God, the church, to blow a trumpet, and he did that uh at least twice, I think I might be missing one. But in the first verse of chapter two, Blow a trumpet in Zion, sound an alarm on my holy mountain, let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming, it's near It was a warning. He was calling them. He was warning them. Hey, blow the trumpet. Let the people know this is coming. It's close. It's near. Prepare. And then a second time in verse 15, blow the trumpet, consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people. Weep. He's calling them to come together. The first trumpet was a warning blast. The second trumpet was a call to assemble, to come together, to pray. To seek the face of God, to ask for mercy, not to battle, not to oppose God, but to humble themselves and seek mercy. And now Now the Lord calls the nations, all nations, all peoples who oppose him to strap on their swords for battle. Consider that. Look at verse 9. Proclaim this among the nations. Consecrate for war. Stir up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near. Let them come up. Beat your plowshares into swords. Let the weak say, I'm a warrior. Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. Do you have the picture? God is saying, Come! Meet me. Come with your battle gear. Come ready to fight me. Because you have taken my people. You've taken my silver and gold. That's how he refers to his people. You've carried my rich treasures into your temples. You've sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks. I will return your payment on your own head. He's calling the battle. He's going to pour out his vengeance on them. God will repay. Vengeance is mine, retribution, in due time their foot will slip. For the day of their calamity is near. And then Paul in Romans writes, Beloved, never avenge yourself, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. You see how complete Joel's prophecy is? Calling the people, telling them, look, you've disobeyed God, you're suffering judgment as a result of it. And if you don't turn, if you don't return to the Lord, there's going to be this final judgment which you won't suffer. Survive. Blow the trumpet. Warn the people. Come and humble yourselves before Him. Return to the Lord. And now He's saying that those who won't do that. They'll actually be destroyed in this cosmic battle with God It ends in destruction. The sun, the moon, and are darkened, and their stars withdraw, they're shining. The Lord roars from Zion, he utters his voice, heaven and the earthquake. Peter wrote about that. The day of the Lord will come like a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, the elements will be destroyed with intense heat, the earth, and all its works will be burned up. John wrote about it. We read about it tonight in Revelation. I looked, and behold, there was a great earthquake. The sun became black as sackcloth, the full moon became like blood, the stars of the sky fell to the earth. Joel's saying that there will be complete and utter destruction. We read of it as the death of the Lord Jesus, don't we? As Jesus is on the cross, Matthew records, now from the sixth hour darkness fell upon all the land until the ninth hour. As God is pouring out his wrath upon his son. He's saying this is what the day of judgment will be like. As the wrath is poured out on Jesus Christ for every single sinner who has been saved by him, for those who trust in him, for those elect, for those who chosen as the wrath is being poured out upon him, darkness falls upon the land. And we see that parallel And Joel as the coming day of the Lord will be just like that as he pours out his wrath upon all those who refuse to come to Christ. The result of the battle will be complete destruction, devastation, pictured by Joel with the locusts, and the coming, the unstoppable army of God. And then there's the complete contrast, the complete opposite. And my people will never be put to shame. The Lord is a refuge to his people, a stronghold of the people of Israel. Do you see the contrast? Do you see salvation here? Even in the prophet Joel? The people who hate God, who oppose God, who will not submit to God Who hate Christ will be destroyed. But all those who trust in the Lord will have him as their refuge. Do you see if you're in Christ tonight, there's nothing to fear. You've been given refuge in him. He is your shield. He's your strength. As your heart trusts in him, you're helped, as the psalmist writes. What a glorious ending to this particular passage, which is all about the judgment of God. And if you're in Christ tonight. You have complete refuge. This is the coming reality. God will judge the world through his son, the Lord Jesus. And for all those who remain in opposition to God, for all those who reject the Lord Jesus Christ, their end will be this battle, so to speak. Their end will be this everlasting and eternal destruction, for this doesn't stop. Their end will be an existence without life, their existence in hell, the hell fires and a worm which will not die forever. In an internal co torment in their opposition to God, that's what Joel writes of in the Valley of Decision That's a result of God's judgment against those who have hated him and hated his people. There will be no end to his wrath. But if you're in Christ this day, the reality should move you, it should urge you, it should strike at your heart. Consider why Joel gave this passage to the people of God. This judgment reserved for the nations that oppose God. What were they to do with it? Yes, they would be encouraged with the refuge that is mentioned here by Joel. But what were they to do with this refuge? Brothers and sisters, if you're in Christ tonight, he has saved you from this part of the day of the Lord. He stepped into your sinful shoes. He has satisfied the wrath of God in your place so that you will not experience the darkness that he did. But the lost are perishing, and need to hear of Christ So what are you doing? How are you participating? How are you preparing for the day of the Lord? How are you living today that those who are in darkness might see the light of Christ in you? How are you telling others what's happened in your heart that you will never enter into battle with God? You will never take your plowshare, if you had one, and turn it into a sword and seek to battle the living God. Who have you told that Jesus stood in your place to accept and receive and suffer the wrath of God? How might you speak to the next neighbor or the next friend or the next family member or the next stranger that you encounter who's lost and headed to beat his plowshare into a sword and attempt to battle the living God? How would you speak to that one? No, that the Spirit would work so powerfully in our hearts. To remove any and all obstacles that we've been placing there keeping us from telling others of salvation in Christ to enable us, to encourage us, to demonstrate the love of Christ that's been poured out upon us. We must have the zeal of the Spirit to accomplish that which He's calling us to tonight, and I believe He is. But for those who are not trusting in Christ, there's a strong message tonight. Now is the favorable time. Now is the day of salvation. Yes, the day of the Lord is near. But today is still the day of salvation. And Christ still calls out, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. Why do you spend your money? For what is not bread, your wages for what is not satisfied. Listen carefully to me. That's what Christ says. Delight yourself in abundance. Incline your ear. Come to me. Those are the words of Jesus. That's his invitation. To come, to believe upon him. To place your burden upon him and to take his light yoke The reality of the day of the Lord should move Christians to show the love of Jesus to the lost. And the dying. How are you preparing for the day of judgment? The thief on the cross knew that it was near. And he sought Christ, and he rebuked the other thief. How are we preparing for the day of the Lord? Oh, we need to pray that the Spirit would move us to do just that. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we are weak, we are frail, we make excuses, Lord. And we think little upon the coming day of judgment. Your day, the Lord's day. Help us, Lord. Help us to know that the day of the Lord is near. Help us to believe that. Help us to keep that before us. And help us, Lord God, to remember Christ and all his work, all his labors on our behalf. And now, Lord, help us. Help us, Holy Spirit, to tell others about this coming day, this nearness of this day, to tell them that there is one who cries out to them even now, come to me. Oh Father, help us to be that light of Christ, to this city, the state. in darkness, this country that has shunned Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to be a bright light of Christ. We ask all this in Jesus' name.