Okay, now I'd like you to turn to Amos. The book of the Old Testament book of Amos and verse chapter 1 and verses 1 through 10 we will be reading. And our focus will be tonight on verses uh nine and ten. Nine and ten Hear the word of the Lord. The words of Amos, who was among the sheep breeders of Totoah, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. And in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. And he said, The Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem. The pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of Caramel withers. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they have threshed Gilead with implements of iron. But I will send a fire into the house of Hazel, which shall devour the palaces of Ben-Hadad. I will also break the gate bar of Damascus and cut off the inhabitant from the valley of Avon, and the one who holds the scepter from Beth Aden, Eden. The people of Syria shall go captive to Kir, says the Lord. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they took captivity, they took captive the whole captivity to deliver them up to Edom. But I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, which shall devour its palaces. I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashtad, and the one who holds the scepter from Ashkelon I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish. Thus says the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Tyre and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom, and did not remember the covenant of brotherhood. But I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, which shall devour its palaces. Thus far ends the reading of God's word. Tonight we want to look at what the Lord has to say about Tyre. And uh He's speaking uh about the judgment that's about to come uh to to tire. Last week we saw the Lord's judgment on the Philistines And we saw that the reason for the Lord bringing judgment on the Philistines was that they took captive whole whole captivity of my people Israel. Verse 6. And I said then that that was a reference to an event that occurred and is recorded for us in 2 Chronicles 21, verses 16 and 17. An event against uh a king uh of uh uh of the of Judah In which, well I'll read the verse. Moreover, the Lord stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines and of the Arabians. that were near the Ethiopians, and they came up to Judah and broke into it and carried away all the substance that was found in the king's house and his sons also, and his wives, so that there was never a son left to him save Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons. This occurs, this uh event for which God is bringing judgment on the Philistines occurs during the reign of Jehoram, a southern king of Judah. a king of the southern kingdom called Judah. And and he reigned from 848 to 841, only a seven-year reign And he had allied himself with Israel, the northern kingdom, because he married uh the daughter of Ahab. and Jezebel. And with that marriage came all kinds of sinful practices, uh idolatry, uh, etc. Now the Philistines, remember I told you that they were descendants of Greeks who had come to resettle the land, uh, or to settle the land, and they had five major cities. which which uh the text goes through in names. There's Gath, there's Ashkelon, Ashdod, Ekron, and Gaza. And um and that the people that we're going to look at tonight are from Tyre. And Tyre whereas the Philistines or southwest of is south and southwest of Israel. Tyre is northwest of Israel. Approximately 50 miles away from the northern borders of Israel. And you remember, Jesus himself had most of his ministry in the far north around Capernaum and Galilee. So fifty miles away was this The city, Tyre. And it's often linked with Sidon, Tyre and Sidon, as two principal states of what was at one time in ancient the ancient world called the the Phoenician Empire, but in today's world it's roughly equivalent to the region of Lebanon And in our verse tonight, we read in verse 9, for three transgressions of Tyre and for four. I will not turn to the punishment thereof, because they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom, and remembered not the brotherly covenant, but I will set a fire on the wall of Tyre, which shall devour the palaces thereof. Notice that he's uh the same reason God brings judgment on the Philistines He now says he's bringing judgment on Tyre. In other words, they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom. They must have been in some sort of arrangement with the Philistines when the Philistines did what they did during that reign of Jehoram. and took everything captive and uh and and sold them into Eden, it looks like Tyre was in cahoots with that activity. It's the same it's the same thing. Now Tyre is a very old city. It's a it's a as you might imagine being it's right on the Mediterranean coast. It's prominently involved in trading, shipping, uh it's a it's a very strong commercial center. It it's a city that still exists You could go there and see tire, and you could see ancient tire. And ancient tire consisted of two parts. What's very interesting. They had a part that was on the shore itself, kind of like ocean cities on the shore of the Atlantic coast. They had a part of a city there, and then out in the Mediterranean, they built another part of the city on a massive rock structure. And it was uh, you know, in my mind, I think of the rock of Gibraltar with a city or on it. I don't know if that's accurate, but But that's kind of the picture in the way in which it's described. It's kind of, it's, you know, it's it's connected, it's not connected by anything to the other part of the city that's along the coast. But you could obviously probably get there by boat, and that's probably how they did do that. But but it's important to understand that uh Um this city of Tyre that was built on the rock was thought to be invulnerable. It was thought to be impregnable. Impregnable. Whatever that means. It was thought to be invulnerable. And um Actually, Nebuchadnezzar, after he destroyed Jerusalem, actually went against Tyre. and tried to capture it. He did burn the area around the seacoast, but he was not able to attack the part of the city in the rock. And in fact, that city stood on the rock, stood until the 4th century A. D. , when Alexander the Great finally came and conquered it. The city on the rock. And you know how he did it? He built a bridge. He built a bridge from the seashore to the rock. and then ferried all of his his army across that bridge. And uh that's how he took took Tyre. That's just a little tidbit about history The sin that God is punishing, bringing upon Tyre, as I said, is the same as the sin of the Philistines. They delivered up the whole captivity to Edom. But there's a little bit more added this time. And it's that it's the little bit extra that's added to why there is judgment coming. to tire, which is really very important and very revealing. It says in verse 9, the second part of verse 9, it says, they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom. And remembered not the brotherly covenant. Remembered not the brotherly covenant. And now what does that mean? What does that have reference to? Usually the city of Tyre. In the Old Testament, is viewed rather positively because that city had a very wise king He was an unbelieving king, a pagan king, but his name was Hiram. And Hiram established long-standing relationship with David. And with Solomon, his son. Listen to what the scriptures say about Hiram's relationship to first David and then Solomon. To David, we read 2 Samuel 5, 11. David went on and grew great, and the Lord God of hosts was with him. And Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messages, messengers to David, along with cedar trees, carpenters, and masons. And they built David a house. Cedar trees. You hear the phrase, the cedars of Lebanon. They must have been a rather impressive tree. And uh and uh Hiram uh actually uh Sent laborers along with trees to build David a house in Jerusalem. But that's not all Hiram did. When Hiram heard of David's death In 1 Kings chapter 5, 1 through 12, there's an interesting statement about Hiram. Hiram, king of Tyre, sent his servants to Solomon, for he had heard that they had anointed him king in the room of his father. For Hiram was ever a lover of David. Hiram was ever a lover of David. They begin to, if you get that thought in your mind, You get the idea that there was a fairly substantial relationship established between Hiram and David. And then it continues with Solomon And it was a relationship that I think that our text before us in Amos is referring to when it says the these latter group of people from Tyre at Tyre did not remember the covenant of brotherhood. They didn't remember that there was this positive relationship between Tyre and uh between Hiram king of Tyre and David and Solomon Furthermore, Solomon sent back to Hiram, saying, You know how that my father David could not build a house unto the name of the Lord his God. For the wars which were about him on every side until the Lord put them under the soles of his, put them under the soles of his feet. But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side, so that there is neither adversary nor evil occurring. Behold, I purpose to build a house to the name of the Lord my God As the Lord spoke unto David, my father, saying, Thy son, whom I will set upon the throne in thy room, he shall build a house to my name Now, therefore, command thou that they hew me cedar trees out of Lebanon, and my servants will be with your servants Unto thee I will give hire for thy servants, according to all that thou shalt appoint. For thou knowest that there is nothing There is not among us any that have the skill to hew timber like the Saigonians. There you get the tyranciren connection. Okay? In other words, we don't have any lumberjacks, but you guys do. Okay? And it came to pass when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly. And said, Blessed be the Lord this day, which has given to David a wise son over this great people. You see, there was substantial positive connection between the people of Tyre, the king of Tyre and the King of David and his son. Hiram said to Solomon, I have considered the things which you sent to me for, and I will I an and will do all thy desire concerning timber of cedar and concerning timber of fir. My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon unto the sea, I will convey them by sea in floats unto the place. That thou shalt appoint me, and I will cause them to be discharged there. Thou shalt receive them, and thou shalt accomplish uh my desire in giving food for my household. So you see it was a kind of a two-way street. Food for timber and and for uh skilled workmen And he goes on, so Hiram gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees according to his desire, and Solom gave it Solomon Solomon gave Hiram 20,000 measures of wheat for food for his household. And twenty measures of pure oil. Thus gave Solomon to Hiram year by year. The Lord gave Solomon wisdom as he promised him, and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and they made a league together. Or another word for covenant. They made a covenant. So here you have this really positive relationship Now obviously that was 200 years before what we're reading now. And things had degenerated, of course. But nevertheless, the league that was made, the treaty, the covenant that was made, is still something that is God is dealing with even Tyre on the basis of their covenant relationship with their neighbor. Okay? Now, here's a question for you. And I just thought about this, but uh but I think it's really significant to think about. During the ministry of Jesus Christ, his focus was on primarily on one piece. The Jews, right? Did Jesus ever during his ministry stray from that purpose? Can you think of any other group of people that he went to who were not Jews? In other words, were Gentiles? Who? The Samaritans. Well, they're have to's. But but still, that's that's a good. No, woe to you, Beth Seda. Because if the works that had been done entirely in Sarodin that's been done in you, you would have repented long they would have repented long ago Joe Was there a woman upon higher there was there was anymore. Right. There other than the Samaritans, during Jesus' entire ministry, there's only two other groups of Gentiles that Jesus ever visits. One were the Gentiles in the decopolis, the guys who were herding pigs. And Jesus cast the demons out of the pigs and into the river They were Gentiles. That's one. The other was the incident that Jo, and then there's the Samaritans, and the other was the incident with the woman in Mark chapter 7. She's a woman who has come to Jesus and she was from a place called Cyrophoenicia. Which meant that she lived in, she lived, she was living in Syria, but she was Phoenician by birth And if you go back and you read the story, Mark chapter 7, verse 24. So let's all turn there for just a minute. Because this is really pretty fascinating, I think. And from there And from there, if you go back and you look a little a couple verses back, you'll see that uh that Jesus is is probably in the region of uh Capernaum. But it says, from there he arose and went to the region of Tyre and Siren, Sidon. And he entered a house and wanted no one to know it. But he could not be hidden. A woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit heard about him, and she came and fell at his feet. The woman was a Greek. A Syrophoenician by birth. She kept asking him to cast the demon out of his daughter, out of her daughter. But Jesus said to her, Let the children be filled first, for it is not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the little dogs. In other words, what Jesus is saying is Essentially, I have come to minister first to the Jews, not to the Gentiles. And he actually calls them a kind he actually picks up a Jewish derogatory term for the Gentile, a dog. Okay? So and he did this deliberately. She answered and said to him, Yes, Lord. Yet even the little dogs under the table eat from the children's crops And he said to her, For this saying, go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter. And when she had come to her house, she found the demon gone and the daughter lying on the bed. It's an amazing story. And when you think about the fact When you think about the fact this is Tyre and Sidon, the very group of people that were Hieros people And the very group of people who now, two hundred years later, are being judged by the Lord for their for their unbrotherly kind of actions and their and their violation of the covenant. But who's Jesus? Is he not the King of David? Is not the King of David now remembering as it were the relationship that once was established between these people. And isn't he not, is it not part of his greater plan? To bring in all the Gentiles and to bring the gospel to the Gentiles And this is one of the few, one of the very few instances in the New Testament where that starts. Remember, the disciples are not going to get a commission to go outside of Jerusalem until after Jesus dies and before he's about to ascend. It seems to me rather interesting that Christ, the King of David, now has gone to Tyre. He didn't wait for anybody from Tyre to come to him. He went there. And he is now, I don't think it's too much of a stretch to think that he is now keeping the covenant. That was made between the lesser David and the King of Tyre, and showing him mercy, showing his people mercy, which Jesus is all about. Okay? So having said all of this about Tyre and about this wonderful connection with with Christ in the in the New Testament. The Bible also reports a very, very dark side. to Tyre and Sidon. The message about Tyre and Siren Tyre and Sidon is a mixed message They were, after all, Gentiles. They were pagans, unbelievers. And let me read you this passage from 1 Kings 16, verse 31. F Baal, E T H B A L, King of Sidon Around 940 B. C. Father of Jezebel, who was the wife of Ahab. He is said to have also been a priest of Astarte, whose worship was closely allied to that of Baal. And this probably accounts for Jezebel's zeal in promoting idolatry in Israel. Not that they needed any help. But she didn't do anything to stop it. She made it worse. She was the one who had the 400 priests of ail sh who who got involved with Elijah. She was the one who issued a death sentence for Elijah. After that contest. This marriage of Ahab to Jezebel, daughter of Ethbal, king of Sidon was almost was most fatal to both Israel and Judah. In the end The text all says that Tyre did not keep its covenant with the king of Judah. And because of the hostility with carrying these people into exile like like the Philistines carrying the the Jewish king of uh of Judah and his family into exile Because of that, and because they did not keep their covenant of friendship, God is bringing judgment. Joel chapter 3 verses 4 through 8 also speak of, give a little different slant, but speak of some of the same judgment. That's coming upon Tyre and Sidon. It says, Yea, what have ye to do with me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the coasts of Palestine? Will ye render me a reward? If ye reward me swiftly and speedily, I will return your reward upon your own head Because you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried it to your temples, my goodly pleasant things. The children also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem, you have sold to the Grecians. Another reference, you see, of what this text in verse 9 says, why the Lord is bringing judgment. You sold them into captivity to Edom That you might remove them, or the Grecians could be another reference to the Philistines That ye might remove them far from their border. Behold, I will raise them out of the place where you have sold them. And I I will return your recompense upon your head. I will sell your sons and your daughter into the hands of the children of Israel, of Judah. and they shall sell them to the Sabaeans, to a people far off, for the Lord has spoken it. According to uh our text That love between Hiram and David, the love for one another, the you might even say the love for their neighbor. The people of Tyre failed to continue that love. They have broken their covenant, their neighborly covenant They did not love their neighbor as themselves. And again we must uh Understand how can that be the basis for God's divine judgment upon these Gentiles, which don't have a written copy of the law Again, Romans 2, 14 and 16 come into play. For the Gentiles which do not have the law do by nature the things contained in the law These having not the law are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law is written on their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness in their thoughts While accusing or else excusing one another, in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. God is just And no one can escape his judgment And everyone fails to love him with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength. And everyone fails to love their neighbor as themselves. And it's not just a Jewish thing, and it's not just a Christian thing, it's the law. And the standard of judgment for everybody. Throughout all of history Behold, God says, I will send a fire on the wall of Tyre, which shall devour the palaces thereof. As I said before, he will bring temporal judgment upon Tyre. Nebuchadnezzar turned his attention to Tyre after uh after uh destroying uh jerusalem in five eighty three took him eleven years but this part of the city that was on The coastline, that part he captured in 572 and burned the city to the ground. Failure to live by the covenant, Israel. Failure to live by God's covenant, Israel. And show love to others will cause God to destroy you too. If Israel has their eyes open, and if Israel has their ears open She is being warned. If God so condemns the unbelievers at Tyre, how will you, Israel, escape if you neglect? So great is salvation, and you commit similar sins. Amen See the Old Testament can be exciting. And it can be connected to the New Testament. Right? Just have to love history too. All right, let's pray Gracious God, our Heavenly Father, how thankful we are that your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, took upon Himself our sin Our sin of not loving you, our sin of worshiping other gods, our sin of trying to be better than our neighbor or trying to get the best of our neighbor And not loving them with all our heart, mind, soul, and strength. And countless other sins, Lord, that we have committed. Lord, we are not proud of that, but we are grateful that Jesus paid. For all of them. And he did it once for all. And so, Lord, as we think about what our Savior has accomplished, let us not Use this as an occasion to boast about ourselves or boast about our own abilities and our cleverness and our intellect to understand this. But let us boast about the God of mercy who has revealed to us his precious truth and has spoken to our dead in sin and in darkness heart. And calls us, Lord, to repent and to believe. In the name of Jesus, the Lord and Savior. Amen.