Let us uh return now to the book of Amos, chapter six, verses one through eight. which we will be reading together tonight and focusing on the verses three through eight. Let us now hear God's word. Woe to you who are at ease in Zion and trust in Mount Samaria. Notable persons in the chief nation to whom the house of Israel comes. Go over to Kelna and see. From there go to Hamath the Great, and then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Are you better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory greater than your territory? Woe to you who put far off the day of doom, who caused the seat of violence to come near. Who lie on beds of ivory, stretch out on your couches, eat lambs from the flock, calves from the midst of their stalls Who sing idly to the sound of stringed instruments, and invent for your musical, and invent for yourselves musical instruments like David Who drink wine from bowls and anoint yourself with the best ointments. But are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph. Therefore they shall go excuse me, therefore they shall now go captive. as the first of the captives. And those who recline at banquets shall be removed. The Lord has sworn by himself, the Lord of hosts says, I abhor the pride of Jacob and hate his houses Therefore, I will deliver up the city and all that is in it. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word Tonight, as we come again to the book of Amos, those of you who have been regularly coming to the evening service cannot help but appreciate the fact that in so many different ways God is trying to reach the hearts of his sinful people. It is one uh one plea, one prophet, one prophecy after another. urging them uh to repent, telling them, telling them in no uncertain terms that he is bringing judgment, and judgment will fast come upon them And that's the title of the sermon tonight, Judgment Day Fast Approaches. Now, notice, however, in spite of all the activity of God to cause the people to repent Or to in to in to encourage the people to repent of their sins. In spite of all that, the people Are responding, but they're not responding in the appropriate way. Look at verse 3. Ye that put far away the evil day And cause the seed of violence to come near. I would uh I think I uh would uh would characterize uh uh the uh Amos's words there. uh regarding Israel, the northern people of the northern kingdom, is that he's trying to show us what their prevailing attitude is toward God's promise of judgment. You put far away the evil day. You don't believe, essentially, you don't believe it's going to come. Regardless of God's many warnings to repent of their sin, else judgment will fall. They uh seem to ignore it. Um they seem they seem to uh use the idea, well, that's way off. Why worry about that? You know, I and as a result, they're gonna continue doing what they're doing. Maybe they have what as some of you might have heard Some of your friends tell you, uh, that when Jesus comes they'll repent then. You know, it's the same it's the same kind of attitude. Uh too late, friend. Today is the day of salvation. Then is the day of judgment. And there won't be anyone who escapes it for whom it's appointed. This is a common practice among sinners. It is to ignore God's warnings, to try to want to forget about God's promises of judgment and live it up while they can. And you might recall I think the Apostle Peter in one of his epistles was dealing with the same issue. In 2 Peter 3, verse Eight and nine, uh Peter uh says this. And I've actually I'll back up back up one verse Second Peter chapter three and beginning at verse seven The heavens and the earth, which are now preserved by the same word, are reserved for fire until the day of judgment and perition for ungodly men. But beloved, do not forget this one thing. That with the Lord, one day is as a thousand days, then a thousand years as one day. I'm sorry, one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as one day. The Lord is not slack about his promise. As some count slackness, but is what? Long suffering toward us Long suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so we see all of that What Peter is summarizing, we see all that happening here in Amos. The Lord is long-suffering with these people. The Lord continues to send Amos with one message after the other. Here's what you're doing wrong. Here's what I find ungodly, repent of this, or else, judgment's coming, and now we see that in verse 3 they ignore it And in Peter, they take a slightly different tactic. They ignore it also, but they say the Lord is slow. He is slow about his judgment, which implies they think he's not going to come, that he's not going to do it. They m misunderstand that the Lord's delay of judgment is so that many will repent. Repent of their sins. But again, Israel does not listen. They put away the idea of this day of judgment from their mind. They deny They deny that that day is going to come. They deny, in essence, they deny God's word through his prophet. And they don't believe God's word. God is a liar, and they are the ones who know what truth is. We recall Romans chapter 3, verse 4. God forbid, yes, let God be true, but every man a liar. They are deceived by their own sin. They are deceived by their self-righteousness. They are ignoring God's word as something that is not important to them. And even worse, they see no need to repent of their sins. Not even the threat of judgment and captivity moves them The Bible clearly shows that the unbelieving person denies the coming day of the Lord as being a day of judgment. They invent all kinds of clever ideas to think that judgment cannot possibly occur. In spite of what the Word of God says. That God is not really interested in righting wrongs. He's not really interested in bringing about just justice. He's not really interested in vindicating the righteous over the sinners who have done so much against the righteous. This uh this idea that uh the people uh are saying the Lord's uh day uh will not come We find it here, and this is probably the first time in Amos that we find this thought. But it will occur again in Amos. After another prophecy. It occurs in chapter 9 and verse 10. As Amos writes, all the sinners of my people shall die by the sword. Who say, evil shall not overtake us nor prevent us. The day shall not overtake us nor prevent us. And you recall, I said that this is a common thread that runs through sinners. You could trace this all the way back to the days of Noah. As Matthew writes in Matthew 24, Jesus' own words, beginning at the 37th verse, he says, the days of Noah were But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. For as in the days that were before the flood, they were eating and drinking. Marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered into the ark and knew not until the flood came and took them all away. so shall also the coming day of the Son of Man be. A day of swift judgment, but surely a day that God says will come. And so as Israel of this age, the people of the Israel that Amos is talking about, they ignore the day, they deny the day will come And then they continue, verse 4, they continue to do what they've been doing all along. And you read verse 4, they lie upon beds of ivory They stretch themselves out about their couches. They eat the lambs out of the flock and the calves out of the midst of the stall. Amos is talking about the people's how they spend their day. Uh th this verse, uh I think uh appropriately understood, uh he is depicting their life of luxury. Okay, can you imagine lying upon beds of ivory You know, ivory today is uh something you cannot get. It is uh protected. Uh you can get it, but if you have it, you're you could be fined. You can't buy it. It's not sold. a symbol of opulence for those who have it. Stretch out on their couches Uh th though that's not describing me as Sunday afternoon when I regularly fall asleep. Uh this is this is the common occurrence. They're sitting around in their life of luxury, taking their naps. having a grand old day, enjoying life, letting life pass them by. They eat the lambs out of the flock, the calves out of the midst of the stall. You know, give us uh they they they they eat the the richest foods, in other words. Uh uh uh and and and uh all this is a picture of their of their the excesses of their indulging in luxury. That, as we have found out is one of the problems because while they're indulging themselves, they're doing it by oppressing the poor. And so you have what they are like, but they're doing it on the backs of others that they are abusing. That they're oppressing. In some ways, it's re this this whole scenario is reminiscent of the parable that Nathan tells David. If you remember that parable. when they uh in 2 Samuel chapter 12, where David has committed sin with Bathsheba. The Lord God sends Nathan and he tells this parable about the rich man and the poor man. Once again, the rich and the poor man. The poor man has one little lamb that he loves. You remember that story? The rich man has everything Everything he could possibly want. And so when he has an important visitor, he comes and he takes the poor man's lamb and slaughters it for himself and for to feed his visitor And David, as he, this is meant to speak to David's heart. And David, as he hears this, he is horrified. He said, that man deserves to die. And, you know, y this is the day you'd like to have been there to see the reaction of David. Uh day Nathan looked square at David and said, That man is you What you did with Bathsheba is just like what the poor man, the rich man did to the poor man's land. But notice something interesting about David's response and the people of Israel God is sending the prophet. God is telling them these things. In in Amos, they're not listening. They're ignoring. They're calling God a liar. They don't believe it's going to happen. They don't believe they're going to be judged for their sins David immediately said, What? I have sinned. He had sinned. He cast himself on the mercy of God. For the horrible thing that he had done. Yeah, it was horrible. He did a bad thing. An awfully bad thing. Not just one, he did two. He committed adultery and he killed the he had the the husband of Bathsheba put in the position where he was sure to die. So he's guilty of murder. But David repented. And what does Nathan say? You shall surely not die. And you can look at all that and you can think to yourself, boy, that scratch your head. That that seems like he's getting away with it, but no, he didn't get away with it You won't die because Jesus will die for you That's not said, but that's why he doesn't die. He is the man after God's own heart And Jesus covers his sin. But Jesus will die for his sin too, just as he dies for ours. And furthermore, you all know that Nathan told David there would be awful consequences. to his sin, involving his family. So, again, the prophet comes, the prophet preaches the word of life. The people of Amos's day don't listen. David does. He listens. And when we start thinking about the issue of one group of people who claim to be the people of God living in luxury While others are while they're living in luxury on the backs of the poor that they're oppressing We cannot, as children of God, as true children of God, we cannot find ourselves in that kind of dilemma. We can't treat others in an abusive way because God will judge that. And judgment will mean awful consequences if we do not repent. Just like the parable of the rich man and the poor man, which I read earlier from Luke. And it's not that God, it's not simply that Israel was living the life of luxury at the expense of others that is so damning about their actions and their attitudes. What is also the problem is that they do not lift a finger To help those who are in need. They oppress them instead. They do not another way of saying that is very simply they don't love their neighbors. themselves. Verse 5 speaks also about what the people are doing And this is a little bit difficult to understand, but I think I can explain it. They chant to the sound of the vial. And invent to themselves interest inter and invent to themselves instruments of music like David Sister Jean, this is not an indictment against music. This is not an indictment against music. Music is not bad in and of itself. The key to understanding this is why music is being sung or played. Israel, it is said, is chanting to the sound of the vial. It also says that they invent to themselves. What they are seeing and the instruments they invent or for themselves. for their own enjoyment to continue their their pleasures In Isaiah chapter 5, apparently this situation occurred during the time of Isaiah, a similar situation. It says, verse 11, Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink, that continue till night, till wine inflame them. And the harp and the vial, the timbric, the pipe, and the wine are in their feasts. But they regard not the work of the Lord, neither the consider the operation of his hands I believe that verse 5 is what is the situation in verse 5 is the same as what's going on in Isaiah chapter 5. The people are partying, enjoying the life of luxury, drinking their bowls. Notice it says bowls, not vials The the word for bowls there is a large bowl. They're guzzling wine. Uh and then they're using the instruments to make To continue the party. To let the party continue, to to uh to help them in in enjoy their sin And at the end where it says, like David, the like David is not that David did the same thing, the like David is that David invented instruments. And you can see that if you turn to 1 Chronicles chapter 15, verses 15 and 16. He invented instruments And he invented them for a specific reason different from what the people in uh that Amos is talking to. 1 Chronicles 15, 15 and 16. The children of the Levites bear the ark of God upon their shoulders with staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the word of God. David spoke to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brethren to be singers with instruments of music. Psalteries, harps, cymbals, sounding by lifting up the voice with joy. Now if you go back and you research that occurrence, you'll find that that's when the Ark of the Covenant comes back into Jerusalem after it had been stolen by the Philistines. So why does David have instruments? It's to lift, it's to give praise to the Lord. And that becomes even clearer in another passage, 1 Chronicles chapter 23, verses 1 through 5. Here we have a snapshot of David when he was much older. So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel. He gathered together all the princes of Israel with the priests and the Levites, and the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty and upward, and their number by their poles, man by man, was thirty-eight thousand. of which 24,000 were set forward for the work of the house of the Lord. Remember, they're constructing the temple. 6,000 were officers and judges. More than 4,000 were porters. And 4,000 praised the Lord with instruments. Which text reads, which I made, I being David. Praise the Lord, said David to praise theirwith. So You can see, like I said before, playing a music is not the problem. Why is the issue? For what purpose? On the one hand, you have Israel of Amos' day using instruments to further their debauchery. On the other hand, you have David using instruments to praise the Lord. And that is a bringing David up uh as the man after God's own heart doing this is is designed as a rebuke to the Israelites. They they know about this guy David. They know him very well, and they know what he stood for. Verse six, they drink wine in bowls, which I alluded to briefly. They anoint themselves with chief ointments that they're not grieved for the affliction of Joseph. Well, it just seems that again, here they are in the life of luxury, seeking to drink away their problems. They anoint themselves with ointments, concerned for their appearance. Pretty narcissistic. Especially when you contrast that with the idea that they're not grieved for the affliction of Joseph. Being Joseph, being the son of Jacob, his grandsons, Ephraim and Manasseh, are in the northern kingdom. And some of them are the are being victimized as the poor by some of the rich in the northern kingdom. They care more for the chief or chief point. Oh um Isn't that so interesting? Have have any of you noticed on television today in our current culture how many commercials are on TV about cosmetics? You know, I was listening the other day to one cosmetic and they were talking about this uh this jar of cosmetic, this ointment that was supposed to make people yawn. And they were they and they were saying and and and I don't remember what the price was, but they were saying and people will go out and pay a hundred, two hundred, four hundred dollars for this stuff But you can have it for the bargain price, of course. And I said four hundred dollars for a ointment, a little jar of cream I mean that must be really good stuff, you know? But that's that's kind of what's going on here. There's this uh expensive uh stuff that they're using and all along they're not caring for the affliction of Joseph, the very people that they have oppressed. Their vanity is without limits. Too bad their compassion is not without limits on those who are needy The contrast of Israel with David is most likely, in verse 5, is most likely a deliberate one. Because all Israel knows that God has said David was a man after his own heart As I had said before, he sinned and he repented at the word of one prophet one time. One time, that's all it took. For David. And he lived. And this is in contrast To the people in the northern kingdom Israel under Amos. Although he's only one prophet, there have been multiple attempts to speak. And as I told you before, Amos is not the only prophet working at this time. There are others of the Lord's prophets who are speaking to Israel during this time as well And just as Samuel spoke to Saul in the Old Testament over and over again about Saul's deficiencies He reminded Saul, when Saul was disobedient to the Lord, that his kingdom would not continue, and the Lord would seek instead a man after his own heart. The Lord would command him to be captain over his people. And he said to Saul, Because you have not kept what the Lord commanded thee. Israel, Saul are on the same wavelength. There's no repentance, and so they would both be destroyed Therefore, they shall go captive with the first that go captive. I mean when the when when these who have oppressed so many, when the day comes, when the day when the king of of of Assyria comes to the northern kingdom and obliterates Samaria. You guys are the first, among the first to go. When the king is taken, you're going to, at that very minute. And uh that's if you survive. You'll be taken captive And all the banquets and all the fineries that you enjoyed, that will be ended. Once again, we see in this passage so many lessons about our God. We see him faithfully dealing with sin. We see him pleading with people to repent. And we see the human condition, refusal to repent and to believe. And in so doing, the people hasten their day of judgment. I cannot help but wonder about the condition of our world today. Our country and the people of this country refusing to repent of his sins, as many prophets cry out to them to repent and believe. And yet it seems that we go from worse to worse, indulging in our vanities instead of repentance. We cry out to you, O Lord, to put a spirit of repentance in the hearts of the people of this world. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God, we we would ask, Lord, that you would use this message to speak to the hearts of many. Lord, that by your divine providence, that some would come across uh the download on sermon audio and would hear Maybe this message or perhaps other messages, Lord, that by other by other faithful pastors that would bring people to repent. That there would be a great natural national groundswell of repentance if you would grant that to so many, though the conditions That we're talking about though the time of which we're talking about here in Amos's day was uh uh approximately uh 2,700 years. Ago. Lord, the situation of men has not changed. Ecclesiastes is correct. There is nothing new under the sun And and Lord, what has changed is the work of Jesus Christ. And Father, because of that work, there is an even more urgent need for sinners to repent. Um we no one will escape if we neglect so great a salvation. And so we pray, Lord God, that uh you will you will cause people Who wouldn't perhaps enter into a church, maybe to hear the word, as it is taught faithfully by faithful pastors. As they cruise the internet and suddenly have a divine appointment with you. We ask these things in your precious name. Amen.