Would you turn to tonight's message as it's found from the book of Amos, chapter 3 of Amos, beginning at verse 12? And uh reading on through verse uh fifteen. Amos chapter three, verses twelve through fifteen And again, the setting is the Lord speaking through Amos to the people of the Hebrews in the northern kingdom. uh the nation of Israel and the coming judgment which God is bringing because of the people's sins Especially sins against him, idolatry, running rampant, and also sins against others, enslaving people, getting rich off of the back of other people's labors. And so uh God has warned them. Uh Israel refuses to hear, uh and here now we hear God's prophecy of uh of uh what's going to fall Israel. Thus says the Lord, as a shepherd takes from the mouth of a lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be taken out. Who dwell in Samaria, in the corner of a bed and on the edge of a couch Hear and testify against the house of Jacob, says the Lord God, the God of hosts, that in the day that I punish Israel for their transgressions I will also visit destruction on the altars of Bethel. The horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground. I will destroy the winter house along with the summer house. The houses of ivory shall perish. And the great houses shall have an end. says the Lord. Well certainly there's a picture here of uh uh of uh uh the Lord bringing uh real devastation uh to the northern kingdom. Because she has been unfaithful, and the degree of devastation that the Lord promises here is unimaginable. The major, uh there are several major aspects of this destruction, and the first one that is mentioned starts off in verse 12. As the Lord the shepherd takes out of the mouth of the lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be taken out that dwell in Samaria. in the corner of a bed and in Damascus on a couch. This is a an important uh in this this this passage, this prize represents an important uh concept in God's dealing with his people. Uh when you think about a lion uh having in its mouth uh two legs or an ear of its prey. Uh that that's that's a rather uh uh devastating picture of the the lion's capability to destroy. And and yet He hasn't the lion hasn't completely gotten rid of its prey. There's still two legs there. There's an ear there. And the shepherd comes along and is able very, very bravely, uh, and some might say foolheartedly, uh, remove from the lion the legs the legs of whatever his prey is at a piece of an ear. This is speaking to the whole concept of Israel representing the prey being a remnant, that there's still not all of the not all of the animal is eaten There's still something left. And when God brings destruction, it's going to be devastating, but not everyone. Not all will be destroyed. There will still be a remnant remaining and a remnant that God preserves. Takes care of, allows to go through the destruction and yet maybe suffer some sort of loss personally, but not be eternally destroyed. And it's important that we um we understand this concept Because it is not just found here in the Old Testament. It is found on many places. I read the section from Joseph's dealing with his brothers from Genesis chapter 45. The theme of a remnant emerges there. You remember his brothers come in to see Joseph Not knowing initially that he's their brother, but they know he's a mighty man in Egypt and he has the ability to help mitigate the famine that has struck them in Canaan. And uh there's a period where Joseph uh can no longer contain himself for his love for his parents and for his family. And he begins to set the stage for his own forgiveness of his brothers. And in verse 5, he says Don't be grieved nor angry with yourselves that you sold me, for God did send me before you to preserve life. Well, and then in verse uh 7 of chapter 45, he says it again. God sent me before you to preserve you. a posterity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. A posterity. A posterity would mean I've I've saved you so that you might have generations to come of people. And and I and God will God did this to Joseph to enable him to have the wherewithal to save his brothers and his family uh from devastation, from famine. And and and why why did God do that? Why did God allow uh uh uh Joseph to suffer all of this was simply to raise him up to a position where at some point he might be able to preserve a remnant of the faithful Can you imagine if Joseph, by God's sovereignty, was not allow was not put in the position that he was in, that he wasn't sold into slavery, that He didn't go down to Egypt. He didn't suffer difficulty there, unjustly, but he also was wouldn't have been raised to the position that he was to deal with this coming famine. And it it says that God did that deliberately, so that so that Joseph might be in a position to deliver his brothers from the famine, his family. And they, you see, the Jacob and his brothers are the heirs of God's promises to Abraham. And and uh they're the ones to whom God has said, Among those promises to Abraham, I'll make you the father of many nations And he also said that in your seed all the nations of the earth should be blessed for the sake of God's promises. For the sake of God's covenant with Abraham. He doesn't wipe Joseph's brothers completely off the face of the map so that there's not one Israelite left standing, but he preserves some Call it the 7,000 that hadn't bowed the knee to bail. But it's very small. It's very tiny. But at the same time, the promises to Abraham can be anticipated to be fulfilled. It remains. God does not break his promise. God continues to work with that remnant faithful, where he preserves their life, unto their posterity. So way down in the future, thousands of years from the time of Joseph Jesus will come as the fulfillment of the promise to Abraham and his descendants. as well. So this whole idea of a remnant, you know, we see it with we see it with uh Joseph in a position to help his family. Uh we're not told how many other Jews were preserved. Uh uh if there were any others uh out there, but for the most part this is the the na this will become the nation. of Israel, the nation of Judah, the very uh uh uh ancestors of the people that Amos is talking to uh when he says uh the uh uh that the uh the children of Israel shall be taken out who dwell in Samaria. Just as The uh shepherd takes out of the mouth of a lion two legs or a piece of ear. So God's people, the remnant, that little, as it were, small piece of what's left of the larger great animal. Uh uh God will take out. He will preserve. Samaria, again, as I said before, is a reference to the capital city and the region which dominated the northern kingdom. Israel. God will take care of them. Other times the uh you you see this uh this the idea of the Lord preserving a group of people for himself. It shows up in Isaiah chapter 31, verse 5. Another time in another place. Uh a couple of hundred years after The destruction that comes and the promise of the destruction that comes to the northern kingdom through Amos, we find the Southern Kingdom in the same Predicament, the same uh uh lack of commitment to the Lord, the same unfaithfulness And this this is an um a pretty interesting illusion that Isaiah predicts regarding uh Jerusalem, which is the capital of the southern kingdom called Judah. Listen to this language. As the birds fly So will, excuse me, Isaiah 31, verse 5, as the birds fly, so will the Lord of hosts defend Jerusalem Defending it also, he will deliver it, and passing over, he will preserve it. Now, if you look back at when that was said, uh uh you you see that uh God is promising uh to be uh to to deliver and to preserve his people. from whatever doom they're facing at that particular moment because of their own sinfulness. Excuse me, another reference in Isaiah chapter 49, verse 8, thus says the Lord In an acceptable time I have heard thee, and in the day of salvation I have helped thee, and I will preserve thee. And give thee for a covenant of the people. In Nehemiah chapter 9, verse 31, Nehemiah is rehearsing the history of God's dealing with his people. Now, with Nehemiah, we have moved. past the time of Amos to Samaria. We've moved past the time of Isaiah to the southern kingdom. And now we're up to the 400ths Roughly 430 BC before the coming of Christ. Nehemiah, the great uh governor uh worked hand in hand with Ezra to re-establish the people in the promised land after they had been taken away uh in captivity. Nehemiah says Nevertheless, for thy great mercy's sake, thy referring to God, thou didst not utterly consume them, nor forsake them. For your mercy's sake, God, you did not utterly consume those who went into exile, nor did you forsake them Even as God made this promise in verse 12 of the two legs and the ear being taken out of the lion's mouth, with reference to Amos. Nehemiah looks at history and says, By God's mercy, you did not utterly consume They were not all utterly destroyed when Nebuchadnezzar came through and swept it swept Israel off the face of uh Judah off the face of the map. When Jerusalem was sacked and pillaged and burned, there was still a group of people who survived. And it and Nehemiah attributes that to God's mercy, to God's mercy's sake And I didn't read the last part of that statement. Nehemiah 9:31, you did not consume them nor forsake them, for thou art a gracious and merciful God. So you you can begin to see this this thought of God preserving a group of people. May it it may be small, but he preserves the group of people of Israel. So that his promises will continue. And since those promises are redemptive in character These people are preserved so they have a posterity. They have other generations who will one day come to see the great deliverance of God. Even as uh when when uh when uh Jacob uh uh uh excuse me, Joseph was talking to his brothers He said, God will preserve your posterity, save your life, and save your lives by a great deliverance. And that great deliverance for them was deliverance from the famine, but future deliverance from Egypt under Moses. And now God is pictured as merciful, and he is pictured as gracious, and therefore some are preserved. Maybe not all who bowed the knee to Baal. In uh another time, I'm I'm just showing you that this this theme keeps popping up over and over again in the Old Testament. 2 Kings chapter 19 and verses 30 and 31. At this point in history, we go back a little bit in time. We go back to the 6 and 20 B. C. time period, where before Israel was taken into Before Judah, the southern kingdom, is taken into captivity by Nebuchadnezzar, another invader comes and is at the walls of of Jerusalem This time it's the Assyrian army with Senakarib. And you remember how Sadakariv's emissary came to the walls of Israel and started shouting about how great his king God was and how uh uh he has defeated all the other gods And uh now you surrender to him or he will destroy you. And uh Hezekiah is the king of Israel at the time. And uh the scriptures uh give commentary about what God did to that boastful king Sep Sennacherib and how he delivered his people from that temporary earthly oppression. He said in verse 30 of 2 Kings 19, and the remnant that is a Escape of the house of Judah shall yet again take root downward and bear fruit. And then in verse 31, it writes, For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant. And they that escape out of Mount Zion And they, the zeal of the Lord of hosts, shall do this. If anyone escapes, if anyone escapes from Sennacherib, it's due to God's grace, it's due to God's mercy, it's due to his zeal. Zeal for his people, zeal for his promises, zeal for his, dare I say, redemptive plans, enunciated through the covenant to Abraham. Ezra. Should have read this one in connection with Nehemiah because they were contemporary. Ezra gives witness to this same phenomenon. When he writes in Ezra chapter 9, verse 8, and now for a little space, grace has been shown from the Lord our God to leave us a remnant to escape and to give us a nail in this holy place that God may lighten our eyes and give us a little reviving in our bondage Isaiah 1 verse 9, except the Lord of hosts had left us to a very great rem unless the Lord of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant. We should have been as Sodom, and we should have been as Gomorrah. Again. Isaiah is reflecting on God's mercy, is leaving his people a remnant, because if he hadn't, what would have happened? They'd have been like Sodom and Gomorrah. What that reference, of course, is to complete destruction of those two wicked towns. And it's because to his people that he preserves a remnant throughout history. And uh and uh the statement there in verse twelve uh shows that even though destruction is coming to Israel, there will still be a remnant. Now there's some other uh points that that speak to this to uh this idea of deliverance and what it's like what the what the remnant why the remnant occurs If we go down to verses 13 and 14 of chapter 3 of Amos, we see these elements. Hear and testify in the house of Jacob, says the Lord, the God of hosts, that in the day I shall visit the transgression of Israel upon him. I will also visit the altars of Bethel, and the horns of the altars shall be cut off and fall to the ground. And this this whole section reminds us that the judgment that's coming to Israel uh is um uh In one sense, it's a judgment that's coming because of idolatry. The altars at Bethel, the altar at Dan. The Northern Kingdom. Again, when it became a country, there was set up in those two areas. Altars to the Lord. But it was a golden cat in both places. And Israel was told to bow down and serve them. And this is what uh was viewed as by God another form of idolatry, another form of uh w worshiping the wrong gods It was at the heart of why judgment was coming to the Northern Kingdom and there must be, in addition to the preserving of a remnant, there must be cleansing There must be cleansing of the false from the midst of God's people. So in addition to preserving a remnant, he cleanses the land from its uh from its false idols, from the false uh uh worship from the altars. Um and um And that he says is going to happen. The horns of the altar will be cut off That's a that uh the horns uh usually uh refer to the altar's power. The altar excuse me, horns refer to its power, its com uh its complete domination. And cutting it off would mean that it doesn't it isn't going to be false false worship isn't going to be predominant. uh any longer. That's what God is promising uh will will occur. That there will be a true religion a true worship of Jehovah that is uh raised up And um and uh this is what uh goes along with the whole idea of the preserving of a remnant. The remnant is faithful to God, and the remnant will one day enter into a relationship with God where true worship will be as a part of their very existence. That they they will have a place to go They will have a place where they can worship God in spirit and in truth. And then finally, In verse 15, another aspect of this remnant uh and and what uh what occurs, the preserving of the of the people uh and the and and the spiritual cleansing of the land, starting with the worship, the false worship, he writes in verse 15, I will smite the winter house with the summer house And the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall have an end, says the Lord. Now when when you read that, uh it might be a little bit difficult to understand what is being said there But imagine it appears that, number one, uh again, remember one of the great problems of of Israel, the Nordic Kingdom, in addition to their idolatry, was the unjustif way in which they treated others. And the fact that they grew rich at the expense of others. So rich as a matter of fact, that they could afford to have a winter home and a summer home. Just like you might be able to afford to have uh a place of buoy and a place at the shore They they had that much wealth. And even talking about their their homes being palaces, palaces made of ivory. Another of the not only will their offending uh idolatry uh be uh abolished But their offensive uh uh uh dealings with other people, uh their enslaving of those who are the poor and the widow. They're getting rich off the backs of oppressing other people. They're not loving others who are their very brothers. You'll see in the near future that there's a statement where God takes goes after them of selling the poor for us for sandals. you know, uh really abusive behavior. And they got rich off of that, and God is going to remove that offense from his presence. those who normally possess, those who are the rich, and those who have uh gained their inheritance at uh uh gain their wealth at the expense of others. God is saying they may have two houses, they may have ivory palaces, but that isn't going to protect them in the day of my wrath And that again there will be a remnant, but it isn't going to be these people. They're not going to they're not going to be preserved And now, you know, what do we take from this? Uh what do we understand about uh God having a remnant? What does the very fact that he has a remnant, that he preserves a remnant And it's been happening over and over again throughout the pages of the Old Testament. What does that say to me now? Well, it tells us several things. It tells us, first of all, that God is merciful, and that God is gracious, and that He does forgive those who are wicked. At the same time, it tells us that God is faithful to whatever promises he makes. Just as the idea that a remnant has to be preserved is an indication that God is faithful to his covenant. And his covenant promises. In this case, he's faithful to Abraham. And he is raising up A people who will benefit and will love him and serve him. It also tells us that God is just That he will deliver any who seek to live for him The penalty for sin, for people's sins, will be satisfied. But the uh and and the fact that he delivers any uh from their sins means that the penalty for sin has to be paid. It it it's uh it and it will be paid Um and the wonderful thing about that is this points forward to uh the only way God you see can deliver the unjust from the just punishment is if there's some sort of payment made for their sins on their behalf. Some sort of payment that God will accept. Uh some sort of payment that cancels out or over is so infinitely precious. I I I think you see where I was going. Uh that uh so infinitely precious that uh God can at this particular point in history, even before that payment is made, preserve a revenue. Because they don't deserve that They deserve his judgment. They deserve to fall. They deserve destruction. And that again speaks to the mercy and the grace of God. For those who are in covenant with him. The promises speak to God's hope of salvation. And speak to God's hope of the covenant, which is, I will be your God, and you will be my people. And that comes about when Jesus, our Emmanuel, God with us, finally is manifested. So God does bring judgment. He does preserve a remnant of his people. Because of his faithfulness to his covenant promises to deliver his people and to be their God. Amen. Let us uh pray. Our Heavenly Father, thank you for uh your faithfulness throughout all of history that culminates in the work of your Son the seed of Abraham, the son of son of Abraham, the son of David, the Son of God, Jesus Christ, Lord, he too has Preserved a people for himself. We are his people, his children, his possession. And we praise you. Thank you for your grace, for your unmerited favor, for your mercy, and your love for us in Christ. Thank you for Jesus. Who takes away our sin by becoming sin for us? In his name we pray