Tonight we continue the series that I started last week on Amos, the book of Amos, Old Testament Prophet. And if you'll turn to the book of Amos, tonight we will be reading verses 1 through 8 of chapter 1. And ask you to follow along in your Bibles as I read. The words of Amos, who was among the sheep herders of Tekoah, which he saw concerning Israel. In the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, and the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. And he said, The Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem. The pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of caramel withers. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Damascus and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they have threshed Gilead with implements of iron. But I will send a fire into the house of Haziel, which shall devour the palaces of Ben-Hadad. I will also break the gate bar of Damascus, cut off the inhabitants from the valley of Avon And the one who holds the scepter from Beth-Aden, from Beth-Eden, the people of Syria shall go captive to Keir, says the Lord. Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because they took captive the whole captivity to deliver them up to Edom But I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, which shall devour its palaces. I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and the one who holds the scepter from Ashkelon. I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish. says the Lord God. And thus far ends the reading of the Word of God, and the focus tonight will be on verses six through eight. the prophecy of uh the Lord's coming bringing destruction upon Gaza and the other cities that are mentioned here. I'm sorry, I see that there are two here tonight who were not here last week when I gave an orientation to the book of Amos. So in some ways I think it's helpful if I do some of that again today. And those of you who've heard it before, uh just uh Keep listening, maybe you'll hear something new and and better this time. But for the sake of those who don't know much about this book and Don't maybe don't understand it very well. Let me do my best to try to orient you to this prophecy that was given through Amos And we find this passage, this book of Amos, is um is uh very precisely dated, unlike uh some of the other Old Testament prophecies. Uh it says that it was during the reign of Uzziah, king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. Now, if you were to be able to look up the the the the list of the kings of Israel uh and the kings of Judah, uh you would find First of all, that the first king of the people of God in the Old Testament was Saul. Remember? And then there was David. And uh and David uh there was one nation called uh Israel at the time. There was one a nation comprised of the tribes of Israel. Each tribe was given land in the promised land. As God had said, I will take you to the land flowing with milk and honey. And each tribe settled that the land of Israel from the north In the city of Dan, which is about the furthest northernmost point of Israel, all the way down to the southern extremes of which really, of which Gaza is part of the far south, which is part of the instruction that we're looking at today. Uh Uzziah was a king, a great king of a after after Solomon uh reigned and died, his son took over uh the uh the kingship of these Tri the twelve tribes of Israel, the united uh country. Uh but his son was not very s wise. And he refused to listen to his counselors and he he said, well, if they if those people think that they got taxes now, wait until I get done with them. And that didn't sit well. And uh the Northern Kingdom uh revolted. Uh and uh formed its own nation and it subsequently became known as uh Israel. And uh this all occurred uh somewhere around a thousand BC Somewhere in that time period. The kingdom became divided. The northern kingdom becomes Israel, the southern kingdom becomes Judah. Judah has two tribes The tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin. The premier city is Jerusalem in Judah. The premier city in the northern kingdom, Israel, will become a city known as Samaria. And to a man, the northern kingdom lasted from about 1000 B. C. to 722 B. C. When it was taken into captivity by the Assyrian Empire. And it was taken into captivity because they refused to be faithful to God. There was rampant idolatry and all kinds of sinful practices. And the Lord kept warning them. He kept raising up one prophet after another to speak to the northern kingdom, to come to encourage them to repent of their sins. and to return back to God. Or judgment was going to come. In seven twenty two that happened. After roughly three hundred years of the Lord sending one prophet after the other, Without any success, the Lord finally brought judgment upon the northern kingdom. The southern kingdom, Judah also had some of the same spiritual problems as the Northern Kingdom, but never to the degree of the Northern Kingdom until almost the very end of its existence. And that was at in 586 BC when Nebuchadnezzar came and took the southern kingdom, Judah, named Judah, and the city of Jerusalem, into captivity in Babylon. This passage that we're talking about tonight, this writer Amos, is writing to the Northern Kingdom. That's his calling. He's prophesying to the northern kingdom. And he's doing that in the time period of about Somewhere between seven hundred and fifty and seven hundred and thirty BC So it's it's pretty close to the end of time for this northern kingdom. There was not ever one good king in the northern kingdom. They were all evil, they were all wicked, they all served themselves They brought in all kinds of idol worship and all kinds of sinful activity and practices, which we will see as we go through this book of Amos, what kinds of sins they were involved in. But the kings of the north were no good, led primarily by Ahab, who is probably the most evil of all the kings of Israel. But others were close behind, believe me. And then there was in the southern kingdom, however, many of the kings were good David, the king of the southern kingdom, is called the man after God's own heart. He's the prototypical righteous king who's interested in the things of God. But even in the southern kingdom, whether it's under David or Solomon or others like Hezekiah and Josiah, who were great and righteous kings They were not able to fully eradicate idol worship in the Southern Kingdom. And that Worshiping of other gods grew and grew and grew to the point that when you get to almost the destruction of the southern kingdom in 586 BC you have a prophet in the 600s called Jeremiah, who preaches extensively to the southern kingdom, repent and believe, and they threw him in jail. They didn't want to listen to him anymore. They refuse to repent and to worship God and to worship Him alone. So it's into this context that Isaiah, excuse me, Amos is preaching. And again, Amos is identified as a sheepherder. A man who tended to sheep, but also some variations say he was a man who was tending to orchards as well. He may have had a uh a farm with uh multiple kinds of things that he was doing on that farm. Um but he was the one the Lord called He was the one the Lord called and said, I want you to speak what I tell you to speak and make sure the k the kingdom of the north hears this. Now, in chapter one, beginning at verse three, there is a series of Judgments. These judgments fall on all the nations around The northern kingdom Israel and the southern kingdom Judah. In other words, all the neighbors of Israel and Judah are being are being uh are having these um these times of judgment being prophesied against them These are all not not Hebrew people. They are Gentile people. The first of and as you look at the various judgments, they'll fall on Damascus, which is the nation of Syria. They'll fall today on Gaza, which was another nation at that particular time. Gaza was located in the far southwest. If you think about Jerusalem, it's located in the far southwest corner. That nation. They will fall on Moab, they will fall on Ammon, they will fall on um On Edom, these were all various different nations that surrounded Israel. And it would be the the the the the things that uh God is judging these nations for Generally speaking, have something to do with the way in which these unbelieving nations have treated either Israel or Judah in history, and how they have dealt with them in terms of their interaction. Another thing to think about. Some of these nations that received judgment and lived in the same geographical area as Israel. were cousins of the Jews. Edom, which we'll be listening to in the upcoming weeks Were the people that descended from Esau, Jacob's brother. Ammon. Ammon was the name of one of the true two sons, one of the names of the two sons of Lot. Abraham's brother. And so you've got these seer this series of Two sentence two verse prophecies, two or three verse prophecies against all these different nations. God judges those in the north He judges those in the south of Israel. He judges those in the southwest, in the southeast, in the northeast, in the northwest, and in the very, and then the directly east. All of these come in for God's judgment. And then finally, as you go around all those nations, he finally comes to Judah and Israel. It's as if God is giving a message to Israel over and over again through this prophet to the Gentiles first. That I'm going to judge you for your sinful behavior. And it's kind of another way of saying to Israel, wake up, because you aren't any better. In fact, in some cases, you may be worse. So that's kind of the that's kind of the time period. That's kind of what's going on at this particular time in history. And tonight we look at this prophecy against Gaza. Notice As you go through the the uh from verse one through chapter through through verse through chapter one through chapter two, you have This statement, for three transgressions of such and such a nation, and for four. That introduces a new nation with a new judgment And that kind of is a it's kind of a it serves two purposes. It gives structure to this early part of the book, but it also tells you that When he says for three and for four, the thought is that there's an ever-increasing amount of transgression that's going on. And God's not just picking one or two problems here. There's multiple problems in these nations that surround Israel. Okay, so we find here today Gaza. For three transgressions of Gaza and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Okay. Now, please take note of also mentioned in this section at verse 8. Is a couple of other places. Ashdod Ashkelon verse eight, Ekron verse eight Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Ekron, and another city that's not mentioned, but one called Gath They are part of the Philistine Empire. They were cities, major cities of the Philistine Empire And it appears that from time to time one city would be supreme over the others And then perhaps the kingship was passed to another because, for example, it talks about in verse eight, the one who holds the scepter from Ashkelod. That that the scepter holding the scepter is Is idiomatic for the one who's the king, coming from Ashkelon. But this is the Philistine Empire that God is bringing judgment upon. Now the Philistines were people who came, who emigrated or migrated to Israel from Greece. And they established their various different uh reigns uh in i i i in these various cities. They set up their their their nation in these various cities. And you find that especially during the time of the kings of Israel, whether they be excuse me, the the the kings of the united Israel, During David's time and during Saul's time, and then also even a little bit before that, during the period of the Judges, before they had any kings. That the Philistines were the ar one of the archenemies of God's people. Gaza was uh um I think it might be fair to say that it it might have been the primary city of all the five cities But Gaza and the Philistine Empire was part of the allotment that fell to Judah. uh the uh the uh when the tribes became take over the promised land in Joshua, the conquest of the promised land Josh, all the tribes were to eliminate the Gentile peoples in the promised land. And they were under strict orders from God not to intermarry. Which they violated with great rapidity and frequency Judah was unable to completely eradicate the people from God, uh the Philistine Empire. And I'm sure that that wasn't felt uh I'm sure there was a lingering hostility there between the two nations. But some of the great stories of the Bible encourage or are revolve around the Philistines. And their wars with Israel. Gaza was the southernmost city of the Philistine Empire. It is located along the Mediterranean shore. And from early times, it was a center of commerce. Between Egypt, because it wasn't far away from Egypt, and what we call the Middle East, or the Fertile Crescent. We're we're Baghdad and um the Assyrian Empire and the Babylonian Empire were located. You remember that was a great um uh area of developing of nations the Fertile Crescent, the area between the Tigris and the Euphrates River, which is now in current day Iraq. God used the Philistines from time to time to bring temporary judgment upon Israel. In Judges chapter 10, verses 6 and 7, we find the story of the Philistines and Samson. That's not in Judges 10. That's in Judges 13 through 16. But prior to that great story of Samson um and uh his fighting the Philistines and you know the story about Delilah and all that and the cutting off of his hair and the losing of his strength Prior to that, God brought the Philistines into Israel in Judges chapter 10 to punish them during the period of the judgments because of the during the period of the judges Because there was no faithfulness to God. And God did bring a deliverer finally to Israel, and it would be Samson. So this is the nation that was early on involved in oppressing Israel, the Jews, the chosen people. This was the nation who later in history defeated Israel in battle and actually took the Ark of the Covenant To their city, to their home city, and placed him in the temple of their God. Which caused the Philistines no amount of uncomfortableness. Their God promptly fell on its face when the Ark of the Covenant was brought in. And there's there's a story that uh in the in the in the Bible that uh uh many people were afflicted with boils As a result of and and so the Philistines very quickly got the Ark of the Covenant out of out of um out of their temple and out of their territory as far as they could get it. And eventually David would go and bring it back to Israel. This is the nation that fought Saul on regular basis. And this is the nation who spawned Goliath. The great story of David and the battle with Goliath. 1 Samuel chapter 17. The punishment from God comes to Gaza, but really it's coming to the whole Philistine nation. Because, as verse 6 says, they took the whole captivity captive and delivered it to Edom. Well, Edom, again, was the descendant of Esau, the brother of Jacob. When you have a war, and particularly in those days, the capture of a nation also involved the captivity of the people. Many times the nations would take the people and either keep them and use them as slaves or sell them into slavery Here, the Philistines' sin, for which God is bringing judgment upon them in our text, is magnified because they took the whole captivity captive. In other words, they took an entire population captive into Edom. And this incident, there was a historical incident in Israel's history where this happened It occurs during the reign of Jehoram. I know this is about Kings and all those names that don't sound familiar to you, but and and they're not. And it's a it's a s it's a style of living we're not we we we we have difficulty associating with However, there is a message here, and I will promise you I will get to it. And I will uh but but you gotta kind of follow with me The fact that it did really happen, that the captivity was taken captive, it occurred during the reign of Jehoram. He was 32 years old when he began to reign as king, and he reigned for eight years. He was a southern king. However, 2 Chronicles 21, verses 5 and 6 say, he walked in all the ways of the kings of Israel, like as did the house of Ahab. Remember I said who Ahab was? He walked in all the ways of the house of Israel. It did not help. Jehoram, a southern king. It did not help that he married the daughter of Ahab and Jezebel. She was his queen. As Second Chronicles 21, 6 says, he had the daughter of Ahab to wife. And he wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord. He sank further and further into gross sin and into idolatry. And he brought upon himself and his kingdom the anger of the Lord. The Lord used the Philistines to exact judgment upon Israel at that time, which is now being referred to. He used the Philistines, the Edomites, who were once Jehoram's tributes, revolted from his yoke. And the Philistines invaded the land. And they carried away great spoil, along with Jehoram's wives and his children, all but one. Second Chronicles chapter 21, 16 and 17 say, Moreover, the Lord stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines. And of the Arabians that were near the Ethiopians, and they came up into Judah and broke into it and carried away all the substance that was found in the king's house. and his sons also, his and his wives, so that there was never a son left to him save the youngest of his sons, Jehoahaz. The Lord punishes now in our text the Philistines because what they did to Judah during the reign of Jehoram. But here we come into a very interesting dilemma. Amos's prophecy is spoken to Israel. And what God is now judging Gaza for, the Philistines for, is something they did to Judah. And It's as if God is bringing judgment upon the southern city. The southern kingdom of Judah, because of Jehoram the king's union with Ahab. And his daughter. His marriage to his daughter. Ahab did great evil through his own life and through the life of his wife, Jezebel. And it seems that that spills over now into the southern kingdom Judah with Jehoram's reign. I read in one passage of scripture, I wish I had written it down, it said, and Sil and Jehoram reigned for eight years and was taken away into captivity. And as like they said, and no one was disappointed. Apparently he was not. a great king by any stretch of the imagination. And the people were glad to see him go So I'm just uh it it's again, it's kind of a pointed statement that God is uh judging the Philistines for something that they did to Judah, but the pot but but The prophet is speaking to the northern kingdom about something that was done to Judah. It's kind of a a backhand way of saying to them Why are you guys divided? Why don't you why aren't you united in defending one another? Why why are you in essence not coming to your your fellow Jewish brothers and sisters' aids And why are you not doing something to prevent them from coming into captivity? God says in verse 7, I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, which shall devour the power devour the palaces thereof. Of course, this is when you bring a fire against the wall, uh the the uh all the big cities were walled and the fires would probably go after the wooden gates, to burn down the wooden gates, which would then let the cities be defenseless And it's a sign of judgment. It makes the cities liable to destruction. Their defenses are torn down and they have no protection. Verse 8, he says, I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and him that holds the scepter from Ashkeleman. Now we're going after the other city states. of the uh of the of the Philistine kingdom. I will turn my hand against Ekron. Ekron, the only one not mentioned And then he says this telling statement, and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord God. The main cities of the nation is destroyed, even royalty is destroyed, the one who holds the scepter in Ashdod, and the remnant perishes. There is no remnant. Which is quite interesting when you compare God's announcements of judgment to Israel Always when there is an announcement, not always, but almost every time, when there is an announcement to Israel of coming judgment, God says, But the remnant I will spare Or something along the line of i actually in Amos it says when the judgment comes finally to the Jews in Judah and in Israel. It says, I will leave a remnant, but it will be the size of a pig of a dog's ear. In other words, a very small remnant. But God still says there will be a remnant. Here, there is no remnant. There is no longer, even today, even though there is a city called Daza, it is not inhabited by the Philistines or their descendants It's inhabited by the Palestinians. They're not the descendants of these Philistines. They were wiped off for that by this judgment that occurred. And there were no Philistines left. So it was devastating. And here comes why in this particular case I wanted to make this important point. And it has relationship to the title of the sermon, which by the way, I missed the word in the title. It's the title should read Judgment for Breaking the Law Written on Their Heart. Judgment for Breaking the Law Written on Their Heart. Pastor Taylor, what do you mean? God is bringing judgment on the nations that are the neighbors of Israel That is because, you see, God is not just the sectarian judge or God He is not just the judge of the he the judge. He's not just the God of the Hebrews. He's the God of the of the world, of all the nations. And the same standards that God has placed written down in the Bible on the basis to the Jews under Moses, he's also placed those same standards in the lives of Gentiles. Now, they don't have a corresponding code called the Ten Commandments. That they can point to. They may have their own laws, which may and are maybe written down and may in some proximity uh approximate the the Mosaic laws, the Ten Commandments But that's not really what's going on here. Romans 2. 14, which I read earlier. When the Gentiles which have not the law, by that he's contrasting with the Jews, have the written law. When the Gentiles who have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, These having not the law are a law unto themselves. They make themselves their own laws. But then it goes on. This, he says, verse 15, Romans 2, this shows that the work of the law is written in their hearts. The work of the law is written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts. the mean while accusing or or else excusing one another. In other words, all people May not have a copy of the Ten Commandments. They may not have the Bible, but all people have the law of God written on their hearts. And their conscience bears witness to them. They have a standard of what is right and what is wrong. They know it in their hearts. Now their hearts may become extremely callous and very hard-hearted But they know deep down what the truth is. They know that the law of God means that they have responsibilities and obligations to how they relate to the God and to their neighbors The fact that God judges these what we call Gentile or unbelieving nations. For their hard-heartedness toward the people of Israel, for taking captivity captive Even the king's family, all but one son, I think he managed to escape and became king later. But the fact that they did that is a manifestation of the fact that they are disobedient to God's law. They do not love their neighbors. as themselves. It's also a manifestation of the fact that your God is the God of gods. He is sovereign and all nations will one day If they survive in rebellion until that day, one day they will bow to this God. They will bow down, but it will be too late Too late for them. In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, according to my gospel. We see here that God appears as a judge against all the nations. And the fact that all nations, other nations deny this God does not make it true. that he does not exist. Our God is the God. He is the God of gods, the King of Kings And the Lord of Lords, and there is no other. And for those who are in Him and believe in Him, there is everlasting life through Christ. But for those Who ignore him or worship other gods instead of him, their own conscience will condemn them For the way in which they have worshiped and the way in which they have acted towards others. Remember, if you've got to have a summary of what the Word of God, the law of God is what are the great commandments? You shall love the Lord your God. With all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, um we recognize, O Lord, that In many ways, this is the book of Amos is uh very much foreign to us. occurring in a in a f in a foreign land with a foreign history and a a history about people names of cities, names of nations, names of kings that we we don't know and Not familiar to our our situation here in the United States, however. That being said, there are some things here that are common to our existence right now. And I pray, O Lord, that you'd help all of us, as well as all peoples, understand. That what is common is that we all do sin. And what is common is that God will judge sin And what is, and he will bring eternal judgment for those who persist in sin, but At the same time, he will bring newness of life to those who trust in God's provision to remove their sin away from them. And that provision is Jesus Christ. Lord, how we do pray that many more nations and peoples who do not know you and bow down to foreign gods and live, Lord, in an ungodly way toward one another, how we pray, Lord, that the light of the gospel would dawn upon them. We pray, Lord, that you would send out missionaries to such places, and that they would be faithful laborers in your kingdom, sharing the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For in him there is no death, but there is eternal life for those who believe in him. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.