All right, let's uh open up our scriptures to the letter to the Romans. And I'm going to read from chapter four this afternoon. Last week we took a kind of a break as we studied justification. Um but that's really caught up in in what uh Paul is writing about now. He's been writing about that at the end of chapter three, he continues in chapter four and uh will do so for uh a few more chapters. But let's read this afternoon from Romans chapter four. I'm going to read the first twelve verses. This really is one chapter and and should go together, but given our time this afternoon I decided to break it into two. So beginning at verse 1, Romans chapter 4, let's hear God's word. What then shall we say that Abraham our father has found according to the flesh? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. Now to him who works, the wages are not counted as grace, but as debt. But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Just as David also describes the blessedness of the man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord shall not impute sin. Does this blessedness then come upon the circumcised only? Or upon the uncircumcised also. But we say that faith was accounted to Abraham for righteousness. How then was it accounted? While he was circumcised or uncircumcised Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. And he received a sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith, which he had while still uncircumcised. that he might be the father of all those who believe, though they are uncircumcised, that righteousness might be imputed to them also, and the father of circumcision circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also walk in the steps of the faith which our father Abraham had while still uncircumcised. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. We thank you for This letter to the Church at Rome by the Apostle Paul, we thank you for the inscription of your very revealed word. We thank you, Lord God, that we can read it this afternoon in peace, but also that by the work of the Spirit we know that you're working powerfully within us, and so Father, now we ask that do your most holy will with us Bring us to confess our sins and give us the comfort of the peace that comes only through the Lord Jesus Christ. Guide and direct us this afternoon. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Well, brothers and sisters, uh I'm I'm wondering this afternoon if you've ever had uh one of those experiences in your life where uh you you know something, you're certain about something. Um uh you you're you're a hundred percent positive that uh this thing, whatever it is, is is this way and ultimately it's not Ultimately it turns out to be maybe even just the very opposite of what you thought it was. Think of those a few years ago uh I think it's probably more than a few, who thought that the earth was the center of the universe, that everything uh revolved around the earth Uh that the Earth was was stationary and I think this is how it goes. The sun moved around it, the moon moved around it uh the stars moved around it. It was the very center. We were so important uh that we had to be the center. All things revolved around us and upon that place where we lived. Well surprisingly, maybe not just the opposite, but pretty close to it. The earth is not the center of all things We are not the center of all things, indeed. God is. And so as we look up into the heavens, we can see that so very clearly. Well, I think it was the same thing with Jesus when when he came to begin his earthly ministry. Those around him, even those who were following him, were convinced that he was their earthly savior. that he would be their earthly king, that he would remove the Romans from their throne and re-establish the earthly throne of David. Well, turns out that that was in fact just the opposite Jesus is not the earthly Savior. He's the heavenly Savior. He's the spiritual Savior. And that really kind of gets to what we're talking about this afternoon. That really gets to uh what Paul was writing about this afternoon. uh well not that he wrote this afternoon, but that we read it this afternoon, that we are saved not in an earthly fashion But we're saved in a heavenly fashion. We're not saved by works. We are saved by faith. That's what Paul's writing about. That's the point that he's trying to drive home. And it was so ingrained in the Jews that they believed, they were certain, that salvation was by their works that he has to write much about this surprisingly not really new concept, but one that had been hidden, one that they had overlooked. one that they hadn't dug into, but was always in the scriptures this uh idea, this concept, this truth of justification or being declared uh righteous By faith. Well, this afternoon we're just going to touch upon these first 12 verses in chapter 4, and uh and we know where we've been already. Uh Paul has been speaking, uh he's been writing uh about his gospel. Uh and uh as at least one theologian puts it, this is the this is what Paul was telling the church in Rome. This was his gospel, this was what he would proclaim. if they would send him off uh to Spain. Um well, that could very well be. Uh but we're certain that what Paul is doing here in this letter to the Church at Rome is is clearly setting forth the gospel that he's been given by the Lord Jesus Christ. He's not ashamed of it He knows that it's the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes first the Jew, then the Greek. Uh and so how does he begin his gospel? He begins it by telling them or relaying to those who would read it and those to whom he would proclaim it that there's no one good, there's no one righteous, everyone has sinned against God. Whether they have the law or not, everyone has sinned against God and no one has an excuse For if you're a Gentile and you don't have the law, the created world speaks to us of God, of who He is And that we need to bend the knee to him. And the Gentiles, many haven't done that. They have rebelled. They are in sin, and there's no excuse for them. And Jews alike uh even though they do have the law, even though they think that they are teachers of the law, that they are above those who do not have the law, and that because they have the law, somehow they've been saved, because they have Abraham as their forefather, uh because they have that name Jew, they're fine, they're saved, and yet Paul tells them that's not the case There is no one righteous. And that's where he begins. There are none who understand. No one seeks after God. Everyone's throat is an open tomb. Mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. But then he begins the good news in chapter 3, doesn't he? The righteousness of God, apart from the law, has been revealed For all have sinned, but there is justification that's freely given by grace through the redemption that is in Jesus. And so now Paul builds upon that. That's where we are in chapter 4. Paul's solidifying his argument that one is not saved by and through their works, one is not saved by their keeping of the law. And now Paul brings that argument and he and he adds to it. He is placing a foundation, so to speak, with under it, under the that that expression of of the truth of the doctrine that the only way that one can be saved is by and through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ And so what does Paul do? Here in chapter 4, he looks to Abraham and briefly to David the Psalmist uh to undergird this truth that he has set forth. And what we're going to do this afternoon is we are going to consider really this first verse and break up this these first 12 verses. by what he writes in this first verse. What then shall we say that Abraham our father has found according to the flesh. And I think basically this whole chapter, chapter four, is about what Abraham has found, or we could say what Abraham has learned or because Abraham is dead, what Abraham did learn or what Abraham did find according to the flesh And so this idea, this question really runs throughout uh all of chapter four. We're going to break this up into two simple points, just asking that question, okay, what is it that Abraham has learned? How does this help our understanding of justification? How does this understand, help us understand faith? How does it help us? What did Abraham find? First, the first point, what did Abraham find according to the flesh? And secondly, what did Abraham find according to faith? According to flesh and according to faith. Pretty easy to remember. Both words begin with F, flesh and faith. Well let's begin. What did Abraham find according to flesh? Well let's before we dig into that let's just ask that question Why Abraham? Why does Paul begin his undergirding of this argument that We can be saved only by faith. Why does he point to Abraham? Why does he begin with Abraham? Why does he ask this question? What did Abraham find? What did Abraham learn according to the flesh? Remember, Paul is proclaiming his gospel. He's setting forth his gospel to not only Gentiles, but also Jews. And so all these principles are going to apply equally. They'll hold true equally for all. Gentiles and Jews. And here in chapter four as he refers to Abraham and David. Well, they may be more particularly known and appreciated by the Jews than they are by the Gentiles. But the Gentiles can still learn from this, they can still grow in this, and they can still be convicted as a result of this Well, let me ask you this question. If you were a Jew living back in uh you know 60 A. D. or whenever this was written, something in that vicinity. If you were to pick out one historical figure, one person from the Old Testament that you might think have has earned God's favor through his or her works. Because that's kind of what you're thinking. You're thinking we earn God's favor by the things that we do. Who might that be? Who might have had an instance of super obedience? Or who would have throughout their lives Just been such a good person that they would have earned the favor of God. Wouldn't it be Abraham? Wouldn't that be the one that you would point to? Well, why is that? Well, first Abraham received the foundational promises of God, didn't he? Abraham was called out by God. He was called out of the Ur of the Chaldeans. Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to a land which I will show you. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you. Make your name great and you shall be a blessing. He's gonna make if he's gonna make Abraham into a great nation, that means that he's going to give Abraham a people and a land This is a wonderful promise. This is a big promise. This is a promise right out of the gates. What does Abraham do? He goes. He's obedient. He does what the Lord has called him to do. And the Lord appears to him. And as Abraham is walking throughout the land in Canaan now. He tells them very specifically, to your descendants, I will give this land in chapter 12 of Genesis, verse 7. So what does Abraham do? He worships God. He builds an altar there. We don't have to go very far to continue this idea, chapter 13 of Genesis. Once again, as he and Lot split, as they separate, what's Abram told? Well, look at this land, Abram, that you've picked out now. To you and your descendants, forever I will give this land and make your descendants as the dust of the earth. What does Abraham do? He builds an altar. He worships God. He's shown the land. He's told that the descendants will be as the dust of the earth. He's given promises Well, remember, the next thing that happens is is Lot is taken away. He's removed by these kings in the in a great battle, and and Abraham goes after him and brings Lot back with all his possessions. God blessed Abram. He blessed him with his power and might to take his men and go after Lot and bring him back, recovering everything. This is Abram. And even at this point, Abram. Abram is worrisome. And God tells Abram in a vision, Do not fear, your reward shall be very great. And Abram says, well, you haven't given me any offspring. God's telling him not to fear. But this man who is in his household will not be his heir. But one will come forth from your body. He shall be your heir. Look to the heavens, count the stars, if you're able to, so shall your descendants be. Then Abram believed in the Lord, and he reckoned to him as righteousness. You see all the promises that are given to Abraham How time and again God brings him the promises of descendants and a land. And even in chapter 17, not only a nation, but a multitude of nations will come from Abraham. Kings will come forth from him. Promises are repeated. The promises are remembered, even as Moses writes in that book we know as Deuteronomy. For this is your life in the length of your days that you may live in the land which the Lord swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to give them. Well, not only promises, but Abraham is known as the righteous one, isn't he? Because of there is famine in the land, Isaac, Isaac goes to Gerar, to Abimelech, king of the Philistines. And the Lord appears to him. And we read, the Lord tells him, do not go down to Egypt. Stay in the land of which I shall tell you. Sojourn in this land, and I will be with you and bless you, for to you and to your descendants I will give these lands, and I will establish the oath which I swore to your father Abraham. Because Abraham obeyed me and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. Abraham is not only the one who receives the promises of God, he's the one who is righteous before God. He's the one who obeys, keeps his charges, keeps the commandments of God, the statutes. He's also the blessed one of God, isn't he? We saw that when he recovers Lot and all of his possessions and brings them back But he's expressly the blessed one in the prophet Isaiah chapter 51. Verse 2, look to Abraham, your father, and to Sarah, who gave birth to you in pain. When he was but one, I called him, then I blessed him and multiplied him. Abraham is the one who receives the promises. He's the one who is righteous before God in a way. The one who keeps his charge, his commandments, his statutes. And the one who's been blessed of God. Well, it should be no surprise how the Pharisees then viewed Abraham, the Jews who were led by the Pharisees. As Jesus is engaging with them in his earthly ministry He says to those Jews who believed him, if you abide in my word, you're my disciples, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. What's their response? How did they answer? We're Abraham's descendants And have never been in bondage to anyone. How can you say you would be made free? That's how they view themselves. were Abraham's descendants, not Moses's, not David's, Abraham. And Jesus responds, I know you're Abraham's descendants, but you seek to kill me because my word has no place in you Speak what I have seen with my father, I speak what I've seen with my father, and you do what you've seen with your father. They answered and said to him, Abraham is our father. This was their view. This was how they understood themselves. Abraham is our father. They relied upon their ancestry. They relied upon their bloodline. They relied upon on the relationship to Abraham, the one who received the promises, the one who was righteous, the one who was blessed They were of the right stock. His children, so to speak. They had nothing to be concerned about. This is why Paul goes to Abraham. Abraham represented the promises of God, the inheritance of the people of God, the righteous and blessed one of God. This is what Chrysostom wrote back in somewhere between probably 360 to 400 or so A. D. For a person who had no works to be justified by faith was nothing unlikely. Meaning, if you don't have any works, if you're going to be justified by faith, well, that's not too out of the ordinary That's a good thing. But for a person richly adorned with good deeds not to be made just from hence but from faith. This is the thing to cause wonder and to set the power of faith in a strong light You see what he's saying? Well, if somebody has a lot of good works, uh and you're still saying that he's justified by faith, not his good works, well that's really A wonderful thing. That's something for us to ponder. That's something for us to consider. About the power of faith. Well he wrote that quite some years ago. But I think that gets to it, doesn't it? Another commentator, Mounts, writes this, that the Jews of Jesus' day considered Abraham the primary example of justification by works. Let me read that again. The Jews of Jesus' day considered Abraham the primary example of justification by works. So the claim, this is again mounts, the claim that God accepts people on the basis of personal trust rather than adherence to the law. Seems to run counter to the principle in force with Abraham. That's why Paul's pointing to Abraham. Or consider a John Murray. When we consider that Jewish tradition had interpreted the preeminence of Abraham and the distinctive privilege of the Jewish people as the descendants of Abraham. To such an extent in terms of circumcision and had associated blessedness in the present life and in that to come with circumcision. We discover the pertinence of this argument. See what Murray is saying, this is why Paul is is using Abraham. In the Jewish mind, Abraham is pre-eminent. In the Jewish mind, circumcision, which is so tightly and closely connected with Abraham that that the blessing comes out of that. That's why Paul is referring to Abraham and circumcision almost in the same breath. It's this idea that he has to knock down and defeat such that faith can take its right place. You know, it's as if Paul were writing to a group of high school basketball players who loved basketball and wanted to get better, much better. They wanted to play on a college team or maybe even in the NBA and it's as if Paul then said, well, consider then Michael Jordan. Well they're going to listen They're gonna they're gonna their ears are gonna pick up. Well, maybe maybe I have to say LeBron James today. But a at any rate, it's it's this This is well known, this well-known guy that we all admire, and we're going to listen to what he has to say. That's what Paul wants to do here. What does Abraham say about the flesh? What has Abraham found or learned about the flesh? That's why he goes to Abraham. That's why he points to him. And that's why we need to listen to Abraham. So, what did Abraham learn according to the flesh? First, I think Abraham learned, or he found. That he needed righteousness. I think that's what Paul is saying in verse 5. But to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies. the ungodly. His faith is accounted for righteousness. Did you get that? God justifies not the righteous, But the ungodly. That kind of puts things into a different perspective. That kind of puts things where it needs to be. That's what I think Abraham found or learned. Isn't that what Jesus said in response? to the question as to why are you eating with tax collectors and sinners. He said, those who are well have no need of a physician. But those who are sick. I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentance Isn't that what Paul's saying here? God justifies the ungodly. So it would make sense that Abraham needed to learn or find first that he fell into that category of the ungodly. Well, we've been talking about Abraham and his righteousness and his good works and the promises. And so where are we going to find this idea that he learned about himself as being ungodly? We might just turn back to chapter 12. Chapter 12 of Genesis is as Abraham's called out of the early Chaldeans. It doesn't take long It doesn't take long before he goes to Egypt because of famine in the land. Even ten verses into the chapter, he's on his way. And what does he say to Sarai, his wife? As he's going to Egypt, as he recognizes that he has a beautiful wife, he says to her, Indeed, I know that you're a woman of beautiful countenance, therefore it will happen when the Egyptians see you that they will say, This is his wife, and they will kill me but they'll let you live. Please say that you are my sister. That it may be well with me for your sake, that I may live because of you That was the first time. Now, in Genesis 20, Abraham journeys Toward the land of the Negev, and settles between Kadesh and Shore, and sojourned in Garar. And there again he says to Sarah, his wife, remember the name has changed at this point because God is visited them and told them that indeed Sarah would have a child. Abraham says to her, She is my sister. So Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. You might say, well, what's the big deal? Abraham lied twice. Yes, he did. But think of the lie How is he loving his wife? How is he cherishing and nourishing his wife? He's sending her off To be with pagans in such a way that she could have very well been violated by them He was not sanctifying and cleansing. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for her, that he might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word. Husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies Abram wanted to protect himself at the expense of his wife. Yes, it was a lie, but it was also a great failure to protect the The marriage, the sanctity of his wife, is a great sin. Two times Abraham was learning he was ungodly. And then in chapter 17, he is told very clearly by God to be blameless. As God begins the covenant, the last statement of a covenant with Abraham, verse 1 of chapter 17, when Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am all Almighty God, walk before me and be blameless. And Abram fell on his face. You see, Abram needed him told, walk before me and be blameless. Jesus Christ never needed to be told to walk before his Father and be blameless. He was always righteous. You see that language in verse 5 is, as one commentator puts it, strong language. It means irreverent But to him who does not work but believes upon him who justifies the irreverent or the impious That's the idea. Abram needed to learn that. Calvin writes In short, no one will seek the righteousness of faith except he who feels that he is ungodly. That's powerful. No one will seek the righteousness of faith except he who feels that he is ungodly. God is said to justify us when he freely forgives sinners and favors those with whom he might justly be angry. That is when his mercy obliterates our unrighteousness. Calvin was Such a great writer and understood this doctrine so very well. Through these events, we might say that Abraham learned or found that he was indeed ungodly, that he was a sinner and needed righteousness. What else did Abraham learn or find? You learn that there was a need for the shredding of blood for sin. Genesis 22 is that passage, is that chapter where Abraham is told, is commanded by God to take his son, his only son of the blessing Isaac. The only one through whom the promises would be fulfilled. He's told to take this one, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offer. Now we know that Noah sacrificed in chapter 9 of Genesis after the ark comes to rest, after the uh earth was flooded and the flood is over and the door is opened and Noah comes out with his family. He built an altar to the Lord and took every clean animal and every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. to the one who had saved them. These are fellowship offerings indicating the existence now of peace with God. God has wiped out the earth And all that were in it, all the sinners, well, one remained in Noah, as well as his sons and their wives. But there's a piece. The Bible does not record, to my knowledge, anywhere else that God decreed the offering up of a human as a sacrifice except for Jesus here in Genesis 22. So Abraham built an altar and placed the wood in order. He bound Isaac, his son. laid him on the altar upon the wood, stretched out his hand, took the knife to slay his son, and that's the exact time when the ram was provided. You know, we usually focus here on Abraham's work, don't we? We usually focus on his great obedience. But that's really not the centerpiece of this passage. The focus would more probably and properly be on what Abraham learned or found about his flesh. Abraham learned and found that the Lord did not want the blood of Isaac. Blood was acquired, was required to atone, but not Isaac's blood. Not the blood of this flesh. You see, Abraham found that that work was not required of him. There's more. More that Abraham would have found in this account with Isaac. Abraham would have seen and known that But he never got to the point of actually working here to secure the favor of God. He never got to the point of actually sacrificing Isaac before he was cut short. In in so to speak, those words cut short. The work of Abraham was stopped by the angel The angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. So do not lay your hand on the land. Or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you've not withheld your son, your only son, from me. See, it wasn't the work. It wasn't the act of earning favor that God sought. No, it was to fear and obey in faith. Obey in trust Abraham so trusted God that he knew even if he did slay this one, this child of the promise, that God could raise him up again. So the promise would not be defeated. It was Abraham's faith that the Lord wanted to be shown A test to demonstrate the sincerity and presence of his faith. Isn't that what James helps us with? We might say, well, James and Paul are at odds. They're different. Paul says it's it's justification by faith alone James says, well, it's work and no. No, James helps us understand what was going on. There is as Isaac is bound and Abraham is about to slay him Was not our father Abraham justified by works when he offered Isaac his son on the altar? Do you see that faith was working together with his works and by works faith was made perfect. That's the idea. That's what was going on The perfection of Abram's faith, the display of the faith that was in his heart And James finishes this by saying scripture was fulfilled, which says Abram believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. That's it. The perfection of faith, not the work The work demonstrated what was going on in his heart. That's what the Lord wanted. That's what saves. But to him who does not work but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is accounted for righteousness. Abraham experienced the blessing of God as his lawless deeds were forgiven. Justice David also describes the blessedness of a man to whom God imputes righteousness apart from works, blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven. That's a description of Abraham. Now this is significant. Paul has just encapsulated everyone. In this doctrine of justification by faith. He's just said that he really means that no one is good, no one, not even Abraham, the father of righteousness. And so just as we kind of built up Abraham by reviewing the scriptural resume, Paul has just knocked him down to a mere human being, one who's just justified by faith, not works. We have to ask ourselves this afternoon, how are we seeking to be righteous before God. How are we seeking to be declared not guilty? Is it by works or by faith? Scripture tells us that if it's by works, we are not going to be successful. Scripture tells us that it's only by faith. That brings us to our second point this afternoon, according to faith. What did Abraham find or learn according to faith. The second part of this passage then begins, does this blessed verse 9, does this blessedness, and this blessedness refers back to verses 7 and 8 uh of which David wrote, Psalm 32. Does this blessedness, blessedness of those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, whose sins are covered, the man whose uh sin the Lord does not impute does this blessedness then come upon the circumcised only or upon the uncircumcised as well. Now do you see how Paul is bringing together Abraham and circumcision and saying, well we really can't separate those two We need to address both of them. We need to look at them and consider them. Why? Why is circumcision such a significant thing from Paul's perspective? It seems that Paul raises circumcision not just because of Abraham, but because of that. It was the first. Work. I'm not sure who wrote that. Might have been me, but maybe not. It was the first work What do I mean by that? Well, it's so caught up with the covenant. It's the sign and the seal of the covenant of grace, and it was the first thing that God told Abraham to do. In order to enter into the covenant circumcised, it's the first work. Calvin writes this. Paul had said that no one is blessed but he whom God reconciles to himself by a gratuitous pardon. It follows that all are cursed whose works come to judgment. But still, this is not enough. Except remission of sins precedes all works. Did you get that? Remission of sins goes before any and all work. And the first Of these works, which remission comes before was circumcision. Circumcision is that which as according to Calvin, initiated the Jewish people into the service of God. But the remission comes before it. So Paul wants to play that out. Paul wants us to see that. To the Jews Circumcision was the basis of the righteousness of the law Circumcision was a meritorious, that means it was by which that by which they earned favor of God, it was a meritorious observance of the law. as though they possessed a higher excellency before God. Circumcision then was especially mentioned because it was the basis of the righteousness of the law. That's why Paul refers now to circumcision. Well Now we see the tie between Abraham, the man of the covenant, was circumcised, possibly even the first to be circumcised. And Paul is raising this question, even though it hasn't been asked, but he knows it's in the mind of the Jews. And was Abraham credited this righteousness because he was given the promise? Isn't that why? And is the credit of righteousness due only to those who are in Abraham's line, or in other words, in the line of the circumcision? Is that why righteousness was credited? And they're actually most likely thinking, yeah, yeah, that's it Righteousness is credited because Abraham was given the promise, and or righteousness was credited to us because we're in his line, the line of The circumcision. So Paul asked the question, does this blessedness come upon the circumcised only or upon the uncircumcised? also. How then was it accounted? While he, meaning Abraham, was circumcised or uncircumcised. Well, when did Abraham believe? That verse comes to us in Genesis 15. As God is telling Abraham not to be afraid, That he is with Abraham. He's his shield. He's his exceedingly great reward. And Abraham raises that question. Look, God, you haven't given me any children. Who's going to be my heir? And the Lord tells him, This one shall not be your heir, but the one who will come from your own body shall be your heir. And he brings him outside. He says, look toward the heavens, count the stars. So shall your descendants be. Verse 6, chapter 15. And he believed in the Lord, and he accounted it to him for righteousness. You see, it's the idea, the faith, the belief, the trust of Abraham that his descendants would in fact be numerous is equated to righteousness. In other words, Abraham's account, his bank account of righteousness, if we could have such things, is empty. It's empty until he believes. And here he believes in the promise of God. Here now I think it's at least the third time that God has told him that your descendants shall be numerous He now finally believes he trusts, he has faith in this promise of God, and as a result of his faith, as a result of his trust, God now sees him as righteous. It's not that he is righteous because he's been sinning against God. But because of his belief, because of his faith, God looks at Abraham through Jesus Christ and accounts righteousness to him. He clothes him in the righteousness of Christ, the one who's yet to come. That's the idea. That's when it happened. How old was Abraham when this happened? Well, somewhere around eighty-five, eighty-six, because that's when Ishmael was born And guess what? Abram believed upon God before Ishmael was born. So 85, 86, somewhere in that nature. Well, when was Abram circumcised? That doesn't come until chapter 17 of Genesis. when Abram was 99 years old. So maybe 14, maybe 13 years later. 13 or 14 years later That's when Abram, now Abraham, is circumcised. That's when Abram is given the covenant again And that's when he is called to place the sign and seal of the covenant of grace upon his body and upon the body of the males in his household. He's 99. He was 86 when he believed, or 85. There's a 13 or 14 year gap. When did Abram believe? Before he was circumcised. While he was uncircumcised, yes. He received the sign of the circumcision a seal of the righteousness of faith which he had while still uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all those who believe. Well they are uncircumcised. righteousness might be imputed to them also. Well, what was the purpose of circumcision then? Sprohl writes, it was the sign of the very faith and justification that Abraham already possessed. It was the sign and the sea. Abraham was justified before he ever did any works of the law. Again, that's R. C. Do you see that? He was fully and completely justified before he does that first work. before he is circumcised, before any in his household are circumcised, well before He's already been justified. He's already been credited with righteousness. He's already been seen as righteous in the eyes of God. His sins have been remitted already. Do you see? His sins were remitted before he did any work. Circumcision did not, could not, never did justify But it was a sign and a seal that ratified the righteousness of faith. That's Calvin. It pointed beyond itself. It confirmed the reality of the righteous status in which Abram stood by virtue of his faith. Again, that's Calvin. You see, according to Calvin and and I agree with With him, there's a two-fold grace represented by circumcision. One, God had promised Abraham a seed, from whom salvation was to be expected by the whole world. I will be a God to you. How? By through Christ. A seed was promised. Blessed seed. Only by and through Jesus Christ would God be our God. But on the other hand, as Calvin writes, God required integrity and holiness of life. And that can only be done by cutting off in man whatever is born of the flesh. That's what circumcision displayed, in part. spiritually cutting off the corruption of the flesh. Do you see what Abraham learned? According to faith? You see what he found according to faith, the sign and the seal of the covenant of grace? The flesh had to be removed. Blood had to be shed. A seed had to be promised. And all this to show, as Calvin writes, that it was not the work of a man, but of God. even as he commanded infants eight years, eight days and older, to be circumcised. Who could not have performed such a command? Yes. Abraham received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of faith while he had while still uncircumcised. Abraham learned or found that it was according to his belief, his trust, his faith, and the promises of God that he was indeed credited with righteousness or justified by God, that he might be the Father of all those who believe, though they are uncircumcised, that righteousness might be imputed to them also. as well as the Father of circumcision, those who not only are of the circumcision, but who walk in the steps of the faith of which our father Abraham had While still uncircumcised. Yes. These are the things that Abraham found. Found by the flesh and found by faith. What a blessing we have. Here in this letter to the Romans.