Okay. Brothers and sisters, I'm going to ask us to turn to uh numbers this afternoon. That's the uh fourth look in scripture, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, then Numbers. We're going to read there, um, beginning at verse 22 of chapter 15 Numbers fifteen beginning at chapter excuse me. Numbers chapter fifteen beginning at verse twenty-two. And just a little uh background. Uh to this. This is uh the account of uh the Israelites who are about to enter into the promised land Uh and uh Moses sends out spies to look at the land. They come back and they bring a bad report. Uh they are frightened by the people, the spies are frightened by the people uh who are in the land and as a result they give a bad report to the congregation of the people to the Israelites and so the Israelites won't go. They won't uh uh they won't enter the land and this is uh sin against God. God has commanded them to enter the land and and now they refuse to do so And God speaks to Moses and says, you know, stand back, I'm going to wipe out of the nation, the people, and make of you a greater nation, mightier than they. Moses intercedes, he pleads with God uh for mercy, um he asks for forgiveness. And the Lord does so in chapter 14 of verse 20. I pardoned according to your word There is yet some suffering that happens as a result of the people's disobedience, but yet they have been pardoned. And in chapter 15, as that begins, we see this rehearsal of sacrificial offerings. And we must think of it in terms of the the people of sinned against God. And God repeats or gives them once again some laws, some ceremonial rites having to do with the ways in which they can cleanse themselves uh so to speak through sacrifices. Um but at the end of this portion of scripture uh he tells them that you know this is for those who sin unintentionally. We're about to read that. There's a different law for those who sin intentionally Let's read or hear God's word, beginning at verse 22 of chapter 15 of Numbers. But if you sin unintentionally and do not observe all these commandments that the Lord has spoken to Moses All that the Lord has commanded you by Moses from the day that the Lord gave commandment and onward throughout your generations, then If it was done unintentionally without the knowledge of the congregation, all the congregation shall offer one bolt from the herd for a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma to the Lord, with its grain offering and its drink offering according to the rule One male goat for a sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the people of Israel, and they shall be forgiven Because it was a mistake. And they brought their offering, a food offering to the Lord, and their sin before the offering before the Lord for their mistake. And all the congregation of the people of Israel shall be forgiven The stranger who sojourns among them, because the whole population was involved in the mistake. Verse 27. If one person sins unintentionally, he shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering And the priest shall make atonement before the Lord for the person who makes the mistake, when he sins unintentionally to make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven. You shall have one law for him who does anything unintentionally, for him who is a native among the people of Israel, and for the stranger who sojourns among you. But The person who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native or a sojourner, reviles the Lord, and that person shall be cut off from among his people, because he has despised the word of the Lord. and has broken his commandment. That person shall be utterly cut off. His iniquity shall be on him Verse 32. While the people of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day. And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation They put him in custody, because it had not been made clear what should be done to him. And the Lord said to Moses, The man shall be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp. And all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him to death with stones, as the Lord commanded. Moses. Far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Could you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we this afternoon consider your word with regard to justification, We pray now that you'd help us use this passage in Numbers to guide our hearts and to give us a deeper, a better, a fuller understanding. of how we can be right in your eyes. We pray this in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Well, as we consider justification, as we take somewhat of a break from Romans and really dig into a bit the the idea, the doctrine, the truth of justification. I wanted us to take a look at the Old Testament first and and to see uh that this uh doctrine was really uh caught up in all of scripture, but certainly here, uh in Numbers. But the people had sinned against God by failing to go up into the promised land. And he rehearses with them how they can be cleansed, how they can become righteous, how they can be forgiven. Before him, if they uh perform these ceremonial rites, if they offer up a blood offering they would be forgiven for their errors, for their mistakes, for their unintentional sins. But then we see this break. When one sins intentionally or does something, meaning break a command of God or fail to do something that God has commanded, with a high hand, that means he he knows that God has commanded this, and yet He or she continues to do that which God has commanded him not to do. In this case In this case, God had commanded that the Sabbath be kept holy, that his people do no work on the Sabbath. And here this man was found gathering sticks working on the Sabbath day. And so we don't see that God says, you know Offer up a ceremonial offering for him, offer up a bull, a goat for him. No, this one has his guilt that remains upon him It was not washed away. It was not cleansed. And so he suffered the punishment due a sinner And that was death. And so we see the idea of forgiveness being caught up in this expiatory sacrifice. That's offered up to God. And we also see that that there were those high-handed offenses against God which couldn't be cleansed. Well, this brings us then to justification. As we have been reading in Romans in chapter 3, we've gotten to the good news. We've seen that there's no one righteous, no not one. All have turned aside, all have turned away from God. All are caught up in their sins. All are due the punishment for sin, which is eternal wrath of God, eternal death. And then Paul tells us That there is the possibility of justification before God by faith And that's described for us in Romans chapter 3 and Romans chapter 4, and it will continue to be described to us in 5 and 6. And so there's a lot of text, a lot of scripture on this idea. And I thought it might be a good idea for us just to take a step, take a time uh away from following that scripture uh to just digging in a little deeper on this truth of justification. Well, in order to do so, let's just consider for a minute where justification fits. As we pull a doctrine out of scripture, as we pull a truth out of scripture, it's always good for us to find its place. Where does it fit in Scripture? So we just have a better sense. We're not just taking a tree out of the forest and studying that tree. We're first looking at the forest and seeing where that tree is in the forest. so we can better understand the tree as we study it. And so that's what we're doing first with justification. We want to take an overview of How a person is saved. We might call this the order of salvation or the overview of salvation. There are several things in Scripture which show us how a person is saved, or these steps, so to speak, if we were to break it down uh theologians do this. First there's effectual calling, which can be broken down and I didn't put it in here, but a regeneration is under effectual calling. And then conversion, faith and repentance, union with Christ Then we get to justification, adoption, sanctification, perseverance, and glorification. Those things would be called the order of salvation or for our terms, just an overview of salvation. Well, what is effectual calling? We're not going to go over all these in much detail, but I do want to skim across them very quickly. What is effectual calling? Well, effectual calling is found in Scripture. As Jesus calls out from the prophet Isaiah, we say, Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters And he who has no money, come by and eat, come by wine and milk, without money and without price. Listen diligently to me. Eat what's good. Delight yourselves enrich Food. We talked about that this morning as we talked about coming to the Lord's table, the King's table. Incline your ear and come to me here that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant. My steadfast true love for David. That's the call. That's the call to come to Christ. That's the call to believe in the Lord Jesus. He is the one who has the wine, the milk, that doesn't cost any money. And he's the one who has the words. He is the word. And and if we feed upon the word, we're feeding upon that which delights us. We have to have our ear inclined, don't we? It needs to be, this call needs to be made effectual. And that's the work of God. This call goes out to everyone, but not everyone hears it. And so we have to be given ears to hear, a heart to receive this. And that's exactly what Jesus was saying to Nicodemus as he came to him in the night. You've got to be born again. You've got to be regenerated. You've got to have ears that will hear this call. You've got to have a heart that will receive this call. And that's why we call it effectual calling, because God, through his Spirit, makes this call, it goes out to everyone, effectual in certain individuals, in those we would might refer to as the chosen. or the elect. That's the first step, that regenerated heart that receives the call in which God makes that call effectual. Well, there we see it again. What is effectual calling? If we look at that up in the shorter catechism, it's God persuading and enabling us to embrace Jesus Christ. Now you're seeing, but that that call goes out for it to be effective, we've got to have that new heart, right? That new birth, so that we can hear it And as we hear it, respond to it, here it is that persuading, that enabling us to embrace Jesus Christ. This is where conversion comes into the picture as a person is persuaded and enabled to hear the call He's persuaded and enabled to embrace Jesus. In other words, comes to belief and repentance That's the idea. Effectual calling is including that persuasion, that enablement for one to come to a saving belief in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well If you skip over justification for a minute, we just talked about that effectual call, which includes conversion, faith, and repentance. Well what is adoption? Well, adoption is this once-in-time event that God does. It's a work of God where we're received into the number and have the right and all the privileges of a son or daughter of God. That's the idea. We talked about that today. Being brought into the house of God, being adopted by God. That happens as soon as we come to a saving belief in the Lord Jesus Christ. We're going to talk about justification in a minute, but adoption is happening at the same time we're justified A once-in-time event, a once-in-time act of God bringing us into his family. What else? Sanctification. Once we come to faith and belief in the Lord Jesus Christ, we're justified and adopted. Now that work of sanctification begins in us by God's spirit. It's a work of God's free grace. And we're renewed in the whole man after the image of God and enabled more and more to die into the sin. and live unto righteousness. That just goes on in our hearts, in our lives, until Christ returns or he takes us up into glory. Sanctification is an ongoing work. of God, not a once-in-time like adoption and justification. Well perseverance, what is that? It's God's ensuring that we're not going to fall out of faith or fall away from the family of God or no longer be justified. We can neither totally nor finally fall away from the state of grace. But we will certainly persevere there unto the end and eternally be saved, not because of who we are, but because God and what he's done in accepting his beloved. and effectually called us. We'll persevere until Christ returns or he calls us home. Well finally glorification Glorification is that work that happens when we are ushered into glory. And just as Christ loves the church and gave himself up for her. Why? That he would sanctify her, cleansing her, washing her with the word, that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot, wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. That's describing The church, individuals within the church, as we are brought into glory. That's the end of salvation, glorification. Well, there you have an overview of the order of salvation. I skipped over one thing, and that was you got it, justification. So that's what we're talking about this afternoon. I wanted you to put that in the forest where it belongs. Now you have the context of justification Let's begin talking about it. What is justification? Well, if we went to the shorter catechism, great place to go for short answers to big ideas, big doctrines. It's an act, remember that, an act of God's free grace, wherein he'd pardon all our sins and accepts us as righteous in his sight only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us. and received by faith alone. There's a longer definition, but this is a great short definition of what justification is. And I want to take this definition and now break it down for us this afternoon as we study this and break it down into three heads. First, justification is a free work of God's grace. That's number one. It's a free work of God's grace. Number two, it's a declaration of forgiveness Declaration of forgiveness. And then finally, it's a declaration of righteousness. Now it's more than all these things, and we could take Again, a long time to study this doctrine, but this afternoon, those are the things I want to hit upon, these three simple points. Well, first, justification is of free grace. We saw that in the shorter catechism, and we see that here in the confession of faith itself. Those whom God effectually calls, he also freely justifies So think of this. Justification, as we've defined it, it's a gift. It's free. We're not paying for it. We don't bring God anything for it. We don't We don't uh think of it in terms of uh we are doing something for God and in return he does something for us It's God whose work it is, and he does it freely by his own free will and determination. It's the work of our triune God. the benefit of which he proclaims upon all those in whom he makes his call effective Look at that, those whom God effectually calls. That's why we went and looked at that overview of salvation. Now we have that idea in mind that it's God who calls, and it's God who makes his call effective within us that we might come to faith and repentance And as we do, justification is immediately declared. It's a work of God. It's a free gift of God. We see that in Scripture. God in Ephesians 2, being rich in mercy. Because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespass. Do you see we can't do anything to earn justification, to earn a pardon for our sins. Why? Because we're dead. What do dead people do? Nothing. That's our state That was our estate when Jesus Christ reaches in and pulls us out of the grave, wipes away our sin. And clothes us in his righteousness. We were dead. Dead in our trespasses. And at that time he made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved. And isn't that the definition of grace? A short definition of grace It's God's predetermined will that he would pour out his favor. upon those who absolutely do not deserve it. In fact, we might go as far to say, as he's poured out his favor upon those who've done everything within their power not to deserve his grace, his mercy, his favor. Justification is of his free grace. And that's what makes it grace. Because we don't deserve it. In fact, we deserve just the opposite. Hell and damnation. And that's what we've been studying in Romans, isn't it? Well here we see these scripture verses come together and and support, not only support, but really are the foundation of this idea that justification is of free grace or of free work. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. That tells us that was our estate. And are justified by his grace as a gift. to the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Justification is the result of the sacrificial work of Jesus. Why did Jesus go to the cross? It's only because God loved us. And we didn't deserve that. That's grace. Justification is also the work and proclamation of God. It's the work of Jesus Christ Yes, it's his sacrificial work on the cross, but it's also the work of God. Remember, Jesus' sacrifice begins with God's love. Romans 3. 26, it was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. You see those two words, just and justifier. We talked about that last Sunday. And I just want to focus on that one today. He's the justifier. It's his work. It's his declaration. It's his work to take Jesus' work and apply that to you so that you can be justified See, it's the work of God. Jesus Christ is the one who accomplishes it, and God is the one who takes it then and applies it to you. He's the justifier. Justification can't be earned. Romans 3. 27. What becomes of our boasting? It's excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No. But by the law of faith What did Abraham have to boast in? You might say, well, he took his son Isaac up and was about to sacrifice him in accordance with God's command. He has something to boast about. And we'd say, no. No. Abraham, and we'll learn this Lord learning next week. Abraham has nothing to boast in Only in the sacrifice that was given up for him and for his son, Jesus Christ. Abraham did not earn justification by taking his son off. In obedience. He earned it by belief, by faith, so to speak. Justification is a free grace. And justification includes forgiveness, or you might say it's a declaration of forgiveness. whom God effectually calls He freely justifies not by infusing righteousness into them but by pardoning their sins. That's what I want to focus on. Justification includes forgiveness Imputing the obedience and satisfaction of Christ unto them. What does it mean to pardon? What does it mean to forgive? Well again, Webster's is so good at times. But here the the word pardon is defined this way. Guilt implies being bound or subjected to censure. penalty or punishment. Remember we read about that man in in numbers who had guilt laid upon him because he was gathering sticks on the Sabbath. He broke God's law. He did it in a high-handed way And that guilt laid upon him, that punishment for his sin laid upon him, and it was executed. He was put to death by stoning. To pardon, however, is to give up this obligation, to give up this censure, this penalty, this punishment, and to release the offender We apply the word to the crime or to the person. We pardon an offense when we remove it from the offender and consider him as not guilty. We pardon the offender when we release or absolve him from his liability to suffer punishment. That is exactly what justification does. It's exactly what God does. It's not that our sins are gone, but the punishment for our sins is removed. It's pardoned. We've been released, absolved, because the punishment was laid upon Jesus. I thought this was very insightful In Hermann Babink's Reformed Dogmatics, that means kind of like a systematic theology. He wrote this The pagans pictured the gods as human, endowing them with such passions as jealousy, spite, and vengeance, and therefore could not grasp the idea of a free and gracious forgiveness. He's saying those who don't really have God really can't understand this idea of grace and forgiveness. When the gods felt insulted and were angry, they had to be appeased by human gifts and prayers A Greek philosopher ridiculed that notion, considering it folly. Yet, this notion witnesses to a greater seriousness In the sense of truth, then the shallow idea that forgiving is natural for God, just as sinning is normal for humans. Now I had to read that a couple of times when I read it, thinking, hmm, forgiveness is not natural for God. Well If we think that forgiveness is natural, then we must think that sinning is natural. Fact is that it's not. Forgiveness is not natural, but is terribly difficult. We know that ourselves. As we are called to forgive our brothers and sisters, our wives, our husbands, our children, and the children parents, it's terribly difficult for us, but we're human. Every time we are called to forgive, we have sin, our own sin, mixed in with it. Think about God. Think about how terribly difficult it was for God to forgive. Now What I mean by that is that he had to give up his only eternally begotten Son. That doesn't seem to be natural when we use that word. But it seems to be terribly difficult. As we consider justification, as we consider pardon, as we consider forgiveness, I don't think we should ever, ever consider it to be a light thing Or ever to take it for granted. It's a shallow idea, if we do. Well, this idea that justification includes forgiveness or that forgiveness is That which God does is throughout Scripture. And this idea of justification is seen throughout Scripture. Psalm 103, For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. As far as the East is from the West, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. That's the idea of justification. Not that the sin never existed, because that's impossible. We have sinned. That's recorded, so to speak, in history. But God removes it from us. He separates it from us. In a way that we can't really even grasp how far apart is the East from the West? What about the prophet Isaiah? Behold, it was for my welfare that I had great bitterness, but in love You have delivered my life from the pit of destruction, for you have cast all my sins behind your back. It's not that they don't exist. It's as if God is no longer looking at them. Behind his back. Or even Micah. You cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. They are hidden. They are covered over As we think of the deep of the sea, they cannot be seen. It's the idea. This pardoning that God does. It's it's a complete idea of separation. It's a complete idea of covering over It's a complete idea of inability to look upon them any longer. That's justification. Well, forgiveness and pardon is ultimately and only within the power of God For he truly is the one offended by our sins. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, who could stand but with you There is forgiveness that you may be feared. Now, this this particular psalm brings the power of God and the mercy of God together in one verse With you, there's forgiveness that you may be feared. It's only the power of God that's able to bring about the forgiveness, the pardon for our sins in Christ Jesus Genesis 39, we've been going through the account of Joseph, and we see as he is tempted by Potiphar's wife again and again and again. How does he finally respond when she grabs a hold of him in his garment? He flees, but before he does He explains to Potiphar's wife, how then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? Our sins are against God first and foremost. Can we sin against one another? Absolutely. But first and foremost, every single sin we commit is against God Himself. And then as Jesus heals the paralytic who's been lowered down to him, what does he say first? Son, your sins are forgiven. He doesn't heal his body first. He heals his heart. And those who are around him are thinking within their minds, who can forgive sins but God alone? They were right. They weren't right to question Jesus, but they were right that it's only God who's able to forgive sin. Well, if we had a chalkboard and we were marking it up with our sins, it might look like this. Justification or the pardoning of sins is a once-in-time declaration of God, a once-in-time work. that the sins, past, present, and future of a believer have been forgiven in the blood of Christ. Past, present, future, once-in-time, declaration of God. That's justification. Where do we see that? Well, as the woman, woman who was anointing Jesus Christ at the table. As he reclined. And as the Pharisee questioned whether Jesus knew that this woman was a sinner, He explains to this man, I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven because she loved much. But he who is forgiven little loves little, and he said to her, your sins are forgiven. Your faith is saved, you go in peace You see, he didn't say, well, this one sin of yours that you just committed is forgiven. No. There's sins which are many are forgiven. Once in time, declaration of pardon. That's justification. Justification doesn't only include a pardon for sin. It also includes a declaration of righteousness. We need both, don't we? We need to have the punishment for our sins satisfied And in that satisfaction by the Lord Jesus Christ, we are pardoned. Because justice has been served in Christ, in his blood There's no longer any wrath for us to suffer, and thus we're pardoned, but yet we still need righteousness, don't we? Adam was told to obey. We need to be those who are seen as obedient children. How does that happen? How does justification Help us in that regard. Going back to the confession of faith, we see that God affects those whom God effectually calls. He also freely justifies, not by infusing righteousness. into them but by pardoning their sins and by accounting and accepting their persons as righteous, not for anything broader than them or done by them, but for Christ's. sake alone. Again, a declaration by God that we are righteous. Well, I don't like needles. That's a good thing. Justification doesn't involve infusion This is an idea that comes from the Church of Rome that Believers are somehow infused with righteousness so they can cooperate with God and obey God and earn earn Their salvation along with the blood of Christ. That's not what Scripture tells us. God justifies it not by infusing righteousness. It's not injected into us. We do not become in ourselves, in our own skins, in our flesh, righteous before God. Now Let's be clear. As one is saved, as one comes to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, are they sanctified? Yes. Are we caused to sin less, to hate our sin more, and to strive toward new obedience? Yes. Is that why God accepts us? No God accepts us because of the blood of Christ, because of the righteousness of Christ, and God sees us as righteous, not because of who we are or what we do It's not because he injects us with righteousness. We have to understand that. It's all Christ. But he accounts and accepts our persons as righteous. That's supposed to be a bank with money in it. See, our account was empty. In our deadness. Our account of righteousness was completely empty. In fact, it probably had a negative value to it. But what God does is he fills it up. He credits our account called righteousness. with the righteousness of Christ. Not for anything wrought in them or done by them, but for Christ's sake. alone. Our account is full. Our account of righteousness is full. That's justification. How does a sinner become right or righteous before God? It's only in Christ. We'll read this again next week, but the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake, meaning Abraham's sake alone, but for ours also It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead Jesus, our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. You see, by Jesus' going to the cross, being delivered up for our trespasses. And his resurrection, because of his righteousness, is for our justification. That's how a sinner becomes righteous before God. The righteousness of Christ is declared or imputed to be that of the believers. That's what imputation means. It means taking something that's not ours and then giving it to us or seeing that we have it even if we don't. We don't have righteousness in ourselves, but God takes the righteousness of Christ and He declares it to be ours. He imputes it to us. He credits it to our account You see, it's a two-way street. We get the righteousness of Christ. He got our sins. There's double imputation that goes on in order for us to be justified. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedient, the many were made sinners, meaning Adam So by the one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous, meaning Jesus. That's imputation. That's declaration that we have been declared righteous because of who Christ is and what he's done. The sinner grabs hold of this righteousness of Jesus by faith. which is itself a gift of God. Here we see that idea of imputation not only in the scriptures, obviously that's where we need to see it. But the Westminster Confession picks up on it also. God effectually calls Those whom he effectually calls, he freely justifies, not by infusing righteousness into them, but by pardoning their sins, and by accounting and accepting their persons as righteous, not for anything wrought in them or done by them, but for Christ's sake alone. nor by imputing faith itself, the act of believing, or any other evangelical obedience to them as their righteousness, but by imputing the obedience and satisfaction of Christ unto them. They receiving and resting upon him and his righteousness by faith. Which faith they have not of themselves. It is the gift of God. Well, brothers and sisters, there we have it. That's a very quick overview of justification. It's of God's free grace. It's a declaration of his pardoning our sins in the blood of Christ, and it is a declaration. of his clothing us with the righteousness of Christ, such that we may with Christ enter into his presence. Well, Lord willing, next week we will jump back into the letter to the Romans in chapter four. It it will in part be a bit of a review of what we've just gone over, but I thought it important for us to to focus our minds for a bit upon this idea, this truth of justification. Amen.