Numbers chapter one. I think that's on page well it certainly is not on page one thousand and sixty eight. I'll be reading, beginning actually at verse forty-four of chapter one of Numbers. Let's give attention to the very word of God. These are those who were listed, whom Moses and Aaron listed with the help of the chiefs of Israel, twelve men. Each representing his father's house. So all those listed of the people of Israel by their father's houses from twenty years old and upward. Every man able to go to war in Israel, all those listed were six hundred three thousand 550. But the Levites were not listed along with them by their ancestral tribe. But the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, only the tribe of Levi you shall not list, and you shall not take a census of them among the people of Israel. But Appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all its furnishings, and over all that belongs to it. They are to carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings. And they shall take care of it, and shall camp around the tabernacle. When the tabernacle is to set out, the Levites shall take it down. And when the tabernacle is to be pitched, The Levites shall set it up, and if any outsider comes near, he shall be put to death. The people of Israel shall pitch their tents by their companies, each man in his own camp. And each man by his own standard. But the Levites shall camp around the tabernacle of the testimony, so that there may be no wrath on the congregation of the people of Israel. And the Levites shall keep guard over the tabernacle of the testimony. Thus did the people of Israel. They did according to all that the Lord commanded Moses. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come to a passage which may be unfamiliar to many. And so we ask, Lord God, that as we open this, that you would give us understanding, that you'd give us insight, and most of all, Lord God, that you would work on our hearts. That you would continue to perfect us for the coming of Christ. That you'd continue to prepare us for Christ's return. Help us, Lord. Guide us this morning. All for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What are you guarding? Satan Satan does not guard the truth. He guards lies. If you remember that passage in the book of Acts regarding Ananias, as he sold his property And he took the money from the sale of his property and he brought it to the apostles, and he represented to the apostles that this was the entire price that he had received for his property. Peter said to him, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? And to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land? Ananias didn't guard the truth. He was guarding a lie. He was guarding His desire for the world. He wasn't guarding the truth. Indeed, this passage in Acts is certainly about the wickedness of men, it's about the power of God, it's about the divinity of the Spirit. But it's also about the Spirit's work in guarding the truth. In a sense, that brings us to our passage today in Numbers. As we begin to open up this book or just consider it this morning, and will Lord willing consider it again this evening. It has an appropriate title, Numbers, because the people were being numbered. And that's what we read if we were to have read the first 43 verses of chapter one, we'd see that The entire congregation was being numbered or listed, all of the tribes, all eleven The people have been brought out of the iron furnace. They've been brought out of Egypt. The tabernacle designed by God for that place of worship. For that place where their sins would be washed away as they worshiped the Lord had now been set up. It had been completed. The priests had been anointed. They were now ready to enter into the promised land because they had God dwelling with them through and by the tabernacle. And so now the the next step is to actually enter the promised land. The question is, who would enter and how would they do so? And so the people are numbered. Forty-six thousand five hundred from the tribe of Reuben. 59,300 listed from the tribe of Simeon. All in all, the eleven tribes numbered 603,550 men Ready to fight. They were listed. But not the Levites. They were not listed. God specifically told Moses not to list them, not to number them amongst the people of Israel. They were appointed to work in the tabernacle. And so they weren't listed with the rest of the tribes. They were to camp around the tabernacle. They were to protect. They were to guard, such that no wrath would come upon the congregation. That was their work. So this morning, as we just consider this short passage, I'd like us to sum it up this way. Saved sinners are set apart to commune with God through Christ by receiving and guarding his word. Saved sinners are set apart to commune with God through Christ by receiving and guarding his word. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, the people of God are carriers of the Word. Secondly, the Son of God protects sinners from wrath. And then thirdly, the Spirit of God keeps and guards the Word. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourself, what am I guarding? Well, first the people of God are carriers of the Word. Again, it's fairly significant that the Levites were not numbered or listed or counted among the other eleven tribes. 603,550 men ready to fight were counted. But not the Levites. They were not listed along with their ancestral tribe. It's repeated. Moses wants us to get this. The Spirit wants us to understand that the Levites were not numbered, they were not listed. Later on, in chapter 3 of Numbers, We read this: all those listed among the Levites whom Moses and Aaron listed in the commandment of the Lord, all the males from a month old and upward were 22,000. So they were numbered. They were listed. They were counted. It's just a conflict within Scripture. Obviously not Moses appears to be saying that the tribe of Israel, excuse me, the tribe of Levi, was not to be listed along with the other eleven tribes. They were to be counted, but they were to be counted separately. They were to be numbered. They were to be listed, but not part of the other tribes. They were different. And that's the point, I believe. Levites were set aside by God, set apart by God from the other eleven tribes for a specific work. We read in Numbers 3 at verse 12, the Levites shall be mine. They were God's. They were his possession taken by God in place of every firstborn. Who is not slain in Egypt at the Passover But they were taken for a specific labor assigned by God in particular that they would serve him and him alone in regard to this place, the tabernacle, his dwelling place. They were separated from the rest of the nation of Israel, the rest of the eleven tribes, for this work of ministering to the Lord God. They were separated by God for work of ministry. specifically identified by the Lord to work in his dwelling place. That's what the tabernacle was. That's what it represented. Verse 8 of Exodus chapter 25, and let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell in their midst. That's what the tabernacle was. It represented that. So what did this labor look like? What were they supposed to do? Well, if you remember, the tabernacle was not a fixed structure, it wasn't made of bricks or stone. It was a tent. It was a movable. It was a mobile tent. It was a big tent, but it was mobile. It was designed by God to be packed up, picked up, carried to the place where God would have them to go throughout their wilderness wanderings There were three different groups of the Levites, the Kohothites, the Gershonites, and the Merathites, Mararthites, and they each had different jobs to do with regard to the tabernacle, with regard to packing it up and carrying it to their next place. And then they had work to do when it was set up. They were guided by the pillar of cloud and fire from place to place. They were charged with picking up and carrying all the items of furniture, all the utensils used in the service of worshiping the living God, including the Ark of the Covenant. If you remember, the Ark of the Covenant was in the Holy of Holies. It was a box covered by gold in which the Ten Commandments were placed and the mercy seat was on top of the angels looking in. The cherubim. The atonement cover. They were charged with taking down the tent, the tent curtains, the the placing it on cards, moving it to the next place. They were charged with taking up the boards and sockets, the physical structure, moving into the new location. And then setting it up. As the pillar of a cloud and fire moved throughout the wilderness, they were charged with picking it up. Setting it up, picking it up, setting it up, and then all the labor to be done that the worship of God would continue. It worked on the dwelling place of God, such that the worship of God in the sacrificial cultic rites could take place. Exactly according to the Word of God. Where is the tabernacle today? Well you might be thinking it was replaced by the temple that fixed excuse me God-designed structure in Jerusalem. And it was. But that temple no longer exists either. It was destroyed in 70 A. D. , the Second Temple. So where's the tabernacle of the temple today? In other words, where's the dwelling place of God amongst his people? The scripture tells us we know that the Holy Spirit dwells or abides in each and every man, woman, and child, that he's converted. And whose heart is changed, meaning regenerated, changed from stone to flesh, allowing one to come to a saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So each person is abided in by the Holy Spirit. Filled with the Holy Spirit. We are the temple of the living God. 2 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 16. What does that mean for you today? If your heart's been changed, if you're following Christ, if you're believing upon the Lord Jesus, and you're being abided in by the Spirit? It means you've been separated. You've been certainly born again. Just as the Levites were separated from the other eleven tribes for their labor and work in the tabernacle, you've been separated from the level for your work on the temple of the living God yourself. You've been assigned a task as the one who's been separated to work and labor on the temple, meaning your very soul. To make it ready. Ready for worship. Isn't that what the Levites were doing? Day in and day out. They were making the tabernacle ready for worship. The dwelling place of God. Indeed, that's your highest and most significant labor, isn't it? Just as the Levites' most significant labor was setting up the tabernacle for worship, your most significant labor on this side of glory is ensuring that you, your soul, your heart is set for worship. As a temple, as a tabernacle where God dwells. You might be thinking at this point, how How do we do that? Well there's there are two ways, and one would be the eternal way, looking to eternity where you're preparing yourself by and through the work of the Spirit. For eternal worship, for perfect and pure worship. That's not what I'm talking about this morning. I'm talking about how do you prepare yourself, how do you prepare the temple? For worship on this side of glory. Well, first you get rest, don't you? Friday night, Saturday night Go to bed, get sleep, be well rested for the Lord's day, such that your mind, your heart can be fully engaged in worship, serving the Lord. That's preparation. A tired mind is not an engaged mind. A sleepy body is that which pulls the heart away from its object, the Lord Jesus Christ. And finish your worldly labors. Lord has given us six days to enjoy his creation, to labor in his creation. It's a It's a joy to be able to work, to labor, to be able to enjoy the creation that He's given to us. But he's given us six days for that. And so do that. Such that then on the seventh day, or what is the first day for us now. You can set those things aside and set your heart and mind completely upon the Lord, such that you're not thinking about my labors, I'm not thinking about my recreations. My mind is fixed upon the Lord because I've had six days to do those other things. Enjoy. And so put those distractions away. Finish them. And then know what's coming. Read the scriptures that are to be opened on the day of worship. Read them in advance. Prepare your heart. To hear them during the service of worship, meditate upon them beforehand so that you're not hearing them for the first time when you sit down in the pew. That's preparing for worship. But most of all, pray. Pray. Because this is a spiritual exercise, isn't it? There's nothing worldly about what we're doing right now. And so the spirit must work. And doesn't it make sense that you'd spend time in prayer? In advance of coming to this place, you'd be asking the Lord, prepare my heart to come and offer that sacrifice of thanksgiving, that sacrifice of praise. Help me. There's much to do. Much work, just like the Levites. I can we can envision them just working like these busy bees around the tabernacle, constantly getting it ready for worship. Are you? Are you constantly getting ready for worship? Brings us to our second point. Son of God protects sinners from wrath. Levites were not only ones who were setting up, tearing down the tabernacle, getting it ready for worship, they had another job. Verse 50, but appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of testimony over all its furnishings. They are to carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings, and they shall take care of it and shall camp around the tabernacle. So now we have this picture of this huge camp. Over 600,000 men ready to fight, along with their children, along with their wives, along with their livestock, a huge camp. The tabernacle in the middle of it and the Levites camping around it. Twenty-two thousand Levites Camping around the tabernacle. We recently went to Wales, and there are a lot of castles there. And many of those castles have moats around them. This protective ring that goes around these massive structures. It's a bit like the Levites camping around the tabernacle. May be asking now why? Why the Levites around it? So that there may be no wrath on the congregation of the people of Israel. Levites were this protective ring around the tabernacle. If any outsider comes near, he shall be put to death. You see the purpose now. Death. If any outsider were to come near, they would die. And so the Levites become this protective moat So to speak, around the tabernacle. It's because God is holy. And the tabernacle is his dwelling place. And men are sinful. And the sinful cannot come into the presence of the holy without death. That's the idea. Indeed, as the psalmist puts it in Psalm 14, they have all turned aside, they have together become corrupt. There is no one who does not good, not even one. And it's only he who has clean hands and a pure heart that can ascend the holy hill. So the Levites are protecting. Protecting those outside the ring, outside the moat, outside their campground, protecting them from death. And also protecting the dwelling place of God from unauthorized intruders. Again, that picture of the castle and the moat and most of those castles had these big uh towers upon which archers would be set and and they would be able to shoot arrows against the people who weren't supposed to be coming in to the castle grounds. The true intruders. And so the Levites were protecting the tabernacle, the dwelling place of God from intruders, to become that moat. They were that barrier. Barrier for the dwelling place of God, protecting from unlawful entry. Should be able to see now that the Levites and their work around the tabernacle points directly to Jesus Christ, doesn't it? Consider how Jesus Christ provides a similar but more sure shelter, a safeguard, a protective barrier around every child of Jesus Christ. Think of that. Jesus has by and through his atoning death on the cross of Calvary. by and through his death for the sins of the people of God, by and through his suffering, the eternal wrath of God, that suffering creates this protective barrier around each of you if you're trusting in Christ this morning. You see, unlike the tabernacle that was closed to sinners To unwarranted intruders, Jesus Christ beckons you to come He beckons you to enter with confidence. The Levites could enter because they had been ordained to enter, but none of the other Israelites could enter. They could never enter the tabernacle. Never the Holy of Holies. Only the high priest, once a year with blood, could enter the Holy of Holies. But now, now sinners Sinners like you, sinners like me, who are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, can enter the throne room, can ascend the holy hill of God, they can come close and into the presence of God without being consumed by his wrath for their sin. Why? Because of Jesus Christ. Because of the protective barrier that he places around you, because of his mediation. Because of his suffering, God's wrath for your sins You see, as he pours out his pure blood upon you, his pure righteous blood, as you enter through the torn veil, Jesus' blood becomes that protective barrier around you as God's wrath has been absorbed and taken. by the innocent one for you, the guilty one. He suffered on your behalf and and so you're covered Just like the Levites were providing that protection. You're covered, you're protected, so that you have no concern now. That even one drop of God's wrath will be poured out upon you on judgment day. And so you can commune with Him today The Israelites could not. They had to do it through mediator after mediator, after the blood of goats and and bulls. But now you've been brought close to the Lord Jesus Christ and his mediation and his protective shield that guards you Jesus is the ultimate mediator, and his blood is the ultimate protective barrier for each of you this morning That brings us to our third point. Spirit of God keeps and guards the word You might think that we have exhausted the Levites' work, but we have not yet. Not only were they there to protect from wrath by camping around, not only were they were To set up and tear down and set up and tear down and set up and tear down the tabernacle and prepare it for worship. They were also to keep guard. Look at verse 53 And the Levites shall keep guard over the tabernacle of the testimony. Keeping watch That's an interesting idea. It's a challenging task. What does it mean? Does God need guarding? It's a silly question, isn't it? You know the answer. No. So what were the Levites to guard or to keep watch over? Remember, the tabernacle is referred to as the tabernacle of the testimony. You shall take care of it. Tabernacle of the testimony. A place where the Word of God was. The Ten Commandments. And they were to take care of it. They were to guard it. The ark in the Holy of Holies was there in the center of the entire camp. This little box that that held the Ten Commandments, the very word of God, and they were called to guard the sanctuary itself to protect the people of Israel. Certainly that no outsider shall come near, but they were holding in trust, so to speak, as as one dictionary tells us, holding in trust the Word of God for safekeeping. That's the idea guarding it. That's what the Levites are doing. That language should actually take us back to the Garden of Eden. Where Adam was called to work and keep the garden. Or guard it. From what? What was in the garden? The very word of God, wasn't it? The Lord had given Adam his word, his covenant. His command. That was in the garden. And he was called to keep it so that sin wouldn't intrude. You see, Adam failed. He allowed sin to intrude. He allowed that unwarranted invader to come in, so to speak, within his heart. He failed at his job, at keeping. The very Word of God. Even though there were no adversaries in the garden at that point, there were no animals Who would have been a threat? No thorns, no thistles to choke the vegetation, nothing, no pests to destroy the fruit. All was good, all was very good, and so was his heart. And yet he allowed his heart to be turned By himself. Adam was a spiritual guard for the Word of God, and he cast it off And convinced himself that he knew better. He was to guard against the intrusion of sin, of evil, of all that was opposed to God and his word. He was to keep God's word. He was to guard it within his heart. That's what the Levites were called to labor after, weren't they? Guard the very word of God. That was at the innermost part of the tabernacle, the ark, the holy of holies. Behind the veil was the word of God, the Ten Commandments. They were to guard it, keep watch over it, that which Adam failed to do. That which Christ did perfectly. So where does that leave you today? What's your work? The word of God must be kept and guarded from intruders. Satan is constantly seeking to rip that away from you. He's constantly seeking to tear it apart, to discount it, to twist it, to distort it, exactly what he did. with Eve in the garden, did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree of the garden, you will not surely die See, you're the guardian, aren't you? You're the guardian of the word. As he's placed it, as he's laid it up in your heart. That's what the Spirit has given to you. It's. Short of catechism reads this way, in in response to that question, how is the word to be read and heard that it may become effectual to salvation? We must attend thereunto with diligence, preparation, and prayer. Receive it with faith and love. Lay it up in our hearts. So you can guard it. Brothers and sisters, we know we can't do that by ourselves. And the good news is that you're not alone. That you're not on your own. I will ask the Father and He will give you another helper. For He dwells with you and will be in you. That's the work of the spirit, isn't it? That's what he's doing. As he's laying up the word in your heart, he's also at the very same time guarding it. He's keeping it. He's Like a vegetable plant, so to speak, he's fertilizing it. Adding to it. He's bearing witness about Jesus Christ to you. He's adding to the word. He's building you up in holiness and in comfort. It's part of what he does, isn't it? Not only keeping it within the depths of your heart, but guarding it. Because Satan is trying to take it away. Satan is attacking it constantly and the spirit is that protective barrier, isn't he? Around your heart and around the Word of God, so that it will be kept within you, used within you. He's fending off those darts and arrows of Satan as he tries to wrest out the Word of God from your heart as he did with Eve He's guarding it and keeping it pure within your heart and mind. Yes, are you grateful for his work? Are you praying for more of it? Are you praying that the word would be kept pure and undefiled and made clear and powerful and convincing, that it would be used by the Spirit to build you up in holiness and Brothers and sisters, that's a prayer we can pray every single day. Plead with God. That he would continue this work in you. Pray for more of it. Because he is the only one who can fend off the darts and arrows of Satan. Pray for more of the work of the Spirit in guarding the very Word of God that He's placed within your heart. Yes, saved sinners are set apart to commune with God by receiving and guarding his word. Ananias and Sapphira were guarding lies within their heart. The Spirit was uncovering those lies as he was protecting and guarding the truth. The very word of God. Amen. Our Father, we confess before you this morning that we are weak and frail. That without the Spirit, that we would be unable, not strong enough to keep and guard your word, your precious word, within our hearts. So even now, Lord, we ask Holy Spirit, increase your work. Do more of your work in us. Protect us. Be that protective barrier, that moat. Around us, that we might keep and guard the Word of God against the lies, the deceits, the twisting. Of Satan. Even now we pray, get behind me, Satan, and let the word dwell richly. That would advance us each one of us in holiness and in comfort. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.