Immediately Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, while he sent the multitudes. Away. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up on the mountain by himself to pray. Now when evening came, he was alone there. But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, tossed by the waves, for the wind was contrary. Now in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a ghost. They cried out for fear. But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, Be of good cheer. It is I. Do not be afraid. Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water And so he said, come. And when Peter had come down out of the boat, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. But when he saw that the wind was boisterous, he was afraid. And beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, Lord, save me! And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught him. He said to him, O you of little faith, why did you doubt? And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased And those who were in the boat came and worshipped him, saying, Truly, you are the Son of God. Amen. That's far in the reading of God's Word. If you turn your copy of God's word now to Psalm one hundred twenty one, Preaching of the Word today will be on this psalm, the second song of a sentence. Let's give attention now to the reading of God's Word. A Song of Ascents I will lift up my eyes to the hills. From whence comes my help? My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth He will not allow your foot to be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade at your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve you from all evil He shall preserve your soul. The Lord shall preserve your going out and your coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Amen. Praise be to God. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, now we come before you and ask that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word That you would give your children much insight into your word this morning by your Spirit. That your Spirit would be teaching, leading, and guiding this morning, each one of us. Father, you know our hearts. You know what each one of us needs this morning And so we ask that you would take your word and apply it to our hearts, individually, yes, and then collectively, as this body of Christ. Help us, Father. Guide and direct us by your Spirit. We pray all these things in the name of Jesus. Amen. I'm sure that you were watching the news this week and you saw the hurricane come ashore in Louisiana. Maybe you didn't see it, but you heard reports of it. Hundred and fifty mile an hour winds. Much damage Possibly the greatest damage in that area was done to roofs. Some structures were just completely demolished But many roofs were probably damaged and destroyed, torn off, shingles gone, repairs needed to be made In the next days, weeks, and months to come. For those who lost their roofs, everything changed in an instant Their schedule changed for the next day, the next week, their tasks, their work, their dwelling. Everything was changed. And so they had one thing that they really needed to do. They needed to get someone to fix the roof. Who would you want? Who would you want to fix your roof? A plumber? Electrician? Now, these are skilled in their areas of construction and repair, but they would be no good on top of your roof. None are skilled in making sure that water would not get in and ruin your bed. You would call a roofer. You would call one skilled in the craft of constructing and repairing roof damage. You'd want an expert, one with much experience and competence. That's a sense as we come to Psalm 121. The psalmist is looking to the one who made heaven and earth. To provide the help he needed. He went to the exclusive expert Indeed, the only one who could provide the help that he sought. Psalm 121, like 120, has no author ascribed to it. We don't know the exact occasion on which it was written. But it does have that title, A Song of Ascents. And last time we learned that there are 15 of these. King James calls them Song of Degrees. Four were written by David, one by Solomon. We don't know about the others. We don't know exactly why these Psalms were written, what would their purpose? But we do have the sense that they were used by those who were ascending up To a place of worship, either coming out of exile or merely making their way to Jerusalem in the times of the festival. The sense is that they were moving, maybe a group of them in song, headed. To Jerusalem, that high place where the temple was, where the worship of God was to be, where the festivals were to be. The idea is going up to where God dwells. This morning, I want us to see as we look at this psalm briefly that those who set their eyes on Jesus will be confident of his keeping and preserving them forever. Those who set their eyes on Jesus will be confident of his keeping and preserving them forever. Three simple points this morning. Lifting eyes, keeping upright, and preserving souls. Well, as we walk through this psalm together this morning, I want you to be asking yourself: Am I confident this morning? Did you enter this place confidently? If so What or who are you confident in? Our first point, lifting eyes. Look at verse one. I will lift my eyes to the hills. We don't always see a direct correlation between these Psalms, even though they're in a block together, fifteen of them, all with the same title, A Song of Ascent, but We don't always see this direct correlation from one psalm to the next. But here there does seem to be a connection. It was clear that the eyes or the heart of the psalmist in Psalm 120 was riveted upon those lying lips and deceitful tongues, which he was immersed in. That's where his eyes were set. That's where his heart was, seeking to be delivered from them But here in Psalm 121, it seems to be just the opposite. I will lift my eyes to the hills. He was looking away. He was looking up. He was looking to his destination, the hills, the mountains. Remember, Jerusalem was built on a mountain, on a hill, so to speak. This is where it was headed, likely, to worship, to return home, to be with God. That was the dwelling place of God in the city of David, in the temple itself. His eyes were not fixed on lying lips nor deceitful tongues. His eyes were not set upon those who hated peace, no, the Tsalmist eyes were set on the hills. The mountains, the high dwelling place of the living God. And the question was, even though it's not stated here, the question behind all of this, the unspoken question was, would he be allowed to enter? Would he be allowed to enter as he ascends? Would he even make it? Where do I get that from? Psalm 15. Who may abide in your tabernacle? Who may dwell in your holy hill? He who walks uprightly and works righteousness and speaks with the truth in his heart. Or Psalm 24, who may ascend the holy hill of the Lord? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to an idol. There were limitations Not all would be able to enter. There were conditions to entry into the holy hill or the hill of the Lord or his holy place. Psalmist knew that one needed to walk uprightly, to work righteousness, to speak truth in the heart, to have clean hands and a pure heart. Again, remember the psalmist distress in Psalm 120. Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips and a deceitful tongue. Well that's the backdrop. Lifting his eyes up, he knows where he's headed But he also knows that there are limitations on entry. So let's pick this apart a bit Why does he lift up his eyes? Why not the head? Why not the ears? Why does he lift his eyes Remember what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount? The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is good, your Whole body will be full of light. The psalmist is lifting up his eyes. Jesus says the eye is the lamp of the body. The eye is pictured as that which illumines the entire being. And we know that the eye doesn't produce light. But carrying that metaphor forward, we might understand that the eye is that which sees and thus reflects. Like the moon reflecting the light of the sun. The eye is that which reflects that which it sees to the body. That's the idea. In Jesus' sermon, the choice was between setting the eyes upon the treasures of the earth or setting the eyes upon the treasures of heaven. Which would be chosen? Which would illumine the body? Heaven provides the true light, the treasures of the world, ultimately darkness So the eyes were very significant spiritually speaking, and thus the psalmist lifts up his eyes to the mountain of God in order to let in the true light, to get real help. Our tendency is to lower our eyes. Our tendency is to keep our eyes down. Remember, the disciples saw Jesus walking on the water. Remember, that boat was in the middle of a storm. And remember, Peter looked to and heard the Lord Jesus Christ say to him, Come. And he listened. And he walked on water. And then he took his eyes off of Jesus and he placed them on the wind and the waves. He fixed his eyes on that which was earthly, that which surrounded him. He allowed the waves and the wind to become his all-in-all. Jesus faded into the background as if he wasn't even there. All Peter could see was the depth of the raging sea All he could hear was the blowing, the constant blowing of the wind. The voice of Jesus had been forgotten. Psalmist knows his own heart So he raises his eyes. The call here is to raise our eyes, to fix our eyes upon the living. God to set our sight upon the enthroned one, the exalted, the majestic Son of God, even the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he asks, says he's lifting up his eyes, where is my help going to come from? He knows he needs help. He knows this is He knows there are limitations upon entering into the dwelling place of God, and he knows he needs help. And so he asks that question: where is my help going to come from? It's a powerful rhetorical question. He needs help to get into God's home. And then he provides the end. My help comes from the Lord who made the heavens and the earth. My help doesn't come from men, it doesn't come from family or friends, it doesn't come from my flock or my fields or my silos filled with grain. It doesn't come from my bow and arrow from my horse. It doesn't come from From the king, it only comes from Jehovah, from Yahweh the Creator, God, the one who made everything. Who gave the psalmist life and breath, the one who sustained him, even as he wrote the psalm, the living God, and none others. This is quite amazing. In at least two ways, probably many, many, many more. But think about that. If the Lord God God, the one who made all things, heaven and earth, would be involved in the life of the psalmist, would be involved in our lives today that he would care to give attention. to us, to the psalmist, and to keep us, to preserve us, to sinful creatures as we are. That's an awesome thought. But then, secondly, that God would provide a way back. Not only that He would set His eyes upon us, give attention to us, but then He would provide a way back into His presence The one who has the keys to the kingdom, that he would give entrance to anyone That's what this psalm is about. Let me ask you, what do you see when you look up? When you lift up your eyes. What What do you see? What are you looking at? There are no hills around here. No temple Thomas was lifting his eyes up ultimately to the temple. But we don't have a temple. We don't have one that's built of wood and stone, covered in gold. We don't have Jesus walking on the water. Unlike Peter, we can't lift up our eyes and see him walking to us. We can't lift up our eyes to gaze upon Jesus physically today. We don't have the cross. Unlike the centurion who is present, as Jesus gives up his spirit and felt the earthquake and saw the sun darken. Lift up our eyes on Jesus' body, stricken for our sins. And unlike the disciples, we cannot visually watch as Jesus ascends up into heaven because he's already sitting at God's right hand. So what do you put your eyes on? What do you lift your eyes up to? For the Old Testament believer, there was much, there was physical, much to see. Even for the psalmist, as he ascended But Jesus tells us that our faith is by not by sight. We walk by faith. And that seems to be highly applicable to this psalm and to our understanding and to the thinking of what do we set our eyes upon? We're not walking up the steps to a physical temple to sacrifice the blood of bulls and goats to God. But we are on a spiritual pilgrimage, constantly walking, looking up, constantly lifting up our eyes by faith. And by faith, we gaze upon Jesus where we can see him. We see him in his word. In his very word, we gaze upon Jesus and in his works. Lift up our eyes to God's word and to the works of the Lord Jesus Christ. And you say, well, where can I see the works? of Jesus. I know about his word, but what about his works? Where can I see them? Brothers and sisters, you're the temple We have a temple in flesh. The Spirit of God dwells within each of us. Isn't this part of the reason we come together in this place to worship? Not because this place is the temple, because you are the temple of the Spirit of God. And we come together and we see Jesus' work reflected in Each one of us as we come together and look upon one another. We can see. We can see by faith how Jesus is working, and as we gaze upon how Jesus is Working, how he is preparing his bride, the church, you're lifting up your eyes to that which reflects Jesus who sits enthroned on high. That's what's happened We can see by faith the work of Jesus, how he's preparing his bride, to be blameless on that great wedding day. Praise be to God. That brings us to our second point, keeping upright. Remember those conditions for dwelling in the holy hill of the Lord. He who walks uprightly. And works righteousness and speaks the truth in his heart. Well that leads us into that question. What kind of Help. What kind of help does the psalmist need? Well, he needs to be made upright. He needs to walk righteously. He needs to speak truth in his heart. The Lord now helps the psalmist ascend. The hill, the mountain, to enter into his dwelling place. The Lord helps remove the psalmist from the dwelling of sinners and then places the psalmist in the dwelling of the righteous. He will not allow your foot to be moved. New American Standard translates this as to slip. That gives me a A better idea of what's going on. The Hebrew word includes shaking or tottering or deviating from the right course. There is the idea. He will not allow your foot to deviate from the right course. He's not going to allow your foot to shake or totter. It's going to be stable. It's going to be steady. The Lord will not allow your foot to slip off or to be moved from the right path. He will keep you in such a way as to carry the psalmist and you, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, over unstable stones or Wet rocks or knotty twisty roots. The Lord's arm will be that stabilizing force and power Within the heart of the psalmist, such that he would not shake or totter or deviate. The psalmist would be confident in his footing as he ascended. The word help seems to be really light. I don't really like it. The work of the Lord is absolutely necessary. Because the gate is narrow and difficult in the way which leads to life. It's like that story of Pilgrim's Progress as Christian is going, and he's got the burden on his back, and throughout the book, attempts are made at leading Christian away from the path to the narrow, wicked gate, and his foot nearly slips. He's nearly moved off the path. But he's constantly brought back, helped along his way. Just like we We read in Proverbs three, then you will walk safely in your way and your foot will not stumble. Well, how does the Lord help? It's constant protection. The sun and the moon are those elements which are given to us as a picture to see that the Lord is constantly protecting. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night, a complete picture of helping, of keeping, regardless of what may come, to become an obstacle to ascending the holy kill of God. The Lord is your shade at your right hand. Remember, Israel was in a hot, dry region. Remember Jonah, who sold Thankful for that gourd that grew up and provided shade. That's the idea. Israel's hot, dry, and here we're told the sun shall not strike you by day. You might see forgiveness in view here. The sun may be hot, but it will not burn. It won't strike you Sin may pull you down, but it will not pull you down so far that you fall. Because he will forgive you. And the moon shall not strike. During the night, watch that temperature drops, it's cold outside. Now shade is not needed but warmth. You see the fullness of the picture. The completeness of God's helping and keeping. And then we read that the Lord doesn't sleep. He who keeps you will not slumber. How can that be? I think what the psalmist is really saying is: God loves you so much. His desire to protect you and provide for you is so much. You won't sleep. Picture of God being the ultimate watchman, the ultimate shepherd. He who keeps you will not slumber. He who keeps Israel shall neither slumber nor slumber Think of Jacob, the shepherd, as he took care of Laban's flocks. As he was arguing with Laban as he was leaving, he's saying, There I was in the day the drought Consumed me than frost by night, my sleep, departed from my eyes. That's the work of the shepherd. It's the work of God. Watches over There's no time, night or day, when the Lord is not keeping watch. So that he will not allow the heat of the sun or the cold of the night to smite a child. of God, such as that child would be stopped from entering into glory. That's because he loves you. Lord does keep, doesn't he? Adam was given that task. Task of imitating God and keeping the garden. Keeper is one who has the care, the custody, or the superintendence of anything. That's from Webster's. But Adam failed in his watchmanship, in his keeping of the garden. He didn't even maintain his own righteousness. He was given the cast task of keeping watch over his own soul and that of his wife. Instead of keeping or guarding diligently watching to keep out transgression and sin, he fell. In the second Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ Needed to become that keeper, the guardian, the watchman, the shepherd. Look at verse 4. Behold, he who keeps Israel. See that word or that idea of keeping at least three times. The Lord is your keeper, the Lord is your shade. As we read of Israel, we think also of the church. In one sense they're the same. Historically sense they're different. different times. But from the perspective of being the people of God, we know that the Lord keeps his church. We know that the Lord Jesus Christ is going to return for his bride the church, and as our Savior, he will also keep his bride until he returns. Isn't that what Jesus said? Gates of Hades will not prevail against what my church will keep his church And how did Paul describe Jesus' relationship to the church of the Lord Jesus Christ? That he is sanctifying and cleansing her, that he's washing her, that he wants to present her, the church, to himself as a glorious church, not having any spot or wrinkle or any such thing. So much so That the two, Christ and his church, shall become one flesh Does that make you confident? This is a great mystery. Paul clearly spoke about Christ in the church. We think, well, he's talking about man and woman. No, he's talking about Christ and the church becoming one. Do you consider yourself as being kept this morning? Do you think of yourself as having one who keeps you? Think of the Apostle Paul as he wrote Romans 7. We've been studying that. We just finished up Romans 7 last Sunday. For the good that I will to do, I do not do, but the evil I will not to do, that I practice. He was sinning. He was confessing sin. Was Paul being kept? Certainly. He could not have written that unless the Lord Jesus Christ was keeping Paul. Are you being kept? The world does not want to be kept. In the eyes of the world today, this would not be a good thing. This would not be positive to be kept, or to have one who keeps you. The world seeks the autonomy. Those living in the flesh, Lord willing, we'll study that this afternoon, seeking, they seek freedom from the keeping by others. American culture today wants freedom from restrictive keeping Freedom from moral keeping. Our culture that we live in desires to pursue anything and everything that a sinful heart could lust after. The sexual revolution in this country is evidence of casting off any and all keeping by the sovereign Lord. What about you? Do you relish the idea of being kept? If you love Jesus, you are being kept today. We should be praising God for his keeping, not running from it, but running into his loving arms. The Son of God left his heavenly home to become the great shepherd, and you, if you're trusting in Christ, are one of his sheep. Today, and sheep tend to stray. We tend to stray off the path. But the Lord Jesus Christ, the shepherd king by his spirit, gently keeps you Leading you out to green pastures and quiet waters, and then back to the sheep pen. That's the idea of soul restoration. Keeping Is clearly the idea of soul preservation and restoration. Those who have cast off the keeping by Jesus have no hope of soul restoration, but you do. By and through his keeping, keeping your foot from slipping Your soul is being restored. You're being made more and more like Jesus as he keeps you. More and more blameless, more and more holy, more and more ready for the wedding day. Praise God. Brings us to our third point, preserving souls. Look at verse seven. The Lord shall preserve you from all evil. He shall preserve your soul. Verses 5 and 6 give us a physical picture of spiritual keeping. He's your shade. The sun shall not strike you, the moon shall not strike you by night. Seems to be physical, but that physical certainly is a picture of the spiritual. And verses 7 and 8 near now really dig down into the spiritual expressly. In our English translations, at least in some of them, the word changes from being kept, being preserved. Now it's actually the same word in the Hebrew But, following the English translators, the word preserve means to uphold, to sustain, to save from decay, according to Webster's That's the idea. Keep that in your mind. To be preserved is to save you from decay. Again, we can hear the psalmist plea in 120 to deliver, to be delivered from evil. So, how does the Lord do this? Ultimately, Jesus does it by defeating sin and death, doesn't he? If Jesus had not defeated sin, it still would have dominion and power. But he has achieved Victory. Sin won't have its way. Ultimately, the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ keeps or preserves each person who trusts in him from the evil of burning in hell. And he does that by defeating sin and death. By defeating sin and death, he has preserved and kept believers from suffering eternity with Satan and eternal evil. Well what about today? Does this passage apply just to the last day? Or does it apply to us today? As you take up the very Word of God, it is used by the Spirit of God every time. Proverbs 2 tells us this: when wisdom enters your heart and knowledge is pleasant to your soul, discretion will preserve you. Understanding will keep you to deliver you from the way of evil Hmm. Think of that. The Word of God, as is taken up by the Spirit, as He now grants to you discretion and understanding, what comes from that? Preservation and keeping. What does that sound like? A renewing of your mind, such that you may prove what the good and acceptable and perfect will of God is. You see, that's how God delivers us. That's how Jesus delivers us day by day. And then he preserves us in the ongoing battle, doesn't he? Verse 8: The Lord shall preserve your going out and your coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Those words, your going out, you're coming in. Clearly, words of battle. Words used in battle. But what do we battle against? The rulers of the darkness of this age, the spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. And what does Jesus give us in that battle? He gives us armor, truth, righteousness The gospel of peace, faith, salvation, the word of God, and prayer That's what he gives us for the spiritual battle that we are in. And he uses those things to preserve us. Look at that last word in Psalm 121. Even forevermore. The Lord has laid eternity upon our hearts, hasn't He? This should be of great encouragement to each and every one of us. That the Lord is keeping you not just for today and tomorrow, but forever. This is what Paul wrote to Timothy, and the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and preserve me for his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen. That's the idea. Preservation of God. Not just for today, not just for tomorrow, but for always. If you're here today, if you're listening today, or in the days and weeks to come and you're not trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're outside of Christ, then Christ is not protecting, he's not preserving, he's not keeping. And look at that last word, forevermore. If you're not believing in Christ, if you're not confessing your sins, if you're not repenting of your sins, if you're not submitting to Him, He's not keeping you, and that's not just for today and tomorrow, it is forever. If you're not in Jesus, the fires of hell await for you So this psalm is calling out, it's proclaiming to you that there is only one keeper, there's only one preserver, and that's for all eternity, and it's Jesus Christ. And the call is for you to come to him, to bend your knee, to submit to him, to confess your sins and repent. And then he will preserve you forevermore. What are you confident in in today? Where are you going? And how are you going to get there? And are you confident that you will get there? Brothers and sisters Sometimes we Americans get so immersed in our daily lives, the busyness of work, of keeping house, of school, of recreation, of sports, of volunteering, so engrossed in getting to the next event. The next meeting on time, we don't lift up our eyes. Our eyes are so constantly cast down, making sure we don't hit something on the way to the thing, whatever the thing is. We've taken our daily eyes off of the big picture. The forest has become so thick In our American lives, that the individual trees cannot be seen. They block the view. We need to ask ourselves. We need to remind ourselves daily, every morning, we need to ask that question, where am I going? Yes. I need to go to work. I need to keep house. I need to go to school. Absolutely. The being here the Lord has placed you and needs to be tended. Tended But you need to remember and recall that you're headed to glory. And you have to ask yourself: Am I confident that I'm going to get there? No matter what comes my way, confident. That's what the psalm does. That's the thrust Those who sung it knew where they were going and they knew how they would get there. They had confidence in the Lord that he was going to bring them as they sung it. They had within their inner beings The lying lips, the deceitful tongues have been left behind for moving to God. He's bringing us to himself Day after day, we're either moving up the hill, up the mountain of God, closer to him, or we're headed down to the valley, to the pit, further away from him. Brothers and sisters There's no middle ground, there's no in-between. There's no neutral. We're headed in one direction. And this psalm is of great encouragement to us Because it tells us, yes, I can get there in Christ. He will preserve me, He will keep me. It's a dangerous road that's full of rocks and roots, but He's going to carry me along and preserve me. And I know I'm going to get there. I'm confident in Christ and in Him alone. Therein lies your confidence in Jesus Christ. Who ensures that each of you, as you're trusting in Him Will not get lost on the way. Will not stray. But you will arrive in the end and be with him forever. Those who set their eyes upon Jesus will be confident of his keeping and preserving them forever. We do need to get the right roofer. We so much more need to get the right one who's going to bring us into glory. And that's Jesus. Praise be to God. Amen. You pray with me. Father At times, Lord God, we are so weak and frail. At times our eyes are cast down. We pray, Lord God, that you'd help us to lift them up. To constantly set the Pump Jesus, to constantly remember that we're headed to glory. Yes, help us to work hard in the vineyards where you've placed us. But even as we do, Father, Help us to remember that Jesus is our confidence, that He is our preserver, our protector, our Keeper, that He will bring us home. Father, we thank you, we praise you. Help us in our weakness. Keep us. Preserve us. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.