This morning we'll be looking at the story of the rich young man or the rich young ruler. The heading in Mark uh in my version talks about the rich young man, but As we read the other gospel accounts, we get the understanding he was also a ruler of some kind, perhaps a synagogue ruler And for a center point for our thoughts, we have verse 21. It says, And Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, You lack one thing, go sell all that you have. and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. Lord, we pray that you will help us as we think upon this passage Be the one who teaches us and moves us to that kind of trust that would sacrifice anything and everything. Because you have sacrificed your very best for us. We pray that you'll give us your help now. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I've called this sermon Kingdom Claims. There are perhaps some other names that I could uh have used. used to entitle the sermon, but the word claim is an interesting word. Uh probably the most remote kind of understanding of the word is one that we get in kind of modern thinking and philosophy. Truth claims. Why not just speak of uh making a a a truthful assertion or something like that. But uh you'll sometimes hear people talking about truth claims and maybe there are different kinds of truth claims they will say there are empirical truth claims. Are there c crackers in the cupboard or something like that? Well just go open the doors and see that's how you verify that. Or aesthetic kind of truth claims uh is that a beautiful painting or not? But the the the word claim here that I'm thinking of is a little more down-to-earth The word claim perhaps brings to mind uh the gold rush where some minor stakes a claim to uh a piece of land that he uh registers and says this is my claim, this is the area that I get to to mine. Uh I was fascinated, uh I've come across all kinds of interesting little stories in doing genealogy about people from East Tennessee where some of my people came from who during the gold rush, the 49ers eighteen forty nine and fifty. Uh they didn't all just go across country to get there to California some of them went all the way around the tip of South America by ship to get there because there was no Panama Canal. Uh it's hard for me to imagine them doing that. That in it in eighteen forty nine or fifty, but there was one fella in the neck of the woods where my people came from who's remotely related to them who kept a a journal or diary of making a a trip like that. Uh and of course some people went out there and staked their claim and they they they made money off of it. They got gold and some of them didn't do so well, but acclaim A valid assertion of possession to something There are different kinds of claims we can think about like that in the Bible. God is the one who makes a claim He makes a claim on our lives. And as you go through the Bible, you see various ways in which that claim is shaped. In the early pages of Genesis, the claim looks pretty modest, doesn't it? I mean, he says, be fruitful, multiply Replenish the earth, subdue it. And you can eat any of this stuff in the garden except from that one tree Can eat a the fruit at least of any of the the garden except for that one tree. Uh that looks like not a terribly onerous or difficult Kind of claim. What kind of claim is that? That's a claim upon the obedience of the creatures The claim upon the obedience of creatures that God has made, Adam and Eve. But it doesn't look like on the surface, in its form, like it is a terribly extensive claim. He says I'm giving you a great deal of latitude And freedom here. You get into the law of Moses And it looks like God's claim upon his unique and special people is pretty in depth. Tells them what kind of food to eat again, only it's very detailed. You can eat this, you cannot eat that, and pages of those kinds of Claims upon the obedience of his people. And claims within the Ten Commandments that form the center of God's claims So here is a rich young man, rich young ruler, and he's interested in being able to make his own claim Jesus, you're a good teacher. Uh sometimes people flattered Jesus or uh ulterior motives. I don't know what this man was thinking as he said those words, whether it was just flattery or whether it was honoring Jesus, but From the general tenor of the text we have, it seems like he was more sincere than insincere. And so he wants to address Jesus respectfully, I'm sure, and so he comes and addresses him as Good teacher. And he asks the question: what do I have to do to inherit eternal life? And it looks like it's a question of claims and counterclaims What kind of claim might God be putting upon me so that I can in turn make a claim upon God that I could inherit eternal life? Now, it's a very interesting thing. Jesus doesn't jump to the hardest of God's claims right away. Jesus says, do what's in the law. And in particular, he points to the Ten Commandments, but not even the first four commandments. He points to that portion of the law that we sometimes speak of as our duty towards our fellow man. Our duty towards our fellow man, beginning with the fifth commandment, to honor our father and mother, and to not kill or more Literally not to commit murder, to not commit adultery, to not steal. Those things that affect our relationships with other human beings. Some have suggested that the two tables of the law were actually two identical copies. I think Meredith Klein has uh uh brought that idea out through ancient uh Near Eastern research and I have no objection to that understanding understanding, but for everyday language purposes, if you hear me say the second table of the law, I'm thinking here uh in terms of those commandments uh command Commandments five and following. I'm not sure where you put the tenth commandment. Don't covet. I mean you could say that that's looking at your neighbor's stuff And you shouldn't have an inordinate desire to have his stuff. But that actually shows us something about the unity Of God's law, that that is a heart issue, isn't it? Being satisfied with what God has given you And that is a godward issue. Am I going to be satisfied with what God has given me and think that I can't be satisfied unless I have what the neighbor next door has. That it all has to be absolutely equal, that I have to have the same kind of house and car and so on. and so forth. So I don't think that you can uh absolutely carve up God's laws that neatly, but for for some purposes we can see that there is a distinction that could be made. And it seems that Jesus actually for a moment plays into that distinction Now there is a question when we look at Matthew's account, I think it's in Matthew 19, of the same events, about whether there might be some negotiating. Of these claims. Because in Matthew's account, it comes across something like this: what must I do to inherit eternal life? And uh Jesus says, do the commandments, and the man says, Which ones And there's something that I think is potentially peculiar about that uh question. If if you were to walk up to a policeman on the street and say, What must I do to keep from being arrested and thrown in jail. He says, don't break the law. And then you come back, well, well, which laws do I have to keep are there any I can break? Uh you'd say th y you're kind of missing the point here, aren't you? And so uh there might be a question about whether there's some negotiating going on, trying to limit God's claims on our life. Or this man doing that on his life, and maximizing our claims on God. People like to negotiate the best deal they can and to keep control. And that's at the heart of our problem that we want to keep control of our lives. Uh yes, give God his due God has some claims on us, but I want to keep ultimate control on how that arrangement works. If I can negotiate those claims, then I still have some measure of control Um I'm not positive that in the Matthew account, that the man was negotiating, but it is a peculiar question that he asked. It is possible someone once I think counted up what they felt were the commandments of the law of Moses. He came up with some number like six hundred and thirteen when he added all the ceremonies colonial claims and commandments that God has on our life. I think that was probably some rabbi that uh has his work preserved in the Talmud. I don't know. I haven't read it Tall mood. I've just heard that uh claim. There's that word again made by some Bible teachers It is possible that this man being familiar with Jesus, being familiar enough to know that This is a man worth talking to about the big issues in life, has understood that Jesus did not assess Every part of the law of Moses in the same way that if there was an issue of mercy And grace concerning the eating of food or cleanliness, ceremonial cleansing, that Jesus sometimes It seemed like he was either on the edge or crossed over a line when it came to some of those ceremonial laws. You can debate that. I'm not interested the ultimate outcome of that debate whether Jesus went up to the edge or crossed over. We know that Jesus kept the law And yet he kept it the way it was supposed to be kept. That's the important thing. So this man might be asking something about what are the essentials of the law so that I can get it in the right Proportion, perhaps that's what he has in mind. So if there looks like there is an apparent conflict between One part of the law and another, I know which way to go. That's a charitable reading, at least, of this man's question in Matthew. But whatever the case is. Jesus begins by saying, let's look at the second table of the law, your duty. Towards your fellow men. And so Jesus lists some of those commandments from uh starting with commandment six not following the precise order, but Jesus lists some of those commandments uh from what we call the duty towards man or the Second table of law and I've always thought that was a little unusual. Jesus, why didn't you start With the first table of the law, our duty towards God. Isn't our duty towards God what really matters at the heart? Because our duty towards God takes in our duty towards our fellow man very recognizably. Uh there is a kind of humanism that can sometimes invade the church where we're only thinking about what good we can do for our fellow man, and we forget that all of this should be motivated primarily and first and foremost out of a love and commitment to God Of course, sometimes that can also become a problem in that we don't see that our love and commitment to God means that we should be making some sacrifices And helping uh our fellow man, especially our fellow believers. So it it all fits together, and the way it most perfectly fits together. Is in the person of Jesus Christ, who kept the law perfectly. And no one else can make that claim. But here we have Jesus beginning with that set of claims. That would start with the second table of the law. And the man says something that we might find odd I've done all of these things. I've kept all of these things. And not just recently, but from my youth. Uh No doubt he was not sinlessly perfect. Perhaps when he was three years old and playing with one of his siblings he grabs something from one of them. That would be a violation of Theft, stealing, uh, not like knocking over a bank. It's something parents have to deal with virtually every day of their life with their kids Respecting one another's property. But uh as a general statement This man has been a covenant keeper or a law keeper when it comes to the law of God, especially the second case. And what kind of reinforces this, I think, is that we get a unique statement in Marx's account That I don't believe you'll find in the others. Jesus looks at the young man and he loves him. Now, I've puzzled over those words. As a general doctrine, we can say, okay, Jesus God loves everyone in some sense. We sing the song Jesus Loves the Little Children, all the children of the world. We can also refine that doctrinally and say God has a very particular and special love. For his own people. But there is this statement that Jesus looks at the man and loves him. And this doesn't seem to be a great proof text for either of those because I think it it's speaking to a very human reaction Jesus in his humanity, and not human reaction in terms of weakness, but a kind of feeling that goes out to this man. And what is that? It's not really explained. I will offer some thoughts, and you're free to think the thing through yourself because since it's not explained I can't give you the infallible explanation but I think I I can at least direct your thoughts in a way that that perhaps will seem persuasive to you For the first point, as Jesus went about his earthly ministry He had all kinds of people come up to him and ask him for favors, ask him questions And sometimes try to trip him up. And the first thing I think you can say about this man is he doesn't look like an enemy And sometimes when you're in this world as a Christian and you're trying to live for God, just having somebody not opposed to you can be really real. Just having someone who doesn't immediately react and say, oh, you're one of those narrow-minded Bible comforts or something. Something like that. But to the to to reinforce the point, the man's asking the right question. He's asking the right question What must I do to inherit eternal life? Now maybe you can quibble with the part of the question What must I do? But in terms of how shall I be saved, that's the right question And Jesus has run into a lot of people, and here's a man who has shown some real level of integrity. Has aspired to some position of leadership. He's not a king or anything like that that we know. But I think you have to admire somebody who has some leadership abilities Who utilizes their talents, who utilizes their energies, and is productive. And a sign of that productivity is that he's rich. It's not that he's rich because he's exploited anybody. If he had exploited anybody, then he couldn't have said, I kept those commandments. So here's someone who has some admirable qualities, who's not an enemy of Jesus. Who's asking basically the right question of Jesus? And Jesus looks at him, and perhaps in looking at him And knowing that he lacks something, there's the love of compassion there. Here is a sad story You can love somebody and recognize that they're lost. You can love somebody and And want so much more for them. What parent hasn't sometimes had that fear or concern for their child. And so Jesus looks at this man and loves him Not simply because he's a good deed doer, although there is something lovely in that But because there is perhaps the stirrings of some kind of grace, call it common grace, But not yet saving grace, where the man is ready to leave all. And so then Jesus, after this man says, all of these things I've done for you from my youth lays the big claim on the man. One thing you lack, go sell everything that you have Give to the poor and follow me. Now this is the end of the year, the beginning of the year. I don't know which way you're thinking of it yet. But typically that's when money issues come up. What a great text to guilt people in to guilt Well that's that's not really the purpose of choosing this text. This man I think probably was a tiger. If he wasn't uh it wouldn't have fit the uh his general law keeping character that we see described here. The point that Jesus is making is you can't buy God off with some limit Limited payment, a negotiated claim. Ah, I've given a tithe, therefore God has no further claim on it God claims our whole life. Of course, in order to function and to live, we need to utilize what funds He's placed at our disposal for food and shelter and clothing and things of that nature. But it doesn't mean God doesn't have a claim on those things We just know that God, uh, as a general rule, would have us to be fed and clothed and sheltered. Uh but at the end of everything There is this ultimate kingdom claim that Jesus seemed to place upon his inner group of disciples most forcefully. Before it became publicly known, take up your cross and follow me. That's something that the disciples struggled with Now, they had followed him at the beginning of his earthly ministry. And so, in principle, they had given up everything. Peter makes that clear. And Peter's question, I think, is asking, what else do we have to do? Is there more claim? And of course, ultimately for Peter, there will be more claim. He will actually end up giving up his life But these claims are not claims in terms of do A, B, C, D, and E, and you've got it nailed. These are ultimately claims about will you trust God or not. Will you entrust God with your life? Will you surrender control over your life? But these claims even go beyond that idea of faith. And knowing that we have promises of God that we can claim. Yes, we can claim promises of God. He won't tempt us or test us above what we were able to but will supply the way of escape that we might be able to endure. There are promises of God. Now sometimes we think we can claim them a certain way, and God says, No. Uh you're gonna have to wait a while longer before the relief comes. Uh but he he's there. His love is real But there's something about the claims of Jesus that go way beyond our response. Who is it that can make a claim like this? Who is it that can make a claim like this? There are all kinds of cults and cult leaders who will make strong claims upon the lives of their followers. Sell everything And put it in the pie. We've got big business to do here. My wife and I were familiar with a group like that up in Massachusetts Massachusetts and upstate New York when we lived up there, and some of the scandal that that cult caused. But there's been more than one cult that has done that kind of And we recognize, don't we? I hope you do, that just because a guy can get a television program doesn't give him the authority to say, send me a thousand dollars or send me everything you have and you'll be healed and you'll be wealthy He doesn't have that authority. As I've thought through the scriptures, and whether there was anybody else that ever made a claim like this I thought, well, one of the hardest claims you run across is in Genesis where God tells Abraham to take your son. only son whom you love and sacrifice him in the place where I found you. But that was God Elijah makes some kind of claim on Elisha when he puts his mantle on him, but Elisha is allowed to go home and to at least bid his family goodbye. Jesus seems to indicate that following him calls for not delayed obedience but immediate obedience because delayed obedience can be disobedience. What about the apostles? Paul was so very scrupulous In how he dealt with Philemon and Onesimus, and one man's attempt to be free from slavery and Paul really puts the screws to the owner of that slave, but he doesn't just say you have to let him free. He says, you know, you kind of owe me a few things too Right. He's putting the pressure on the man to be gracious and to treat his servant with grace And when Paul goes up with an offering to Jerusalem, he doesn't just take the money all by himself yet. people going with him so that there will be credibility that he's not dipping into the funds And when people come and make great claims on the Corinthian believers, and Paul is arguing for his own apostleship. Or runs into similar problems with the Galatians. Paul indicates that if he wanted to lord it over them, he could have. But he didn't So even the apostles were careful about the way in which they made claims upon the private property and bodies and service of those who were the disciples of Jesus Christ So when Jesus says, sell everything you have, give to the poor and follow me, there's something particularized about how this worked out. This wasn't a parable. It really happened. But it's not something that Jesus said to every single person Now, the principle is true and applicable to every single person. God has a claim on your life and mine. And that knows no limits or bounds, were to trust him. And very often The test of whether we would be faithful when the moment comes for a great sacrifice, giving our life for Him is to be measured by how we do in the ordinary life, the daily life that we spend with him But this particularized claim wasn't one that Jesus immediately enforced on everyone. It was a way of drawing out the principle for everyone who was there and witnessed this story. this event. It can be a little discomforting because we sometimes think that we're better at running our life than God is. As I reflect back and think about how I would have run my life before I surrendered to Jesus Christ, I can see how foolish that is. God has been so very good to me, had such a better plan for me than I could have ever imagined But even if you're going through some difficult circumstances and think you could imagine things being a whole lot better. Having God with you right now to carry you through whatever you're going through is a blessing that you shouldn't want to trade, grant Jesus says, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. I will never leave you, nor forsake you. You don't want to have the outward husk of the blessing and miss having the blesser who is with you always. Do you trust the Lord Jesus? Is there any reason you shouldn't trust Him who gave His very life for you? Does that trust extend To things that you keep wanting to hold on to, but you know aren't pleasing to him. Today is the day to trust him with everything. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that Only you can make the kinds of claims that you make, that we're not called to be slaves of other human beings But to be your servant, which means to be your child, is a blessing beyond comprehension. Help us, O Lord, to be willing to forsake all and to be content. In where you call us, and to trust that you know what you're doing and that your love is trustworthy and proven because The Lord Jesus died for us. Help us, O Lord, in our walk that we may walk in consciousness that you go with us We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.