Remain standing and s and hear the word of the Lord from Hebrews chapter twelve verse twenty-five through twenty-nine See that you do not refuse him who speaks For if they did not escape who refused him who spoke on earth, much more shall we not escape if we turn away from him who speaks from heaven. Whose voice then shook the earth, but now he has promised, saying, Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also heaven. Now this yet once more indicates the removal of those things that are being shaken, as of things that are made, that the things which cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us have grace. by which we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. For our God is a consuming fire. Thus far ends the reading of the Word today. Please be seated. I'd like you to think about the section that we have just read, and in particular verses 28 and 29. Under the title Kings, Priests, and Servants of Christ's Eternal Kingdom. Kings, Priests, and Servants of Christ's Eternal Kingdom. We are today with looking at verses 28 and 29, we will officially finish Hebrews chapter 12 and embark on Hebrews 13. And as we do so, let us keep in mind that chapter 12 has been placing before our minds. Nothing less than the greatness and majesty of our God, the one who has redeemed us, and the one who continues to be with us on the narrow path that leads to eternal life. The verse twenty five and following shows that when the ancient Hebrews heard God's voice, his thunderous voice at Mount Sinai, they never wanted to hear his words again They were filled with dread. Imagine that. Just the voice of our Holy God filled sinful men with dread. Just the voice. Today we are presented thoughts in verses 28 and 29 about which we must think more deeply. The implications of these verses are far-reaching, and they affect you forever. What are the thoughts from God's words that have such life-changing impact on those who profess faith in Jesus Christ? Listen again, verse 28. First of all, wherefore we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved Let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably and with reverence and godly fear. For our God is a consuming fire. Well there's several points that I want to look at first of all in verse twenty-eight. And the first thing to do is to define Who the we are, that the author says in the verse, are receiving a kingdom. Who the we are. Well, if you it's you know it's good to ask the question, but if you've been paying attention all along in Hebrews and particularly Hebrews 12, you know the we is you. Then you know that the we constitutes God's people. All throughout the world, all those who profess faith in Jesus as Lord and Savior, all who have been given the grace to believe In Christ. What are you receiving? What are you being given? It says very clearly, a kingdom. A kingdom. You're receiving a kingdom. Well, you know, sometimes when we hear that term, there are images that come to mind that are both helpful to understand the concept of kingdom and also not so helpful. For oftentimes in human history, the concept of a kingdom has not always been a pleasant one. It's usually pictured as a place where a dictatorial despot reigns. and forces his subjects into servitude and poverty and uh those sort of things. We can even hearken back to when Israel cried out for a king, a king to rule them A king in a kingdom that God Himself told them, you better warn them, Samuel, that uh this is not really going to be a great thing Uh that, you know, they're gonna take your daughters for their servants. They're gonna take your money to support their armies. They're going to tax you and all kinds of things. So, you know, even kingdoms in the Bible uh have uh have sometimes negative connotations Even the best kingdoms, even David and Solomon, you know, weren't uh um uh weren't uh exempted from the idea of uh of displaying some of the un ungodly traits of kings. But this idea of a kingdom that it says that God's people are receiving is totally different from that. It's not earthly. And therefore it doesn't have earthly priorities. It is a greater kingdom. It's the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God. It's the kingdom where we are part of. We enter into this kingdom by faith in Jesus Christ, who by the way is the King of kings and the Lord of Lords. No kings stand Before him. No lords are greater. There is only one kingdom, and that is the kingdom of God. And the kingdom of God is moving forward. It has been advancing since the days of our Savior's death and resurrection. And you say, but where is it? I don't see it. There aren't any flags. There are there isn't a great army that I can see. Well, that's another way in which the kingdom of God is so different from the kingdom of the world and all the kingdoms of the world. Because it's as Jesus put it It's a kingdom that is in you. It's a kingdom that reigns in your heart I will have one day its physical manifestation, but for now, it's a kingdom in you. Where if you're a believer, everybody I look at here who is a believer has One king and no other. But he also happens to be your Savior As well. And the two go hand in hand. Now, it says that we are receiving this kingdom. Well, if you receive something, it's not something you take, nor is it something you earn. Receiving is another way of saying it's a gift. We're coming up at Christmas time. Our children will be receiving presents if you do that. and other kinds of things. And we will be remembering the greatest gift that we have ever received. Remembering the Son of the Kingdom, whose reign has no end, upon whose shoulders is the government You receive this kingdom. And when you say you receive, that's another way of saying that it's a gift of God's grace. It's simply portrayed here as being given to you, as being conveyed to you. It doesn't say anything about what you did to have this kingdom conveyed to you. It doesn't say you earned it. It doesn't say you did something. It is simply yours by faith. In Jesus. God has promised that He will extract us from one kingdom a kingdom of death and deceit and lies, governed by the evil one, and he will put us in another kingdom Where there's a whole different set of values, a whole different set of blessings, as opposed to suffering. Once again, even though it doesn't receiving doesn't say grace Nevertheless, grace appears in this verse as well. For we read in verse 28. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us have grace. Let us have grace. Here, this word grace often means to have, but it can also mean to hold. To have or to hold, or both. And that places a little bit of coloring to the idea of having grace. It's not just that we have grace because of God's gift to us. It's not just a statement of fact. But if you translate it hold, it becomes a verb. It becomes an action. So on the one hand, you have grace. On the other hand, you're encouraged to hold on to it. That's something you must do. If you have a kingdom and it's given to you, that you know the tendency will be, if you don't understand this, if it if you think it's just given to you, the tendency will be to devalue it. How many of you have woken up on the holiday we celebrate as Christmas? and been in the been in the uh uh facility have been in a place where you're with your family or maybe some of your relatives who do not understand the meaning of Christmas. And in order to please their children, they have these great big piles of gifts. You ever been in that situation? Well, it's a phenomenon that's almost universally true. The kids will rush through their gifts. They will play with them for two or three minutes. They'll go to the next gift. They'll play for 10 minutes, and then the gifts will be abandoned somehow. They received a gift, right? But it no longer had any meaning to them. It and and the whole text, the whole passage moves Toward understanding what is the meaning of having a kingdom? What are the expectations That are here in the text for those, for you who are given a kingdom, the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, both to be members of it. but also to live in it. What does it mean to live there in this kingdom? You might understand also at this point, you might deduce that I am all millennial in my this in my thoughts regarding eschatology, which means I don't believe the kingdom of Jesus is future in the sense that it's only future. I believe is now. It has come once with the death and resurrection of Christ. It continues through this era And it will be the exalted kingdom that will return when Jesus comes back. So it's a kingdom that has two appearances. On earth. At the beginning, when Christ the King came, and at the end, when Christ the King of Kings comes. But you have a kingdom right now. And it's the failure to understand that and the implications of why Why and how we must react in this kingdom by Christians. The failure to understand that is at heart of the issue, I think, of why we're not really as effective in the culture in which we live. or why we seem not to be as effective in the culture in which we live. Let me go on and explain why I just said that statement. This kingdom that we are encouraged to hold on to, to have and to hold on to, is further described as a kingdom which cannot be moved. Do you see that in verse 28? It's a kingdom which cannot be moved. Now, the Greek word which is used there for a kingdom that cannot be moved is that it's immovable. Or it's unshakable, immovable or unshakable. The Apostle Paul, in his journey to Rome, at the end, near the end of his life, wrote of a place where he is his boat that was carrying him fell shipwrecked. And in Acts chapter 27, verse 41, he uses this same word to describe the predicament of the boat he was in. And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground, and the fourth part stuck fast and remained unmovable. But the hinder part, the back part of the boat was broken with the violence of the waves So you can just kind of picture the boat got steered into a situation where it was Prevented from moving anywhere. It couldn't move. Not the waves could move it, not the wind or the rain. Nothing could move it. And that's the word that's used here. Nothing can move or shake the kingdom which the believer is given. How different that is than the kingdoms of this world. They are shakable and they are movable One after another, if you name the great kingdoms that we know about, it doesn't matter, you can name it any of them. China, early China, ancient Egypt, Rome, Greece. They're all movable and shakable. And some of them are no longer with us, but are known only by their ruins. And the dust they have created. But that's not your kingdom. It is unmovable and it's unshakable, and that means that the kingdom that you have received Nothing can dislodge it from its place in history. Nothing can work against it to destroy its mission. As well. And of course we know that Satan will try. And in some places, you know, it may seem that he's been successful, but that May also be the case that it has been successful because some Christians do not understand the significance of belonging to this kingdom, which the text then goes further to elaborate. This unmovable and unshakable kingdom Which we have received was not just something that came onto the scene after Jesus arrived. But it is something that the Bible predicted Long before Jesus walked the face of the earth and conducted his ministry. The Word of God predicts That a great king with a great kingdom will come. How about Isaiah 9. 7, which I read earlier? In the call to worship. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forever. Boy, that sure doesn't sound like a A temporary kingdom with a temporary king. One verse, notice, of the increase of his government or his rule And peace, there will be no end. Doesn't end. And one could say that even though the kingdom in its greatest manifestation comes with Jesus when he says, repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand. One could also have to argue that God's kingdom the eternal kingdom is in its I want to say the word nascent but in its beginning form i either uh also in the New Testament. Excuse me, also in the Old Testament as well Notice, there shall be no end, Isaiah 9. 7, upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it. Whoever this king is is going to have some connection to David, the great king of the Old Testament. And you bring that right to Jesus, Matthew 1:1, the genealogy of Jesus Christ. The son of David and the son of Abraham To order it with judgment and justice from henceforth, even forever. Forever. Forever is not temporary. You have part, a place in an eternal kingdom, with Jesus as the head. And that kingdom cannot be be moved or shaken. And that kingdom has its own agenda. It marches to the beat of the King of Kings. and to his commands. It follows no order from man. Man has no uh um has no uh It it doesn't dictate to this kingdom what to do. This kingdom is in control. And it's in control no matter what men try to do against it. It always looks as though this kingdom, this kingdom that has no end, is uh Is not as strong as what it should be, is not as immovable and as shakable as the scripture predicts it to be. But that is due to grace That is due to God's grace in this particular time period. And let me remind you, that grace will not be forever. For as verse 29 affirms, our God is a consuming fire. And the consuming fire is coming. I don't know when, but I know it's coming. How do I know? Are you some sort of prophet? Some sort of Susan, uh-uh God says it. This isn't the only place, and you know it. It isn't the only place. But I get a far afield. The word of God predicted this great king. We read about it in the passage from Daniel, about Daniel chapter 7. It was given to him dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, languages should serve him. His dominion is a an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom which shall not be destroyed. Rage against it. Bring all the weapons you want against this king and against this kingdom. It cannot be destroyed. And again, notice Daniel chapter 7, verse 27. I hope you picked this up this morning. It says, the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. What have we been talking about? You're in the kingdom. You're in this eternal kingdom. Whose kingdom is an everlasting back back Daniel 7. 27 is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him. Gabriel, the angel, announced to Mary before the birth of Jesus, Luke chapter 1, verse 32, and following. About Jesus, he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end. Now don't make the mistake of thinking But the house of David there is a reference to the people of the Jewish faith. Excuse me, I said House of David, House of Jacob. Don't make a reference to the fact that it is to the Jewish faith only, or to it. It is to the Jacob of the promise. who like Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. Well, isn't isn't this a great verse? Isn't this incredible? What are you, as God's people in this kingdom, to do in the kingdom that has no end? The kingdom that is said to be in you. Well, it does say a couple of things. It goes on to say, again in verse 28, to um We are receiving a kingdom which cannot be shaken. Let us have grace by which we may serve God acceptably. with reverence and godly fear. There's certainly a few things there we need to point out Those who are part of the kingdom, who've been given a kingdom, this kingdom, the eternal kingdom, the kingdom of the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Those who are in that kingdom, you as a professing Christian are called to serve the king. We're called to serve him. The Apostle Paul wrote in Romans chapter 1, verse 9, he said, For God is my witness whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel. of his son. Now it's interesting that the Greek has a couple of words for saying, and the one that's used here is not the most common. It's not the one that is, for example, used in Matthew chapter 20, verse 28, where the two brothers are questioning Jesus who is the greatest. And Jesus says to them that he who is greatest in my kingdom is he who is least and servant of all. That is the most common word that's used for servant. This word is a Greek a different Greek word. It clearly means service, but it has in mind a particular um Focus. That's not the right word, but you'll get the point. The image of the kind of focus, the kind of service that is to be going on here by God's people is to be ministering. It's the Greek word latruo from what we which which we get liturgy in the New Testament in this day and age But a latruo is a word that's applied to priestly service. So the picture is that God have has those uh in this kingdom who fundamentally are to function as priests. Now I don't think that means that that means that we should go out and start sacrificing a bunch of cows. Or sheep or any other animals. But priestly service involves several things. It means sacrificing yourself for others Sacrificing your name for Jesus' sake, it means sacrificing for the sake of the gospel And it involves intercession on behalf of others. In short Priestly activity is outward, usually outward focused to the needs of others And that places a little bit, it's not that we aren't servants of God in that sense, but we should serve Him with all that we do, but it also gives a little bit of definition to that servant. That it is in many ways it's loving others as we love ourselves. And it's loving God by doing the things He commands. Now it's also a service Unto God, that accents his sacrifice and calls for us to humbly and obediently and with gratefulness To acknowledge Christ and to love him and to love others. This whole question of whom do you serve is relevant Do you serve the kingdom and the king? Or do you serve someone else? How do I know? You know, you should have the spiritually attuned enough to know who you're serving, but sometimes that can be a little deceptive. But let me give you let me give you a guide. I think you can follow by. You can be sure of. I'll get to it as I move through this Matthew 4, verse 10. The Lord Jesus spoke unto Satan, saying, It is written, You shall worship the Lord your God. Him only shall you serve. Which is a quote from Deuteronomy 6, verses 13 and 14. The focus is on serving God and Him alone. Him alone. Secondly. In Luke chapter 1, verse 74, when Zechariah speaks his words after being told about the birth of his son. Zecharias, he writes, that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemy Might serve him without fear. Might serve Serve him without fear. And I believe the way to appreciate that and to understand that he's talking about serving God. When we're delivered out of the hands of our enemies, that enemy is Satan's sin And death. And we might serve God without fear. That means that even though we are called, and as our text calls us to reverence and fear God, For he is an all-consuming fire. Do that and remember that Jesus has delivered you from it. that. And that he is your friend if you keep his commandments And that He is one who is your God, who is with you all the time. Now here's something else to factor into how do you know Whether you're serving him in your service. Rightly fear God. Him only shall you serve. And now listen to this statement from Stephen. I just saw this Not that long ago. I never had appreciated this until preaching, preparing for this sermon. Listen to this. Stephen is giving the history of God's dealing with Israel. Right before he is stoned to death. And he writes, beginning in verse 39 of Acts chapter 7. He is speaking to the Israel, the leaders of Israel. He writes and speaks, to whom our fathers would not obey. But thrust him from them in their heart, and in their hearts turned back again to Egypt, saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go before us For this Moses, as for this Moses, which brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we don't know what happened to him And they made a calf in those days, offered sacrifice unto the idol, and here's the key, rejoiced in the works of their own How do you know when you're serving God Doesn't that seem to give you an answer? The key. Serve God out of gratitude for the grace of Christ. Christ for giving us the kingdom. If you don't, you'll be like ancient Israel in whatever you try to do You will make an idol. And you will rejoice in the work of your own hands. And you will bow down and worship it. Who are you rejoicing in? And whose kingdom Are you in God's or your own? We are to serve him Wow. I gotta stop there. Because I have another page and a half to go. Um and but I'll just finish it up with this. It talks about serving um The verse talks about serving God acceptably I think everything I've just said would indicate how to do it acceptably. But there's a little bit more I want to say about that. God is the one we are to serve acceptably. Some of you may have that translated well-pleasingly, if you can trans. if pleasingly is a word. But uh our goal is to serve God in the sense that he is well pleased. with all that we serve him. He's the one to serve. He's the one who is to be pleased with your service. Think about these words to help give some further understanding. understanding what it means to serve God pleasingly or acceptably. Romans chapter 12, verse 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, That you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. By the way, translation, reasonable service, la truo. Same word here in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 20. Serve him. Same word. Reasonable service. We know what that word means. But not only present your bodies as a living sacrifice, but do not be conform to this world. Do not be conformed to what everybody else is doing. But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is good, acceptable, and perfect. 1 Peter echoes a similar thought, how we are to serve well pleasingly. Ye also as living stones, chapter two, verse five, are built into a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Christ. Yes, it is, and I must again accent the point as this why do we serve and revere? the king who gave us this kingdom. Why do we serve acceptably for his glory simply because he is a consuming fire? And that is meant as a warning. No other way. See that. It could say he was just a fire. But he's a consuming fire. And that depicts to me obliteration You can have a fire in a house and be declared total. But you still might have the frame standing up. This is incineration. God is an incinerating fire. Nothing will be left. Some who serve Christ really don't. They serve with fear, maybe, but they don't serve acceptably, and therefore they don't please God. Beloved, I hate to tell you, but those are the goats of Matthew twenty-five. Didn't we Didn't he do this? Didn't he do that? Depart from me, I never knew you. For them the consuming fire is reserved. Others not knowing of Christ need to hear how and why to serve Him. For the consuming fire will await them unless they hear and repent. and believe. May you rejoice in serving Jesus Christ who delivered you from God's wrath and put you into his eternal kingdom. May it not be said of you that you serve him in word only, while in your heart you are rejoicing in all that your hands have done Amen. Let us pray. Father, we depend upon you to speak your words to the hearts of your people. Lord, may you give them clarity of understanding, so that, Lord, your people might shine as lights in the midst Of a dark and perverse generation. These things we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.