If you turn your copy of God's Word now back to the Psalms, taking a break tonight from the prophet Joel. And we'll be taking a look at Psalm 2. I believe that's on page 528 of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention now to the holy, inspired, and infallible Word of God, Psalm 2. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. saying, let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord holds them in derision. Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury. Saying, as for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest ye be angry, and you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. As far as the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we ask for help. Your sinner is saved only by grace, and we need the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, help us tonight. Give us understanding, give us deep appreciation and love. For the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, even Jesus, set our hearts upon him tonight. And help us to understand what it means to serve Him in fear and to rejoice with trembling and to take refuge in Him alone. Guide us tonight, Father. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Do you need refuge? Have you thought about that? Have you even asked yourself that question? Do I need refuge? Those who built the Tower of Babel did not think that they needed refuge. If you remember that account in Genesis 11, it seems as though the whole world had come together, all the human beings on the face of the earth coming together to make this tower. with its top in the heavens, combining their efforts so that they could reach into the heavens for the purpose, the sole purpose of making a name for ourselves. They did not think the name of the Lord would suffice. Indeed, they did not want the name of the Lord. But their own name. They needed refuge. They needed refuge from themselves. They needed refuge from their rebellion. And they needed refuge from their sin. In a sense, that brings us to this second psalm Psalm 1 and 2 are understood as being the introductory Psalms to all of the 150 Psalms that we have. Some would say that Psalm 2, in a sense, opens up and expands on Psalm 1. And in fact, it seems that it introduces or shows us the way in which God has chosen to deal with his people. Who needed redemption, who needed refuge, and that would be by and through the anointing of his son, a righteous king. Showing the reader that he or she is in a battle, a ferocious battle, a spiritual battle. And the Lord setting forth a plan in which he will conquer the hearts and minds of each and every one of those he has elected. There are questions that Psalm one doesn't answer. For instance, how is it that one would meditate day and night on the law? How is it that one would not stand with the kings and rulers of Psalm 2 who are sitting in the seat of scoffers? And so Psalm 2 introduces the answer for us. It's only by and through the anointed one. It's only because of the king who's been set in place on the mountain of mountains, Mount Zion. To rule in all power, who will destroy all those who oppose him, and who will bless all those who take refuge in him. Tonight, I want us to see that the wicked collectively and continually strive for independence while the children of God are drawn to worship Him and seek refuge in His Son, the King. We'll see that in three simple points tonight. First, the rebellious work against God's plan. Secondly, the plan of God will prevail. And finally, the servants Take refuge in God's plan. Well, as we go through this psalm tonight, please be asking yourself as we go through it, do I do I need refuge? Well, first the rebellious worked against God's plan. He sang a hymn tonight, which was entitled, Why Do the Heathen Strive Against God, or Why Do the Heathen Nations Rage Against God? In fact, this psalm doesn't set forth the heathen nation. In fact, it sets forth all nations. Look at the first verse. Why do the nations rage and the people's plot in vain. There's a confession here Seemingly in this psalm, the Tarage against God, as is set forth here. is to confess that he is indeed the maker of the universe, the creator God, the one who purports to be sovereign over all things and all people. Why else would the nation's rage and the people's plot in vain against him unless They were confessing in a sense that he was just that sovereign ruler. It's certainly one thing for nation to rage against nation or for men to war against mo other men. for countries to battle against other countries on the battlefield, but it's quite another thing for kings and rulers and thus peoples of their countries to rage against God In order to do this, even to think of this, to plan to do this, must necessarily mean that these recognize and acknowledge and believe that God is, and that He has made all things. And that he calls, he calls everyone to be subject to him. And so in this psalm, the psalmist is not referring to those who would claim there is no God. But to those who acknowledge indeed that there is a creator God. And that is what in essence makes this psalm, the beginning of this psalm, such an eye-opener. There's an admission that God exists and that He rules. And so we have to ask that question. Why do the nations rage? It's exactly what the psalmist is asking. We may want to see that this is a really deep question, and there are certainly several responses to that question raised by the psalmist. Why do the nations rage? The people's plot in vain And we have to say as a primary or a preliminary response or a foundational response that the people's plot against God on his anointed because the people are sinners That's the foundational truth which answers the question, isn't it? Why do nations of people led by their kings and rulers rage and plot an overthrow of God? simply because they are sinners. And in that sense, this psalm applies to each and every one of us. For we were born sinners. And so as we begin to look at this psalm, I suppose it helps us to consider what it means to rage against God. Or what is it to rage? Webster defines it as violent anger. Extreme violence, vehemence, violent exervation of anything painful. If we were to summarize that, we might say that rage in this context is an unrighteous anger with much ungodly agitation. And planning and devising schemes to break free from the Creator God. That seems to be what the psalmist is defining rage as, or what he's thinking rage is. There's one more part to this definition, and that this rage is common to all. Think of the text here, think of the words used by the psalmist. Why do the nations Rage and the peoples plot in vain. The kings of the earth and the rulers take counsel together There are two sides here, so to speak, God and his created moral creatures. Those descriptions, those titles, nations, peoples, kings of the earth, rulers, seems to include everyone, all peoples, every single person descended from Adam by ordinary generation, which excludes Jesus. The psalmist appears to include everyone, all moral beings. No one is carved out. It appears to be all-inclusive. Think of the Lord's words in Genesis 6. The Lord saw that the earth, that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. That every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, applying to each of us, every single person So this psalm appears to be that raging appears to be God against all human beings. That's the rage. And the rage is unified. This is not the description of an individual rage. The psalmist describes and sets forth a rage that is collective. Why do the nations rage? Why do the peoples plot in vain? It's a coming together, like the Tower of Babel. It seems as the whole world was there, building and building upward and upward, trying to make a name for ourselves It's everyone. And I think that's the point of the psalmist. This is a picture of our hearts corrupted by Adam, every single one of us. Has an an as an inclination, as we are born, to rage against God. But why? Why? We have a definition, but the question still stands. Why rage against God? Well, we've already defined that, haven't we, is because we're sinners. But let's drill a little bit deeper. Why do the nations rage, the people's plot in vain? It's because in Adam we hate God and his anointed. That's a difficult thing for us to hear. But corrupt men, which includes all of us in Adam, hate or despise all efforts Or truths that seek to place us under the authority of another. We believe in Adam that we are autonomous, and that's a big word that means we think we're self-governed We believe that we have a right to determine how we are to live our lives and what is the end or the purpose of our lives. In Adam, we believe that no one, including our Maker, has the right to exercise governance or just rules over our thoughts, over our words, or over our actions. We have concluded that we are the best judges of what is right and wrong. Like Eve in the garden. As she looks upon the forbidden fruit, that's exactly what she's doing. I'm the best judge. The tree is good for food. It was delight to my eyes. The tree was desired to make me wise. And so she takes of it and eats it. And therefore, no one, not even the Creator, can tell us any differently. Thus, in our corruption, we hate the attempt to be governed. And we hate to be told what is truly right and wrong. There's a second aspect to this, and that is we have a disdain for holiness. The people plot against God in vain because He is holy. You see, we recognize our sin and our unrighteousness and our lack of love and compassion. Indeed, our bitterness and our self-centeredness. And we know that we're not right in the eyes of God. We see that in Romans, don't we? Though they know God's righteous decree, that those who practice such things deserve to die. They not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. The raging nations and the plotting peoples know that they stand condemned before God and therefore do all things to hide from his eyes their sin Which is raging. This is raging against God. This is the plotting against God. This is seeking to destroy or cast off the eyes of God. Let us burst their bonds. Apart and cast away their cords from us. Isn't that what a criminal does? Isn't that what a thief does when he seeks to avoid being caught? Won't he seek to hide his thiever? Won't he seek to lead the governing authorities, the police astray? The thief will seek to cover up his crime such that it cannot be seen. That's exactly what we do as we rage against God. We do not want our sin to be seen, and we certainly do not want to be judged for it. You see, that's the basis of this psalm, isn't it? That's the answer to the question, why do the nations rage? Why do the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against. the Lord and against his anointed. Brothers and sisters, these are hard words to apply to ourselves. It's very easy for us to say, well, that's a description of them. But I really think the psalmist and the spirit is asking us tonight To make sure we apply these words to ourselves. Because if we don't, we can't and won't understand the rest of this psalm, the blessing. of the rest of this psalm. Brings us to our second point. The plan of God will prevail. What I want you to see tonight, at least in part, is that there are two plans. in this psalm. And they seem to be combating against one another. They seem to be in conflict with one another. There seems to be this cosmic battle going on and and we're wondering who's going to win. And we know that that's just not the case. But it is a picture of battle, isn't it? But the end is assured. God's plan will prevail. And so as this psalm is a part of an introduction to all the psalms, in a sense, it's an introduction to the plan of redemption or the plan of salvation, isn't it? There's a small picture here painted of the larger picture of what happened in the garden and how God is working out through the history of redemption. His plan to save a people for himself. And so here in in Psalm two is that cosmic battle described that war being waged between good and evil. It's a description of how a sinful people in Adam We fight against God and against His anointed, and yet His response, a defeat for many, and grace. For many others. And so here we see as the plans of sinful men are set forth. We have this picture. If this were a movie, we'd have this scene of this great congregation of so many people, multitudes of people, nations gathering together worldwide. and their rulers and kings being gathered together in one large assembly, plotting, sitting at tables, drawing, planning, scheming, devising against God. What a picture that would be. The description seemed to portray these thinking that their planning is being done in secret. As if they have this cover over the entire assembly, as if their the pages that they're drawing on are hidden from God. That he can't see. That the divine one would be surprised when they execute their plan of attack. Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. And now the camera shifts. There's a different perspective now that the the camera shot takes and If we if we were in that movie, we would see that screen change in a heartbeat. The image now appearing on the screen is not of the assembly of men, but it's of God sitting on his throne In the heaven above the heavens. And what is he doing? Is he in the war planning room, seeking to build up an army and consider what weapons he will use against these men? These rebels? No. He laughs. That's his response. He who sits in the heavens laughs. This is the response of an all-powerful, omnipotent, everywhere present God. He has seen, he does see, he sees everything. He knows the hearts. And so the response of the sovereign Lord, the response of the living God who made all things, including those who rage against him and his anointed, laughs. Not because what the people are doing is funny. He laughs because of their corrupt Limited minds which believe, truly believe, that they can do anything to oppose his plan. From a human perspective, it's laughable. And from a human perspective, God laughs because these are finite creatures that He has made. Misunderstanding, woefully misunderstanding, or corruptly understanding, or merely denying their understanding. understanding of their finiteness before an infinite creator And so as the kings and rulers of nations are determining what weapons of war they will use against God as they're assembling their armies, as they're putting them in ranks and training them, what does God's battle plan look like? How will he, the God of creation, defeat these rebels? How will the living God deal with this uprising, these sinners, these hateful, these ungrateful, these straying peoples? How will the Lord of Lords and King of Kings put down this rebellion and win the day? The psalmist gives us a clear, a complete, indeed a final answer. Look at verse 5. Then he will speak to them in his wrath. Think of that. As the psalmist puts it, the first action of God is speaking. Isn't that what he's done for us? He's spoken to us. Isn't this what we go back to time and time again? The Lord's word is speaking to us, and that's what he does. He speaks in his wrath. He terrifies them in his fury. Remember God speaking on the top of Mount Sinai. Giving the Ten Commandments. Now when all the people saw the thunder and flashes of lightning and sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled, and they stood far off and said to Moses, You speak to us and we will listen. But Do not let God speak to us lest we die. As God speaks, his voice is terrifying. So much so that the people would plead with Moses. Don't let God speak to us. But you, you are to be feared. Who can stand before you when once your anger is roused? God speaks to them in his wrath. Who can stand before you once your anger is roused? But that's his first act. Now, consider what the Lord says as he speaks. He's anointed his son. As for me, I've set my king on Zion, my holy kill. Think of the contrast. Who is it that's raging against God? The nations. Who are the nations led by? Kings and rulers. And God says, I have set my king. On my holy hill. Who are you? Who are you, kings and rulers of the earth Who are you nations that have assembled against me? I've set my king on Mount Zion, my holy hill. And I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, Today you are my son. Today I have begotten you. Now, this is the son speaking. This is the anointed one speaking, recounting what his father has said to him. You are my son. He has raised up his only eternally begotten Son. And set him as King of kings and Lord of lords over all things. He's granted him an inheritance. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, the ends of the earth your possession. You see, for every beast of the forest is God's, the cattle on a thousand hills, and he has now given it all to Christ. All peoples, nations, and languages should serve him, as recounted by Daniel in chapter 7. But even more particularly, the people of God have been given to Jesus Christ. As he prays in the high priestly prayer, I've manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me. This is the inheritance. This is the gift. This is what has been given to the Lord Jesus Christ all things and all authority. You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Do you see the power of the sun? Yes, you see the authority. Do you see the power of the sun? Certainly a reference to defeating the rebels, those who remain in eternal, unrepented rebellion and sin. But have you thought of it this way? A reference to dashing to pieces the hardness of your heart. The hardness of your heart, which was inclined to sin, Jesus Christ, has a rod of iron And he will break your hardened heart, which is inclined to sin, to make way for the new heart. It seems to be a reference to breaking apart the stony hearts of the children of God, making way for those new fleshly hearts which only He can supernaturally grant and implant. See, that's the battle plan. That's it. That's God's battle plan. His plan for redemption. That's it. No tanks, no bombs, no battleships. No fast-flying jet aircraft. Just the anointed one. Just the anointed one, the only eternally begotten Son on the throne Who's been given all power and all authority, who has the inheritance, who's been given even the people of God and the ability to dash them. in pieces like a potter's vessel, those who remain in rebellion against him, who's been given the authority to grant life by giving new hearts. You see, God's battle plan is to address this rebellion and restore his kingdom. Which was defiled and overrun by sin in the garden. God's plan will prevail. It's exactly what Isaiah writes in chapter 46. My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose. In Psalm 33, we read, the Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He frustrates the plans of the people. The counsel of the Lord stands forever. The plans of his heart to all generations And as we read of the providence of God in the Westminster Confession of Faith, we read that God, the great creator of all things, does uphold, direct, dispose, and govern all creatures' actions and things. God's plan will prevail. Do you rejoice in that? Do you come to worship remembering God's plan will prevail, His plan of redemption, His righteous plan? His plan of moving me from a sin-inclined heart to one that loves righteousness and justice. His plan from taking me out of the darkness and bringing me into the light. His plan for giving me a heart that doesn't hate him but loves him and wants to serve him with all that's in me. Do you rejoice in that? Knowing that it will prevail. Brothers and sisters, that brings us to our third point. That the servants of God do take refuge in his plan. What is the psalmist solution? We see here this this cosmic battle going on We see our hearts that are inclined to to wage war against God, and we see God's plan of of bringing His Son in and anointing him and giving him the authority to dash to pieces those who would continue in rebellion So how? How are you to live before a holy God when your heart is inclined to rebellion and when you know that to continue in such will result in not mere defeat, but in eternal and everlasting wrath and terror and turmoil There must be a cataclysmic, a cosmic and complete and a comprehensive change in your heart. Isn't that what this psalm describes? In order to live before a holy God and his anointed one, the king the ultimate ruler, the ruler of all things and all people, one must be changed from having an attitude and a heart of mind of disdain and hatred and rebellion against your Creator to a heart of submission And love and humility and praise and adoration and rejoicing in the Lord Jesus Christ. Indeed, that kind of a heart is described here. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned. You see, the psalmist was describing those with absolutely no wisdom as the psalm opened. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? Devoid of wisdom, enraging Needing a new heart, to serve the Lord with fear, and to rejoice with trembling. You see that wisdom, that wisdom brings one to serve him this way. This is a bringing together of what appears to be opposites. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. How do you do that? That's the psalmist solution. How does one come to a complete change? How does one go from a sinner hating God and his son, from plotting vainly against God and his son, to serving in fear, to rejoicing with trembling? We know this only by being born again. But how do those two things come together? We usually think of fear as being that which is driven by a distinct possibility of or approaching pain. We usually think of fear as being that which wells up in us because there's this distinct possibility that we are about to be immersed in something painful, whether that's emotional pain or physical pain. But here the psalmist says to serve in fear. And so he places these two words next to each other, which seem to be in conflict. To serve is that call to be submissive, to be one with a humble heart who comes before your master with a desire to do his will. It's exactly the opposite of seeking to cast away his cords from you. And yet the psalmist combines serving with an attitude of fear. He's bringing these two ideas together That we might think that you really can't serve well if you're fearful of pain. Coming from the one you're serving. You really can't serve well with a heart of gratitude. You really can't serve well with a heart of thankfulness. You really can't serve in joy or with a joyful heart if you're thinking of fear in terms of pain. And so it must be that we have the wrong idea when we're thinking of fear in that way. And so here the psalmist brings these two ideas together, so we must read them in a complementary way. We must understand that it's impossible Truly impossible to rightly and fully serve the Lord with your whole heart, mind, soul, and strength if you don't do it with a fearful attitude. You see, a new heart trusts in the goodness of the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that what the psalmist is saying? That as you serve in fear, you must serve with the knowledge, belief, and trust that the Lord is good. So good that you're in fear of his goodness. That it is a fearful thing to serve the living God because He is so good. And that you serve in such a way, knowing and believing and trusting, that the Lord defines goodness That he's good and loving and compassionate and kind and gentle and caring Master who desires your salvation. That's it, isn't it? That he does all things to work out your salvation. To serve means that you know that he will bring his promises to completion. That's fear. And that you will indeed spend eternity with him in bliss and eternal joy, sitting at his feet in the radiance of his beauty and light. Serving in fear means that you know and believe and trust that He will use all things for your salvation, especially your service, especially your labors, that won't be burdensome. But he will carry your load and give you his light burden. Indeed, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ today, he's already carried the heavy load for you. Meaning that he took the eternal wrath of God upon himself so that you could have abundant life. That's what serving in fear means. That you recognize the power of the resurrection. That you recognize what happened on the cross. That by and through Jesus' dying on the cross, that he has satisfied God's wrath for you. That's a fearful thing. And that by leaving the tomb empty, he has shown you that he lives. And that by his life he's given you life as you trust in him. That's a fearful thing. And so you're looking forward to that day when you'll be resurrected with him, to continue to serve him in glory, as you're bathed in his glory. You see, that's how you can rejoice with trembling. There's a perfect unity in in these verses. Indeed, the only way for you to leave your rebellion is to truly serve the Lord Jesus Christ in fear. No, I'm not saying that's a work. I'm saying that's a result of faith. As a result of your faith in Jesus Christ, you will have works, and part of those works is to Serve the Lord Jesus Christ in fear. You see, all other living, meaning living a life not in serving Jesus Christ, is living a life of rebellion The only way that you can have life is to be serving Jesus Christ with that supernatural change of heart That work done by the Holy Spirit, serving him in fear. And now you must see how that leads to your refuge. Serving Jesus Christ in fear leads you to taking refuge in him. Verse 12, kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed. are all who take refuge in him. Kiss the sun is is an is an adage to do homage. To submit yourself willingly, lovingly, joyfully to the one who rules all things You see, brothers and sisters, while it may be that your problem is the anger of the Son, the coming wrath of God, and it is, but the root of that problem is your sin. And you need refuge from your sin. It's exactly what those needed at the Tower of Babel. And the only place to find true refuge from your sin is in Christ. For He is the powerful King who can do all things. Nothing is impossible for God. This conversion from raging to serving in joy seems an impossibility, but that's the battle plan of the Lord. That's his work of redemption. Do you believe that? Do you believe that tonight we are all in the category of those who rage against God or once were? And do you believe that God can take you from being one who rages against him because of your sin and and move you and transport you and and convert you into one who serves in fear And as you do, as you serve in fear, that you can be one who takes refuge in and only in the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's only in Christ that you can and do truly find and have refuge from your sin. He's calling you today. If you haven't trusted in him, he's calling you even now You might think, well, we look to passages like Isaiah 55, where he tells, Listen to me diligently, eat what is good, delight yourselves in rich food, incline your ear, come to me and hear that your soul may live. Or in John chapter 7, and the last day of the feast, as Jesus rises up and cries out, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. But he's calling you here in this psalm as well. He's calling you to take refuge in himself from your sin. Kiss the Son. Do homage to him. Bend the knee. Seek refuge from your sin. And serve him in fear. Yes, the wicked collectively and continually strive for independence All the children of God are drawn to worship and serve Him and seek refuge in His Son the King. Those at the Tower of Babel didn't want the name of God. But those who served the sun in fear. Take refuge in the only name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen Would you pray with me? Oh Lord God, we thank you for this song. We thank you that how it points us to the only way of redemption. We thank you that it points out to us the wickedness of our hearts in Adam. And how in Adam we rage and rage and rage against you. But Lord God, through the work of the Spirit and the work of Christ on the cross and in the tomb. We know that our hearts can be changed. And so we pray tonight, Father, for those whose hearts have yet to be changed, that you would, Father, do a miraculous, a supernatural work. Bringing those who are yet raging to serve Christ in fear. To kiss the Son. And for those who are here tonight, Lord God, who confess Christ, we pray, Father. That you'd help each one to continue to boldly proclaim his name And to rejoice that his name has been written on their hearts. We ask all these things in