Man. If you turn your copy of God's word to the Gospel of John, I believe that's on page one thousand and seventy-three of your pew Bibles. We'll be in the seventeenth chapter tonight. The uh uninspired title on this particular chapter in this Bible that I'm using is the High Priestly Prayer. For context, I'll begin at verse 1, but our focus tonight will be on verse 3. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Heavenly Father, we come to a short portion of your word tonight. And while there are few words, yet there is deep And deep meaning. And so we ask, Holy Spirit, that you would help us tonight to unfold, to unpack, to understand. And that you would apply these words to our hearts. Guide us tonight. All for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What will you do to know Jesus in this coming new year? What will you do to know Jesus? Earlier tonight we read those first five verses from the third chapter of Genesis. And we heard about that temptation issued by the serpent or Satan. To Eve, as he questions her about what God had said. And as we know, the serpent then tempts the woman to distrust the very word of God, saying to her, You will not surely die, when God had told her just the opposite. And then Satan makes this really important statement for us tonight, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened. And you will be like God, knowing good and evil. We know the rest of the account, we know that they indeed Eve and Adam ate that fruit which was forbidden and that God removes them from the garden. But before He does At the end of chapter 3 in Genesis, the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil Now, I think we have to ask ourselves what was the problem? And I'm hoping that you were all thinking, well, they sinned, of course. Yes. But what was the outcome of that sin? What happened? And you may be thinking right now that, well, they they now knew good and evil. Yes. The problem was that through sin they no longer knew God. Their creator. Now they knew good and evil. Quite a contrast to our verse this evening in John's Gospel This portion of John's Gospel comes at the end of what is referred to as the Upper Room Discourse, chapters 13, 14, 15, and 16, where John records the last significant teaching of Jesus to his disciples before he goes to the cross. And then we come to chapter seventeen, which is thought of and entitled by some as the High Priestly Prayer. Jesus is now praying to his father prior to going to the cross. That's their context tonight. And we're studying this one verse. This is eternal life, that they know you. The only true God and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent We might sum up the teaching in this particular verse this way, to have eternal life, you must know the one whom God sent to save you. To have or to obtain eternal life, you must know the one whom God sent to save you. We'll see that in three points or three heads tonight. First, listening to Jesus. Secondly, suffering with Jesus, and finally praying in Jesus' name. Again, as we go through this one verse tonight, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, what will I do to know more of Jesus Christ in this new year? Well, first listening to Jesus. The context in which we find this verse is really important for us. As Jesus begins this prayer, he lifts up his eyes to heaven and said in prayer to the Father, the hours come, glorify your Son, that the Son may glorify You, since you have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you've given him The glory of the Son, meaning the Lord Jesus Christ, is caught up here in the Father having given him authority. Authority over all flesh, authority which includes the power to grant eternal life to all whom have been given to the Son. And so we should begin to see the importance of this third verse. This is eternal life, that they know you. See, the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ is caught up in this verse. Jesus is praying of his path to the cross. Father, the hour has come. Well come for what? Well, it's come for him to now save the world. By and through the cross, the glory of Jesus Christ would become known. It would begin to be seen by the world on the cross. As he would there accomplish salvation, as he would there secure eternal life for all whom you have given to him. And so as we think of the importance of this verse, we must think of the importance of understanding eternal life. And to understand eternal life, we have to understand eternal death. Romans, as Paul writes to the Romans in the fifth chapter, he writes: just as sin came into the world through one man and death. Through sin so death spread to all men because all sinned. You see the connection between death and sin. So clearly, God told Adam in the garden, if you do eat of that fruit Surely in the day that you eat of it you shall die. Jesus, as he's describing his return to his disciples, as he separates the sheep from the goats, as he describes those on his left, the goats, then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. Jesus was describing eternal death. The place where the worm doesn't die, the fire is never quenched. That separation, that eternal separation from God, the creator of life, the sustainer of life. That's eternal death, the absence of God in an eternal existence. Eternal life is just the opposite Paul describes it this way also in the fifth chapter of his letter to those in Rome. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God. That's eternal life. Having peace with God. He speaks of justification. We have now been justified by his blood, meaning declared innocent. The guilty, declared innocent by the holy God of creation, that's eternal life. Saved by him from the wrath of God. Jesus Christ taking the wrath due for you on the cross at Calvary, that's eternal life. Not suffering even one drop of the wrath of God for your sins, being reconciled. Jesus Christ, the peacemaker, the one who brings together those who were at enity and now joins them back in communion and union, that's reconciliation, that's eternal life. That's what Jesus has done. Eternal life then is to live forever sinlessly in the presence of your Creator, the triune God. in glory with the Savior of the world, even Jesus. I'm hoping we're beginning to see the importance. of this verse, this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you've sent. It's describing eternal life here and now, in a sense, before the sun returns, but also requirement. For you to enter into that eternal life. Knowing God and knowing Jesus Christ. Even now to experience eternal life before entering glory. Well How? How do we know this God? How do we know this Christ Well, Scripture tells us there are two ways in which we know the Father and the Son. In other words, there are two ways in which God has revealed Himself to His creatures. First is through the creation, and secondly is through His revealed word, the Bible. We call the first general revelation. We see it so clearly in Psalm nineteen The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day-to-day pours forth speech, and night-to-night reveals knowledge. We see God in creation, not that he's part of creation, but we see his handiwork. Paul describes it this way in Romans, for what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them, for his invisible attributes, that which we cannot see, his eternal power, divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since. the creation of the world. And so we can know more of Christ, can't we? In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God, and he was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. And so that's the first way in which God has revealed Himself, in which the Son has revealed Himself, is through the creation, through that which He has made. But what we want to focus on tonight is the second way, because God has revealed even more by and through his word. Westminster Shorter Catechism 88 asks that question, what are the outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption? And the answer is that he does communicate the benefits of redemption by his ordinances, especially his word. Especially his word. And so it's the word where we read about the Son who reveals the Father to us. Isn't that one reason why Jesus was sent? All things have been handed over to me by my Father. No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son chooses. To reveal him. See, that's what Jesus has done. That's one of the reasons that he was sent And so as we consider eternal life as knowing God and knowing the Son, it would appear the focal point for us would be on the Son who reveals the Father to us. Scripture tells us that very clearly in Hebrews, long ago, and many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets, but in these last days he's spoken to us by his Son. And you see, that's how God is communicating himself to us is by and through his son, who is the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature. It's through Jesus that we know the Father, and it's through the Word that we know Jesus. So let us focus our minds on knowing the Son through his revealed word. Isn't that what Jesus Himself said to at least one of his disciples, Philip, who said, Show us the Father, it's enough for us. And Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long? And you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? So let's just do that. Let's focus our minds on the Word. For the Word of God reveals God through His Son. Indeed, there's no other place, no other place on the face of the earth. No book? No website on the internet, nowhere other than Scripture can we learn and know the Son, Jesus Christ, who reveals the Father. There's nothing in creation. As glorious as creation is, there's nothing in creation That informs us of the need for and the identity of the Savior of the world. There's no other activity that you can participate in other than reading The preaching of the Word, the teaching of the Word, where you can know, truly know the Son of God Jesus Christ. Even the Library of Congress down the street. Which is said to contain 39 million books and other printed materials, according to the Internet. It holds nothing by which you can know Jesus other than the Holy Bible. The Word of God, the special revelation, the scriptures, the Holy Scriptures is the only place, the only book, so to speak, the only place of knowledge. Where we can learn of eternal life So what does that mean for you in this new year, this coming new year? How will you experience eternal life? Would you consider devoting yourself to knowing more of Jesus through the Word? If so, how would you approach this? How would you know more of Jesus Christ through the Word? Well, the straightforward and easy answer is by reading it, isn't it? By devoting time. Time is so precious to us, especially Americans. But we have to devote time, don't we? We have to set it aside specifically. Committing ourselves to spend time in Scripture, in the Bible, daily, not in devotional books. Now, those have their place, and they are helpful, but generally speaking, they are not you reading the Word of God. You need the whole counsel of God. You need the whole Bible. You need all of Scripture. Jesus is revealed throughout all 66 books of Scripture. Isn't that what Jesus said to those on the way to Emmaus, the two walking? Now, they didn't have 66 at that time. They did have the Old Testament. And Jesus said to them, he opened up the scriptures, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, and interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. He didn't pull out a daily devotional. He said, here's the word of God, what we consider to be the Old Testament now. And he opens it up. So they could see Him. You need the whole counsel of God such that you can know more of Jesus Yes, we have our favorite passages, we have our favorite books that we'd like to study again and again and again, but you need the whole counsel of God from Genesis to Revelation. So to know more of Jesus by reading through his word is to spend time in it day by day progressively going through the whole council of God. Now, reading is not meditating. Reading is not memorizing. You need both of those as well. They will help fix the Word of God into your hearts and minds, but you also need to read consistently, constantly, so that you are gaining and grasping the whole counsel of God If Jesus told his disciples that he was revealed in the Old Testament, which was at that time, which existed on their way to Emmaus, then wouldn't it be profitable and logical for you to study the Old Testament as well as the New? Yes. And that's how we become more knowledgeable of Jesus. That's how we know more of Jesus. That's one way. By reading the word, certainly memorizing the word, certainly memet m meditating upon the word, mulling it over in your heart and mind, but also reading it. Such that you would squeeze it, twist it like a sponge, wringing out every single drop of goodness in it. To know more of Christ listening to Jesus Brings us to our second head. Suffering with Jesus. Now you might be thinking, well, we're we're trying to know more about Jesus, what do you mean suffering with Jesus? That is another way in which we know more about the Savior, isn't it? What did he tell his disciples? If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. What is it to follow Jesus? It is certainly to be conformed to his image, isn't it? For those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Yes. To follow Jesus is to be conformed to his image. To follow Jesus is to suffer with Jesus. Think of how he humbled himself. That might possibly be the most well known attribute of Jesus Christ, even if you ask people on the streets. Was Jesus a humble man? I think almost everyone would say, oh yes, a humble man But they probably would not grasp that he condescended. They probably would not be able to say that he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant. Being born in the likeness of men and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Yes. And Jesus' humility is likely his most well-known attribute. Indeed, he permitted others to persecute him But this is the reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. That's the humility of Jesus. That's the that is the love of Jesus But it's the humility of Jesus. He laid down his life in power. We think of humility as a weakness. The world considers humility as weakness But it was strength, it was the strength of Jesus Christ that worked humility within his heart that he could lay down his life. You see, as you, by the work of the Spirit, seek to cast off your pride, which you inherited from Adam, you will necessarily learn more about your Savior. As you ask for the Spirit's help to continue transforming your heart into that meek, humble, poor in spirit, fleshly heart, as you seek to lower yourself in the eyes of others and in the eyes of God. You will know more of Jesus. For he was and is the King of humility. Jesus' crown was one of thorns. Not of gold. It was not one that any would desire to have impressed upon their heads, and yet He in a sense asked for it. Jesus completely lacked and lacks pride and always had and always will seek to glorify his Father, not Himself. That's humility, that's his strength. And so that's the call, isn't it? As you seek to humble yourself, even submit to persecution. You will know more of Jesus Christ. Well, suffering by persecution is certainly one way, but also suffering through chastisement, isn't it? How did Jesus know more of his father? It wasn't because he was chastised that the scripture tells us Then in the days of his flesh he'd offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he learned obedience. Through what he suffered. Learning obedience to what? To the word of God, to the will of his Father. Is that not how Jesus learned more of his father? Do you you see the connection? And Jesus was learning more of his Father, knowing more, by doing his will. He learned obedience through what he suffered. You see, as we stray from the Word of God, as we pursue our own sinful wills, what is it that we are knowing more of? We're not knowing more purity. We're not knowing more holiness No, we we know more of the misuse, the mischaracterization of the good things that the Lord has given to us. We know more of misplaced desires and the ungodly and inappropriate emphasis upon the creation and not upon the creator. And so the Lord tells us, exhort one another every day, as long as it is called the day, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. And so he chastises us. None of us are Jesus, none of us are sinless. And so we learn obedience Through our sins, as the Lord in his mercy chastises each and every one of us. Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord. Behold, blessed is the one whom God reproves. My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when he when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son whom he receives. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it reveal it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Chastisement a form of suffering, so to speak. And yet, by and through it, you're learning more about Jesus Christ, the one who longed to do his Father's will. And then there's suffering through temptation, isn't there? Jesus Christ was not exempt from temptation. In fact, he was tempted more than we can understand and know. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. After fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. At times Scripture sets forth such an understatement He was hungry after fasting forty days and forty nights. It's then that the tempter comes and says to him, If you're the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Jesus Himself Suffered when he was tempted. He's able to help those who are being tempted. He speaks of us. He speaks of you tonight. And yet It's by and through these temptations from Satan that you're learning more and more about Jesus Christ, the one who thwarted and fought off the temptations of Satan. As you walk through this new year, if you're in Christ, you will suffer. You'll be persecuted. You'll be tempted. If you're a son or daughter of the Most High, you will be chastised. And so the question is: as these events happen throughout this new year, will you know more of Jesus? Will you understand these events as opportunities to know more of Christ? How will you respond in your suffering? Whether it be persecution or chastisement or merely illness, how will you suffer? How will your suffering teach you more of Jesus? In a sense, we've answered that question, so the real question becomes, will your suffering this year lead you and guide you to know more of Jesus? Or will you enter into a period of self-centeredness, self-pity, of bitterness, of discontentment? See, those are the two options, aren't they? The first option is that as you suffer to be drawn closer to Jesus, to know more of him The second option is as you suffer to separate yourself from Christ and crawl into your individual cocoon and to focus and fixate upon yourself. The second option is just the opposite of what Jesus taught his disciples, isn't it? If anyone would come after him, he'd let him deny himself. Suffering has the ability to transform that call, that command, from deny yourself and deceit yourself only. Minister to yourself exclusively. Deny others completely. But denying yourself truly as the Spirit works in you has the ability to transform you more and more into the image of Jesus See, it's only as we consider Jesus' sufferings on our behalf that we can be or start to be those who understand the suffering for the children of God to be what it really is. That which draws us and conforms us more and more into the image of Christ. This must be your response. To suffering, to persecution, to chastisement, not to seek that it ends as quickly as possible, but to learn everything you can, to know as much as you can through it about Jesus Christ. And then you you see you'll be drawn and conformed more and more to the image of Jesus. That's what happens, isn't it? You'll know more of Christ, more of your Savior, more of your Lord, more of your King, as you suffer rightly. That brings us to our third point. Praying in the name of Jesus. Again, we're seeking to know more of Christ, how we can know more of Christ this year. And this is the third way How did Jesus commune with his Father? Well, we know very well that it was by and through prayer. He spent time alone with his father in intimate and deep communion, as he committed time. Precious time on this earth, only 30 years or so in his ministry, and his ministry only really lasted for about three years. Precious time on earth, but he prayed and prayed and prayed. The righteous one of Israel, the the pure and blameless, the one who had clean hands and a pure heart, found it necessary to be in prayer with his father constantly. Even in this passage that we're reading tonight, a prayer recorded by John of Jesus with his Father. That's what Jesus was doing as he begins his ministry. That's what he was doing in Gethsemane. That's what he was doing on the cross. Praying. Well, how is it that prayer enables you to know more of Christ? Consider this that the only way for your prayers to be heard is if you pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Your prayers will not be heard if you pray in your own name. For your name is filled with sin and transgression and ill will and malice and deceit. That's our sin nature in Adam. All of us. So for you to commune, to enter into intimate communion with the Holy God, it must be by and through the one who is holy, the one who is undefiled, the one who is pure himself. That is Jesus, the God man. So how does that kind of prayer, the only true kind of prayer, help you to know more of Jesus? As you pray in the name of Jesus, you must be praying according to his will. That's what it means to pray in the name of Jesus, whatever you desire, whatever you ask in my name. This I will do that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Listen to those words. If you ask me anything in my name, I'll do it. And that must be because you're asking according to his will, that the Father would be glorified. If you're praying according to your own ungodly will, first that prayer will not be heard, so to speak. God hears everything, I know. But it would not be praying in the name of Jesus. And if you do pray according to Jesus' will, you must first be searching to know his will. You see the connection. Praying in his name, praying according to his will. First you must know what his will is in order to pray that prayer. That's the only way you can pray according to Jesus' will. is to know it or to ask the Spirit to continually reveal to you the will of Jesus so you can then pray it Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. You see that's that's how we are to pray, and that's Not only how our prayers will be heard, but even as we do pray, we are knowing more of Jesus Christ. To the glory of the Father. You see, your prayer is ultimately a request for your will to be aligned with his And then this results in you being brought to know more of Christ Oh, what a privilege we've been given. To pray in the name of Christ. The question for us tonight is how often do we use it? And the answer I think that we can all give tonight is not enough. Not nearly enough. You see, that takes us back to the verse, doesn't it? And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God in Jesus Christ, whom you sent. And so brothers and sisters, if if you leave here tonight with nothing else, leave here with this. And we must be a praying people. And it's by and through the prayers being offered up in accordance with the will of Jesus Christ that we are continually knowing more of Christ. And through Christ of the Father. Yes, to obtain eternal life, you must know the one whom God sent you. To save you. What will you do do to know more of Christ this year? The call tonight, the call tonight is to know more of Christ through his word, through his suffering, through prayer. May the Spirit work each of those in us. But throughout this year we're knowing more and more of our Savior. Praise be to the Lord. Amen. Father in heaven, what a joy. What a joy it is to read this single verse tonight. To know that Jesus Himself is interceding for us, He's mediating for us, He's perfecting our prayers for us tonight. And so we ask even now, Lord God, by and through your Spirit, work powerfully in our hearts. As the page is about to turn into another, a new year, Father, we we confess that your mercies are never ending. They're new every morning. And you've called us to wait quietly. Upon the salvation that's coming in Christ. And yet, you've also called us tonight to know more of you, to know more of Christ. And so, Holy Spirit, we ask, continue to teach us and lead us, convicting us and showing us more of the Son, more of our Savior, more of our King. More of the one who loved us so much that he would go to the cross in our place. Show us more of Jesus. Oh Holy Spirit, we ask, day by day, as those new mercies fall upon us Teach us more of Christ. We ask all this in his precious name. Amen.