If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Joshua, our Old Testament reading there is Joshua chapter 3. I think that's on page 211 of your Pew Bibles. And we'll read the whole chapter of this evening. Here it says Israel crosses the Jordan. Let's now read the very Word of God. Then Joshua rose early in the morning and they set out from Shittim, and they came to the Jordan, he and all the people of Israel, and lodged there before they passed over. At the end of three days, the officers went throughout the camp and commanded the people. As soon as you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God being carried by the Levitical priests, then you shall set out from your place and follow it. Yet there shall be a distance between you and it, about two thousand cubits in length. Do not come near it In order that you may know the way you shall go, for you have not passed this way before. Then Joshua said to the people, Consecrate yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. And Joshua said to the priests, take up the ark of the covenant and pass on before the people. So they took up the ark of the covenant and went before the people. The Lord said to Joshua, today I will begin to exalt you in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that as I was with Moses, so I will be with you. And as for you, command the priests who bear the Ark of the Covenant, when you come to the brink of the waters of the Jordan, you shall stand still in the Jordan. And Joshua said to the people of Israel, Come here and listen to the words of the Lord your God. And Joshua said, Here is how you shall know that the living God is among you. And that he will without fail drive out from before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Gergeshites, the Amorites, and the Jebuzites. Behold, the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord of all the earth is passing over before you into the Jordan. Now, therefore, take twelve men from the tribes of Israel, from each tribe, a man. And when the soles of the feet of the priest, bearing the ark of the Lord, the Lord of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from flowing. And the waters coming down from above shall stand up in one heap. So when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan with the priests, bearing the Ark of the Covenant before the people And as soon as those bearing the Ark of the Covenant come as far as the Jordan, and the feet of the priests bearing the ark were dipped in the brink of the water Now the Jordan overflows all its banks throughout the time of the harvest. The waters coming down from above stood and rose up in a heap very far away at Adam. The sea that is beside Zaraphan, and those flowing down toward the Sea of the Erabah, the Salt Sea, were completely cut off. And the people passed over opposite Jericho. Now the priest, bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord, stood firmly on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, and all Israel was passing over on dry ground. until all the nation finished passing over the Jordan. As far in the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we ask now, as we have read your word, that you'd add your blessing to it and that you would guide your servant tonight by your Spirit. I am weak, I am frail, I'm fallible, and yet your word is not. And so help us, each one of us, to hear as your word is opened. And guide your servant by your Spirit. That you would be blessed, and that you would bless your people. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Who will lead you out of this sin stained world? In a sense, that's the question that's presented to us tonight by this passage. As we think of a parallel passage in Exodus, As the Israelites, as the Hebrews were in bondage in Egypt, in that sin-stained nation. It was the Lord who led them out. Indeed, as as Pharaoh and his armies had changed their minds and had pursued the Hebrews who had left Egypt and Bound them in against the Red Sea, and were now fearful. They were told that the Lord will fight for you. You have only to be silent. And then the angel of God who was going on before the before Israel moved and went behind them to create that separation between Israel, the nation, and and Egypt. Pharaoh and his army were pursuing The Israelites, the angel of God appeared in that pillar of cloud and fire. And then it was that same pillar of cloud and fire that took them across the Red Sea. It was the Lord The God of Israel that led them out of that sin-stained nation of Egypt. Now we come to this second crossing, so to speak, over the Jordan, wherein the people of God now are entering into that land promised to them. Joshua has been raised up. Moses has died, and he's been given the command, go over the Jordan into the land I'm giving you. We know that the first attempt to enter the promised land was failed. And now we have that second attempt. And Joshua has taken the word of God to the people. He's called them to prepare provisions. They have said that whatever you command us to do, wherever you command us to go, we will go. The spies have gone into the land. They have met Rahab. These second set of spies who were protected by Rahab, the prostitute, God using surprising means to provide for his people. The spies have returned. They provided that information to Joshua and all the parts that the hearts of the people in Jericho had melted as a result of their knowledge that God had given them the land. And so now, forty years after wilderness wandering, forty years after walking, setting up, tearing down the tabernacle, waiting to go in the promised land, now finally, they're taking the first steps. into that place, the the promised land that had been promised even to Abram God commands them to cross over and he is the one who holds up the waters of the Jordan in heaps, allowing them to pass through on dry ground. Joshua told him that here is how you shall know that the living God is among you. And it seems to me that he's pointing to the crossing of the Jordan. The piling up of the waters in heaps. This is how you shall know that the living God is among you, and will without fail drive out from before you the Canaanites and all the rest. We have so many examples in the Old Testament of the physical presence of God. God being among his people. God walked with Adam in the garden. God shuttered Noah and his family into the ark himself. God appeared to Abram in that smoking firepot and flaming torch passing through the severed animals as he enters into covenant with Abram. God condescended to Moses in the bush which was in flames and yet not consumed and subsequently descends on Mount Sinai in the sight of all Israel to their terror. God revealed himself in that pillar of cloud and fire as he led the Israelites, the Hebrews, through the Red Sea, protecting them from the chariots of Egypt. And God evidenced himself as the tabernacle was completed and furnished, and he enters into his dwelling place in that Shekinah glory, so much so that they couldn't even enter. Throughout the Old Testament, there are so many occasions on which God showed himself to be present, even physically present with his people, even here in this passage. In Joshua chapter 3, God provides proof, we'll put quotation marks around that word, so to speak, that he was present with the Israelites as they crossed over the Jordan. And we see that in the Ark of the Covenant. I think if you count it up, there may be thirteen times in this third chapter of Joshua where the Ark of the Covenant is referenced either by a pronoun or or just by that word, the Ark of the Covenant. It's that one way amongst the Israelites where God symbolized his presence among his people. Remember, it's just a wooden box covered in gold. Carried about by the Levites, which contained the Ten Commandments, the two tablets that Moses brought down from Sinai, written in stone. And if you remember the description of the Ark of the Covenant, it had the law inside, but on top was the mercy seat. The throne of God, so to speak, with the cherubim looking into and astounded at the mercy of God that triumphs over judgment Judgment being the Ten Commandments within the Ark itself. That which was carried about by the priests. According to the command of God to lead the Israelites into the promised land. So please don't miss this symbolism. of the presence of God amongst his people as we go through this chapter, as they're entering into the promised land, as the warriors go to remove the current occupants And establish their new homes with the living God, who has not left them nor forsaken them, even leading the way into battle. We might sum up this chapter 3 simply this way, that Jesus Christ not only leads the way to glory, but preserves the saints on their way. Jesus Christ not only leads the way to glory, but also preserves the saints on their way. And so our two heads this morning this evening, or our two doctrines, will be very simply taken from that statement that first Jesus Christ must lead. And secondly, that Jesus Christ will preserve. As we go through this passage once again Be asking yourself that question, who will lead me out of this sin stained world Well, first then, the Lord Jesus must lead. At this point in the narrative, in Joshua we would be thinking as Israel's about to cross over the Jordan and step foot upon the promised land as as Joshua has been raised up now to the commander, so to speak, of the nation of Israel, you'd be thinking, well, Joshua will lead the way. Moses is dead. Joshua's been raised up by the Lord. He's been given the very word of God. He's been told that I, meaning the Lord, will be with him, and that you shall, meaning Joshua shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. This is what Joshua was told. So we might be thinking that Moses led the people across the Red Sea. He was told to lift up his staff, and that's what he did. Stretched out his hand over the Red Sea, and the Lord drove the sea back by strong east wind all night. You think, well, Joshua will probably do the same thing. But no. As we read this passage, again, we see the Ark of the Covenant takes center stage As soon as you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God being carried, then you shall set out from your place. Again in verse 6, the priests were told, take up the Ark of the Covenant. So they took it up and went before the people. And then in verse 14, the third time, when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan with the priests bearing the Ark of the Covenant before the people. The warriors, the Israelites, the entire nation must follow. The Ark of the Covenant is called to go first. As soon as you see the ark, then you shall set out. Not before. The ark must be seen. The ark must lead. Do not come near it. It's only by the ark that these warriors may know the way. Did you notice that? Verse 4, in order that you may know the way you shall go, for you have not passed this way before. Now why is that? Remember, the spies had already gone into Jericho. They've been in the promised land. And why did the ark, which was carried by men, Levites, why did it have to lead the way? Why did Joshua say, you've not passed this way before? If this were the beginning of a mere earthly battle, a fight between mere mortals or just men, then there'd probably be no need for the ark, so to speak, or the presence of God From a human perspective. But spiritual forces were at work Consider the first battle for Jericho. We're not there yet. But how do the Israelites fight? With spears and arrows? No? With trumpets and loud shouts. That's how the city walls fall down. There's spiritual forces at work, even and especially in their first battle. Indeed, the Israelites had not passed this way before, not significantly. They needed to stand firm and And so the ark, representing the very presence of God, needed to guide them their very steps, and each step Even that was as it was carried by mere men, the image, the reality was that God was directing entry into the promised land at every point. The God of creation was with his people by his hand, bringing them into that place where he would dwell with them. This is the work of the Son of God. This is Jesus' work. Remember the words of Jesus as he tells his disciples that he was going to prepare a place for them. We read it tonight And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. Remember Thomas's response. Lord, we don't know where you are going. How can we know the way? Thomas seems to have been looking for a direction, a map, a guide to a physical location. And Jesus said, I am the way. Jesus is the way to life. That's what the writer to the Hebrews writes in chapter 10. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way. Jesus is the way. Jesus is the new way. Meaning the old had come to an end. The sacrifices of bulls and sheep and goats had had come to a close, and through Jesus there is a new way, which was a living way, no longer through the blood of dead animals. But now in Christ, through his resurrection, we're given a living way. That's what the Israelites were being shown as the ark was leading the way. As they were following the ark, they were in the presence of God, the living way. Indeed, the promised land represented eternal life. It represented that place of eternal rest where the God of creation would dwell with his people and the Israelites needed to be led into that life. You see, just as it was impossible for Adam and Eve to re-enter the garden, because the gate was guarded by a flaming sword in the cherubim. And just as the ten virgins, as we heard this morning, needed that oil in order to find the bridegroom and enter into the marriage feast, pointing to the presence of the Holy Spirit The Israelites needed the presence of God to enter the promised land. How do you know the presence of God today? The Israelites were able to see the result of his presence. They just saw the box, right? The Ark of the Covenant as the Levites were carrying it and standing firm in the middle of the Jordan. They just saw the box. They didn't actually see God. But what they really saw was the result of his presence. They saw the Jordan piled up in heaps, and they saw the dry ground that they were walking across. If you're trusting in Christ this evening, you have been in battle, and you're approaching another battle this week. You're in a war zone with Satan and your own sin, who is leading you in these battles? You might be thinking to yourself, even now, I can't see. I can't see God. I must be on my own. I'm leading my own battle. I'm fighting my own fight. Brothers and sisters, you must understand that your fight is spiritual. That the battle you're in is spiritual. It's exactly what Paul tells us in his letter to the Ephesians. We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of this evil. Age. In every battle, you're engaged in spiritual warfare. So consider this. What is the end of the spiritual battles that you are engaged in? That you have been engaged in, that you will be engaged in? What's the end According to James, it's the testing of your faith Every time you're engaged in a spiritual battle, it is the testing of your faith, and that produces steadfastness. It's the same with Peter Who writes in this first letter, you're being by God's power guarded through your faith for a salvation? And that the genuiness of your faith, which is tested, is more precious than gold. It perishes though it's tested by fire. Every time you're in a trial, every time you're in a battle, what is the end? God is testing and proving your faith And so Paul tells us to seek the armor of God, doesn't he? Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, shoes on your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace, take up the shield of faith. With which you can extinguish the flaming darts. Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God, praying at all times See what Paul is saying here in the armor of God is you've got to recognize and confess and know that God is present with you, that his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is present. You need to feel that the breastplate of righteousness has been fastened upon you by Jesus Christ. You need to know that the helmet of salvation has been laid upon your head. By the Holy Spirit, that's how you know that you're not alone in this battle. That's how you know that God is present. For each of these pieces of armor are spiritually given to you to remind you of the presence of God. He is the one who leads you in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yes, the Lord Jesus must lead you. That brings us to our second point, our second truth. That the Lord Jesus will preserve. There's so much imagery in this passage The Ark of the Covenant being carried and leading the nation across the Jordan into battle, into the promised land The waters of the Jordan being piled up in heaps. Remember, it seems to be harvest time, and what the author wants you to know is there's a lot of water in the Jordan. Jordan is piled up in heaps so that the men and women, the the warriors, can walk through on dry ground altogether. Six hundred thousand men Plus women, plus children, plus animals crossing over the Jordan altogether into the long-awaited promised land, all of it. In all of it, the Israelites being perfectly preserved For their God. His preservation is on display. And so let us now consider the three offices of Jesus Christ. As we're looking at and considering this preservation. First, there's the preservation through Jesus' priesthood. Look at verse 4. There shall be a distance between you and it, meaning between all of Israel and the Ark of the Covenant, about two thousand cubits in length. Do not come near it. 2,000 cubits is about 3,500 feet or more than a half of a mile. So the command is don't come near. The warning of Joshua was clear. Not only did the Israelites need to follow the Ark of the Covenant, now they needed to keep their distance from the Ark of the Covenant. That which was leading the Israelites was also, in some sense, a danger to sinful men and women if they got too close. The Ark of the Covenant represented the dwelling place of God. It represented the very presence of God It represented the very presence of a holy, holy, holy God. When the ark was placed in the Holy of Holies, no one was allowed to enter except for the high priest, and that only once a year and with blood. Indeed, there were warnings that none but the Levites, even a special section of the Levites, could not come near the ark, and that only when the priests had covered it to carry it to their next location. So holy is God that as the Israelites set up their camp in the wilderness, it was only the Levites who could camp around the tabernacle and thus around the ark. In a sense, protecting the rest of the people from coming too close to a holy God. And so that truth carries forward. As the Ark of the Covenant is carried into the midst of the Jordan, and the people are now passing by it. But in Jesus Christ, that distance of 2,000 cubits is substantially reduced, isn't it? Indeed, as he sits as your mediator, even this evening, he invites you to come close. As the mediating priest, the only The only true priest, Jesus, has satisfied God's eternal wrath for you, so that you can come close Indeed, Paul tells us of the approach of the throne of grace. Approach it with boldness and confidence, not in yourself, but in Christ. Hebrews chapter 4, since then we have a great high priest who's passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we might receive mercy and find grace. Yes. He he takes that two thousand cubit distance and says, No, no, come close. You see, he does that which the mediating priest does Because of his cleanness, because of his holiness, because of his righteousness, because in his priesthood Jesus Christ has offered himself up as your eternal sacrifice, you're welcome to come close to the living God. No longer are you called to look upon an ark, a wooden box covered in gold. No, you're called, encouraged, invited to come even close and sit at the feet of Christ, even to this service of worship tonight. Even to the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, you're called to enjoy Christ, to partake of Him, to feed upon Him. And not only that, as your high priest, he's praying for your preservation. Just like he prayed for Peter. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you that he might sift you like wheat. As Jesus told Peter that What was Jesus' reminder to Peter? But I have prayed for you. That your faith may not fail. Jesus was holding Satan back from a full attack on Peter. And he's doing the same for you tonight if you're trusting in him. He's preserving you through his priesthood, through his intercessory priesthood. Even as he leads you to glory. Then there's also preservation through his kingship. Consider that all Israel was passing over on dry ground. In addition to his priesthood Jesus Christ is preserving you through his kingship. Think of the Israelites. They're passing through the Jordan on dry ground, experiencing the kingship. Of Jesus Christ. That which was wet has now been made dry. The Israelites given solid footing as they passed through two walls of water. The Jordan in heaps on either side, being preserved and protected by the divine king as they march one after the other to the threshold of the promised land. Not only did the Ark lead the way across the Jordan Leading the warriors of Israel into the promised land. It remained in the middle of the Jordan as the king was holding up the waters of the Jordan so that they could pass through. Indeed, the text tells us that the Levitical priests who were holding the ark stood on solid ground in the middle of the Jordan. Consider the reality of that just for a moment, the river. The Jordan had been there for who knows how long, at least for the forty years that the Israelites were wandering about the wilderness. And during that time the bottom of the Jordan River was covered with water. And you can imagine how a river bed could be unstable, sloppy, muddy. And yet the Levitical priests stood on solid ground. The people were passing by on dry ground. Who knows, maybe they were able to see in some distance away the walls of water being stood up Not going beyond the boundary that God had set for them. Just as He had promised, they were able to cross the Jordan without swallowing one mouthful of water. Their clothes were not wet, their weaponry was not damaged, their food supply was not spoiled, everything was dry. And they were ready to fight, preserved even to the Jordan as a result of the strong hand of God. Is that not what God is doing for you today in his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, as He sits as King? In His kingly rule and reign, as He sits upon the throne of His Father at His very right hand, is He not preserving and protecting you? If you're trusting in him tonight, consider your own situation. Think of those two walls of water, one on each side. Think of those who are attacking you today. Satan on one hand, your own sin on the other. Indeed, even as a world of sinners surrounds you. Now what's holding them back? What keeps your sin or the sin of others around you, or the darts or arrows from of Satan, from penetrating your heart? Such that you're led away from Jesus. What keeps the attack of Satan and his minions from being fatal to you? Just like the walls of water, which did not fall down or consume or subsume the Israelite fighters, you've been kept by the very presence of God. By the kingship of the Lord Jesus Christ from defeat and annihilation, by Satan and even by your own sin. Do you recognize that? In a sense, you can see Jesus Christ sitting on the throne with his scepter holding back all of the spiritual forces that are poised and situated against you. Because you follow Jesus. Like the walls of the water being heaped up, allowing the Israelites to pass by safely, he's holding each one of them back. Not allowing them to have their full force and effect upon you. That's what he's doing in his kingship tonight. But it doesn't stop there. Jesus preserves you through his prophethood, if I can use that word. Consider the Levitical priests stood firm. Look at verse 17. Now the priest bearing the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firmly on dry ground. Remember that they were holding up the Ark of the Covenant. There are poles that were going through that wooden box and and they were holding it on their shoulders. Even as all Israel passed by on dry ground, they were standing firm. They did not waver. Their legs were supported, their strength held fast, they stood firm, they were carrying the ark, the very word of God Yes, the ark contained the law. They were carrying the very commandments of God. Yes, the atonement cover is on top, but they were carrying the law, the Ten Commandments given at Mount Sinai in tablets, in stone tablets. And they stood firm as they upheld the moral law which they were carrying before the Israelites, before the people of God. Remember what Joshua was told. In chapter one, as this this whole book begins. Be strong and courageous, being careful to do all according to all the law. That my mo that Moses, my servant, commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left. The priests were upholding the very Word of God as the entire nation passed by. Jesus upholds the Word of God, doesn't he? He is the Word of God. And this is another way, another aspect of His preservation, isn't it? He preserves you. He protects you in his word as your prophet. He reminds you as your prophet of the very presence of God. Every time you go to the Word, Jesus Christ as your prophet. is preaching to you and reminding you of how he cares for you and protects you. And then as your risen prophet, he uses the preaching of his word, even tonight, to uphold you, to sustain you. to give you joy and peace even in these trials and tribulations just like the Israelites experienced. And you can nonetheless hold your head up just like the Israelites as they're passing through the Jordan. And continue to walk following him into the eternal promised land, or what we refer to as glory or heaven. Is that not the case? Have you not experienced that time and again? I've even heard from one of you that as you were suffering through a trial, you went to the Word of God and were upheld and sustained and reminded and supported and and preserved and protected in it. That's what Jesus Christ is doing as your prophet tonight. Just as the priests were upholding the Word of God in the Ark of the Covenant, allowing and enabling the people to walk through the Jordan. keeping the law before them, Jesus Christ is doing that in an even greater way for you tonight How do you know the presence of God? The Israelites were able to see the results. They didn't see God, but they saw the result of his presence. Are you seeing the result of his presence in your heart? His he's changed you? Has he changed your heart from stone to flesh? Do you recognize that as the presence of God, as Jesus Christ leading you? And then preserving you. Oh brothers and sisters, that's exactly what's happening He is showing you the presence of the Triune God within your heart Be encouraged. Be lifted up. Jesus Christ is not only leading you, but he's preserving you all the way to glory. Yes. The Lord Jesus Christ not only leads the way to glory, but also preserves all the saints on their way. The pillar of cloud and fire led and preserved the Hebrews through the Red Sea. To start their journey to this, the promised land. And now, forty years later, it's the same living God through his son. Who's bringing them in to that place where they can have rest and where they can worship? He's doing the same for us tonight. You're in the wilderness and you're wandering. You're looking forward to your eternal home and glory with Christ. And you know and can trust that Jesus is leading you to that place, the place where He's preparing for you. And all the way, he will continue to preserve you until you enter glory. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we have studied awesome things, amazing things, nearly unbelievable things tonight. And yet, because you've placed belief and trust in our hearts, Lord God, we rejoice in the reality of what we've read tonight. We rejoice in And are encouraged in your presence among us even now. Knowing that the Israelites had the Ark of the Covenant, knowing you were present among them by what they saw. And Father, we know you're present among us as Jesus Christ continues to work in our hearts, to preserve us and lead us. All the way into glory. Help us this week as we enter into more spiritual battles. Give us all the armor. Once again, reminding us of your presence among us. And Lord God, we know that we won't be victorious, but Jesus has been. And through his strength and through his preservation, we will be victorious in Jesus. We praise you, we thank you, and we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.