Continue to stand now and turn to first uh Corinthians chapter one uh verses eighteen through twenty-five. And let's use this as the text from which the message will come this morning. Let us hear the word of the Lord. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness of the message preached To save those who believe. For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified To the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness. But to those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God Because the foolishness of God is wiser than man, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. Throughout the Word of God, our God has promised that He will place before sinful men and women, the simple, the simplest, most basic, most wise, most important fact ever But the wicked will despise God's promises and refuse to believe his truth And insult it as foolishness. Yes, it's the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ that I speak of. It's the salvation that God provides That is the fulfillment of Isaiah 29, 14, where God says, I will proceed to do a marvelous work. Among this people, a marvelous work and a wonder. Their wisdom of the wise will perish, and the understanding of their prudence shall be hid. The cross of the Lord Jesus Christ is that marvelous work of God. A marvelous work of God that causes wise men Foolish to perish and to deem it foolish because they deem it foolishness. And its wisdom is even hidden from them This cross of Jesus Christ is God's display of his superior wisdom. The wisdom of the world cannot penetrate the meaning, the significance, and the importance of the cross of Jesus. And that means, and that means this, and it's important that you appreciate this, that means that the wisdom of the world cannot Understand the cross, and if you can't understand the cross, you can't be saved Knowing God through His wisdom of the cross means to you eternal life. Let's look for a few minutes and contrast how the eyes of the world see the cross with the eyes of the faithful, how they see the cross. Notice as verse 20 starts off, it starts off with three questions. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of the world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? Where is the wise? Where are those who are wise In the worldly sense, but they have gained some sort of worldly wisdom from nature or from some observation or from some sort of study. of this world in which we live. Where are they? Paul asks. Where can a wise man from this world be found? Where can a wise man from this world be found who understands the cross? That's the unstated statement. The answer to Paul's question is simply there is no one But he turns now to the scribe. And when he uses that phrase, I believe he is referring to the the the the the Jewish scribes who were present during the time of Jesus and into Paul's life as well. And you remember they were the great um Exegetes of God's Old Testament Word. They were those who knew the Word. And yet Jesus would say of them on one occasion, or they would he would say the Pharisees of the Pharisees as well, he said, You study You look at the Word of God because you think that in them you have the Word of life. And yet, these scriptures testify about me. So here you have this incredible phenomenon where the scribes are being built up in a certain degree of understanding above everybody else about what The scriptures, they think what the scriptures principally teach, but they miss the whole point. They miss Christ. They miss Christ and the Word. And when Christ and the Word comes on the scene, they're among his greatest opponents. Where is the scribe? Where is the guy Paul is asking who understands the Word of God so much so that he sees it referencing Jesus? And the answer is again no one. No one Where is he turns to to the disputer or the debater of this age? Here we get Paul's reflection on those who would be called the philosophers, the gentlemen who Sit around and spend all day debating concepts and ideas regarding what's the meaning of life, what is truth, what is existence all about. He might very well be thinking about the Greeks that he encountered on Mars Hill in Acts chapter 17. And his questions his question fundamentally is, have any of them, on their own By their dedication to these philosophical pursuits, have any of them come to a fundamental understanding of Christ on the cross? Have they understood their need for salvation? And have they understood that the cross is the provision? Where is the disputer of the age? Oh yes, he's out there, but he hasn't understood the wisdom of God. So you've got wise people in general, Paul says, don't understand. You've got Jews, Jewish exegetes, Jewish interpreters, they don't understand And you got Greeks. They don't understand. Fundamentally, Jews and Greeks mean everybody. Everybody in the world. No man, when you boil this these questions all down, nobody in the world Has the wisdom to understand God's wisdom on the cross. In fact With their worldly wisdom, they reject the cross of God as foolishness. They reject their need for a Savior. And if they think of God at all, it's in terms of rescuing them from their trials and their moments of suffering. Or as the Jews wrongly did when they thought about God and his salvation They saw it as God coming to make them a great nation so that they could rule over everybody else. Surely a cross doesn't have much meaning in all of that, does it The wise of this world can never understand the cross of Jesus Christ because they never take God seriously. The God seriously. And they will not accept his judgments against their sin. And they are disinterested in his numerous promises to send a Savior, one who would save us from our sin. You remember right before Jesus is crucified, Pilate turns to the crowd and says, What do you want me to do with him? And their answer out of foolishness. Crucify him Crucify their own hope. Kill them Because the cross is foolishness to them By our wisdom, we despise God's work of salvation, and we kill our only deliverer from evil. This is not good. This is not good at all. Paul goes on to elaborate further on part of the problem that men have with regard to the cross. He says in verse 22, the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after salvation. Excuse me, seek after wisdom The Jews require a sign and the Greeks seek after wisdom. Once again, by using those two terms, he's referring to the entirety of humanity. There's only Jews and they're Greeks. Or Gentiles in the world that Paul lives in, and it's true even in our world. There is no difference So you recall, of course, that during the days of Jesus, how the Jews kept wanting a sign. And you remember, in the midst of Jesus healing five, feeding 5,000, what do they come after Jesus and say, Master, we want to see a sign? Master, we want to see a sign. And what does Jesus say? No sign. This is an evil, an adulterous generation. And it's one that seeks after a sign. There shall be no sign given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the whale's belly, So shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. What's he referring to there? Death and resurrection, the cross and the grave. That's the sign. That's the sign you're gonna get. You won't get any other signs. That's it. That is the most important sign you're gonna get. For as uh yeah, okay. The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation. And shall condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah But he didn't he didn't stop there. He said, Behold, a greater than Jonah is here. I'm here in your midst. And he went further. The Queen of Sheba The Queen of the South shall rise up in the judgment with this generation and shall condemn it. For she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear what The wisdom of Solomon. But behold, greater than Solomon is here. A much greater wisdom is in your midst. But the Greeks want a sign. Because they think if Jesus will just perform with them Then they'll believe. They can't. They cannot They're wedded to their own foolishness. They're wedded to their own sin-darkened heart and mind, which twists everything. Away from Christ and away from the need for salvation. The Greeks The Jews want signs. The Greeks are seeking wisdom. And the word for seeking there is a present tense. It's nice to translate, they're always seeking wisdom. They're always seeking wisdom, and that really is the sum total of their existence and their reason for existence. Keep seeking wisdom. And you would think, well, if you're seeking wisdom, maybe, maybe by blind luck. Someone might get the might stumble on the cross. But no. Not even there. It won't happen. It won't happen. All mankind from the Queen of Sheba to the Jews Who want a sign, to the Greeks who seek after wisdom, to the most profound genius who ever lived, who ever will live. Well, all we see the cross of Jesus Christ is foolishness. The world, through its wisdom, cannot know God. That's what verse 21 says. For after that and the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. In the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. How can any believer think That the world by its wisdom can know God if the world would take seriously what God says in Romans chapter 1. In verse 20. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. So from God's perspective, you've got those who reject Him and what they know about God from creation And as a result, they become fools, but they pronounce on God's greatest work of salvation, they pronounce it foolishness. When they look at the cross. When ever did sinful man cease becoming vain in their imaginations? When did man suddenly gain a heart that isn't foolish and darkened by sin? How did fools suddenly become wise enough to understand the cross? We cannot know God savingly unless God helps And according to verse 21, no one can ever know the God who saves on their own. God only is wise in the absolute sense. Romans sixteen twenty-seven But in spite of this horrible plight that all men have with regard to trying to understand the cross. In spite of declaring it foolishness, what does God do? God makes known his wisdom to some. Verse twenty-one, the latter part For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God. by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe God is pleased to save some. How? How does he save some? Does God save some by performing some great magical trick? Or does God bring on the latest gimmick, you know, uh kind of as the snake oil salesman for what the newest thing out there? And get you to buy? Or does God put on some kind of great dramatic spectacle or write some magnificent oratoria? Is that how God does it? No. That's how the world does things To get people to do what they want. No, God does it through the preaching, through preaching the Word of God. Preaching the word. And as we've already seen, the heart of all preaching of God's Word must be Jesus. Must be his cross. Must be his empty grave If Christ and the good news of the cross is not preached, you hadn't heard preaching You haven't either even been given the way of salvation to hear it and to listen. Of the cross, the world says it's foolishness. God counters the foolishness of the world's Verdict by saying, I'm going to give you foolish, what you consider foolish preaching, and I'm going to give you the foolish cross. Which you cannot understand. But I will reveal it to those to whom I have chosen to reveal it. Now, I uh I uh this this story, the world you see, renders the cross foolishness because Sinners are offended by being told they're sinners. And they arrogantly declare they don't need the cross. And they think to themselves, there must be something I can do. If this is the problem, I must be able to do something. And God must be able to accept me. He must accept whatever good I try to do. They will not admit that every unbeliever is helpless to change their sinful estate. It's always the same. It doesn't matter. How can I merit salvation This is brought home very realistically by the story about Naaman. There's a Nauman syndrome in the sinful world and the world in which we all live. It's found in the heart of proud sinners. Naaman comes with his horses and his chariots. And he comes with oodles and oodles and oodles of money. Well, if you can't if you gotta have something, buy it. Isn't that how we look at things? Nauman has leprosy. Very interesting disease. Probably, you know, he has leprosy, but it's also leprosy is kind of a symbol of the greater evil of our heart Eating away, making us unclean. Sin destroying us? Naaman has leprosy And he finds out that he can go down to Israel, and there's a man down there who just providentially A servant girl from Israel was captured and comes in the name of his house and says, there's a prophet down there who probably can help you So there's so much about this story. So he comes, and Elisha the prophet finds out that Nahum is present Sworn enemies of the Jews, the Syrians. This guy, he's not only a sworn enemy, but he's the guy who's inflicting the greatest pain as the captain of the army. The great general. Elijah sends to him what? A messenger. Go and wash in the Jordan seven times. Thy flesh shall become again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. When Elijah speaks, he speaks the word of God. Right Naaman was rat was wroth and went away and said Behold, I thought he would surely come out to me, call on the name of the Lord his God, strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper. Put on a show. Let's see it. Let's see some magic Let's see a miracle. Naaman is wrathful. What is he wrathful about? A simple message: Go and wash in the Jordan. The foolishness of the cross is there. He considers it foolishness. Utterly wrathful. You're treating me with disrespect. I can buy my don't you know who I am? I can buy my way to hell if I have to. Think about it. The problem is age old. The gospel is here Afterwards, Neiman is cured. He finally listens to his servants, some wise servants. He listens and he's healed. And he's thankful. Appropriately so. And what does he what does he how does he try to express his thanks? Here, Elisha, here's some money. Take it. Why does Elisha say no? Or excuse me, Elisha. Why does he say no? Could it not be that the gospel, the healing of God, is by grace? It is a gift of God that God confers on whomever He will. Not of works, lest any should boast. This is beautiful. It fits right into what Paul is saying about the foolishness of the cross. Everybody out there, Jews, the scribes, the philosophers, the people of the world, the disputers of the age, they're all Naemans. When it comes down to the cross. In one way or the other, it's foolishness. We don't need it. You, me, we're no different. We were no different. The gospel before God came into our lives and showed us the cross and all of its beauty and its power and its meaning. We couldn't have penetrated that. I recall myself thinking this was foolishness. But God, through the preaching of the Word, through the ministry of the Word of God, the powerful Word of God Spoke to your heart and brought you to the foot of the cross and saved your sinful and wretched soul. Amen. Amen and amen. Thank you, Jesus. The foolishness of God is wiser than men. And the weakness of God is stronger than men. Amen. Let us pray, O Lord our God, that so many in this world needs to need to understand this simple message. Lord, our heart aches for those, Lord, who think that they know everything there is about the gospel, have heard it all before, and yet, Lord, fundamentally they they they they they're reacting to generalizations and caricatures. Not reacting to what the Word of God says, how we pray, Father, that people who are unbelievers would turn to the Word. And they would turn to the word, Lord, and they would be looking there to see what it is that God has done to save our guilty souls. Whether they believe that they're guilty or not, Lord, we trust that the Word of God is indeed powerful. It has the ability to make dark minds and dark hearts clear and understand. Again, it truly is by grace through faith that we are saved, not of works, lest we should boast. We boast not, Lord, in ourselves We boast in the righteousness of Christ. Amen.