Please turn to the book of Hebrews, the thirteenth chapter, the last words of the epistle. And uh as you recall, the last time I was with you two weeks ago, we looked at verse 20 and 21, the great benediction that is found. as Paul closes the epistle and now we move on uh to the uh the last few words that uh not Paul, the writer of uh of Hebrews said to to his listeners. And then we move on to these last few sentences. So let's uh hear God's word as we read from Hebrews 13, 22 through 25. I appeal to you, brethren. Bear with the word of exhortation, for I have written to you in few words. Know that our brother Timothy has been set free, and when I shall see you, and Timothy has been set free, with whom I shall see you if he comes shortly. Greet all those who rule over you, and all the saints Those from Italy greet you. Grace be with you all. Amen. Please now take your seats. Please be seated. We uh have spent a long time in Hebrews, and I pray that that uh time has been beneficial and edifying to your to your souls. We come to the last uh few verses of the book, and there's a certain um sense in which uh you know we think These are just uh uh final farewell words of the writer, uh uh words that um uh you know, seem to uh not on the surface seem not to be uh laden with uh deep theological insight And yet we must always uh remember that um wherever God's word is, it is his word. And uh wherever it is, it is therefore profitable for us. Profitable for doctrine, for reproof, uh for correction, for instruction and training in righteousness And I might, on the surface, suggest that these words do not seem to have a significant amount of profitability, spiritual profitability associated with them Nevertheless, I would point out to you that the author does remind his audience to bear with him And listen to this exhortation. There's something about these words that he wants them to appreciate just as much as they have appreciated with the rest of the book of Hebrews. So our intent is to look at these last few words of the Epistle of Hebrews. And pray that God's Spirit might bring edification to our hearts this day as we see these words. When he writes in verse 22, and I'll go through this verse by verse, when he writes in he writes first in verse 22, I appeal to you, brethren, bear with the word of exhortation. For I have written to you in few words. Know that our brother Timothy has been set free, with whom I shall see you if he comes shortly. The writer is making an appeal to his audience. He is giving them An exhortation. A word that is used here is that word that uh finds its way in the scriptures frequently It's a word called paracole or paracolesis, a word that is used actually to give the name for the Holy Spirit, the paraclete, but it's always associated with exhortation. Edifying exhortation. The appeal that he's making is an exhortation unto edification for the people of God. He wants to instruct them, he wants to comfort them, he wants to encourage them, and he wants to exhort them, to exhort them to do several things. Um he he goes on and says, bear with these few words. I mean it's he's it's like he's written a great volume already, but now he's He's actually kind of self-deprecating almost in what he says. I I've I've said a lot to you so far, but now I want you to just hear these last few words. Just bear with me. Just endure what I'm saying for just a little while longer. And you can imagine that when they receive this letter, You know, they didn't have it broken down into chapters, but they were probably somewhat eager to hear what's going on in the Christian world from this author. And they would have read this letter Somebody would have appointed to read this letter at one sitting. And so by the time you get through thirteen chapters, you know, you've probably gone on about an hour. And you know, uh our attention's Fans aren't all that great today. I'm sure they weren't all that great then. But it so when the author says, Hear these last words that I want to say I think that we ought to uh not discount them as being somewhat uh non-germane to the author's point. I think we ought to take that at its face value. He's got something to say and he wants them to hear what he's saying. There is also implicit within the author's plea that they That they uh as he appeals to them, as he exhorts them, there's implicit in his plea the understanding that his words are very important. Otherwise, why make the appeal? And uh and probably along with that, that his words have the elevated character of the fact that he is a messenger from God. So that it's not simply his words he wants them to listen to, but it's God's words. It's it's what God is thinking that's important for them to grapple with, to realize, and to appreciate. He has essentially elevated these words by making this appeal. Bear with me on these few words. He's essentially elevated it to the level of divine language. When he mentions Timothy being set free and coming to them, it seems that these people here have some uh understanding of who Timothy is, and perhaps have even been praying for his release from wherever he was And whatever situation he found himself in, it says he's been set free. We assume that that might be a reference to Timothy being in prison. And I can imagine The Saints praying for Timothy to get out of prison and now to hear that he's free and he's coming had to have been an encouragement. To the local flock, that uh that uh one of God's uh respected leaders of the church, uh, the goddess heard our prayers And it's no different for us today when the the multitude of reasons why we pray to the Lord and and that's why we we share prayer requests It's no difference when God answers prayer in our lives when uh when he fulfills uh the uh the issues that we're praying. The needs that we have, we recognize that God is not dead, that He does have hearing, that He is interested in our needs. And he has even appointed his son to be our intercessor, as Hebrews made very clear, the nature of the eternal intercession of Jesus Christ as our great high priest. So, you know, these are some thoughts that come out of the author's last words that he's saying to the group. But now he turns uh his his his statement away from uh uh appealing to them to hear his words. He turns to them and he says I want you to greet people. Verse 24. I want you to greet, and he mentions two groups of people they are to greet. The word greeting there can mean to welcome someone, to greet them with a salute or with a hi, how are you? kind of how you uh a normal kind of greeting, but it's also used to d uh uh with a definition of cherish Uh you greet particularly greet someone who you um who you have some affinity for, who you have some um uh uh uh uh involvement with, who you have some there I say love for. Greet, cherish uh if you want to put that word in there, I think it's good. And then he uh he he he mentions two different groups. Greet those or cherish those who have rule over you And then he mentions, and all the saints. Now, it could be that it's only one group. that uh there to greet. Um I'm not sure whether it's one or two. It could be that he's referring to Greet all those who rule over you who also rule over all the saints. But it just as easily could be greet those who rule over you and greet all the saints. So I'll leave that for you to discern. But I think you should take note of the fact that when he says Greet those who rule over you. This is the third time in the chapter 13 where he uses the word rule. And we looked at the other two passages, verse 7 and verse 17. And he's clearly talking about as we and now he's uh uh come back to this thought in verse 24. Greet those who rule over you. And if you remember, I told you that when we looked at those words, that that is a generic term for rule But it most likely applies to those who have spiritual rule over the body of Christ. So it will include those who are their their their elders. It would include those who are their their bishops, if you call them that. It would include those who are their shepherds, who are their pastors, their teachers. Greet those who rule over you, have concern. for your souls. You see, for this author, the the leaders of the church, the rulers of the church are not an appendage to the body of Christ. They're not like your appendix or your tonsils that you can take away and you don't really have your body doesn't feel anything because they're gone Although I understand now they don't quite do that anymore like they used to routinely do with tonsils. But be that as it may, These individuals, the author is exhorting his listeners to cherish to greet them, to welcome them, to be encouraged by them. Three times he talks about this And these are individuals that God keep uses to keep watch over your soul. And therefore they are to be honored, appreciated, respected, and cherished. He expects these under-shepherds to do their jobs faithfully, and he expects that the people in response will appreciate them. This is not a personal plug. This is, this is, but I do believe wholeheartedly this is important. This is not irrelevant. The spiritual leaders of your church are important to your souls. And as they do their work faithfully, they are entitled to respect and appreciate. But now he also talks about this second group, greet and cherish, and I'm going to go the direction of saying. He's talking about the saints, the rest of the body of Christ. And he uses the uh the phrase there for saints. He uses the word the holy ones The author does not believe, you see, that the the uh the brothers and sisters in the church will one day become holy He has already conferred upon them the status of holiness. Holiness in the Lord. That doesn't mean that they have reached a degree of moral perfection. But simply because they're in Christ, they're holy in God's sight. They've had justification applied to their lives. And they're righteous in God's sight Greet them, cherish them, the text says. They are the body of Christ. They are your brothers and sisters. They are those who we are called to love and serve and support as we love our neighbors as ourselves in Christ. This truth is emphasized to the audience, as in the author's last words. The saints The saints that are sitting in the pew next to you, behind you, in front of you, and not even here today, they are your brothers and sisters. They are directly connected to you. Whether you're here or not, they're connected to you through their faith. Through the faith that God has given to them, they are in union with Christ, and consequently, you are in union with them if you're in Christ. They are your body. Your spiritual body. They are directly involved in your spiritual edification. God has given to the church what? Gifts. He has given to individuals gifts to be used for the express purpose of edifying his people. Greet the saints. You know, um I I know we all do, we all enjoy coming here and uh seeing one another, especially after a long week. And who knows what happened in the week. Anything can happen. Several of the people church this past week have had narrow escapes with traffic accidents. I'm sure their their presence here with you today is an encouragement to them But these brothers and sisters who you see here You will, Lord willing, one day also see in glory And what a grand day that will be. How glorious it is when church members realize that each member of the body of Christ is a blessing. to them from God. And so we would always treat one another with in with greet one another as brothers and sisters of Christ with thanksgiving. in our hearts and with appreciation to God for what He has done in Christ, in Christ to give you, brothers and sisters who, though they may be at times aggravating and difficult, just like your own brothers and sisters, they nevertheless love you And they have gifts which are necessary for you. Necessary for your Now, this little comment, those from Italy greet you On the surface, that looks like, I mean it does. It's obviously a greeting from other churches nearby. Again, the word there that's used when it says greet is the same word that's previously used in verse 24. uh for greet the all the saints and greet the elders um uh uh salute them welcome them cherish them they cherish you But what it does to that local body is to remind the local body that there's more to the people of God than just you There's others out there. There are others who are not crazy, like you are often accused of, of being crazy to follow this person named Jesus. There are others out there that God has worked on and has changed their hearts. Not only to believe in Christ, but also to care for you. There you see is a unity among the body of Christ that transcends geography And it doesn't matter if they're the next church over, like Knox is the closest OP church to us, or it doesn't matter if they're somewhere in Africa or somewhere in South America. They are our brothers. We are united to them. There's a connection that we all have, and it's Jesus. It's Jesus. It's faith in Jesus Christ. You see, he talks about Italy. But we might talk about La Paz. We might talk about Pastor Kiesberg's church in La Paz. And we only Alex has met them, except for those of you who've met David when he was here. But we've not met the the brothers and sisters there. But I have no doubt that those brothers and sisters are praying for us. I know Alex shared with me that, for example, that they were praying for me when I was going through surgery. And I know we pray for them. We greet them and we cherish them because they too are bought and paid for by the blood of Jesus. And in that week I all rejoice. And brothers and sisters, it's not just La Paz, but it's Italy And it's China, and it's Africa, and it's Haiti, and it's, you know, it's everywhere. There is a body of Christ, and Christ is gathering this body. So that at one point in time, all the body of Christ will be gathered together before the throne of God. And it won't be just Italy greeting you. It will be brothers and sisters from around the world greeting you. And we will all be together. And we will all Be singing the praises of Jesus Christ and worshiping Him for making us one body, one big, beautiful, happy body in Christ. We're not alone. We're not defeated. We're not destroyed. God has preserved us. For God's will is to save his people from their sin and unite them to himself forever in glory. And this is just this greet Italy the people from Italy greet you is just a ref uh a small reflection of that unity and that connectionalism that we have in Christ. Jesus. Oh, and then how appropriate. How appropriate it is that the Apostle Paul Excuse me, I did it again. How appropriate it is that the author of Hebrews, it may be Paul, but I'm not convinced. But obviously my my thought pattern isn't there yet. How appropriate it is that God would end this whole letter with that God's grace be with you all. How appropriate that is. He says it, we can say it. We believe it. We expect it. Because grace for us Is not a commodity that is without content. Grace for us is real. We see it We experience it every day, but we experience it most profoundly through God's Word as we see Jesus on the cross and resurrected. From the dead. There our God displays his grace for all to see and for no one to miss. And every day, as we are bought and paid for by that grace, we continue to experience that truth. It's burned into our brain. It's burned into our hearts. So that we never forget. The God of grace is such a great blessing for believers everywhere. He is gracious. He is merciful to all of us believing sinners in Christ. So I think it's important that we reflect upon these last words from the book of Hebrews. Not only reflect, but rejoice. Amen Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, thank you for again the wonders of your word How our Savior reminded us that not one jot or one tittle of your word would remain unfulfilled But that he would accomplish all things. But Lord, we uh we honor you, we praise you And we worship you. And we're thankful, Heavenly Father, that we do that individually, but we can also do that together. Continue, O Lord, to heighten our sense of unity in Christ and our fellowship together and our need for one another. For the many multiple gifts which you have given to the body, and you expect those gifts to be used for edification of all. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.