If you turn with me now in the Word of God to Psalms, I'll be reading there this morning, Psalm 61. I think you'll find it on page 566 of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the holy, the infallible, the inspired Word of God. To the choir master with stringed instruments of David. Hear my cry, O God Listen to my prayer. From the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock which is higher than I. For you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy. Let me dwell in your tent forever. Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings. For you, O God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who fear your name. Prolong the life of the King May his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God. Appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him. So will I ever sing praises to your name as I perform my vows day after day. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we now ask that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word. And that by your Spirit you would work powerfully to illumine our hearts. That you would give us understanding. That Father, you'd reveal yourself to us even more by and through your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, as the Spirit works. Help us, Holy Spirit. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. What is the distance between God and man? How far is it? How difficult is it for man to traverse, to travel this distance to get to God? I tried yesterday putting that into the computer. Into one of the browsers. And I got this response from AI. I think that stands for artificial intelligence. The distance between God and man is great. Signifies that due to human limitations and sinfulness, there's a significant separation between humans and the divine, implying that reaching God on our own is incredibly difficult I would say it actually goes beyond that. As Adam and Eve sinned against God and as they were removed from the garden, God placed them outside of the garden and he places The cherubim and a flaming sword which turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. It was impossible for them to get back Even though they were just outside the gate, so to speak, the distance between God and Adam was great. He couldn't traverse it. That's exactly what we read in Isaiah, the prophet. Your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. John Christostom wrote in the late three hundreds, about sixteen hundred years ago The distance between the essence of God and the essence of man is so great that no words can express it, nor is the mind capable of measuring it. There's a sense in which Psalm 61 is all about this great distance between God and man. The Tidez of this psalm tells us a little. It was given to the choir master. With stringed instruments, so the idea is that this was to be sung. It's a song to be sung by the Israelites in worship It makes sense as we get to the end, and David writes, the inspired psalmist writes, I will ever sing praises to your name. It was to be sung. But it was also a prayer. And that's not uncommon. Look at the first verse. Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer. David refers to this psalm that way in both ways, as a prayer and as a song. It can be sung and it should be also understood as a prayer. Either way it was given to the people of God for their use in worship and to commune with him. Other than that, we really don't know the circumstances of David's writing this psalm. We can't say with any certainty where he was, where he was in his life, was he the king? Was he waiting to be the king? The text may indicate that he was. We just don't know. But what we do know is that at this point in David's life, the psalmist's life, that he felt distant from the living God. I want us to see this morning that the distance between God and man can only be traversed by faith in submission to the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ. The distance between God and man can only be traversed by faith in submission to the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ. We'll see that in three simple points this morning. First, the present faintness. Secondly, the past recollected. And finally, the possible conviction. Well, let's get to it then. The present faintness. Again, look at verse 1. Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer. From the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. That's the situation, that's the condition that David's in. We don't know why. But he's he's pouring out his heart to God. The inspired psalmist is saying, This is where I am right now. Calling from the end of the earth. My heart is faint. He seems to be far away. If you think of that place at the end of the earth, David is conveying to God in his prayer that I am feeling so distant from you. I can't be any further from the end of the earth. Psalm 42 reads this way: My soul is cast down within me, therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon from Mount Mizar. The indication, the idea is that there is this distance. Distance between God and man. Let's just dwell upon that for a moment. David is seeking refuge in this psalm. That's certainly what it's all about. That's the theme. And we can understand this desire of David as he pens this psalm to be close to God, to be in his presence, to be the beneficiary of his protective and loving arms, and he's not feeling it right now. That's his desire. Desire, though. He's feeling far from God. He's not experiencing the closeness of God. Not sensing the presence of God with him, and that's why he's crying out. But his call is faint. Think of that. Feeling distant, not strong, a faint whisper He's wondering if it will be heard because the distance is so great. We can imagine, because we aren't told We can imagine the circumstances. We can speculate. We can speculate that he was in a spiritually downcast state. We can imagine that there are circumstances around the psalmist, around David, which he feels oppressed or under attack. He seems to be not experiencing that which he desires. He longs for the protective hand, the refuge, the rest that he's previously experienced in his communion with the living God. Have you ever felt that way yourself? In your Christian walk, in your experience, are there times when you felt distant From God. Maybe there are times when you have strayed from the reading of Scripture. Maybe there are times when you're not inclined to enter your prayer closet and speak to the one who's made all things. Maybe once again you've fallen back into a besetting sin. Maybe the temptations of Satan, the attacks from others, the sinful words that people have spoken and leveled against you, against your faith. Maybe all of these have discouraged you to the point you feel that God's protective hand has been removed. Maybe you feel isolated and alone and lonely and doubt whether God is for you. We all experience times in spiritual deserts. This seems to be where the psalmist was. Brothers and sisters, this is a spiritual problem that all Christians deal with from time to time. It's not unusual. All Christians. This faintness is actually not the problem. It will come. It came to the inspired, the godly, the man after the very heart of God, David. It can certainly come to you. The problem is that when it does arise, that many times we think the psalm really gives us an answer to that question That brings us to our second point. The past recollected. Now even as David is faint, even as he's calling out to God, he's pleading that he would listen to his prayer. He remembers. Even in that faint condition, even feeling as though he is at the greatest distance from God that's possible, from the end of the earth. And yet by the work of the Holy Spirit David is nonetheless able to remember. The corruption of David's heart is not so overwhelming, it's not so complete that he's unable to remember. It requires the work of the Spirit. And we have the sense that this faintness is not a complete inability to think upon the things above. To remember the ways in which the Lord God Almighty has cared and has pitied and protected and provided for him in the past. And that's what we have in verse three. For you have been my refuge You see, he's asking to be led to the rock and and he's based that request on this verse 3, lead me to the rock that's higher than I for, or because you have been my refuge, a strong tower. against the enemy. These words are significant. We shouldn't just run by them too quickly. Webster's defines refuge as that which shelters or protects from danger, distress, calamity. A strong hold, meaning that fortress, which protects by its strength, a sanctuary, which secures safely by its sacredness. Any place inaccessible to an enemy. Webster's is really very good at defining these words in a biblical way. Strong tower really parallels and illustrates my refuge, doesn't it? We can imagine that strong tower. It's tangible. And that's what David is remembering. Now as he considers how the Lord had taken him and brought him under his wing, he remembers how in his life in prior days to this day of fainting, that he had been taken into God's refuge, that he'd been taken into God's strong tower, that had been brought there by the Lord God Almighty. He'd been preserved. Even as arrows were flying. He'd been protected. And David recognized it when it was happening. And now, in the day of fainting, he's been able by the work of the Spirit to remember how the Lord had worked in his life in those prior days. Do you see the help? Do you see the comfort? Comfort that David receives now at this low point in his life as he cries out to the living God to raise him up from this humble estate, from this lowly fainting condition, he calls out to the Lord to lead him to the rock, and he remembers Spirit was working powerfully even in this state of weakness. David was comforted. He was encouraged at that very moment, as the Lord was indeed leading him to the rock, right then and there. It was happening as David was being inspired to write. He was being led. He was on his way as he was remembering that the Lord had provided in prior days and in prior and similar events in his life. He's able to look back and say, yeah, I was kind of in something similar back here. And I remember How the Lord brought me into His refuge, under His wings, into His strong tower. And it didn't matter how many enemies were attacking Because I was under his protective wings. You see, lead me to the rock was his cry even then And the Spirit was now causing his memories to come forward. They were no longer veiled. Remember, he's feeling faint. And now the memories of that refuge in God. Is brought to the forefront of his mind, no longer hidden, no longer veiled. Brought right here, right in front of his eyes, and he's able to dwell upon prior days when he experienced the closeness of God's presence And a certain certainty of his protective hand And then, and then in verse 5, he confesses, he professes that, for you, O God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who fear your name. He not only remembers the protective hand of God, the strong tower, the refuge that he has been brought into in prior days. Now he remembers also that God is a hearing God. He hears the righteous. He hears the prayers of the righteous And he he recalls that God has heard his vows and he's given him The heritage of those who fear God. What is that heritage? Think of that. What is your heritage? Isn't it something that you receive as a result of the family that you're in? Isn't that it? Isn't that the idea, your heritage? Is it not that David, David would be a descendant of Abraham? Isn't that the idea? Wasn't it the Lord who through Moses spoke and said that he, meaning the Lord, would be with you? That he will not leave nor forsake you, do not fear or be dismayed. Isn't that the idea? Isn't that the heritage that David was speaking about? Don't we see that in Christ Jesus? That he's promised never to leave you nor forsake you? That he hears you? Have you experienced that? Have you experienced the abiding presence of the listening ear of Jesus Christ? Do you know? Do you know that he does hear you? Brothers and sisters, you may not experience that each and every moment of every day. David didn't But nonetheless, we have that promise, don't we? We have the words of Jesus, who said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. As he spoke with his disciples, he told them that I will give you a helper to be with you forever. Even the spirit of truth. You know him for he dwells with you and will be in you. He is so close. So close that he knows your thoughts before they even hit the tip of your mouth. That's what Jesus said he would provide and has provided. That the helper would come, the Holy Spirit would come and teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you, including that I will never leave you nor forsake you. Including the words that he spoke to his disciples, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. The Holy Spirit is dwelling in you to remind you of these things that he hears you. And he's with you. But he will not leave you nor forsake you. The Spirit was indeed reminding David of this presence. He was reminding David of his prior experiences when he felt that his prayers were indeed heard, his petitions were heard by God. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. That's David's petition. That's his cry. Now, think on that just for a moment. How did he understand? How did he know to pray this? How did he include this in the song, Lead Me to the Rock? That's higher than I. We certainly know that David was feeling very low at this point in time, but what is this rock? Who why is it that the rock is higher than I? How does he know You see, David has knowledge. For him to make this request of God, lead me to the rock, he must have experienced the rock. Yes. He knows he's low. He knows that there is one higher than he is who will provide this refuge, who will provide this strong tower. He knows that he's unable to gain access to the rock on his own. He cannot gain the refuge on his own. Isn't that what we read of in Psalm fifteen? Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what He was faint. He did not have the strength. But even if he did, he didn't have the spiritual ability to get to the rock The rock is too high, it's too pure, it's too righteous, too holy for a sinful man to ascend to this one, to this place where the living God dwells, where his son dwells. What about you this morning? Are you being led? You may recall the verse in John chapter six, all that the Father gives me will come to me. You say, well there there it is. I don't need to be led But then Jesus followed that by saying, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. You see, you must be drawn. You must be drawn to the rock. You must be drawn to Christ who is the rock. You cannot gain access to the rock, the rock of Have you? Have you prayed that prayer? Have you asked for that? Have you poured out your heart to the Lord? Have you cried out to him as you are faint, troubled, weary, and stained by your sins, afflicted by the sins of others? Have you prayed for this leading to the rock, to Christ, to that place of peace and thus refuge? It's exactly what Paul knew of as he wrote his letter to the church at Philippi, the peace of God which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. See, brothers and sisters, you you must. If this is your desire, you must pray for it. You must ask. There's no other way to ascend the holy hill of God. There's no other way to traverse the distance to the living God. God, but by and through the rock Jesus Christ. And you must be led there. You must be led to Christ. Pray for it. Plead with the living God that He would do just that. That brings us to our third point, possible conviction. Now that David has remembered the way in which the Lord has kept him, in the past, he looks to the future. Indeed, that seems to be this petition, this prayer, this song is all about really and truly the future. But I want you to see a distinct progression in this psalm It's not unusual, as David writes by the inspiration of the Spirit, we can read of several psalms in which the initial words describe toil and tribulation, affliction that the psalmist is in, and yet the psalmist ends the psalm with confident praise. That's what we have here in Psalm 61. And again, while we don't know the circumstances, the verses of the Psalm seem to go from the present faintness to remembering the past refuge that he's experienced and now to considering his confident trust in the future But there's a sense at the same time as he's recollecting the mercy and grace of God, as he's experiencing the past. That he has experienced the pa in the past. And now he also remembers that God is a covenant-making and covenant-keeping God, and thus he's confident that the Lord will bring about that which he has promised We'll see that confidence in a moment. But let me ask you, do you see in this psalm Clearly see in this psalm that David does not dwell on his circumstances No. He prays. Certainly that's what this is. But as he does, he moves beyond his present circumstances. He doesn't dwell on them. See, we tend in our afflictions to dwell on them When we're in deep waters, we tend not to move beyond them. And I'm not suggesting that we would forget them or ignore them. David was certainly not ignoring his affliction. He was addressing the circumstances, but he wasn't dwelling on the circumstances. He was considering how God had blessed him in the past, and now how God has promised to do the same in the future. Do you do that? Do you move beyond considering and dwelling upon your circumstances to Considering the past works of God in your life along with the promises in Christ Jesus for the future It calls for us to meditate a bit on that, doesn't it? But let's get back to the Psalm just for a minute. Here's David's petition. Seemingly the most significant petition of this prayer, verse six. Prolong the life of the king. May his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him. This may suggest that David was indeed on the throne when he penned this psalm. It may certainly have been David's very personal request as he sat upon the throne. But I hope you notice that there is an eternal aspect to this request May his years endure to all generations. Well, David certainly was not going to last beyond his generation. May he be enthroned forever before God. This language seems to go well beyond a personal request regarding his kingship if he was indeed on the throne. So why would David petition the Lord? Why would he ask? the Lord to secure the king's throne. It's a good question for us to ask. Certainly there's a reasonable sense that as a king retains his throne, as he retains the crown, as as his reign is secure, so will his people be. As the king goes, so does so do the people. As he sovereign is he sovereignly rules. and is in control of all things within the nation, within the realm, then his subjects, the citizens of his realm, are secure His subjects are safe and prospering under the powerful hand of the king's secure reign. That seems to be in part what David is asking for. But this was an eternal request. Eternity was certainly on David's heart, and so as the psalmist He's looking for a spiritual king who would indeed keep him, protect him, and bring him into that eternal union and communion, a divine prospering, a divine joy, a divine happiness. Seems to be what David was looking for is he's asking to be led to the rock and for the king now to have an everlasting throne Isn't that what you need this morning? None of us are kings or queens. None of us rule the realm. And so we need one who does. We need a king who not only rules well, but who rules securely. We need a king whose reign will not be overturned. We need a reign that is not subject to being overturned overruled by another. We need a king who can fend off the attacks of those who would seek to do harm to the kingdom and to her subjects. We need a king who sits on the throne confidently and securely. You need an eternal king who will fend off and destroy all your enemies so that you can enter into bliss. Blissful happiness with your Maker. And so David asks, he petitions, he pleads with God for this kind of a king. Who sits on this kind of a throne. And David's confident. Look at the last verse here, verse 8. So I will ever sing praises to your name, as I perform my vows day after day. Don't we hear in those words David's conviction that the living God will indeed bring about that which he has prayed for, that eternal throne, the eternal king, who's kept by the steadfast love and faithfulness of the triune God? Did you notice that the last verse begins with so or then? Meaning that David is immediately following this petition to the God of creation to prolong the life of the king. Essentially granting the king eternal life on his eternal throne with this reaction. This is what I've asked for. An eternal king on an eternal throne That's protected by your steadfast love, your faithfulness, so, or then will I ever sing praises to your name? In other words, it it is as if David is saying, As I have asked for this supernatural work of setting the king into eternity and surrounding him with your everlasting love and faithfulness, I so trust in your covenant. promises that I will even now, before this comes to pass, praise you and perform my vows. Oh, because I know I'm confident, I'm convicted, I'm assured that you will bring to pass that which you've promised. Are you as confident as David this morning? Are you as desirous as David? Don't you hear that in David's voice? Don't you hear his desire? He was fainting. Who's fainting and he so desired to be heard. He so desired this king to rule over him. Are you as confident as he was? Are you as desirous as David was? You see, there's an unwritten warning here. What is written is the psalmist's desire, and thus the call, to be in the close presence of God, to be heard, to be close enough to be heard and to be reassured that the living God will rule over you forever. But you see, this this unwritten warning is a problem. Because in our corruption we like that distance Corrupt men like to remain at a distance from God. Consider even those who were close to Jesus as he walked on the face of this earth. Consider Peter. Who, while he followed Jesus as he was going to be tried and convicted, wrongly convicted, he followed him in a distance. Consider all the acquaintances and the women who had followed Jesus from Galilee and they watched the crucifixion take place, but they watched at a distance. You see, in our corruption we don't want to be close to God. But as Jesus changes heart, that corruption fades. And it's replaced. It's replaced with a desire to be close to God, to gain that refuge that He alone offers. And brothers and sisters, in order for you to desire that offer of refuge, in order for you to be like David. Asking, lead me to the rock. Prolong the life of the king. You must be in submission to him. To speak these words, let me dwell in your tent forever, let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings. You must be in submission to the Lord Jesus Christ. Indeed, that seems to be the solution to the problem of distance, doesn't it? The living God from feeling faith, submission is the solution. And so as you read this psalm, you should see Christ in it You should see Christ's rule is secure. You should see that Christ's throne is eternal. It is fixed. It is unshakable, and it is to the steadfast love And the faithfulness of his father watching over it that causes it to be so. And while they're enemies of the kingdom, the kingdom of God Not one is able to match the power of Jesus Christ. He alone is Almighty. Jesus Christ alone has been given all dominion. He's been given an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom is one that shall not be destroyed. Nothing exists outside of the control of Jesus. No enemy, no foreigner, no rival exists that is not subject to the rule and reign of Christ. No one can contest his authority. No one can challenge, truly challenge his almighty power, no foreigner, no one can contest his authority. And so the question is, are you? Are you submitting yourself, your entire being? to him this morning. Because that's the only way that you can traverse that distance. That you can come close to God. That these truths that David was so confident in will be a great comfort and blessing to you. It's by submitting yourself to the Lord Jesus Christ. Whatever you're experiencing today, whatever you experienced last week, whatever trials, whatever attacks, whatever enemies are seeking to do you harm, this comfort. And just as David knew, maybe three thousand years ago, today, Jesus is sitting on the throne, his exclusive His immovable, his unchangeable, eternal throne of righteousness. So whatever befalls you Like David, you are free not to be weak or faint, but to be filled with praise. So I Will I ever sing praises to your name? Do you see, brothers and sisters, that the solution to the distance is faith and submission to the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who sits even now on his eternal throne. Yes, the distance between God and man can only be traversed by faith in submission to the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, even as Adam and Eve were removed just outside the gate to the garden, they were far from God. And yet in Christ Jesus, in faith, in submission to Him, you will be led to the rock and have that eternal refuge. In communion with the Triune God. Amen. Father in Heaven. We confess that we are faint. At times, we confess that at times we feel that we are so distant from you to be at the end of the earth. And yet, Father, we thank you for these truths. We thank you for this psalm that has has given us these truths, your doctrine, your your revelation. That we can be close. We we can be drawn close. We can be led to the rock. And Father, in the rock in Jesus Christ we do have refuge. And we know that in Christ we are heard Not because of anything within us, but because of everything within him. Because of what he's done, because of his person. Father, because of his intercession right now, we can be in our herd And Father, we thank you for the eternal throne. We thank you for the eternity of Christ. We thank you for his kingly rule and reign. We ask even now, Lord God Cause our hearts to be submitted to Him. Knock down our pride. Replace it, Father, with humility. And continue, Father, leading us to the rock. We ask all these things in Jesus' name