Continue to stand and turn to the scripture reading for the sermon today from Hebrews chapter 13. And we'll begin reading at verse 10. And read through verse seventeen Hear God's word. We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned outside the camp. Therefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered outside the gate. Therefore, let us go forth to him, outside the camp, bearing his reproach. For here we have no continuing city. But we seek the one to come. Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God. That is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased Obey those who rule over you and be submissive, for they watch out for your souls, as those who must give an account. Let them do so with joy, and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable to you. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word, please be seated. Well, I recognize in uh the providence of God that This is a sermon I'd much rather be preaching at Alex's ordination service, but he'll get another one then. But uh uh it really uh speaks uh uh quite a few things about leaders in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what Why it would go well with Alex's ordination service. So I'm just going to uh uh read uh verse seventeen again and ask you to focus with me on uh the teaching. In this passage. Obey those who rule over you and be submissive, for they watch out for your souls as those who must give an account Let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable to you or for you. As we have mentioned all along, Hebrews is a book that is written to a faithful church. The context here is the con is the um the congregation of believers in Christ The words that are spoken are to the people in the body of Christ, the church. What the author has to say in verse In verse 17, of course, is divinely inspired, so it's not just his words, it's God's words, speaking to all of God's people. When he says, obey those who rule over you, the context makes it clear that he's not talking here about Christians and their relationship to the state. If you want to find out what their responsibilities there are, you can read about them in Romans 13. But for my purposes, the word leaders here always involves leaders in the church. And This is speaking both to people who are part of the church, and it's also speaking to the leaders themselves. We find initially right off the bat one, two commands, one right after the other. Obey and submit. Obey those who rule over you and be submissive. The word submit comes from a military background. It is the idea that you place yourself under someone's command Even as you know, a sergeant would place himself under the lieutenant's command, and lieutenant would place themself under the major's command, and as it goes up the chain, Both of the commands here are present, tense, which means this is a continuing duty, a continuing responsibility of God's people. Now there are two words here which are fairly close in meaning. Being obedient and being submissive, there's not a lot of difference between the two words, so we ought to take from that That the author is trying to make an important point. He's stressing this point. That it's important for people in the church to obey and to submit to those who rule over them. And when you become a member in this congregation, every one of you has Taken a vow. And it goes like this. Do you promise to participate faithfully in this church's worship and service And to submit in the Lord to its government, and to heed its discipline, even in case you should be found delinquent in doctrine or life. To submit in the Lord to its government, those who rule over you. And be submissive to them. In our church, who are these people? Who are the people who are leaders or rulers in the church? What are their names? It's interesting here that you don't see the author of Hebrews Use the terms apostles, bishops, pastors, shepherds, or elders when he uses the term leaders It's a different word. It's not used very frequently. It is the word to lead, or to govern, or a ruler What kind of rule are those who lead supposed to exercise? How are they to be well how what are they to be doing that constitutes ruling? Well, it's very clear. Notice after he says obey and be submissive, he gives a reason why you should obey and be Be submissive to your leaders. Whatever you want to call them, your spiritual leaders. In fact, maybe he used the different term to include all of the leaders. Of the church. But he says why you should do this. Because they watch out for your souls That's a sobering thought. They watch out for your souls They're leading you is for the purpose of the safekeeping of your soul. What more awesome task can there be? How much love and compassion is needed to do that. The task assumes A great responsibility. The watching out, the watching over someone's soul, we uh uh recalls to us the image of the watchman over the house of Israel, spoken of in Ezekiel chapter 3, and beginning at verse 17 Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Therefore, hear the word from my mouth and give them warning from me. When I say to the wicked, you shall surely die, and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked man from his wicked way to save his life That same wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand Yet if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness, nor turn from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity. But you have delivered your soul It could be nothing more frightening for a person to take that passage to heart and to believe what it says. Notice it doesn't get any easier for these leaders Because then it goes on to say, as those who must give an account An accounting will be made. An accounting will be made at some point over how well you as a leader in the church watched over someone's soul. This too has an image associated with it taken right from the Word of God. The Lord Jesus Christ told several parables and several teachings regarding the duties Of the chief steward or the overseer or master of the master's house, the one who is called the Episcopas. The bishop. Jesus always, when he talked about those stewards, you remember He always brought up the idea that they would have to give an account for how well they watched over the master's possession while the master was away. Your master is away. Jesus Christ, the owner of the people of God, the flock of the Lord Jesus Christ, he He's away. He's in glory. Doesn't mean he's disassociated. Doesn't mean he's disinterested. But he has committed That task of watching over your souls, of course he's watching too, but he's committed that task to underlings They keep watch over your soul. Please note, I didn't say that. The scripture says it. God says it. You are God's possession. How well did the chief steward, the leader, rule? The Lord's people, the Lord's house? Did that ruler watch over the people's souls that Christ entrusted to him? That will be the question that God's going to ask of every ruler, leader in the church. And then we ought to also ought to appreciate the fact that these leaders must have a certain kind of attitude. As they go about carrying out this daunting task. And I firmly believe that the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ told us what that attitude needs to be for those who are leaders in his church. And it comes out as we look at the various qualifications you see. see some of the attitudes in Peter talked about uh uh not for sordid gain or filthy Luther. I mean, uh, what what what's your motive? Why do you want to do this? Or uh why do you want to lead the church? In that famous incident where Jesus is walking on the road and he's approached by the mothers of z James and and John and she w wants to know who will be sitting at your right hand and your left and in your glory and Jesus responds, he says You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them. And those who are great exercise authority over them. Is that the rule paradigm? Lord it over, exercise authority. That's the Gentile paradigm. That's Roman paradigm. That's the world's paradigm of leadership, ruling. And then he went on to say, yet it shall not be so among you. And he's talking to the disciples. The apostles, yet it shall not be so among you. Whoever desires to become great among you, let him be your servant. Whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your slave. He hit him twice with the need for humility. Rule in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, whoever takes on that responsibility, whatever you want to call him, whoever God gives that responsibility to. Is a call to serve and a call to be a slave of Jesus Christ for the welfare of God's people. And just so his listeners didn't get the wrong message, Jesus went off on to say In that same passage, Matthew 20, 25 through 28, just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life A ransom for many. Those of you who are to obey and submit are those to Excuse me. Those you are to obey and submit to are those who serve you by keeping watch over your souls. And they are to do it faithfully, for they must give an account for how well they discharge that duty. Account, my friends, will be to Almighty God. It's his flock. It's his possession. It's his sheep He bought them with his blood, but he entrusts them to us weak humans who have certain been given certain abilities to rule and qualifications. What are the results that the text speaks about when you obey and submit to this type of ruler in your church? Well, first of all, there is a result that occurs through the rulers Let them do their work, it says, let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable to you. Joy and grief. Can you think of more opposite possibilities for how well you exercise the responsibility of leadership There are many joys associated with watching over your souls. Many joys. They're not the joys of the world, but they're the joys of that the leader has in his heart because he sees things through God's glasses He sees what God is doing in the lives of people. He sees what God is doing as I spoke the other week, for example. in Alex's life over the course of twenty-five years. And even as Jean spoke, as well, great joy to see that development from that change. Changes from developing spiritual interests and growing in those in the understanding. Changes of joy when you see another person adopting the mantle of Christ and becoming though he was God. He thought it not Robbery to be as he empty himself and became servant. A suffering servant. As you see somebody else catching that glimpse and is willing to do that, that's joyful There's so many other things. When you see one family bring their children regularly for baptism, or you see one family carefully instructing their children in the ways of the kingdom. That's joy. That gives your leaders joy. But then there's grief too. Grief that comes from all types of efforts of the evil one to upset the peace. and purity of the church. And he does that in so many different ways. And when you don't expect it, when you least expect it. Let them do so with joy and grief, for that would be unprofitable to you. If it is the case that your leader comes to you and he says to you, there's something wrong with your walk right now. Now. And however he tries to couch that, however he tries to say that, we all have a natural response Which is defensiveness. And that defensiveness comes out sometimes in a very ugly way. It comes out Who are you? Who made you ruler over me For my judge. Why are you picking on me? Why can't we take that opportunity instead of Becoming defensive, being thankful that I've got a leader who's concerned for my soul. When someone who is faithfully seeking to discharge the role of leader in the church comes to you and says, I'm concerned about you. You should not be dismissive of their concerns. But you should take it to heart. So it has an effect or a result upon the leaders, but it also has a benefit to you. Because the text goes on to say So that it not be unprofitable to you. Profit Obviously, this is not material profit. It's not what we're talking about. But it's spiritual profit. How are their labors exercised faithfully by faithfully committed men? To your spiritual prophet. And it's here that something very interesting happens in Hebrews chapter 13. It's here that the structure of Hebrews 13, beginning at verse 7, is interesting. Look at verse 7 now. Remember those who rule over you, who have spoken the word of God to you, whose faith follow, considering the outcome of their conduct. Well, look at verse seventeen Obey those who rule over you and be submissive. For they watch over your souls as those who must give an account. Let them do so with joy and grief, for that would be unprofitable to you. You have a section between verses 7 and verse 17 that starts off with obey your rulers, same word as in verse 17. Obey your rulers. Verse 17. Begins and ends. The section begins and ends. Obey your rulers. Obey those who have rule over you Everything in between, which we have looked at, we've talked about all the stuff that goes on in between Seems to suggest that these are spiritual benefits that accrue to God's people And the elders are there to try to make sure that these things happen. These blessings occur, such as That you not be carried about with various and strange doctrines. Verse 8. Verse 10. That you eat from the right altar. Not the altar where the animals were sacrificed, but the altar where Jesus was sacrificed sacrificed. Commit yourself only to Jesus who sanctifies you by his own blood And be willing, be willing, spiritual blessing, spiritual profit, be willing to go outside the camp bearing his reproach. The text reminds us also a spiritual blessing, spiritual profit. Here we don't have a continuing city. though we seek the one that is to come. Of spiritual profit. Let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God. That is the fruit of our lifts, giving thanks to His Spiritual profit. Don't forget to do good and share it with others, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. This is what the leaders of the church are tasked to do, to help you, to help shepherd you. In the performance of these tasks, so that you are blessed, so that God is well pleased. I would encourage all of you as God's people to make your leaders' work a joy to them and a blessing. A blessing as it's defined as being a spiritual prof of profit to your spiritual interests. Being part of Christ's special people is why Jesus suffered, bled. and died for you. And let me just conclude by directing your attention to verse eighteen And ask you to do it. Pray for us. Amen. Let us pray Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank thee, O Lord God, that you have not let the scriptures be silent about the type of government you have in the church. But you have spoken pretty clear, very clearly, in a number of different places. And we just ask, O Lord God, that You who are the master of the house and the one who loves the souls of your sheep. Will continue, Lord, to lift up and provide men who by your grace will desire to be Leaders in your church and will model the Lord Jesus Christ to us as we Seek, O Lord, to persevere along the path that leads to everlasting life. Pour your spirit out upon us And let us live, let us live in the closeness of fellowship, which is the church, and give our elders the strength Strength, the spiritual strength, to continue to love you so much that you love your sheep too. In Christ's name, amen.