Now, as we're seated this morning, the sermon text comes to us from the book of Ecclesiastes, chapter 5, Ecclesiastes 5, the first seven verses. And here Solomon gives to us some very practical instruction about how to approach God in worship, how to approach him in the making of vows. Even calling into question sometimes whether we should make vows or whether we should speak words in worship. But Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 1 through 7, now it is a reflection of something that is vanity in this then-cursed world. Well you'll have to listen for it here in Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 1 through 7. Listen to the reading of God's word Walk prudently when you go to the house of God, and draw near to here, rather than to give the sacrifice of fools. For they do not know that they do evil. Do not be rash with your mouth. And let not your heart utter anything hastily before God. For God is in heaven and you on earth. Therefore, let your words be few. For a dream comes through much activity, and a fool's voice is known by his many words. When you make a vow to God, do not delay to pay it, for he has no pleasure in fools. Pay what you have vowed. Better not to vow than to vow and not pay. Do not let your mouth cause your flesh to sin Nor say before the messenger of God that it was an error. Why should God be angry at your excuse and destroy the work of your hands? For in the multitude of dreams and many words, there is also vanity. But fear God. As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it and to its preaching. Well, is it a good thing when lots of words are said? Is it a good thing when lots of words of praise are spoken? Words which recognize God for who he is, words which ascribe glory and honor to him. Words which are seeking to worship him, words that are spoken by people who are seeking to honor his name Words that are spoken to make promises to him as to what the person is intending to do for him. Is this a good thing? Well, Solomon answers this question for us here in this text, and the answer he gives to this question is that it's not necessarily a good thing. It's not necessarily a good thing. Words can be spoken that are spoken in praise of God, and where the person speaking them is intending to praise God. And yet it's still not a good thing. And Solomon gives us some instances as to uh for of reasons why it is not necessarily a good thing. Because sometimes words that are spoken, even when they are spoken with the intent to praise God, are still the very thing that Solomon mentions here in verse 1 of our text, the sacrifice of fools. Speaking many words is meaningless if there's nothing behind the words that are spoken. God is not pleased by words that are spoken, that have nothing behind them. Look at how we see this. Here in verse 3 of our passage, a fool's voice is known by his many words. A fool can approach the house of God, a fool can approach God even intending to praise him. And yet he is giving a sacrifice that is not pleasing to God. God has no pleasure in fools, verse 4 tells us. Yet a fool's voice is known by many words. The one who offers the sacrifice of fools, we see in verse 1 is offering his sacrifice without even knowing that what he is doing is evil. So we see why it is not always a good thing for words to be spoken. Words that are spoken in praise of God can actually be an instance of sinning against God, an instance of displeasing God, an instance of dishonoring his name. A person can intend to honor God by their words, and yet still dishonor him without understanding what they are doing. And this is what we see here in this text. Now, one thing that is wrong with the the sacrifice that is brought by fools. One reason why it is not acceptable to God, one reason why it is not uh uh um uh uh received by God or a good thing is because of what Solomon describes in verse 2. So when is it bad to bring your words before God, even if you think you're doing a good thing? Well, one of the defects of the sacrifice of fools is shown to us here in verse 2. It's when you bring something to God, when you intend to praise Him or honor Him in some way, yet you fail to do what Solomon reminds us of here in verse 2. You fail to respect That God is in heaven and you are on earth. So you understand, it's possible to speak words of praise to God and yet forget that God is in heaven and you are on earth. What does it mean to recognize that God is in heaven and you are on earth? What's to recognize that He is the Lord over life on this earth, that He is the Lord over you? And the that you are something merely humble, a mere limited creature before him. If you f fail to recognize this, then your worship is not acceptable to God. And that's what Solomon says here. Words that are spoken in praise to God, yet which forget that God is actually in heaven and we are actually on earth. Is the sacrifice of fools. Even if many words are spoken, even if the words sound like they are spoken in praise of God. If the person offering those words does not recognize God is in heaven, and that that person himself is on earth, then his offering is not a good offering. And it isn't, in fact, doing evil and being displeasing to God. Now, uh, you know, one one reason that's true is because you know the Lord sees and the Lord knows all where He s is in heaven. And we on earth do not know. There's much that we do not know. There's much that we do not know even about our own lives. And it may be rash and it may be hasty for us to speak certain things about ourselves and about our own lives in the presence of God. So we should be careful what we're going to say. Notice verse two do not be rash with your mouth. Let not your heart utter anything hastily before God. Because You need to respect the fact. God is in heaven and you are on earth. Therefore, know that there's a lot that you don't know and you can't speak. You can't rightly speak. Therefore. Let your words be few, as Solomon says here in verse 2 of our text. So again, what makes it dangerous to utter words of praise to God? If you pretend like he does not know everything that's in your heart and does not know the fullness of your life, it's a danger to speak such foolish words. It's even more foolish, or another instance of that foolishness comes in verse 4. Making a vow to God, obligating yourself before God, promising to do something for God. And notice in verse 4 then what is true about the vow that is made to God. If you can't actually follow up on it, or won't actually follow up on it, then it's better that you not vow than vow something that you're not able to do. Um it's better that you not have to later on make excuses for failing to do what you said you would do. We see this in verse six and verse 7. Do not let your mouth cause your flesh to sin, nor say before the messenger of God that it was an error. Why should God be angry at your excuse and destroy the work of your hands? So again, words that are spoken, just because they are spoken in praise of God, just because the person um thinks they are praising God doesn't mean that it's actually pleasing to God. And actually honors God. We need to remember that there is such a thing as the sacrifice of fools. Words that are spoken in praise of God, yet which do not are not able to praise God because they are faulty. Is it always a good thing to speak words of praise to God? No, it's not. Solomon's reminding us here. God cares a lot more about the quality of the words that are spoken than he cares about the quantity without the quality. And because that's true, sometimes it's better not to talk about God. Sometimes it's better to use few words or even no words than it is to speak rash words, foolish words. As we come to the end there in verse 7, in the multitude of dreams and many words there is also vanity. Here's one of the vanities of life in this world. People feel the pressure to come up with words on the spot in the presence of God, and so they spin out a lot of words. But doing so is a foolish thing. Doing so is not a good thing. And it doesn't really honor God, and it doesn't really please God. The question we have to face is, what kinds of people are able to live the way that Solomon describes? What kinds of people are able to not offer the sacrifice of fools Because we all understand how easy it is to simply offer the sacrifice of fools, don't we? What is it that causes somebody to offer the sacrifice of fools What is the sacrifice of fools? Isn't it true that the real root of the sacrifice of the fool here is the reality of hypocrisy? Isn't it true that it comes in the situation where a person feels like they need to express something spiritual in the presence of God? And so they multiply their words in the effort to come up with something to say, what is the real root of hypocrisy that leads to this though? Doesn't it come from the fact that a person feels like there's something missing from their standing with God? And when they feel like there's something missing with their standing with God They feel like they have to come up with all kinds of words to fill in that gap to make up for what is missing. Isn't it true that such people are the people who offer the sacrifice of fools? That time after time they come Not actually to worship God, but why do they come? They come thinking that they are gaining favor and gaining points in a system And so they are preoccupied with saying the right things and doing the right things, and yet in the end they're not actually worshiping God. They're actually worshiping themselves. They're actually worshiping their own well-being rather than God. And they're forgetting that God is in heaven and they are on earth. How dangerous this is. But who then is able to say the words that are pleasing to God? Who is able to speak few words and to speak those words in humility and in simplicity and with straightforwardness? Don't we know that those who are able to speak rightly in worship are those who are very aware of what their true situation is before God? There are those who know that they can't pull a fast one on God, that they can't fake it in God's presence, but who still nonetheless know their standing. And know that they stand not based on their own performance, but based on the work of Jesus Christ. For isn't this how we are able to bring right worship and true worship in simplicity and uprightness Now you remember what uh Adam and Eve did in the garden after they got found out for their sin? What did they do? They became aware that they needed a covering in God's presence. So what did they do? They came up with that covering for themselves. They came up with fig leaves. Isn't it true that multiplying lots of words in the presence of God, as Solomon talks about, is just a way of coming up with fig leaves. It's a way of covering over the real problem that we have before God. And the real problem we have before God is our sinfulness and our guilt. And it's something that we can't cover up. We can't cover up by multiplying words We can't cover up by making up any number of religious actions and things to do. We can't cover up by making more vows and vowing extra things to God. The only way that we can speak simply in the presence of God, the only way that we can not multiply our words, but speak forthrightly, is through knowing the Lord Jesus Christ. And through coming to him, um knowing that we are sinners saved by his grace. This is really what we need. This is what Solomon's pointing us to. He's pointing us to the fact that Left to ourselves, we will always be rash with our mouth. We will always utter things that are hasty. Yet in order to be people who utter the words that are few and the words that are straightforward. And to actually follow through on the things that we do, we need a humble view of ourselves. We need to understand that we are sinners who are saved only by the grace of God. And only by the work of Jesus Christ. And we know when we know ourselves in truth to be sinners saved by grace, We will not try to vow things that are too lofty for us to fulfill. We will not make promises that we are unable to keep. But we will speak with our words simply, we will speak with our words forthrightly, and we will truly seek to honor the Lord in what we say in his presence. Let's take account of this. Let's remember that we are sinners saved by grace, and as such, let us straightforwardly hear what Solomon has to tell us. That we should be careful not to offer the sacrifice of fools, but we should instead be careful to speak forthrightly in God's presence and worship him uprightly. For a day is coming when we will be worshiping him forever. And on that day, our praise will be very straightforward. So let's not multiply our words without reason. Amen. Let's pray Oh Father, today we come before you thankful for your great work saving us by the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, bring us to a fresh understanding of who we are before you, the people who are saved by your grace in Christ. Help us to have hearts. That are able to utter forthrightly the things which you allow us to speak. Help us not to multiply our words in your presence without reason. Help us not to utter things that are rash. Help us not to make vows to do things that are truly beyond us. But help us to be straightforwardly recognizing who we are before you. And therefore, help us to speak with words that are few, and with words that are filled with your glory in a straightforward manner. Lord, grant this to us, we pray, as your Spirit works upon us. We need this, O Lord. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. And then, O Lord, we continue to pray for the needs of your people this day. Lord, we would call out to you, asking you to hear our prayer for Jean Calderon, that you would draw near to her, that you would grant to her the healing and the recovery that she needs and that uh we all uh desire for her Lord, we pray that you would strengthen her family in the midst of what's going on right now, that you would be with them and uphold them so they can care for her well. But we also pray for many of the people in our congregation, many of the others who are struggling with health issues as well. We know we have a number of difficulties and issues going on. We know that you are the Lord over over them and over these things. We know that these come to us not apart from your sovereign will. But we pray that you would help us to trust you in the midst of these things. We pray that you would bless and restore what needs to be blessed and restored, and that you would bring your healing to many in our midst today. Lord, we also ask, would you be with this church? Would you grant to us a faithful and bold witness to your truth? Would you help us to know your word and to know you? And to be able to speak well of you in the presence of others and in your presence. Lord, grant that we would be able to worship you with simple sincerity and simplicity in your presence Lord, we know that you are in heaven and we are on this earth. Would you grant us the ability to worship straightforwardly, knowing who you are and knowing who we are? Lord, we also pray this day, would you um spread the gospel by means of the efforts of the OPC and Trinity Reform Church and other churches and other Christians who are speaking for you and Witnessing for you, grant to us lives that are able to reflect your glory, and grant to us the words that are able to reflect who you are. Lord, this day we ask you to be with us, each of us, in the callings you give to us in this life. Today we all have various callings that you give to us. And each of us in our own place where you have placed us, grant to us faithfulness. Grant to us the ability to serve you well and to serve our neighbors. Lord, today we also pray for those who are in positions of elected leadership, elected officials. We ask you to be with them, to uphold them, to sustain them, to use them. To use them so that uh all people who are made in your image might have their lives protected and preserved, and their well-being might be sought. We pray that you would use People in positions of official leadership to do these things, and that you would help us to be faithful in our involvement in this process and in our prayers for such people. Lord, today we thank you that you are faithful to us. We come to you, Lord, as a people who are very weak in ourselves, who really have nothing in ourselves to speak of before you. So we praise you that you have spoken the word of the gospel to us, for it is by your gospel that we live, it is by your faithfulness and by your goodness that we live. Sustain us, we pray. Uphold us, we ask. Preserve us for that day that we are waiting for, but until that day we pray the way that our Lord Jesus taught us to pray by saying. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.