Let us turn to Hebrews chapter 10 and verses 19 through 25. Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 25. Those of you who were here the last time I was here preaching will recognize it's the same text I preached on then. Uh and but I I wanted to go into some more depth on this. section of God's Word. So let us uh let us now hear uh the word of the Lord. Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the holiness, the holiest, by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he consecrated for us through the and having a high priest over the house of God Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And let us consider one another, in order to stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some. But exhorting one another. And so much the more as you see the day approaching. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. May He richly bless this word too. Brother Ken began reading before he read it the passage in Ephesians. He began talking about being in an elder's home And uh how the elder was saying the book of Ephesians is kind of like uh follows a certain structure where Paul lays out certain Definite statements, indicative statements, and then the rest of the book tells you what you're to do in response to those statements Well, in a smaller way, this passage in Hebrews does exactly the same thing. Because as you look at it, you see in verses 19 and 20 And on through 21, in those verses, you see a focus on the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, the reality of what that means to us as believers, that we do have a high priest. We can enter boldly into the throne room of God. And then the author at verse 22 shifts direction. And through the use of three beginning statements, phrases, the words, let us, let us, let us, he tells us how we're to live. In response to what Jesus has done. And that's very important. The Bible is not a bunch of commands that we're to do on our own. Christ is the one who has accomplished many things for us, including our salvation, and we are to do things in gratitude. And in thanksgiving for the salvation that we now have in Christ. Anything, if we think we're to do these things that it are listed here in order to somehow save ourselves, then Christ would be out of the picture. We wouldn't need Christ. But no, it's very clearly right up in front of us that it's all because of what Jesus has done that we're to live in a certain way. And we're to reflect glory to him in the way in which we live. I know you all know that, but it's good to see that the scriptures themselves follow that kind of structure. Follow that kind of pattern. We're not talking about moralism here. We're not talking about legalism here. We're talking about living a life in response to God's Grace giving him thanksgiving and praise with all that we have So as we remember this initial verses that are here, verses 19 through 22, there are two important things that the author tells us about our salvation. In Christ. Number one, we have boldness to enter into the holiest places of God by the blood of Jesus Christ. We have boldness to Enter into the holiest of all places. Really, brothers and sisters, that means we have boldness to enter into God's presence. In the God's very throne realm. Only because of Jesus, only because of his shed blood. And secondly, he says we have this as a reality because we have a great high priest. Jesus Christ, who not only is the sacrifice that pays for our sins and removes them as far as east is from west, but he is A living high priest who functions to intercede for your and my needs. And unless you're different than Me or most people, you've got needs. You've got trials, and you've got troubles, and you got uncertainty So some of those troubles are of uh maybe a material nature, or some of them are maybe of a physical nature, but all of them are spiritual as well. But you've got a priest who listens. You've got a priest who hears. And you've got a priest who can do something about your problems. How are we to act? How are we to respond? What are we to say to this? What's to be our what how are we to conduct our lives? Well it's here where uh I briefly mentioned the last time. That there is an impact presented to us as to how we are to live. And strangely enough, the author takes the next couple of verses And he precedes them with a let us. Let us let us Three times, three things, he says. These are not the only things, but these are three things the author was led by the inspiration of God to communicate To the people of God. So we have a great high priest. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, we are exhorted to enter boldly into his presence. Let us draw near With a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil contents and our bodies washed in pure water. People, that text says to you, you have assurance of faith in Christ. You have assurance of faith. Therefore, draw near. Do not be afraid. Do not be afraid of God. That's the pattern of the old man. That's the pattern of Adam. Fear to come before God's presence. And truly, God is a fearful God and an awesome God. And we should have a sense of reverence for Him, a great sense of reverence, but that is not to preclude us from coming. Because Jesus has opened the way for us to come. In life or in death. Jesus abides with you. That's why we sang, Abide with me. He abides with you. He remains with you. Your comfort, your assurance, you see, in your faith, in your salvation, does not rest on speculation. It does not rest on what somebody else tells you. It doesn't rest on your feelings. It doesn't rest on anything you do, or will do, or will not do. Your faith looks to Christ. Your faith rests on the finished work of Jesus, the cross and the grave, and the and the resurrection from the grave. Your assurance is grounded in the fulfillment of God's promises to you. That he would provide for his people's salvation. He would take care of their hunger and thirst for righteousness. He would lead them to the springs of living water. And he will guide them. to perpetually be satisfied. There's a passage in Isaiah chapter 49, verse 10 that predicted this Listen to what Isaiah 49 says. They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor the sun smite them, for he that has mercy on them will lead them. Even to the springs of water will he guide them. See, if you know Christ You can remember the time when you were thirsty. You can remember the time when you were spiritually Adrift. You were drinking from the wrong well. You were drinking from the well of sin. And that could never quench your thirst for knowing God or having purpose in life. You have been sprinkled now, purified from an evil conscience by the blood of Christ. Your body is being washed with pure water. This is not going on here. Are you talking about baptism? Well, not not really here You're being led to the water from which you shall never thirst, as Christ Himself told the woman at the well. In John four, verse fourteen. Whosoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. I don't see all of you walking around in a flood all the time. What kind of water is he talking about? Well, thankfully, John chapter 7 tells us. Verse 38, Jesus says, he who believes in me As the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. And then in 39 he clarifies what that living water is. By this spoke Jesus of the Holy Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive. For the Holy Ghost was not yet given because that Jesus was yet not glorified. You see, you have living water in your heart through the Holy Spirit's constant attention to your needs Constantly drawing you to Jesus. The one in whom you have boldness, the one in whom you have full assurance of faith. It it's not you. It's him. It's him. And the the more I've been reading in Hebrews and perhaps the older I getting the more I understand it's all about Jesus. It is not at all about me It's all him. It's all him. And and because it's all him, and because he's God and because he's accomplished the death his death and resurrection, he's fulfilled God's promises. He's completed the plan of salvation. You, whether you live or die, is immaterial. You will be with him forever. And whether the gates of unbelief storm this building and shoot us all dead while we're here praying. It doesn't matter. If you're in Christ, you will be with him. That's the kind of faith you must Have where you trust in God's promise. You have full assurance of faith because you're in Christ Let us draw near with full, with a true heart in full assurance of faith. Verse 23 speaks of another let us. And by the way, these let us are not commands. There's something less than a command and something more than a wish. That's the easiest way I can talk about the mode that's being used here. In the writers. All three of them. They're not commands, but they're surely connected to what Jesus has said. Let us hold fast Verse 23, the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised It's easy for me to stand up here and say, don't doubt and don't despair. It's easy for me to say, stick like gorilla glue to your profession of faith in Christ. That's the strongest glue I can think of at this point. There's probably better out there. But don't let things you see Don't let things you hear tear you away from your declaration of saving faith in Christ and His Word. It's awful enticing. It's awful, awful out there. And it will probably only get worse. And it is calculated by the evil one to make you despair. Don't go that route. Keep nurturing yourself with the living water and the word of God. Hold fast to the profession you have made. Look to Jesus, the object of your faith Look to Christ, your great high priest, who gives you boldness to enter God's presence at any time. Look to Christ because He is faithful. He is faithful. He is faithful for you. As 2 Timothy 2 verse 9 reminds us, it is a faithful saying. For if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him. If we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him He also will deny us if we believe not, yet he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. Our Savior fulfilled all of God's promises. Hold fast to Him. Believe in the supernatural work of Jesus Christ. Do not embrace the schemes and promises of wicked men and their rebellion who seek to tell you things like their is no God. He isn't interested in you. He's got too many things going on to care about you and your little problem. And whatever other perversion comes down the path. Remember, hold fast to the profession of your faith without wavering. Twenty four Let us consider one another To stimulate one another unto love and good works. And the last time I was here, I told you that one of the uh translations of that word, uh prov uh to stimulate is also to irritate. And you remember that? To irritate or to provoke. Um it's it's uh uh and so you know we were kinda having fun with that. Brothers and sisters prov irritate one another. Irritate your brother and sister to help them show the love of Christ and to do good works. In order to do that, you've got to be with other people. And you've got to be somewhat interested in their lives. Consider how you might help other brothers and sisters along the road that leads to eternal life. Consider how you might bear one another's burdens, how you might forgive one another How you might edify one another, how you might serve one another, how you might love one another. Be a pain To a Christian brother and sister whose Christian commitment and testimony is obviously lacking And do good works to others, inside and outside the body. Because as you do good works to others, two good things, at least two good things, happen. You will be blessed, for it is more blessed to give than it is to receive. And God will receive the glory. Whatever you eat or drink For whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Christian, this is your life's purpose. To consider one another, to provoke, irritate, stimulate one another to love and good works. And finally, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together. There's not a let us there. I think 25 goes with 24. Enter into the gathering of believers. I made the point last time that The not for the word assembling is the Hebrew or the Greek word for the Hebrew synagogue Synagogue. And the interesting thing I found w about this was that it's not acting as a verb here, it's acting as a noun. When he says that not forsaking the assembling of ourselves, you could translate it, not forsaking the synagogue. Think about it, why would he use a noun? Why not synagogue actually means Call together, come together, or assemble together. Why not use the verb? But he doesn't. He uses a word in the context that would be familiar to his listeners. Where do you go to stimulate one another and not forsake one another? In the synagogue. Which was be which was becoming the uh early on, which was becoming one of the places of worship for the Christian church Do not forsake the assembly of ourselves together, as is the matter of some. Do you hear that? In Paul, in the writer of Hebrews' day, some, I suspect, believers that he knew were not going to fellas. Fellowship. We're not going to the community of believers, not going to the synagogue, not going to the place of worship. Not do not neglect the assembly of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but Exhort one another. Exhort one another, where he uses the Greek word to encourage or exhort, the actual word for the Holy Spirit Encourage and exhort one another. There is a direct tie between having boldness to enter Into the presence of God and to see Christ as your great high priest, as verses 19 and 21 reveal. There's a direct tie between that and gathering together. And when we gather together, not forsaking God's people. And edifying, and encouraging, and exhorting. The church, you see, is not an afterthought It's the place where all who were saved by grace through faith in Christ are together And as they gather, they certainly will be praising God and worshiping God for giving us the Lord Jesus Christ and this newfound boldness to enter into God's presence. But they will also be the place where God's people live together. As God's people. They will be the place where I will be your God and you will be my people will become a reality. You are God's people. You are the house of a living God. Listen to how Peter reminds us of that truth. First Peter two verse four Which says Sorry about that. Come to him as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men, but chosen by God and precious to you. You also, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifice. Acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. You as the elect of God, as the chosen people of God Hebrews, 1 Peter 2, 4, are called out to hear his word. You're called out to exhort and encourage the rest of God's people You're to remain steadfast in Christ and keep pursuing the breadth, length, depth, and height of God. God's knowledge and love to you in Christ. This is necessary and essential to your Christian life. It is not an option or an afterthought to be connected to the body of Christ. And it's all the more so as we see the last day approaching. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we do pray that your Spirit would work in the hearts of your people Lord, that they would hear your word. Lord, that you would help them to cherish the blessings that are ours in Christ. And Lord, that you would assist us with your spirits leading to follow these uh directions that we have as to how we are to live in response to having boldness to enter into God's presence through the saving work of our great high Priest the Lord Jesus Christ. May we, Lord, glorify him. May we do that individually, but may we also do it collectively, as his people, as his body. For in Jesus' name we pray these things. Amen.