And now the reading of God's Word from the book of Philippians, chapter 2. Here we are in Philippians 2, verses 5 to 11, continuing to pick up where we left off. And now here in Philippians two, uh Paul, you know, makes a pointed comment here about Telling the Philippians that they should live after the example of their Savior, Jesus Christ. And now living after the example of Jesus Christ sounds like a nice thing until you remember Where he ended up after living the way he lived. We'll see that here in this text. Philippians chapter 2, verses 5 through 11. And I would remind you once again this is God's word, so please give your attention to it as it is heard. Please listen to it as such, because it is God's word. Listen to his instructions. Philippians 2, 5-11. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who, being in the form of God, did not consider it robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation Taking the form of a bondservant, and coming in the likeness of men. And being found in appearance as a man He humbled himself and became obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Therefore God also has highly exalted him, and given him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every Every knee should bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. As far as the reading of God's Word, may He add His blessing to it, may He bless the preaching of it in our midst this day. Why should the Philippians humble themselves in the form of the way that Christ humbled himself? Why should they have the mindset that Jesus Christ had when he came to this earth in the form of a servant? How can Paul expect them to take on Christ's mindset when they know full well where that mindset might lead them? Can we expect people to take on Christ's mindset when we know where that mindset tends to lead people? Just where do those who take on that mindset end up? Where does it lead when people take up that mindset that Christ took? But where did it take Christ? In verse eight of our text. It took Christ to a cruel, shameful death on a cross. When Christ took on the form of a servant and became man, and humbled himself, becoming obedient, making himself as of no reputation This led him to die, a hard death on a cross. And to die on a cross is not for the faint-hearted. A death on a cross is no easy thing to go through. It involves all kinds of difficult suffering. And takes real strength to endure to the end. If you were dying on a cross the way Christ was, it's a very painful thing, very difficult thing to go through. Difficult way to go to your death. First is the fact that it's very uncomfortable just being stretched out on these broad wooden beams. It would be hard to maintain your posture hanging there up on that cross Well, your whole body was just being stretched and held up on these wooden beams. And the fact that you'd be stretched and held up on those wooden beams would make it very difficult to breathe Just to keep yourself in a position, to take air into your lungs, would require you to use all your muscles to keep yourself upright the whole time, just to breathe. And in most cases, the way someone dies when they're put up on a cross, they die when they finally reach the point of exhaustion. When they reach the point of exhaustion, their muscles are too tired to keep themselves upright. And when their muscles are too tired to keep themselves upright They don't have the strength to to move themselves into a position even to breathe, and then eventually they get exhausted And eventually they suffocate once they run out of the strength to hold themselves upright enough to breathe. And this is the death. That Christ's life took him to. Living the way that Christ lived took him to this kind of death. Something that would be hard physically to go through, even though it ends in death. It's an exhausting way to die. Physically hard to endure. At the same time, also something that is shameful and humiliating, being stretched out up on wooden beams. You are being exposed to the sight of all people. Your whole body is being laid bare to be seen by all people up on a pole. And you are put there in order to be mocked, and in order to be scorned. There's this aspect of shame and humiliation that comes with dying upon a cross. It is a form of torture. The cross was designed as one of the cruelest instruments of torture ever imagined. The Romans d the um uh the Romans came up with this instrument of torture when they came up with crucifixion, when they came up with the cross. And so they put you up there. It's torture of body. It's torture of mind and heart. It is death by cruelty. That's what the cross is that Jesus was led to. Yet in addition to that The way that Jesus died, we must remember that he experienced all these things. He also experienced dying on this cross under a sentence of injustice. A man innocent of all crimes was put there nonetheless by rulers who failed in their task. They should have acquitted him as innocent of each and every crime. Instead, they conveniently let him be executed. under this cruel form of execution. Now the question is, is this where Paul wants his readers to end up? When he tells them to have Christ's mindset in this text, is he telling them to accept the kind of life that leads to this death? This death that Christ died, is he telling them to accept the kind of life that leads one to die, the kind of death that Christ died The word in verse 7, it's translated bondservant in our passage. Could have been easily translated by the word slave. Is Paul instructing us to treat ourselves like we are slaves, to accept the abuse that slaves sometimes have received? Paul says that Christ made himself of no reputation when he came to this earth. He made himself nothing. He allowed himself to be treated as if nothing special. Christ humbled himself, he took on the task of obedience, made himself subject to others, considered himself not above being in subjection to someone else. Is Paul saying that we should treat ourselves in the same way? And yet what happens to people who live in this way? What happens to people who treat themselves like they are nothing? What happens to people who treat themselves As if they do not have rights in this world. What happens to people who treat who regard others as better than themselves? Don't we all know from experience that oftentimes people who treat themselves in this way and regard themselves in this way end up getting abused? End up getting trampled on, being taken advantage of by other people. Being viewed as someone available to be preyed upon? Don't we know that that's how people who live this way get treated? Don't we all know examples in our own lives and in the lives of others where we have seen this and we know this to be true? And isn't it and we should think that that's true because isn't that exactly what happened to Jesus Christ? He humbled himself and lived like a servant, living as if he was not above, being treated in this way, treated like he's nothing, even though he was something. But isn't this how uh Christ got sentenced to this shameful death on the cross that Paul's talking about in verse 8? He stood before Pilate, the unjust ruler. He had opportunity to defend himself, but he didn't. He refused to fight back. And so Pilate sought, if this man's not going to fight for himself, well, I'm not going to fight for him either. And Pilate just let him go to the cross. Isn't this what happens to people who make themselves of no reputation? Again, we know it's true. We all have examples that we could turn to and call to mind. Certainly Jesus himself is an example too in in one way. Certainly we see that Christ, when he refused to fight for his own rights He got trampled on. He got abused. Is this the way that Paul is telling us to live our lives? Is this the way that Paul is telling the Philippians to live their lives? To accept abuse? To be nothing? To treat yourself as nothing Even to treat other people better than yourself. And if that's what Paul is saying, what does that give us to look forward to in our lives here? Does that mean that we are going to live our lives completely at the disposal of others? With no room for enjoyment here in this life. Does that mean we will go down to a cruel end? The very same way that Christ did. If we are continually pouring ourselves out for others like Christ did, Are we doomed to go down to a hard, cruel death after a life of hard, strict service, our whole lives long? Is this what Paul is really telling the Philippians to do? Shouldn't we wonder if it's even possible for us to live the way Jesus Christ did? There are theological reasons to think that we can't do what Paul is calling us to do here. For one thing, we all know that we're all sinners. Sners can't do everything that God calls them. to do. Certainly not to a perfect degree, can we? And if we can't actually do this because we're sinners Why should we try? Why even try what is not possible? And does the fact that we are sinners who can't do it completely give us a free path from trying to do it? What about the fact of the uniqueness of Jesus Christ? Think about the uniqueness of Jesus Christ. Because Jesus Christ is unique in who he is. Are we fools to try to follow the example of someone as unique as him? He alone is the God man, sinless, our Savior. We are just men. We are just sinful men at best. Isn't it presumption for sinful men to try to do what the unique God man alone has done? Is it folly for us to try to follow the example of the one who is the unique Godman, the unique mediator, the unique savior, the second Adam? How can we dare to think that our lives might reflect his life? How can we dare that to think that our lives might even come close to reflecting the way he lived? Another thing true of the Lord Jesus Christ as he lived in this way that we need to think about is when he came and did it. He was able to condescend to us, to come down to us. That's not something we're able to do It's one thing to ask someone like Christ, who is himself God, to come down to be humbled and serve. Isn't it something completely different to ask us? We didn't come from a position of glory. We didn't come from that position of privilege, not in the same way that he did Someone who had all the rights of someone who's God is who he is and was, someone for whom it's not a stretch to be counted equal to God. That's who he was when he came down to serve. Now, again, um perhaps an illustration here. Isn't it one thing when you ask a billionaire To come and serve poor people. But isn't it a completely different thing when you ask poor people who are barely making it? To lay aside what they have for other poor people. Isn't that what Paul's doing here? Again, he is saying um he's showing us who Christ was before he came down, someone with Unlimited glory. But that's not who we are. We don't have unlimited glory. We're not able to condescend in that way. Praise God that He condescended. How can we do that? We're not we didn't come from heaven. We don't have the rights of God nor the glory of God in ourselves. Um how can we do what Paul says we are to do? Is Paul being unrealistic here? When Paul asked those who are poor in themselves to empty themselves, and to follow the pattern of conduct set by someone who was rich who emptied himself. It's one thing for the rich to empty themselves, it's another thing for the poor to empty themselves. Isn't Paul asking something unrealistic here? How can the poor empty themselves after the pattern of someone who is rich who emptied himself? And Paul wrote these verses to the Philippians. Did he think about the consequences of what he was telling them? Did he think about the consequence of such instructions? If he tells people who are in themselves poor to empty themselves for one another, isn't this going to lead to burnout? Isn't this going to lead to them being deprived of all that they have? Them being emptied of what little they have? Compared to Christ, who had all things and yet laid them aside willingly. How can anyone How can any one of us live after the pattern of Jesus Christ? How can we dare attempt it when we are not Christ, when Christ is a unique God-man, but we are not Him Why even try if we can't do it perfectly? Why even try if he's unique and if we are just ordinary men? Why try to live in the way that Paul says? Why try to live after the pattern of Jesus Christ, even if we aren't really going to pull it off Why do it? The reason why is because There is a glory for those who live this way. There is a glory that is ours that sustains those who seek to live this way. There is a glory that is available, and that is in heaven, that is given to those who live this way. Those who seek to live the way that Christ lived here on this earth, and those who do so, not from their own strength. But in dependence on his grace, are sustained by what is his in heaven. Now we see in verses 9 through 11 of our text. What God has bestowed upon Jesus Christ, God has highly exalted Christ, giving him a name above every name in heaven and on earth The highest name in all creation, the highest name in all the universe, the name of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, when he was obedient unto death, received glory. And the glory he received took him to where he is today, enthroned on high, with a name that's above every name on heaven and on earth. And yet, when our Savior went up to that place in heaven, do you know the reason why he went up there? Or at least one of the reasons why he went up there? One of the reasons why he went up there was to pour out his gifts upon us And so when he went up there to receive glory, he received glory that he shares with those who are his. And this is the reason why. We should strive to live in this way. Why? Because Christ promises to sustain those who are His. Because Christ has glory to share with those who are his. And part of that grace and glory that he is sharing with those who are his is actually to conform them to his image. So again, who is it who is sustained in living in this way? It's not those who try to live this way in their own strength. It's not those who say, oh, here's Christ's example. I'm going to do it. Those who try such things are bound to fail, are bound to end up burnt out. But those who seek to do so, depending upon the grace that Christ gives to his own people, will find themselves sustained in the effort. Will find themselves one day perfectly conformed to his image. Will find themselves along the way delighting. That they are bearing his image even though they are suffering, even though perhaps it leads to them being abused Being trampled on, possibly being trampled on by other believers, possibly being trampled on by other people. Yes, it's true. Living like a servant, living the way Christ did Is not something that any of us can do in our own strength. But we have confidence that Christ will sustain us as we seek to do so. Because he is in glory for us. And again, we know God's purpose. Through our sufferings, he is conforming us to our to his image. So when we see ourselves reflecting his image in even in accepting bad treatment. This ought to cause our hearts to be delighted. We are being conformed to Christ's image. We are being made like him. And that means one day he's going to complete that work. And we're going to be completely without sin. And one day we will move beyond the suffering when He brings us to Himself. And so, beloved, do remember this. Yes, what Paul commands here is is far beyond us. It is high above us. In and of ourselves, if we try to live this way, it is foolish. Because if we were to try it We would end up being burnt out. We would end up in all kinds of bad places Remember that it's by the work of Christ and by his ongoing sustenance of us that we can be sustained to live in this way. Praise God that God is conforming us to the image of Jesus Christ. May we continue to look to Him in that. May we trust Him in that work. May we seek to be faithful to him in the midst of that work that he is doing in us. And may that even cause us to call out to him, even to rejoice in him. Even when it means that we suffer, perhaps even when it means we get trampled on and abused. May we be willing to do this because of his promises and his grace that is at work in us. And one day we will see him face to face. And one day we will see the one whose image we have begun to bear. Let us look forward to that day. Let us long for that day. Let us press on until that day, because this is the hope He has set before us. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, you are great in your glory, and how great it is The thing that you have promised us, that we will be conformed to Jesus Christ. Wait a minute. We will be conformed to Jesus Christ. We will have to bear his image even in our suffering. Lord, what a uh thought that causes trepidation for us, and rightly so, and yet thank you that we have your promise Thank you that we have the grace that you've given to us in Christ. Thank you that Christ is exalted above all things and pours his gifts out upon us as our mediator. That his work of mediation did not stop when he went to the cross, but it only began in many ways. His work of mediation to bless us with the Holy Spirit, to strengthen us. To uphold us, to sustain us, even as we are being conformed to his image, to sustain us in the midst of these things. O Lord, sustain us, we pray. We are people who are too quick to complain and too quick to cast off the things you have given to us and put in front of us. We are people who are too ready to cast off the burden of living like a servant, humbling ourselves, making ourselves of no reputation. We are too quick to cast these things off when Christ Himself did these things, even though he had no reason in himself why he should have had to do these things. And yet we, on the other hand, have, as sinners, have every reason why we ought to make ourselves of no reputation, because that is in truth who we are in ourselves. Yet, Lord, we thank you that you have made great promises to us, that you sustain us. Please continue to do so, we pray. Please be pleased to use us and to use the way that we reflect Christ. To bring others to Him, we pray. Lord, we bring ourselves to you. And we ask you to use us. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.