Turn to the text for the message this morning. Hebrews chapter 10. Continuing in our study of Hebrews. We pick up in verse nineteen and read on through verse twenty-five. Let us hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he consecrated for us through the veil that is his flesh And having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith Let us hold fast the confession of our hope, without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And let us consider one another, in order to stir up love and good works, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together, as is the manner of some. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Last week as we focused on our studies in Hebrews I uh mentioned that uh verse 16, uh this is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws into their hearts And in their minds I will write them. I mentioned that that was a quote from the Old Testament, from Jeremiah chapter 31, explicitly. And it was a quote that was given by Jeremiah to the people of Israel during their very rebellious period, right before the Lord brought Nebuchadnezzar to destroy. uh the uh the people of of God in the Old Testament. Um but nevertheless the quote Predicts that God will promise, God is promising to his people a great day of unparalleled blessing. He says that a day is coming when God will not only write his law on the people's heart. But he will also give his people the Holy Spirit. And you have to conflate Jeremiah 31 with Ezekiel 36 at this point to get the connections God's going to bring a new day. He'll put his laws in their heart. That's Jeremiah from Jeremiah 31. But then Ezekiel 36 says this. 26. A new heart I will give you, a new spirit I will put within you. Take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit in you. And cause you to walk in my statutes You shall keep my judgments and do them. You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers. You shall be my people, and I will be your God. What a statement of finality of God's promise being accomplished in this day when God erects a new covenant with His people and will put his laws in their heart and he will put the spirit in their heart and he will cause his people to love the law of God and obey the law of God. To love God with all their heart, might, soul, and strength, and to love one another as themselves. In that great day of promise, you see, God is going to be proactive toward his people. And he will directly replace our hearts of sin with obedient hearts as a profound blessing Along with the new hearts, God will give every Christian the Holy Spirit who will guide us, who will help us to be progressively more and more obedient to our God. To love him and serve him and worship him and him alone. Because of the redemptive work that God completed at the cross The day of Ezekiel's promise and Jeremiah's promise has come. It has come in the work of Jesus the Christ. And as a result of his labors, Hebrews 10, 17 is accomplished Their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more. Covered by the blood of the Lamb, that is. Sins removed as far as east is from west. No longer is there need of another offering for sin. Christ has accomplished redemption once and for all for his people. And at Pentecost, the spirit of the resurrected Christ has been poured out upon his people, upon his church And that spirit must be helping you. It's not an option. It must be helping you to live holy lives as God defines holy before Him. The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, is nothing less, or no one less, shall I say, than the Spirit of the resurrected Jesus Listen to how Paul writes or affirms that truth. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 45, so it is written, the first man, Adam, was made a living soul But the last Adam was made a life-giving spirit. A life-giving spirit Now the verses that we have today pick up where verses 16 through 18, Hebrews 10, leave off. The word, therefore, that begins verse 19, reveals that there is a connection between Christ's completed redemptive work Spoken of in verses 16 through 18. There's a connection between that And the impact of Christ's death and resurrection on you On specifically on your thinking and on your actions And I want to look at those two points today. The impact of Christ's Death and resurrection, first of all, on our mind and our hearts. And secondly, the impact on how we live How we are called to live as Christians. And I I kind of don't like dividing the two up because you can't really divide. My point is you can't really divide the two up. But I have to do it because I need to no I need two points I was gonna say but I don't really need two points uh but I have to do it just for the sake of clarity um As we work our way through these verses, verses 19 through verses 25, and by the way, I'm going to only sketch. A couple of things today. I'll get back to this section when I get back off a vacation. But for today Let's first note the impact on our minds and our hearts and look at verses 20, 19 through 21. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way which He consecrated through us for us, through the veil that is His flesh. The first concept that should come into your mind as a redeemed Christian is that you have boldness. Boldness not simply to declare the gospel, but you have boldness to enter into the holy of holies. That word holiests, there in verse uh, you have boldest to enter into the holiest. cannot be anything else than a reflection of the Holy of Holies in the tabernacle of the Old Testament. But because that's you see where God where God was dwelling with his people. And you might recall from your reading of the Old Testament, and I've mentioned this many times, this is nothing new to you. you but you might recall that was a very sacred place and you just didn't walk in there If you did, you know, only, first of all, instructions were given that only the high priest could walk in there once a year. And he had to be ritually cleansed. There's an example of one king, Uzziah, a very powerful king of Israel, who tried to go in there. And the priests tried to prevent him, but they couldn't. And this great king, he was generally speaking, a pretty good king, but he had some problems with pride, like we all do. But he dared to go into the Holy of Holies, and the Lord struck him with leprosy for the rest of his life. You don't go there. And I can tell you why he did that. Because you see, Uzziah was not covered by any blood at all. There is no blood to atone for a sin, for without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. And the blood of the sacrifices that the priest would have offered that year, the blood of bulls and goats, can never take away our sins. They are an annual reminder that we are sinful. They can't take it away. And so there is Isaiah, full of pride, walking into the Holy of Holies. God was merciful in giving him holy leprosy. They should have struck him dead. Be ye holy as I am holy. You cannot see the holiness of God And live. But because of Christ, you've got boldness to enter into the Holy of Holies. We've talked about this before. What that means, you see, my friends, is your welcome in the presence of God. You're welcome there. In Christ, in Christ, you can go there And we go there in spirit, in our prayers. We go there to communicate and have communion with the living God. One of the great wonders you see is that access to God has been opened through the blood of Christ. Remember, the curtain is rent. The curtain on the Holy of Holies is rent from top to bottom, symbolizing God's people can have access to God at any time through Jesus. He's our great high priest, as we've been studying about. Hebrews 5 through 8. Three, four whole chapters on the high priesthood of Jesus Christ and what that means. Imagine, imagine Being able to come into God's presence 24 hours, 24-7, and talk with Him. That's one thing Jesus has bought for you. One thing. Among a myriad of other blessings. And you could say to yourself, God's too busy, he doesn't care. Why should I bother him? Your high priest has your nature And because there might be times in your life when you suffer, when you cry, when you weep, when you're discouraged, when you're afflicted. Where there might be times of great and wonderful joy, your high priest knows what you're going through. As a human being, he experienced all of our emotions without sin. But because he experienced all those emotions, and because he is perfectly human, he is able, as the scriptures record, he is able to sympathize with us in our weaknesses. Make use of your freedom. Come before him with thanksgiving and with joy. Come with boldness. He's waiting. He's expecting you. Well, I haven't even gotten to the good part yet. There's this is an amaz well, I keep saying that every week. This is an amazing section. But this is really something. Now what we've already given testimony to and comment about Is that the way to the holiness of God, the reason we have such boldness, is also spoken about in the text before us. It says Verse 20. We have boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus Point number one, through Jesus, by a new and living way. By a new and living way. Once again Not by the old way, not by the blood of animals. Not by Which animals could not take away sins, but we come through the blood of the living way. From Jesus. Because you see, Jesus isn't dead. He arose. He lives. He lives forever to intercede for his people. His sacrifice is one that is abundant And covers a multitude of sins. And you get these, you get the illusions of we come by the living way which is consecrated for us. It's the holiness of this living way is emphasized. We come through the veil, the veil I already talked about, the veil which is his flesh, Christ has Open the way into the holy of holies. So we come with boldness. That's a mindset. That's the renewed Christian's mindset. I can come to God. And do you realize that that could not be that could not be done by any person Prior to the death of Christ, stretching all the way back to Adam pre-fall. And that's part of what he has given you. Very stunning, is it not? Another thing that we also know is reflected in verse 21. We have a high priest over the house of God. We have a high priest over the house of God. This is a clear reference to the superior priesthood of the Lord Jesus Christ. You want to know more about that superior priesthood? Again, read Hebrews 5 through 8. Details it in a multitude of different ways. But just in general, just in summary, if I could summarize Hebrews 5 through 8 with a few words, you have a priest. Who is the Son of God? You have a priest who is not simply a man, but he's a god man. You have a priest who lives forever. When he dies. He doesn't die. When Jesus died, he was resurrected. When the Old Testament priest died, his ministry ended. And then he got a new guy. And who knows what you're going to get with a new guy. But but you know, you know. Um okay. So Not only do you have uh uh a great high priest who lives to intercede between you and God But his priesthood is based on the holy blood of God being shed for his people. He has the power to instantly remove sin. And he removes our sin as far as east is from west. It's not the blood of the animals, you see. It's the blood that has power to take away sin. To take it away from God Himself And it's the blood of this high priest, and the blood and his life that is the basis for our justification, to be declared righteous. in the sight of God, and it's the basis for our sanctification to be made holy progressively in his sight. Now because of these two facts, and I'm I'm not almost done, but I'm getting there. Because of these two facts, these two realities, these two impress upon your mind, you've got boldness to enter into God's presence. at any time because you've got a great high priest unlike anything else ever existed in Jesus Christ. Keep that in your mind, keep it in your heart. But don't now miss the connection that the writer of Hebrews made with those facts as to how they must, and I say must, impact the believer's life. And that's where the title of the sermon came from, Let Us. Because I saw four let us in the text. That flow in verses 22 through 25. This is how believers are to live. Let us draw near with a full heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. And our bodies washed with pure waters. Don't take the route of the old man when you have a problem with God, when you have sinned. Don't run away. You need to come to him. You need to believe that he is there and he's a merciful God. And you will sin. I remember my my wife were here, she would laugh as well, but in my pastorate in Austin We were in a Bible study. We had this wonderful lady in the church who at the time was about 75 years old. She was the daughter of a A Southern Presbyterian pastor who was a home missionary of all things. He planted new churches. And we're in a Bible study one day, and we finished the Bible study, and as always, we had prayer requests. And so one of the men in the church offered a prayer request. I pray that we no longer that we don't sin. And this little gray-haired old lady, she was hunched over at the time. She looked up and she spoke up and said For how long? Deadly serious. Deadly true. We are going to sin. We would like to gain victory over sin, even as that man's prayer was so well-meaning. But we're not going to in this life. That's something that awaits glory. But that isn't a reason not to strive with the Spirit's help. Let us draw near with a full heart and full assurance of faith Let us, verse 23, let us hold faith the profession of our excuse me, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. For it is He, for He is faithful. That promised. Oh, there are many things that can get us to waver. Circumstances. What we see with our eyes That rotten co-worker who stabbed you in the back in order to get ahead. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. Let us believe. Again, God providentially orders all things for his good and for his glory. Hard thing to do sometimes. Verse 24 and verse 25, two more lettuces. Again, I'll probably go back and go over these some more in detail, but I just want to point them out. Let us consider one another. Verse 24. God, I thought my Christian faith was just about me and you. Well, there's some truth to that But it ain't the whole truth. It's about each other. It's about God having a people It's about Christ having a body, over whom he is the head of the body. It's about the Spirit giving gifts to the body of Christ. So that they might mutually encourage and comfort one another. Interesting way of saying it. Let us consider one another to provoke one another unto love and unto good works. Various translations and uh provoke is a rather uh strong word, but It also can be translated stimulate, and that's how some of you may have it translated. I also found it interesting that it can be translated irritate. Irritate. Irritate one another unto love and good works. We could use some more irritation, I think. The Christian Church could use some more irritation on these things But here comes the last lettuce. Number twenty verse twenty-five. Not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together. Entering um not forsaking the assembling The word assembling there in Greek is ace-sunagoge. You may have picked up a word there if you listened. Ace-sunagoge. Synagogue, which in Greek is translated, gather together And it soon obviously became the place, a place, a place where The Jews previously and the New Testament Christians began to gather together. I'm struck by the fact that the writer of Hebrews, when he talks about not forsaking the assembly, uses a word That very clearly would communicate to the people in who are listening, very clearly communicate their responsibility to gather together And probably, most probably, the responsibility to gather together in, for lack of a better word, the building. Call it fellowshipping, call it The building, the place of fellowship, call it the place of communion, call it the place of the synagogue, or call it the place of the church. Do not forsect the assembling of yourselves together, as is the manner of some, even then, you see. Some in that New Testament community were struggling with the importance of being connected to the local body of the church. But exhort one another, exhort paracole, comfort, encourage, the Holy Spirit's activity is described as the paraclete. So much the more as you see the day approaching. Now, I just want to make this point. I did not know, and I did not appreciate, and I did not see that this last lettuce sounds like a salad I'm building here this last lettuce is um Is intimately connected to the previous material We remember we have boldness to enter the Holy of Holies because of the work of Christ. That boldness he has consecrated for us through the veil that is to say his flesh. This is what Christ has done. We have this boldness But you cannot take your life as a Christian and neglect the assembly of the saints. You see, this I've always seen this as a proof text for the need for the church. I never connected in my own thinking the idea that it's because of what Jesus has accomplished that the church exists and is essential Not just I one time heard a seminary professor, and I was young and naive, I heard him say, church is a voluntary organization. And I have chafed at that ever since. The right fellowship of the Lord Jesus Christ is the place where God's people need It's essential because we all need to be stimulated, provoked, irritated to love and good works. And we especially need to be doing that, exhorting one another to remain faithful as the day approaches. And I suspect that that day has to do with judgment. judgment and the kinds of things that we're going to experience and go through in this world as Christians until that day comes. God bless you with these words. Amen. Our Heavenly Father, bless us now, we pray, with uh your Spirit's help to bring these words to our hearts and to profit, Lord, our spiritual lives so, Lord, that we might serve you effectively. And ultimately, Lord, even though our lives will be uh receive the benefit of the gifts which you have given to each other, Lord, ultimately it is for your glory. And we do so want to give you all the glory, even with our lives. For in so doing we reflect the image of Christ. God have mercy upon us. God help us, we pray. Amen.