If you would turn your copy of God's Word now to Joshua, we'll continue our study there tonight in chapter 9. I believe that's on page two hundred and eighteen of your a few Bibles. And we'll read the whole chapter tonight The uninspired title in this particular Bible is The Gibeonite Deception. Let's listen to the very word of God. As soon as all the kings who were beyond the Jordan in the hill country and in the lowland, all along the coast of the Great Sea toward Lebanon, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites heard of this They gathered together as one to fight against Joshua and Israel. But when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and to Ai, they on their part acted with cunning and went and made ready provisions and took worn out sacks for their donkeys and wineskins, worn out and torn and mended With worn-out patched sandals on their feet and worn out clothes. And all their provisions were dry and crumbly. They went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal and said to him and the men of Israel, We have come from a distant country, so now make a covenant with us. But the men of Israel said to the Hivites, Perhaps you live among us. Then how can we make a covenant with you? They said to Joshua, We are your servants. And Joshua said to them, Who are you? And where do you come from? They said to him, From a very distant country, your servants have come because of the name of the Lord your God. For we have heard a report of him and all that he did in Egypt, and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to Shion. the king of Heshbon, and to Ag the king of Bashan, who lived in Ashtaroth. So our elders and all the inhabitants of our country, said to us, Take provisions in your hand for the journey, and go to meet them, and say to them, We are your servants Come now, make a covenant with us. Here is our bread. It was still warm when we took it from our houses. This is our food for the journey on the day we set out to come to you. But now, behold, it is dry and crumbly. These wineskins were new when we filled them, and behold, they have burst. And these garments and sandals of ours are worn out from the very long journey. So the men took some of their provisions, but did not ask counsel from the Lord. And Joshua made peace with them and made a covenant with them to let them live. And the leaders of the congregation swore to them. At the end of three days after they had made a covenant with them, they heard that they were their neighbors, and that they lived among them. And the people of Israel set out and reached their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, Chaferah, Birath, and Kirith Jirim. But the people of Israel did not attack them, because the leaders of the congregation had sworn to them by the Lord, the God of Israel. Then all the congregation murmured against the leaders, but the leader said to all the congregation, We have sworn Sworn to them by the Lord, the God of Israel, and now we may not touch them. This we will do to them. Let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath that we swore to them. And leaders said to them, Let them live, so they became cutters of wood and drawers of water for all the congregation, just as the leaders had said to them. Joshua summoned them, and he said to them, Why did you deceive us, saying, We are very far from you when you dwell among us? Now therefore you are cursed, and some of you shall never be anything but servants, cutters of wood, and drawers of water for the house of my God. They answered Joshua, because it was told to your servants for a certainty that the Lord your God had commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you. So we feared greatly for our lives because of you and did this thing. And now, behold, we are in your hand. Whatever seems good and right in your sight to do to us, do it. So he did this to them and delivered them out of the hand of the people of Israel, and they did not kill them. But Joshua made them that day cutters of wood and drawers of water for the congregation and for the altar of the Lord to this day, in the pla in the place that he should choose. Let's follow in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated Would you pray with me? Father and our God, I thank you for this passage. This is part of the history of redemption, part of your work. Redeeming a people for yourself. And now, Holy Spirit, we pray, open this passage to us. That we may see the truths, your truths, your absolute truth, and that you would apply it to our hearts tonight. Open our hearts, Father. Have your way with us. Guide us, direct us, mold us, shape us as you would have us to be. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we read that portion tonight about the the rich young ruler. And if you were listening, you heard him ask that question, teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life? That was his desire. From all that we can tell, the rich young ruler had everything the world could offer to him, and he comes to Jesus. And ask that question because that was his desire, that was on his heart, what must I do to live forever, to have eternal life? And so as we read down that passage, Jesus tells him, Well, you must keep the commandments. He asks that question which ones, and and Jesus gives him the first table. Excuse me, the second table actually. All the commandments dealing with our relationship with other people. And the rich young ruler says, Yeah, I've done all that. What else? What do I still lack? He says, Go sell your possessions, give to the poor, and come follow me. And as we read tonight, the rich young ruler goes away sorrowful because he had so many possessions The idea is that following Jesus was just too much. Submitting to Jesus was beyond the rich young rulers. desire that day. And in a sense, that brings us to our passage tonight in Joshua. The people of God have been led through the wilderness. Now they're in the promised land, and we know that they are conquering, they are driving the inhabitants out. The walls of Jericho have fallen down. The commander of the Lord's army is with the people of God, leading them into battle. destroying Jericho and after they've sinned with regard to taking some of the banned things and have been defeated in a sense by AI on the second attempt As they remove the banned things from the camp, they're successful. They defeat AI. It's burned completely. And so the battle is raging, the battle is continuing, and we get to this spot, and the Israelites. Siege, so to speak, of the promised land, the Gibeonite deception. It seems to be a bit of a blip on the screen of the conquering of the Promised Land. In the midst of this continuing battle, we see this deception occurring and the Israelites entering into covenant with a people that they never should have entered into covenant with. As we see it, we have to wonder why it's here, why the Israelites were so deceived. Why they broke God's law on entering into covenant and how it is that these Gibeonites were allowed to live. We might sum everything up here in Joshua chapter 9 this way. Eternal life, which is desired by all. Necessarily includes surrender to the Lord Jesus Christ as Lord of your life. Eternal life, which is desired by all, necessarily includes surrender to Jesus Christ as Lord of your life. We'll see that tonight in three doctrines, three points. First, the hunger for life is universal. Secondly, the desire for guidance is erratic. And finally, the thirst for surrender is rare. So you go through this passage tonight. I'd like you to be asking yourself this question, what will I do? to live. What will I do to live? It's a simple question But I think this passage answers that for us. Well, first, the hunger for life is universal. We have to understand the backdrop to this Gibeonite deception. Why did it occur? What were they doing? And we can answer that question, I think, very simply by saying it was the desire for life. This passage, this chapter is centered upon the desire for life. We see it in the first verse, in the first two verses, as these kings desired to battle to wage war against Israel. As soon as all the kings who were beyond the Jordan in the hill country in the lowland uh all along the coast of the Great Sea toward Lebanon and we name them Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, Jebuzites, when they heard of this, meaning when they heard of Israel's victories over Jericho, over Ai. They gathered together as one to fight against Joshua and Israel. They become known. Their battle victories, their resounding victories, the destruction of Jericho, the destruction of Ai, the complete ruin of these cities These kings of the surrounding nations heard of it, and now they come seeking to fend off the further attacks into their nations, into their countries, into their kingdoms by the Israelites They've heard of this complete annihilation of these two cities, and they believe by joining together that they're going to be able to defeat this invading nation. They desire life. Isn't that it? Isn't that why they're going to battle? They desire victory, yes, but to achieve victory through their own strength, through their own power. by the use of worldly weapons coupled with the might of many warriors, these kings believe that they continue to grasp life. That was their desire, that was their longing. That was their purpose in seeking to wage war against the people of God. But they failed to recognize the power of God. Isn't that the that what stands behind the Gibeonite deception, the power of God? Listen to the words of the Gibeonites as they speak to Joshua. They said to him, From a very distant country, your servants have come. Why? Because of the name of the Lord your God. For we have heard a report of him and all that he did. It's because they they know who God is and what he's done. That's different than the kings. They both desire life, but the Gibeonites are doing it in a different way Hear their desire to live. They're convicted that there's no possible chance of victory against the Israelites. And in a sense, they know that the Israelites are being led by the commander, the captain of the army of God. And so while both desire life, both the kings of those various nations and the Gibeonites It is those from Gibeon who shrink before the hand of God and seek to find a way to live before Him. It reveals a universal longing or hunger for continued life, doesn't it? We see it in Hezekiah. If you remember, King Hezekiah was told that he was going to die. That it was coming soon. As Isaiah the prophet tells him, thus says the Lord, set your house in order, for you shall die, you shall not recover. What does Hezekiah do? Praise. Praise to the Lord. Remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness with a whole heart and have done what is good in your sight, and he weeps bitterly. Hezekiah desired to live. We see it in the rich young rulers. He comes to Jesus Christ. What good deed must I do to have eternal life? He has worldly riches. He's missing something. He knows that he wants to live. God has set eternity in the hearts of men. Ecclesiastes 3. He has put eternity into man's heart. Of course he has. Everyone, every man, woman, and child have been made in the image of God. And God is eternal. He's impressed his image upon you. And if he has impressed his image upon you, then you desire life. Because he's a living God. And he's the eternal God. With that longing, that hunger for life. Death, then, is what the Gibeonites were moved to avoid. To sidestep. It's as if death is a train coming directly at them, and they seek to just let me get out of the way of this train of death But they had a problem. They were sinners. They lived in a nation of sinners. They were surrounded by sinners, and we know that sin leads to death And we also know that God was moving these sinners out of the promised land. Isn't that the picture we have? As the Israelites continue moving through the land, they're moving sinners out of the land. Death was what was being represented as the Israelites were defeating the enemies of God. In other words, moving them out of the promised land. The only place At least this is what it represented. The only place where there would be eternal life. That's what the Promised Land was representing. And the Gibeonites wanted to stay. They wanted to stay there where there would be eternal life. And so they lied. They deceived. They lied their way into staying in the promised land. You have the same hunger for life, don't you? And you have the same problem Sin. Yes. Of course. Isn't eternal life on your heart? Yes, of course it is. And death is the opposite of eternal life. And death comes by and through our sin. So what can you do? It's certainly not fighting God. That didn't work well for Jericho or Ai or the kings of this passage. You can't fight God. And it's not by lying or trying to deceive your way into the kingdom. How are you going to deceive the one who guards the gate to heaven? The only way is by listening to the voice of God. Did you hear it in this passage? It occurs three times. Look at verse 20. This we will do to them. Let them live. Let them live In one sense, that's exactly what the Father says to the son, isn't it? Let those sinners live. Let those sinners live. Those who are my children, let them live. See, that's exactly what Jesus Christ came to do. That's what his earthly father was told. Joseph! Son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. For he will save his people from their sins. Jesus didn't come to judge the world, but to save the world. John chapter 12 And as the jailer saw that the doors had been opened wide, that the chains had fallen off his prisoners, he's ready to kill himself. Paul and Silas call out to him and tell him to turn the lights on. So he can see that none of the prisoners have left. And the jailer says, asks that question, sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they answer him: Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved. To listen to the voice of God, who sent his son. to save his children from death and to give them eternal life. See, it's like the prodigal son, isn't it? The one who had everything and left his home and squandered all of his inheritance on reckless living. And then as he comes to himself, a picture of coming to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, he says, How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, but if I perish I will perish here with hunger. I will arise and go to my father and say to him, Father, I've sinned against heaven and before you I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your servants. She's exactly what the Gibeonites said to Joshua. Treat us as one of your servants. Their desire to live was so great that they said to Joshua, treat us as your servants. So that we may stay here in the Promised Land and live. That brings us to our second point, our second truth, that the desire for guidance is erratic, meaning it's not consistent. The author spends much time describing the preparations and the appearances of the Gibeonites. That's part of the deception, isn't it? In fact, it is the deception. In contrast to the kings, the Gibeonites acted with cunning. That's an interesting word used by the author. Now, we might think that it was a negative word, cunning. But I actually think that what the author is saying to us is, no, they were wise at what they were doing. Cunning, as Webster defines it, is knowing, skillful, experienced, well instructed, cunning. And so they sought life through this deception, not by fighting, as the kings were about to do. They knew they believed that an earthly battle would result in death, not life, and so their cunning, which is so significant to us, their knowing, their skill They went and made provisions. They took worn out sacks excuse me, worn out and torn mended, worn out patched sandals, worn out clothes Wineskins that had burst, crumbly bread, all to convince the Israelites that they were from a far-off land. Outright lies and untruths. We've come from a distant country. Now make a covenant with us. Now the Israelites weren't convinced immediately, were they? No, I mean the appearance the appearance was significant, but now they question, perhaps you live among us Who are you? Where are you from? This questioning by Joshua seems to indicate that he was remembering, knowing that the Israelites were not permitted to enter into covenant with certain people, those who were near. God had said in Exodus chapter 23, as recorded by Moses, I will send hornets before you, which shall drive out the Hivites. These people were Hivites And God had already told them, I'm going to drive them out. Joshua knew that. And yet the Israelites continued to listen, not only to hear, but they listened to the words. Of the Gibeonites from a very distant country, your servants have come, verses nine, because of the name of the Lord your God. Our elders, verse 11, said to us, Take provisions for the journey. Verse 12: here's our bread. It was still warm when we took it from our houses as our food for the journey. And finally in verse 13, and these garments and sandals of ours are worn out from the very long journey. Four times. From verses 9 to 13, they reference, we're from very far away, a long journey we have taken. Believe us. And so how do we know that these lies, these false words, the feigned appearance were convincing Verse 14. So the men, referring to the Israelites, took some of their provisions, but did not ask counsel from the Lord. And Joshua made peace with them. Clearly, it seemed plain to the Israelites We've investigated the matter. We've seen the appearance. We've heard their words, and we conclude that they're telling the truth A bit like what happened in the garden. As Eve is listening to Satan, to the serpent, you will not surely die. See, the question of life or death was taken away by the serpent. You will not surely die. She's listening to him. And once that happened for Eve There was no need to consider or seek counsel from God. The lies, the falsehoods of Satan were persuasive. The situation with the forbidden fruit was no longer dire. And now that allowed Eve, from her deceived perspective, to use her unfettered, unrestrained human reason and wisdom to determine whether she should have the forbidden fruit. You see, it's exactly what Satan did. He took that away. You will not surely die. And what does she do? The fruit looked good. It was good for food. It was the delight of the eyes. It was desired to make one wise. And so she uses her reason without consulting God. Just like the Israelites, just like the men who did not ask counsel from the Lord. Indeed, the Israelites enter into pure disobedience and make a covenant with them And God had said that he will drive out the Hivites. God had said, I will give the inhabitants of the land into your hand. You shall make no covenant with them. That's exactly what Joshua did. See, outward appearances may not be what they seem to be In other words, outward appearances may deceive us. Isn't that what what Paul was telling the elders from Ephesus? Look Ravenous wolves will be raised up from within you. They will look like sheep, but they're actually wolves. You have to be watching for them. Their appearances will be deceptive. The forbidden fruit looked good. The appearance of the Gibbonites was convincing. They spent quite a bit of time developing their appearance. Their words were persuasive. But they didn't ask counsel from the Lord. Their seeking counsel from God was erratic It wasn't consistent and we see it here in this particular passage. They use their eyes, but not prayer. They used their ears in hearing the words of men, but didn't seek the words of God. They failed to seek the wisdom and counsel of God as they relied upon their human wisdom, their human reason. They failed to consult and review and rehearse the Word of God. Are there times when you do the same? Are there times when things, when appearances seem so plain that it's not necessary to go to the throne of grace? If Jesus Christ is truly the Lord of your life There's really no time that you should not go to him. In which things are so plain, appearances are so clear to you that you should not seek his wisdom and his counsel. Because his wisdom is perfect. He knows everything. Why would you not go to him? Brothers and sisters, our God and Father is always ready to hear from you. He never sleeps, he never slumbers. He desires his children to constantly come before him. That seems to be the call tonight, one of them. Don't be erratic. Don't be inconsistent. Be consistent. Seek the face of God in all things. Brings us to our third point. The thirst for surrender is rare. Well, the Gibeonites were enslaved. That seems to be the end of the passage. The leader said to them, verse 21, Let them live. So they became cutters of wood, drawers of water for all the congregation, just as the leaders had said of them. The interesting thing is that that was the Gibeonite desire. Our elders and all the inhabitants of our country said, Take provisions in your hand for the journey. Go meet them and say to them, We are your servants. The whole country said to these representatives, go talk to them, and this is what we want you to say to them first. We are your servants. Come now make a covenant with us. Now even when Joshua presses them, and after they find out, after the Israelites know, okay You're actually not from a far land. You've lied to us. You've deceived us. We've entered into a covenant with you based upon your lies. Answer me, why did you do this? Because it was told to your servants for certainty that the Lord your God had commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy the inhabitants. So we feared. And now behold, we are in your hand. Whatever seems good and right in your sight to do to us, do it. That's their desire. They don't run. They don't say, We've been found out. We're leaving now. We're in your hand. Whatever seems good and right in your sight to do to us, do it. The Givingites were saved. They had accomplished their heart's desire to continue living. But did you notice that they do it as slaves? As servants to the one nation they knew and understood that they could not defeat in a military victory. They survive To live in submission to the one who is all-powerful. Just think of that for a moment. Let that sink in. From a human perspective, the Gibeonites were giving up their freedom, or more likely, their independence, to live under the hand of the Israelites. Choosing not to fight, but to submit as slaves to the rule of the Israelites. That's what happened. And it provides for us a wonderful picture. And you may be thinking, how is that possible? How could this picture of becoming a slave be characterized as wonderful? Because it's a picture of living As a slave or as a servant or in submission, in complete submission to Jesus Christ Isn't that the call by Jesus to the Christian, to the believer? If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. Deny yourself. That's the first in those steps, isn't it? If we think of them as steps. Deny yourself. Isn't that what the Gibeonites were doing? Denying themselves? Denying their independence, denying their autonomy. Deny yourself. Take up your cross. The Gimeites had just foisted upon themselves to become woodcutters and haulers of water. They were taking that burden upon themselves willingly And follow me. That's the call to submit, isn't it? That's the call to become a slave. It's the call to live in subjection or submission to the will of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what's meant in our vow, the OPC vow Fourth vow, do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as your sovereign Lord? And do you promise that in reliance on the grace of God you will serve Him with all that's in you? It's exactly what's what you're vowing in the fourth vow as you come to membership in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Jesus Christ becoming the Lord of your life. It means that Jesus is the one who's directing, who's guiding, who's leading every step of your life. Consider the Gibeonites. What freedom did they have within the camp of Israel? None Every moment, every action, every event in their lives were scripted. They were slaves, not seeking to do their own will, but seeking to do the will of the Israelites day by day, hour by hour. Is that your desire? Is that your desire? Is that what you thirst after? If you were to have asked the Gibeonites, is this what you long for as they were cutting wood or hauling water? They probably would have said no. And that's why it's such a great picture, because we're not able to dig into the minds of the Gibeonites Their desire was to live, and they saw this as the way that they could live in submission. That's the very image that they present to us One of a willing slave. And that's Jesus' call, isn't it? In one sense it's a voluntary call, you but you might be thinking, well, when he calls me to faith, it's no longer voluntary. Okay, I agree with that. But it's a voluntary call. Certainly, if you don't believe, if you don't come to saving faith in Jesus Christ, that is a sin punishable by death. Yes, we know that, but Jesus doesn't force you to submit to him Listen to it again. Follow me. It's an invitation. It's an invitation to submit. It's an invitation to put your life into his hands. It's an invitation to call him Lord of your life. Do you desire that? Do you thirst for that? It is rare. And we know it only comes by the work of the Spirit. Has He worked that in you? Do you long for Jesus Christ to be your Lord? Such that every day you wake up and say, Lord, how would you like me to serve you today? How can I labor in your kingdom in a way that's pleasing in your sight? Take my heart, mold it, shape it, change it, so that my service would be pleasing to you. Are those your waking words? You see, it's rare because of our fallen nature, isn't it? As those who've been completely and wholly affected by the fall from grace, our inclination is to say, No, I don't want to submit to anybody. Our inclination is to say, I don't want to serve anyone else, I want to serve myself. And we're not merely reluctant to serve another, we wage war against it, just like those kings who said, no, no, you can't come in here, we're going to fight to keep you out. They loved their supposed independence and freedom from the living God. Brothers and sisters, if you know Christ tonight, you know that it's a privilege to serve Him. You know that it's a joy to say, not my will, but yours be done To live under the kingship, the headship of the Lord Jesus Christ is a joy. It takes all the pressure off of you, doesn't it? If you're living in submission to the Lord Jesus Christ, there's no pressure Only the joy of knowing that the king is perfect in his guiding, in his directing, in his counsel, and in his wisdom. Isn't that what Isaiah wrote? For I love For for I the Lord love justice. That's who you're serving. The one who loves justice, the one who is exalted in justice, the holy God shows himself holy in righteousness, that's Jesus Christ. And that's who you're submitting to. The one who's all powerful. And the one who loves you. With a love that's inexpressible, that is so deep, so wide, so broad, that he would go to the cross for you, that he would shed his blood for you. That's the one that you're submitting to. Have you become that slave? Have you become that servant? Has the Holy Spirit worked so powerfully in your heart that you that you can think of nothing else other than serving Jesus Oh, that that would be our prayer, our constant prayer. That the Holy Spirit would continue breaking down any and all opposition that we have to serving Jesus Christ. And that we would become those completely willing, loving, submissive servants of Jesus Christ. Yes, eternal life, which is desired by all, necessarily includes surrender. To Jesus Christ as Lord of your life. That day the rich young ruler declined to follow Jesus. He declined to submit, to become enslaved to Jesus for life. But by and through the work of the Spirit. We can become those who long, who hunger, who thirst after serving Jesus Christ. Amen. Heavenly Father We ask even now that you'd help us to be like the Gibeonites, not fighting, but recognizing Your power, your mercy, your grace. And that you would continue, Father, working that spirit of submission In our hearts. We know that we were fallen with Adam. We know that it is our inclination to seek our own independence. Father, we pray that you'd continue breaking down that wall, that wall of independence where we try to keep Keep our kingship of our own lives. Help us, Lord, to become those whole and complete, willing, loving Servants and slaves of Jesus Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen.