Continue to stand and open your Bibles to First Corinthians chapter one as we continue our study in the book of Corinthians written by the Apostle Paul Remember that Corinth was a city in Greece, not too far from Athens, and Paul conducted an extensive ministry there. And wrote two epistles to the church. This is the first. I'm going to back up to verse 18 and begin reading there, and I'll continue reading through verse 31. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness of preaching. Excuse me, through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For Jews request a sign. And Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews of stumbling block, and to Greeks foolishness. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world. To put to shame the things that are mighty and the base things of the world and the things which are despised, God has chosen. And the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. That no flesh should glory in his presence But of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That as it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Thus far ends the reading of God's word. Please be seated. In the uh the verses uh twenty-six through thirty-one, which is the text for this morning The Apostle Paul reveals in these verses a substantial reason For God choosing some to eternal life in Jesus Christ before the foundation of the world. From elsewhere in the Bible, we learn a few other lessons or a few other reasons for what we term, commonly term Our election in Christ Jesus, the idea that God chose sinners to be the beneficiaries of Jesus' work before the foundation of the world And of course that is what Ephesians chapter one, verse four, says And since other places of the Scripture, such as Romans 3:10 through 12, teach this. There is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. Since we have that kind of passage among many that makes it clear that we have no innate goodness in us And certainly not enough goodness to save ourselves. We should be thankful that God does choose some. For if he didn't, none of us could lay a claim to eternal life So one reason why God has desired to choose some to eternal life In Christ Jesus is because we are totally influenced by sin. Now that of course doesn't mean that every person is as bad as everybody else. When theologians use the phrase totally influenced They mean that all aspects of our composition as a human being has been compromised by sin and has been overcome and overtaken by sin. We can't think right things about God. We can't believe The things that the Scripture has to say about God. Our hearts do not wish to follow God's way. We want to go our own way. Our minds and our hearts are compromised. And we're inclined to sin. And never inclined to God. Not the God of the Bible. Many other gods, but not this God So again, we should say thank you, God. Thank you for lifting me out of that Situation. And that's the situation which everybody else without Jesus is in. And that's why the world is in such peril and turmoil today. Because we're working out the impact of our sin as we relate to other people and to other countries and other nations. Now, God also had another reason why he chose us before the foundation of the world in Christ. One is because we're totally impacted by sin. Two As Ephesians 1 verse 4 says, so that we might be holy and blameless in his sight. He chose us in Christ in order to make us holy and blameless before God. Now, you have to go to the rest of the scripture to understand how that holiness gets applied to our account. But trust me, it does. It's a two-step process, one in which God declares us righteous on the basis of faith in Jesus. and the other in which the Holy Spirit is continually working in our lives to transform us into the image of the Son of the Lord Jesus Christ. To give him, to give us the mindset of Christ. And the values of Christ, to give us the heart of Christ, to want to be a servant of God instead of serving ourselves. It's much more complicated than that, but that's the bare bones outline of things. Now we come to our text this morning And in the text, we look at verse 29. And there we find a third reason why God Chooses or why he calls sinners to himself. And that is described and taught in verse 29 that no flesh should glory in his presence. Now, flesh there has to be a word that represents humanity or human existence in this particular case. In today's world, in the world in which you live, in the world in which I live, which everybody lives, People are adept at praising their ability, their abilities, and also their status in life. This is the world of sinful men. People like to toot their own horn, as the phrase goes. Now we don't always do that. Social conventions uh uh decl uh encourage us to back off a little bit. But when we're thinking about our connection to God If we think we have a connection with God, we are inclined to think that we're not all that bad. That we're not all that totally impacted by sin. That surely Surely there is such good in us, and that there's a spark of the divine in us. All we gotta do is find it. All we gotta do is turn it on. All we gotta do is enough good things So that they'll balance out all of our bad things and God will have to choose us because of all the good that we've done. That's how people think But it's wrong. It's not how the Bible teaches. You see, when God says to us that there is none righteous, no not one, oh my golly, do we not like that? Oh my! Do we re- reject that? And you know what we do is we say, he's got to be talking about somebody other than me. Everybody else is is bad, but not me. I'm not as bad as that dude down the street who just robbed the bank Isn't that right? Isn't that what we do? We compare ourselves. We compare ourselves. That's one of the things we do. Make ourselves look good. You know, we've been doing this since day one. Since Adam and Eve took the forbidden fruit. When God asks, what did you do? Adam looks at Eve and he says, She gave it to me. It's her fault. Not not mine. When the text clearly declares that that Adam did it deliberately. Eve was deceived. But nevertheless, it's her fault. And Eve, you know, and Eve Well, and Eve responds, well, the serpent did it. The serpent gave it to me. And ultimately Adam says, he adds to it, he says God? It was the woman you gave me. You get it? We blame God We blame God for our predicament. We just won't admit that we're sinful. That we're totally, as Romans chapter 3 puts it, there's none righteous, no, not one. In God's sight, there's none righteous, no, not one. You might be righteous in everybody else's sight. But it doesn't matter. They're not the one judging you. Okay. Let's see how Paul identifies those, first of all, in our text, whom God brings to eternal life in Christ. Look at verse 26. For ye see your calling, brethren, that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called UC an imperative statement. It's not just UC, it's look Okay, Corinthians, look around you. Look at men. Look at men in the church. Look at men outside the church. And note this fact. See your calling, brethren, that not many men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. Remember, I talked about choice, God's choosing before the foundation of the world. Choosing and calling are slightly different words, but they move in the same orbit. They move in the orbit of choice, God's foreknowledge, God's predestination, God's election, God's calling. Sinners, you see or you see, brethren, your c your calling Look to the importance of that word calling. And he's asking the Corinthian brothers and sisters to think about that calling. Your calling. Your calling from God. Look at each other. Look to yourself. And look to the calling that called you to saving faith in Christ. And he says, if you look to yourself, you can pretty much readily look at yourself and see not many of you Were wise, not many of you were powerful or mighty, not many of you were of noble status But you were born again. You were born again through God's calling. That means that God is the one who determines who comes to Him and who does not. Right? And he does it through this thing called calling. And I don't care if you want to substitute there the word chosen or election or predestination foreknowledge, they're all pointing to the same thing. that God is the one who determines who it is who has eternal life in Christ. And if you want a couple of choice passages to look at to demonstrate this is a truth of God's word. Ephesians 1 verse 4 is the one that we often quote, according as he has chosen us in him, that in him is a reference to Jesus. Jesus contextually. He has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before him. 2 Timothy 1, verse 9, maybe even just as potent a passage. Who hath saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works. Not according to our ability to do good things, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. And there's two passages, you see? 1 Ephesians 1. 4 2 Timothy 2, 1 through 9, both of which accent the idea that God calls or God chooses people to eternal life. Even before you existed. Not only even before you existed, but before the world existed. God has made this choice. And the world runs around, they said, oh my God, that's not fair. How can it be that God would do such a thing? Well, a lot of the problem is due to us because of sin. But God did not arbitrarily assign salvation to some and not to others without paying an awful price himself. The awful price was Jesus. You're chosen in him before the foundation of the world Jesus incarnated in the flesh, the second person of the Trinity. who ever existed, who existed with God from the beginning of the world. Jesus was put was was uh condemned to death the minute God determined to save you. Do you get that? Do you understand that? That's what the Bible is saying. Okay? That's what it's teaching We get the same thought put forward in Romans chapter 8, verses 29 and 30, where it teaches for whom he did foreknew, he also predestinated to be conformed. to his bret uh to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover Whom he did predestinate, them he called. And whom he called, them he justified. And whom he justified, them he glorified. Once again. Moving in the same orbit, around the same thought of salvation are such important ideas as calling, election, foreknowledge, predestination. God is the one who makes the choice. So As God was d addressing the Corinthian Christians, he says, look at your brothers and sisters. Look around you. Look at them. They're here worshiping me because I called them in Christ before the foundation of the world. And you see, if that's the case, then we must all grapple with the fact that nothing anyone did influenced God's calling. Because we weren't even around. And that's what's called unconditional election If you're a believer in Christ, all praise and glory goes to Him, to God. You cannot boast in yourself And it's not warranted because you did nothing. You didn't even exist. You couldn't do anything because you didn't exist When the triune God determined the call sum. It's God's choice Calling is in Christ. It's before the foundation of the world. No human existed then, and therefore no human had a part, and no human can boast. Because you're saved by God, God's determined plan. Now, also part of verse 26 God speaks of those whom he has not chosen. He says Not many wise men after the flesh. Not many mighty, not many noble are called. See that? Three categories. Three times in a half a verse, he says, not many. Now that doesn't mean that God is saying, no one who is wise, no one who is mighty, no one who is noble can be called. Just says not many. But some are. Okay? Some are. But just because a person is a great philosopher, or a mighty warrior, or leader, or has great status and wealth, just because they possess those things are not automatic qualifiers to gaining salvation. God has called and chosen some in these categories, but not many An unbeliever who has much worldly wisdom or great powerful leadership or wealth and status may wrongly think But these things somehow influence God's choosing them for eternal life. And that is a great mistake. Because it isn't what the scriptures say. That's why it's wrong. God's calling is not even due to any greatness or goodness he foresees in us. God's choice is unconditional and based solely in the confines of his mind. Now, some of you may be very uneasy at this point, and if you are Don't be mad at me. I'm bringing the message. And it's a message the Bible says over and over. and over again. The problem is people hate it so much they cannot stand it They cannot desire this idea. But their hatred doesn't negate what the word says. All flesh If they're in these categories or if they're not in these categories. Despise this teaching. Called choice predestination election foreknowledge But if it is the case that the not yet, but since it is the case that the Scripture teaches this, it can only mean that God is the one receiving Responsible for your salvation. And therefore, only He can be praised. There's a line in a movie that I like a lot. Maybe some of you have seen it called Rudy. Those of you who've seen it, remember there's a time in his life where things are not going well, and he's wondering, why is God doing this to me? And he comes to the priest. And he at Notre Dame and he speaks the same question, why, and the priest brings this line that I think is appropriate here Because God is God, and I'm not Him. Look at Paul says, look at yourself, Corinthians, look at the world around you And understand that God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the mighty, the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen. And yes, the things that are not, to bring to naught the things that are. What is that saying? It's saying everything that the sin-praised world values. People in the world value wisdom. They do. That's why everybody turns to hawking about what the future of the world is, as opposed to looking at what the Bible says. Everything the sin-praised world values, wisdom, power, and influence Nobility, social stand, great social standing are left dumbfounded by the fact that God chooses The average, the oppressed, those without influence The rabble, the great unwashed, the despised, society's outcasts You hear it in the echoes of the things that the opponents of Jesus would say about him. Your Savior eats with tax collectors and whores and sinners. Or your Savior talks to a Samaritan woman Or your Savior heals a leper. Doesn't he have the good sense to avoid him? Or your Savior Jesus heals a blind beggar. When all the people around that man told him to shut up as Jesus passed by. All the men of greatness and high standing, the nobility, at that point in Jesus' time, the Pharisees the scribes, the chief priests, etc. , etc. , are made foolish by their opposition to God's culture. Of the people Christ saved and healed. Because you see, Jesus healed the weak, the oppressed, and the social Everything that the high priests The Pharisees, etc. , are considered valuable and worthy, God brought to naught. To nothing. God has chosen whoever he wills to receive eternal life. The scripture refers to them in verse 27 twice with the word base. The lowly, the insignificant, even the despised of the world. Why Why would God make this kind of discriminating choice? Why does he choose the foolish things? To confound the wise. Or the foolish things to confound the mighty God chose the weak. Why does God choose the weak to confound the great And strong. All the wise of the world, all the mighty, all the proud, all those of high station can understand Why God chooses the weak and the poor and the oppressed and the lepers and the sinners, the blind. But He doesn't seem to choose them They can't understand it. They hate it. And they despise Jesus. They despise his ministry. Why? Well you know. You know as well as I do. Their pride is hurt. Their pride Take it all together, one reason God elects such miserable people unto salvation. It's so that He makes the way of gaining salvation so unappealing To those God passes by, but they will never want to be saved on God's terms And instead, they will seal their own doom by following the gods they create in their mind. And bow down and worship to them. You know why they create gods in their own mind? You know why they must worship those gods Because fundamentally man knows he's a creature. And there is God And that's that's in our that's in our genes, it's in our minds, it's in our hearts. We cannot get away from it. from it. And if we are not going to take the God of the Bible, we will invent our own. And we will make him palatable to our wishes And we will bow down. And we will worship him. Or her or it. Idols of stone, idols of wood, precious jewels, whatever. We will worship it. And it will suck the spiritual life Out of all who follow after it. And they will think that they are so that they are saved, that they're going to heaven because they're such good worshipers of their God It's just fool doing such things. We'll see their foolishness Pray that it's before the Lord returns. Or pray that it's before you pass away. And you meet God face to face. And you don't have the blood of Jesus covering your sin. God wants all flesh to give glory to where it belongs. Belongs to Him. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And all who are chosen or called or elect, however you want to put it, we don't really have a whole lot of problem giving all the glory to God. Because we have been, by God's grace, convicted that we are sinners. And we cannot save ourselves. We see it. We can't escape it. We still struggle with it, even as the redeemed. It doesn't go away. It still bothers us from time to time. And we ask, God, deliver me, this wretched man that I am, deliver me from this bondage to sin. I do the things I don't want to do. The things I want to do, I don't do. Lord, deliver me. And we don't boast yet, but we will boast We will boast in glory. And our boasting will be for Jesus. Son of God. In heaven with Jesus, we will understand even more clearly and more perfectly the fullness of God's glory. Emanating all around his Son, Jesus. The same Jesus who died for you before the foundation of the earth. The same Jesus, the world of sinful men, despises. But you love him. Don't share. Let us pray. Mighty God, our Heavenly Father. Go before your message into the hearts of your people. And Lord, bring encouragement to your people. Because they realize that the mighty God has spoken. And what the mighty God has declared shall be For he who sent the Son to die for the sins of his people is the same one who has the power to effect all good things for his people And he will be with them throughout their life, promising eternal glory and fulfilling it. To those Lord today who are searching or Lord who are without hope. Father, we pray. But they will turn the scripture saying That they will meditate upon what the Scripture says. And that they will not turn, Lord, to their own way, but by your grace that you will draw them to yourself. Confirming that they are one of the children that you sent Jesus to die for That you chose in eternity before the foundation of the world. These things we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.