Continue now to stand and turn to Hebrews chapter eleven, verses eight through twelve. As we continue in our study in the book of Hebrews, we now come to the first of the two sections in Hebrews 11 that speak about Abraham. Hear now the Lord's word. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance. And he went out not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelt in the land of promise, as in a foreign land Dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him, of the same promise For he waited for the city, which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. By faith, Sarah herself also receives strength to conceive seed. And she bore a child when she was past the age, because she judged him faithful, who has promised. Therefore, from one man and him as good as dead were born as many as the stars in the sky in multitude, innumerable as the sand which is by the seashore Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated Well, you probably had a chance to look at the sermon title and wondered, what in the world does this have to do with this message? Let's just pick up and move to Zanesville, Ohio. This is surely the zaniest sermon title I've ever authored. And I'm sure I have there is no danger that anyone will ever plagiarize it. But imagine That your husband comes home one night and he announces at dinner, start packing because we're moving to Sainesville, Ohio in two weeks. And after everybody gets over the initial shock, can you imagine the barrage of questions and comments that begin to pelt dear old dad? Probably would start off, have you gone mad? What is in Zanesville? Where is Zanesville? Why Zanesville? And then the kids chime in. I don't want to leave my friends. I don't want to have to stop school in the middle of year and go to a new school. How are we going to get there? How far away is it? Mom looks at dad and says, You made this decision without consulting me? So Dad tries to respond while his brain has been battered from the machine gun-like attack. From all the of all the questions. But he starts off by saying it's a city in east-central Ohio. It's about 700 miles away. No, I don't have a job waiting for me there. And there's no house there. We have to find and buy one while we live In a trailer. By now everyone thinks that Dad belongs in this in an insane asylum. For deciding to do this ill-conceived idea. Everybody's in agreement this can come to no good. Now, to connect that to the text I think we all would have liked to have been in Abraham's house when he announced that his entire household was moving from his parents' home in Ur of the Chaldees. To a land that he didn't know where he was going. A land that was approxim wound up being approximately 700 miles away from his home. Obviously, you all know there was no GPS in those days This was a monumental undertaking. And according to Genesis 12 It is a move that was clearly commanded by God before Abraham. And it is Genesis chapter 12, which underlies the verses that we read today, particularly verses 8 through 10 of Hebrews chapter 11, which we have just read. Now, Abraham is one of those figures in the Bible that is a very key figure And you cannot underestimate his importance in the Bible, nor can you underestimate the centrality of Abraham to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is one of the individuals that every believer knows about, and every believer holds Abraham in very high esteem. Even some unbelievers hold Abraham in very high esteem, who know about him. He's at the human center of God's salvation plan. And the first sign of the faith of Abraham in God emerges In the Bible, in this move that he is going to be making from Ur of the Chaldees and the city of Haran, where his father lived. And so let's look for again at a few of the verses in Genesis chapter 12, and we'll be looking at that verse so you can keep your fingers in that area. And then we'll go back and forth between Hebrews 11. Here we hear God's call to Abraham. Verse 1 of Genesis 12: The Lord said unto Abraham, Get thee out of thy country, from thy kindred, from thy father's house, into a land that I will show thee. You know, right away, Abraham knows he's to get out, but he doesn't know where he's going right away. And I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee. I will make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee. And in thee all the families of the earth be blessed. And so Abraham departed as the Lord had said to him And Lot went with him, and Abraham was seventy-five years old. As w uh as the Lord, uh seventy-five years old when he left Haran. Abraham took Sarah, Lot's brother, and all their substance, all their materiations that they had. And the souls that they had gotten in Haran, and they went forth into the land of Canaan. Into the land of Canaan they came. So they went in the direction of Canaan. I assume the Lord God had after he delivered the shock had given additional information of basically where are you going, where you're going to go. And that uh as we look at this uh Genesis chapter 12 passage, we see uh that Abraham is has been spoken to by God, uh, but there are very few details. Only the bare outline of Abraham's conversation is recorded for us. Important questions are not answered. For example, how did Abraham know it was the Lord who spoke to him? And secondly, whether Abraham made any protests. But God clearly told Abraham to leave, Ur the Chaldees, the language is get out. There's no there's no uh there's no softening of the language. It's pretty pretty uh strong language. Get out of Ur. Leave your family Leave your father's house. Go to a land that I will show you As we think about those facts, we see that Abraham didn't even know at first his destination. He didn't know how long it would take him to get there He didn't know what he would find when he got there God gave Abraham no promise that he would ever see his family in Haran again if he went. And the very this the sheer magnitude of the logistics of making this move had to be quite incredible How do you plan to go somewhere where you don't know where you're going and you don't know how long it's going to take? If, you know, humanly speaking, you know, I would be thinking I'd take everything I got, because I might have to use it Of course, that makes the journey much longer, and the things you have to get ready to go with much uh delays your departure. There's uncertainty. Uncertainty on many different levels in making this this move And the questions are just out there. I I you know I don't I mean there's there isn't a highway patrol between uh between not there's not even a highway, let alone a highway patrol. Who's gonna keep pe who's gonna keep us safe? Who's gonna protect us? Where who's going to guide us? Many more questions than there are answers So why did Abraham make the move? Well, somebody said it. Hebrews 11 makes it clear. By faith. That's the first two words. And as I said previously, when we look at this whole entire section of Hebrews. You notice that that phrase by faith appears in every individual that God brings up. in this situation and all the things that they do. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go into the place which he should receive afterwards for an inheritance Obeyed. He went out not knowing where he was going He started the journey without a clear destination in mind without knowing his destination. I mean, seriously, who must go anywhere without punching in the GPS anymore To find out where we're going. But he doesn't. He goes. And he goes because of his faith. He obeys because of his faith. A faith which, as Hebrews 11:1 reminds us, is the substance of things hoped for. The evidence of things not seen. There was surely a lot. By faith he obeyed God and he went May I be so bold as to proclaim: all true faith is obedient faith. All true faith is obedient faith Faith in God. All true faith will involve us in obeying God and in trusting God. Obeying God and trusting God even more than we obey or trust ourselves. Trust ourselves, our desires, and our plans. That we cannot see why God wants us to do something or what the outcome will be This is how it intersects in our life. Though we cannot often see why God wants us to do something or what the outcome will be, we know God by the Holy Spirit will lead us. And that is enough for the believer in faith to act. All true faith must be acted upon. Now, God, it's true, softened the uncertainty associated with the move by proclaiming blessings. There's seven of them. Did you count them Genesis 12, verse 2, I will make you a great nation. I will bless you. I will make your name great. You shall be a blessing. I will bless them that bless you. I will curse them that curses you. And in you all the families of the world shall be blessed. Abraham would not obtain those promises if he didn't act in faith upon God's spoken word to him. Because Abraham knows that God alone knows all things. God alone makes promises he keeps. His faith is nurtured, and this is really important to understand, his faith is nurtured by an ongoing personal relationship with God. The God who encourages us to obey when he calls us. Faith is not static in terms of how we live our lives, it's dynamic. It's the kind of faith that believes, according to the Word of God, that God alone knows everything. God alone makes promises. He doesn't turn back on. He keeps his promises. Bible says it, but you've experienced it. That's the only way you're gonna fully know it. And it's the only way that's going, you know, like I said, it's a there's a relationship established by faith It's nurtured, it's developed, it's the Tory. God's calling to us as his people will never probably be as dramatic as it was to Abraham. But you can be certain that God will one day take you out of your comfort zone. He might ask you, for example, to stand on the street corner and share the gospel with others Or his Holy Spirit might prod you in the middle of a conversation with your neighbor to share with her the gospel of Christ because she needs to hear it. He may ask you, as he did me, go to seminary in Philadelphia. Or to go to Winter, South Dakota, to minister to a congregation there. Or to Austin, Texas, or to land in Maryland. Three of the four places I went to had people and cultures very different from those I grew up with. God may ask you, as he asked Reverend Tricarikal, to leave his successful ministry in Vienna, to share the gospel with the Karamajong in northwest Uganda. A people he described whose men go around naked with an AK-47 slung over their shoulder. But Al and other Christians go in faith because they know God is with them. It's not it it's not see it's not just knowing up here, it's knowing here. And that's the kind of faith He gives to us. God will provide. God will take care of you, Abraham God will help you when you don't know what lies ahead. By grace you believe That without faith it is impossible to please God, for he who comes to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Our God. Our God gives us this kind of faith. Because he establishes relationship with us. With us through Christ. We are his people, we are his children. We are the beneficiaries of his love. True faith is of course exemplified here by Abraham, but ultimately Abraham points to the truest of all faith, our Savior. Jesus. He is the one who went on the journey to death because he believed in his Father. And his eternal plan to save his people from their sin God has made to all of his saints Abraham-like promises as we come to serve him. Often he asks us to leave behind our comfort zones and be in the world, but not of the world. Often he asks us to leave family behind in order to serve him, to face opposition and hatred, even from our loved ones For the sake of believing in Christ. All as we make pilgrimage through this world. A pilgrimage which has many diversions and many wanderings, at times a dangerous journey. Subject to repeated attacks by our cruel and vicious enemy. But God has promised to his people in Christ Eternal life in the same city that Abraham was looking for. The city whose builder and architect is God. God promises, and God fulfills. Let us repent and believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ And have his assurance that we will be saved. God does not lie. And in the end, you will be with him in eternal glory in your heavenly home, not stuck in Zanesville, Ohio, or Ur of the Chaldees. What an amazing journey we're all on A journey led by faith in Jesus Christ to our heavenly home. Amen. Amen.