Please remain standing. Turn to Galatians 2 and verses 1 through 5. Galatians 2, verses 1 through 5. Let us hear now God's word. Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and also took Titus with me. I went up by revelation and communicated to them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles but privately to those who were of reputation, lest by any means I might run or had run in vain Yet not even Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. And this occurred because of false brethren. secretly brought in, who came in by stealth to spy out our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage. to whom we did not yield submission even for an hour, that the truth of the gospel might continue with you. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated Uh this morning I'm deviating from our normal study of the book of First Corinthians. um to go back and um and speak about uh a matter that uh continues to be A perplexing problem even today when we begin to talk about the way of salvation. Now, what Paul has to say here in Galatians has to do with a conflict that has arisen in the church in the churches of Galatia. He mentions some of them, Iconium, Lystra, and Derby. centers where he had been preaching and teaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul was preaching a gospel very much like the gospel that you preach Hear here and very much like the gospel that is called the Reformed faith. A heavy emphasis on salvation by grace Through faith in Christ Jesus, and a denial of the idea, of any kind of idea, that we gain our salvation by our own efforts. And at Galatia, there was a pernicious false teaching going around sponsored by a group of people called the Judaizers. And their concept of salvation was, yes, it is true that you must know Jesus and you must be saved by grace through faith in Christ Jesus. And then they added a but. And it was the butt that was the problem. And the butt of what they were adding was the thought that Yes, it's important to know who Jesus is. It's important to be saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ. But at the same time One must do everything possible to make yourself worthy or to make yourself continue to be accepted There was a mixing of grace through faith in Christ with human works. to secure salvation. And I know that you've heard, many of you have heard this before, and many of you heard have heard me say that that the grace plus works In order to be saved, is not the gospel. And I know you've heard me say it's all of grace, 100% of grace. It's all of what God has gifted us. in Christ. And I know there are plenty who will shake their heads in agreement with this. And um It's also important to understand that the Judaizers weren't the first guys who came along with this idea, and they're not the last. They're not the last. They're, if you come and you look over in John chapter 8 The Lord Jesus had a, throughout John chapter 8, had a very in-depth and controversial conversation. with the leading Jewish thinkers and people of his day And you can pick up some of the primary themes of what the Lord Jesus is saying about his gospel, as well as picking up Where their interests lie, where these Jewish leaders lie uh interests lie And again, this is all about salvation. This is all about how a person is saved in the eyes of the Lord. In verse 30 of John chapter 8, there's this statement that says, and as he spoke, that's Jesus. Many believed in him. As he spoke, many believed in him. And Then you pick up verse 31. Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed in him. Okay. You got a group of many who believe. And now Jesus turns and looks at them. And he starts talking to them. And he says, if you abide in my word, you're my disciples, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Free. Look at their response. I mean, who doesn't want to be free, right? Look at their response. They answered, We are Abraham's descendants and have never been in bondage to anybody. How can you say you will be made free? Well, you can see what they're thinking. You can see the level at which they're thinking. The level at which they're thinking is the level of of being a slave to somebody, some human entity, some nation Of course the statement they've never been a slave to anybody was false. They were slaves in Egypt And you could probably make a case for arguing at the time this was said they were somewhat of a slave to Rome. But they're saying on the one hand to Jesus, you're talking about making me free, but we've never been slaves to anybody, which again is a false claim. But they're thinking only on the level of being a slave in a political sense or in a in a in a master slave relationship Well, Jesus soon disavows them of that kind of thought. They want to know, we've never been a slave, so What kind of freedom are you going to bring us? How can you say you will be made free? Jesus said and answered verse 34, Most assuredly I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin. And a slave does not abide in the house forever, but a son abides forever. Therefore, if the son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. And you can see right away the divergence in the two groups, in Jesus' thinking from what the Pharisees are thinking. Jesus is talking about being a slave to sin. Jesus is talking about the human condition. Jesus is talking about our human nature. And our human nature is enslaved to sin. We are dead, as Paul will put it in Ephesians chapter 2. Our human nature is dead in transgressions and sins. We're not just slaves, because you do see, a slave can be alive, but we're dead. We're dead spiritually. In our soul, without Jesus, we're dead. And that's what these gentlemen here in John chapter 8 didn't understand. And that's what many in the world don't understand about salvation. If we're dead in transgressions and sins, how is it possible? How is it possible for those who are dead to make one step in the right direction toward Jesus? Think about it. If our foolish hearts and minds are corrupted and in darkness, why is it that we would ever choose to be a child of God? Why is it that we would ever want to do that which somehow pleases him This this is this is what the Jews of Jesus' day are saying. If you look further into their background They don't understand how dead they are in sin. And because they don't understand how dead they are in sin, They believe that there are good things that they can do that will please God and thereby help them save themselves. That God will somehow be looked favorably upon them And in Paul's day, the text that I read in Galatian, he's dealing with some of the same fundamental issues. Now, the characters have changed a little bit, but the basic message of Paul Following in the footsteps of Jesus hasn't changed all that much. Go back now to Galatians chapter 2. And we read that we read that Paul, along with Barnabas and Titus Went up to uh Jerusalem, and he shared with them the gospel. The gospel that he was preaching in Galatia. Now he says he preached among the Gentiles, and I just said it was Galatia, but that's because there were Gentiles there. Gentiles not being Jews, not being racial Jews. They were Gentiles And so he's he's talking to Peter. He's talking probably to James. They're having a private conversation He, Barnabas, and Titus are sharing what message they've been giving out to the people at Galatia. What what gospel have they been sharing? And um and um And of course, we know, as we look at that passage that we read in Acts chapter 15, that the message that Paul was giving Was this message that you're saved by grace through faith in Christ Jesus, not of works, lest anyone should boast? The gospel is pure and simply 100% by faith, by God's grace. You cannot earn salvation. Not of works. Because as Paul put it. He knew human nature very well that if we think we can contribute something to our salvation, we are going to boast about it. And the problem is when we boast about it, Christ doesn't get the glory he deserves. So Paul says, okay, I went up here to Galatia and I talked to Peter and I talked to Paul uh excuse me, I talked I talked to Peter he doesn't say who he talked to, but It's pretty evident he he talks about those who were of some reputation, probably Peter and James and maybe a couple of the other apostles. And he tells them about his gospel. And then he mentions this curious thing. He says, not even Titus, who was with me being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. Now, again, why did he say that? Well, go over to Acts chapter 15, verse 5, and you'll see one of the reasons why the Lord said that. You'll see what it was these Judaizers were saying. Now remember, you've got a class of cultures going on here. You've got Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians. And there's carryover from the past and how they think religiously. And the Judaizers in many ways are the descendants spiritually of the very Jews that Jesus talked about in John 8. So, if you go to Acts chapter 15, verse 5, you'll read. There arose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed. So you've got Another interesting phenomenon of Pharisees, some of which had perhaps been converted and believed something about Jesus. Maybe even believe that he was the Savior. But then notice what else they said. Acts chapter 15, 5, that it was needful to circumcise the Gentiles and to command them to keep the law of Moses It was needful. It was necessary. It was important. It was essential. For them, if the Gentiles were going to be saved, it was believe in Christ. But also, they've got to be circumcised because you see, that was the way the Old Testament Jews were brought into the covenant. And they've got to be commanded to keep the law of Moses. Now it's a struggle to argue against that in some ways, because you want to think that by keeping the law of Moses That you got people who are going to appear righteous. They're going to love their neighbors as themselves. They're going to love God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength. It sounds like What all the Judaizers wanted to do was to ensure that whoever heard the gospel was also going to be made to be ob to be outwardly obedient to that gospel. And that all sounds great. And that's essentially what should happen when a person becomes a believer. But it cannot be compelled, and it cannot be forced. As a condition of being a believer. Do you understand that? You cannot look at your works and think That by my works I'm saved. You just cannot do that. And when you do, you're on the wrong course. You're headed down the wrong road. What you're headed down to is another form of bondage. Because ultimately what will become more important to you is what you're doing at the time. What good works are you doing at the time as opposed To remembering what Jesus has done. And Jesus hasn't just brought us out of bondage, he's made us free. He's made us free from the demands of the law to keep those demands in order to be saved. Peter, in Acts 15, later, after the church had gotten together, the whole church got together at the time and tried to decide this issue. Who's right? Is it Paul or is it the Judaizers? Is it solely by grace through faith in Christ Jesus, or is it Solely by, or is it by grace through faith in Christ Jesus, plus my efforts, my good works? Look at what Peter said. Now Peter stood up, and if you read through Acts chapter 15 carefully, You'll find out that he stood up after there was a considerable debate on this subject. And it wasn't just Peter, it was the rest of the apostles and actually some elders. who participated, some ruling elders who participated in this discussion. Go over to Acts chapter 15. And in Acts chapter fifteen, we hear what Peter had to say. I'll begin reading at verse um I'll begin reading at verse six Now the apostles and elders came together to consider this matter. And when there had been much dispute Presbytery meeting. General Assembly. When there had been much dispute. Men and brethren, Peter rose up and said, Men and brethren, you know that a good while ago God chose among us that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. So God, who knows the heart, acknowledge them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us. and made no distinction between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith. Now therefore Why? Here comes the crucial arguments. Therefore, why do you test God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear. But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ We shall be saved in the same manner as they. Yoke. Peter describes Why to the gent to the to the to the Judaizers? Why do you want to put on the necks of the Gentiles a yoke? What's a yoke? That's bondage. You put a yoke on an animal to control them. Why do you put a yoke around their necks Which we, Peter, nor our forefathers, all the Jews before him, were not able to bear. And what is that yoke? It's the same teaching the Judaizers are bringing. In order to save yourself, you have to believe that God is But you also have to do as best as you can being obedient to the law in order to be saved. The problem, there's so many problems with all this. You see, the question of obedience to God's law is not just a matter of what you do. It's also a matter of what you're thinking. It's also a matter of how you interact with others. You know, Jesus told the parable of the Good Samaritan. You remember that parable? This man is along the road. He's beaten up. He's left for dead. And there's a whole bunch of people who walk by him, including a Levite. Who's one of the leaders of the the Jewish religious scene, one of the servants of the temple. I believe also a Pharisee walks by and they just pass them by. They just let them there. Let them die. They've got more important things to do. But a Samaritan, a Samaritan stopped. And he picked up the man, bound up his wounds, took him to a place of lodging. And told the innkeeper, take care of him. If there's anything that he owes, I'll make good on his account. And Jesus told that parable. Samaritans were hated by the Jews. They were considered inferior. They're worse than Gentiles. But this man who did an act of love was righteous, according to Jesus. The guys who walk by are not. You see, you might think that you can be obedient to the law of God, but Galatians also says cursed. is he who does not continue in everything written in the law. You may start off good. You may start off well trying to be obedient But you can't be perfect. You might say, well, that's unfair. Nobody expects perfection. You're wrong. God does God expects perfection. And God has delivered on perfection, friends. He has given us the perfect. Jesus. Jesus alone kept the law perfectly. Not to save himself, but to save you. Through faith in what he has done. Faith to believe that he is the Son of God and He has paid for your sin. And he becomes, you see, by faith, your righteousness. Your righteousness. And then you might say, well, oh Pastor Taylor, you're making it look so simple. And if if Jesus is my righteousness, then I don't have to worry. I can go out. I can do whatever I want to do. I can commit any sin I want to commit I mean and that doesn't that what what you hear people say? If you you start talking about grace so much, people will go out and sin like the devil No, the love of God constrains you. Constrains you To want to be his servant. To want to live for him. He has made you free. Free to live for him. And only in Jesus, by faith in Christ, are you no longer in bondage. Amen. Let us pray. O most gracious God, our Heavenly Father, enable us, O Lord God, now to grasp the Message of your word, apply it to our hearts, Father. And let us, Lord, understand. More about your saving grace. We thank thee, O Lord, for what the Apostle Paul has written. For truly, as Philippians 3 puts it, he was a man. Before he came to know Jesus, before Jesus came to know him, he was a man. Who had uh as to righteousness, there was none better. As to one who kept the law, there was none greater But he says he counted it all as rubbish for the sake of knowing Jesus Christ. Father, thank you that you have helped us to know Jesus Christ. Father, may we live by grace. And may we trust, O Heavenly Father, that your grace is sufficient for our salvation. Encourage us, Lord. To listen to your Holy Spirit at work in our lives, to not quench the Spirit, but to do that which pleases you with the Spirit's help To live, Lord, in the liberty which Jesus has given to us. Liberty to be his people and to live for him. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.