You'd open up your copy of God's Word now to Psalms once again. Tonight we'll be in Psalm 52. I believe that's on page five hundred and sixty one of your pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the very word of God, Psalm fifty-two. To the choir master, a maskill of David, when Doag The Edomite came and told Saul, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The steadfast love of God endures all the day. Your tongue plots destruction like a sharp razor, you worker of deceit. You love evil more than good and lying more than speaking what is right. You love all words that devour, O deceitful tongue. But God will break you down forever. He will snatch and tear you from your tent. He will uproot you from the land of the living. The righteous shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him, saying, See the man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches and sought refuge in his own destruction. But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God for ever and ever. I will thank you forever, because you have done it. I will wait for your name, for it is good in the presence of the godly. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we ask now that you'd open our hearts Open our hearts to your word, that you may plant it deeply tonight, that you'd produce a great crop from it. And that Father, you'd use your servant, fallible and frail, weak, even sinful. To proclaim what is good and right in your eyes and in your ears. Help us tonight, Father. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How do you respond when evil abounds? Where do you go when men boast of their wickedness Think of that time when Saul, before his name was changed to Paul, was going about throughout all Jerusalem. imprisoning those he found who belonged to the way or belonged to Jesus Christ, bringing them even beyond Jerusalem, back to Jerusalem. To stand imprisoned for their faith in Christ. How would you have responded in those days? How would you have responded if Saul led your relatives, your father, your mother, a husband, wife, son, daughter, a close friend off to prison only because they trusted in Jesus? Would you have waited upon the Lord? It seems that that is what we have tonight in this Psalm 52. If you listened as the title was read, this psalm was written by David. When Doeg, an Edomite, told Saul, the king who was seeking to kill David Where David was. And as a result of this information, now Saul and his followers go. And end up killing somewhere around eighty-five priests All because Ahimelech had spoken to David and provided him with bread and even the sword of Goliath. That's the basis of this psalm. That's the event which brings David, the inspired psalmist, to pen these very words of God. Tonight as we go through this passage, I'd like us to see that the Lord Jesus calls his followers to flourish in his steadfast love. While they wait upon his eternal justice. The Lord Jesus calls his followers to flourish in his steadfast love while they wait upon his eternal justice. We'll see that in three simple points tonight. First, an evil intent, secondly, a just response, and finally, a supernatural sight. Well I'd like you to be thinking about that as we go through this psalm. How how will I respond this week? When I'm confronted with evil or evil words. Well then first, an evil intent Look at verse 1. Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? What is it to boast? Webster's defines it this way, to brag, to vaunt one's self. To make an ostentious display and speech of your own worth or actions It's self confident praise, isn't it? Self confident glory. In this context, it is to proclaim sin, sinful deeds, sinful accomplishments. evil as good or desirable, setting forth evil and wicked thoughts and words, actions as laudatory Paul writes of this in his letter to the church at Rome, though they, meaning the wicked, know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die They not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them In the present situation, we can imagine Doeg, that Edomite, that one who told Saul where David was. Speaking to others about how he killed, how he murdered a whole village at Nob at the king's command. How he triumphed over them, how he shed their blood, how he killed the priests. Boasting of murder. punishing those who helped David. Psalmist in Psalm 10 tells us the wicked boasts of his heart's desire, and greedy man curses and spurns the Lord. They vaunt themselves. Apparently that's exactly what Doeg was doing as David records it here. But we see a warning in Isaiah. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness. It's exactly what the psalmist speaks of, denying the truth, calling falsehood good. We see this in our country today. It surrounds us. Much of what is set forth is entertainment, movies, television, the news. Sinful acts. Acts of transgression against the law of God are upheld as good, as desirable, a boasting and evil. The proclamation of evil as that which is good. And so now David asks the question, why? Why do you boast? Well, we'd answer that question first because we'd say of Adam. Because of corruption, because of hatred for God, because of hatred for his son, because of lust for the world? Those seem to be the quick answers. But this is the theme of the Psalm. Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? It's as if David went back, stopped his fleeing from Saul, sat down with Doeg, sitting at a table after these heinous crimes, these heinous murders had been committed. And Doeg is smirking and smiling as a result of his work, if we can put it that way. And thus David asks this question. What good is there in your boasting, in this evil? What good is there in your sin? What will it profit you? What will come to you in the end? Why do you boast? In a sense, David answers his own question here, not waiting for Dweg to open his mouth. 'Cause the steadfast love of God endures all the day. Why do you boast? The steadfast love of God endures all the day. We see that David doesn't stop with that question, that he's unfolding the depth of this malicious evil act, but even more than an evil act, a malicious plan. Look at verse 2. Your tongue plots destruction. Like a sharp razor, you worker of deceit. David is saying that even before your action, you were thinking this through. You were meditating upon that which you were about to do, your tongue. which speaks that which resides in your heart, is plotting, it's devising, it's scheming, it's looking forward to, it's hoping for, it's thinking about, it's seeking, it's laboring to The that which you desire And that's exactly what James tells us. The tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire. The tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. James seems to be picking up exactly on what the psalmist David is saying here in this passage. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body. Our throat is an open grave. Your tongue plots destruction Think of that. Devising, plotting destruction Not something good, but something completely evil, not to build up, but only to break down. My soul is among lions. I must lie among those who breathe forth fire. Even the sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows. Psalm 57. Ready to tear apart. Planning to tear apart. Doeg hearing and seeing David come to Ahimelech seeking refuge there, knowing that this will be critical information for Saul. to have and act upon, he devises destruction. He's working on and he's laboring to bring that about. So much so that that David can call him and those like him a worker of deceit. That's a title given to those who seek such. It's a plaque on the wall. It's the entrance to the office. Worker of deceit. It's the plaque that Satan hands out, for he's the father of lies. And to each of his minions, he provides that label. worker of distreet deceit and then a lover a lover of evil Look at verse three. You love evil more than good. Lying more than speaking what is right. You love all words that devour a deceitful tongue. It's not that the mighty man does not know of good It's as if David is saying there's a balance, there's scales here, and you place good on one side and evil on the other. And you're weighing, you're considering, as you look at both. And evil wins. Good never had a chance. Speaking what is right is frowned upon. Falsehood is elevated as the better of the two. Again, a choice, a clear decision. by the worker of evil, by the mighty man, loving that which is against God, loving that which cuts down, loving the words that devour See all this is set against the loving kindness, the goodness, the faithfulness of God, isn't it? To go back up to verse one You see that the steadfast love of God endures all the day. This psalm is full of contrasts. And here the steadfast love of God is set in clear contrast to evil. It's set in clear contrast to that which overrules evil, which overpowers evil. Which sin, evil, wickedness is thus in subjection to God, to his loving kindness, to his faithfulness, such that he will use it to bring about the goodness of his perfect plan. I've been studying that even in Romans. That God uses all things for good. A plan of salvation for the elect, a plan of destruction for the reprobate And so this psalm also draws a clear line, doesn't it? A clear demarcation Between evil, sin, and wickedness, and the goodness and the purity of God Brothers and sisters, it should be a reminder to us tonight. That this does surround us. That we are immersed in this kind of a world. And that even within us, we're still fighting against the old man. David is calling us tonight, at least in part To be comforted in Christ, to know, to know that even amidst A world of evil, even within the evil that's going on within our own hearts, Christ has been and continues to be victorious. And it's clear that throughout this psalm that that's what David is looking to. He's not looking to his own strength, he's not looking to his own vengeance. He's looking to God. He's looking to Christ Jesus. He's looking to the steadfast love of the one that he knows is for him. That brings us to their second point, a just response. Well, there's an unspoken question in this psalm. As David gives much text to the evil. Indeed, the first four verses, with one slight exception, seem to be all about the depth of the evil and the wickedness that resides in the heart of the mighty man And as it said against the backdrop of Doeg slaying 85 priests There is that unspoken question, will evil triumph over God? Will evil triumph over goodness? Will evil triumph over the faithfulness of God? Now David doesn't set that forth, but it must be that which we would even think of as 85 priests are dead, lying slain, men of God. Who presumably thought the will of God, now slain at the hands of a wicked man by the command of the king of the nation. Will evil triumph? Will the boasting of the mighty man of Doeg go unresponded to? As wicked acts of murder. Well, we'd have to say absolutely. But the mighty man's wickedness is no match, no comparison to the faithfulness, the mercy, and the grace of God. Causes us to remember that which is at the end of that chapter eight of Romans, which we haven't gotten to yet, but Lord willing we'll get to, for I'm sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth. nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nothing. Not doeg Not not slaying eighty-five priests as David was being pursued. Nothing. Steadfast love of God endures all the day. And God will respond. He is just, he is righteous, and the wicked, because of the loving kindness of the Father, will be judged. I want to make sure you heard that. Because of the loving kindness of our God, the wicked will be judged. God's wrath will be poured out. The wicked will not be spared unless they turn and repent. The Lord is slow in anger and abundant in loving kindness, but he will by no means clear the guilty. Numbers chapter 14. The wicked will be cut off from the land and the treacherous will be uprooted from it. Proverbs 2. God must act. You see, it's the vanity, the foolishness of those who boast in evil in the belief that God will not see, that God will not respond, that God will not care. No. God will not be silent. Indeed, vengeance is the Lord's He must act in accordance with his nature. And his nature is just and righteous, and he hates sin. Far be it from you to do Such a thing to slay the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous and the wicked are treated alike. Far be it from you. Shall not the judge of all the earth deal justly? Yes. His work is perfect. His ways, all his ways are just. A God of faithfulness and without injustice, Deuteronomy 32, there is no one holy like the Lord. Indeed, there is no one besides you, nor is there any rock like our God, 1 Samuel chapter 2, as for our God his way is blameless. The word of the Lord is tested. He is a shield to all who take refuge in him, 2 Samuel chapter 22. As for God, his way is blameless. Psalm eighteen. God will judge. He is a righteous judge The God who has indignation every day. Psalm nine And this Psalm fifty-two tells us so very clearly that the reprobate will be broken down. Again, a great contrast. Look at verse five. But God will break you down forever. He will snatch and tear you from your tent. He will uproot you from the land of the living. It's as if David is speaking directly to Doeg. He will break you down. The mighty man has built himself up. He has boasted in his evil. He has set himself high upon his own throne. He's looking down upon that which he has trampled upon. He's boasting in his victory. He's trotting upon his neighbor. But here we see that God in his loving kindness, in his faithfulness, In his goodness will break down the mighty man to his ruin. He will remove him. From his false throne. Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. It is God who built everything. It's God who created everything and who has the power then to break it down. Why do you boast of evil? You see this as being the work of Jesus Christ? You should Because it seems as though the psalmist David is setting forth the work of Satan. Your tongue plots destruction. You love evil more than good, lying more than speaking about what is right. You love all words that devour. Aren't though the words he gave to Eve? Isn't that what Satan loves? Didn't he want to see Adam and Eve devoured by God? It is the work of Jesus. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. 1 John And isn't that what Jesus has done? How can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman, then he may plunder his house? Jesus has done that. He's bound Satan. He has plundered his house. He's removed the captives. And consider this. But David writes, he writes of a forever. God will break you down forever. Not a short period of time. Not to be rebuilt. Not to go to the repair shop and return to life eternal. Something we cannot grasp, an everlasting breaking down, never to return. Enduring, everlasting, perpetually, until the end which doesn't come. And that's what God will do to the one who boasts. of their evil. He will snatch you and tear you from your tent. He will uproot you from the land of the living. David uses powerful verbs here, three different verbs to describe how God will remove them, remove the wicked, those who boast of evil. from the land, from their dwelling places, and how he will place them into confusion, into turmoil, and to con into chaos. Taking them from the place of the living and casting them into the place of the non living, eternal death, destruction, that which they brought upon others in a sense. That which Jesus speaks of Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. You see, the land was promised to Abraham and his descendants in a covenant But the wicked will be cut off from the land and the treacherous will be uprooted from it. Psalm, excuse me, Proverbs chapter 2. The ultimate inheritance. will not be for the wicked. Clearly, as a result of being strong in evil desire, the mighty man will be cut off. from the land, cut off from the living, cut off from the eternal covenant of God Every plant which my heavenly father did not plant shall be uprooted. Matthew 15 The Lord will judge his people. And as the writer to the Hebrews writes, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Tonight, if you're here, if you're listening, if you're listening to the recording, and you're not in Christ, and you're not believing upon Jesus. And you're not trusting in him. Pay heed. Pay heed to these words of the psalmist. Pay heed to the destruction that is coming upon you unless and until you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and submit to Him as your Savior and as your Lord. For this is your end. Unless and until you come to faith in Christ and confess your sins and repent. God's justice will be satisfied. And that's the warning tonight for all those who are outside of Christ. Come to Christ quickly, even tonight. Believe upon Him. That brings us to our third point, a supernatural sight. Consider verse six. The righteous will see and fear That may be the central point of the psalm: the righteous shall see and fear. We began by discussing the work of Saul before he was converted, but then we know that Saul was given sight. In his blindness he was able and unable to see the truth of God. He was unable to see Jesus Christ. He was unable to to come to a saving belief in the Lord Jesus, but then as his The scales were removed from his eyes, he became to know Christ. He was immediately And he was given the ability to see the wickedness of men. He was granted sight. And so tonight, if you're able to see the wickedness of men, of the mighty men, if you're able to hear of their boasting and evil, then you've been given supernatural sight, supernatural hearing. The Spirit has changed your blindness into sight. The Spirit has granted you ears to hear righteousness and to discern foolishness. See the man who would not make God his refuge, but trusted in the abundance of his riches and sought refuge in his own destruction. Do you see how God, if you're trusting in Jesus tonight, is giving you that sight? That's what the psalmist is saying. He's saying he's asking you to actually to look upon this one who's boasting in his evil, who's saying his abundance of his riches, he's seeking refuge in himself, in his own wealth Although David terms it his own destruction, he's asking you to look upon that Not to raise this man up who boasts in his evil, but to see what he's doing to himself. That's what he's calling you to. The one who would not make God his refuge. Words of decision, words of choice. The wicked refuse to make God their refuge. They refuse, they rebel, they reject God. All have a responsibility to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. All of a responsibility to repent. It's a duty. We're called to it, every single person. But this one that the psalmist wants us to take a look at is saying he's trusting in his riches. He knows God, but he suppresses the truth. He sees his riches. He loves his riches like Eve in the garden who saw the forbidden fruit and she weighed the goodness of that versus the eternal truth of God's word. Trusting in the creation and rejecting and neglecting God But the righteous see and perceive and understand. They see the righteousness of God, don't they? The righteous shall see and fear and laugh at him, saying, See the man who would not make God his refuge. The only way that the righteous can laugh is because they know that God is the only refuge. That it's foolishness to seek refuge in yourself or in your wealth. The righteous are watching the hand of God. They're waiting upon his good timing, upon his justice and his vengeance, knowing that Jesus is King, that He's been given all dominion, power, and authority Authority and being in fear and reverence and awe of Him in His goodness, in His loving kindness, and His faithfulness, knowing that God causes all things to work together to good for those who love God. And comforted in that. How is it that David could even write this psalm? Being pursued to his death? By the king, by one who would boast in his evil and his wickedness. How could he even write this psalm? It's because he knew of God's goodness Because he knew that those who love evil would be destroyed. Because he know that God's purposes, all of which are good and right and just. would be accomplished according to his good and perfect plan. He knew that but for the grace of God, that he would be in the same place as that wicked mighty man And so now he refers to himself as like a green olive tree in the house of God. The wicked, the reprobate, are torn away, they're uprooted. But David understands himself as one who is planted Not one who is broken down forever, not one who is snatched up and torn from his tent, no one who is planted in the house of God. An olive tree. According to one Bible dictionary, the olive tree grew slowly, but lived to an immense age. Its look is singularly indicative of tenacious vigor. Green, meaning flourishing. Not just growing, but healthy, productive, fruitful, fully nourished, watered, abundantly. That's how David perceives himself. Green olive tree. As Jeremiah puts it, beautiful in fruit and form Not just planted anywhere, but in God's house. Planted to remain with God. See, an olive tree needed protection from the wind that might cause its flowers to fall off, but or the locusts were enemies. It does best apparently in warm and sunny places, like the light of God bearing down upon David. Amidst the darkness that surrounds him, with Doeg seeking even his own life. And Saul, not relenting from his pursuit, David is basking in the light of God. In his goodness, in his righteousness. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever. God's love has been poured out upon him and David knows it. He's experiencing it. I will wait for your name, for it is good in the presence of the godly, not in the presence of the wicked. He's in the assembly. Now, think of that just for a moment. David has been driven from Jerusalem. He's been driven from the temple, from the place of worship, and nonetheless he can write that he is in the presence of the godly. Because the light of Christ is shining brightly upon him, and he's confident In his everlasting and eternal love. I will trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever. I will thank you forever because you have done it. Done what? Saved him. David knows He knows of his eternal security in Christ Jesus, in the Messiah, in the one who is to come, because you have done it. He knows that God will take all things and even die for him so that he might have life. Trusting in the loving kindness of God, praising that Jesus Christ has done it all, waiting upon the name of Christ, the one who's been lifted up above all others. In clear union with the God of creation In contrast to the mighty man whose focus is upon the opposite, whose focus is upon darkness. David was basking in the light. How do we live? How will you live this week? See, David wasn't seeking revenge. He wasn't bitter. He was not out for blood. Because he knew that he served an all-powerful, all-good, loving God. in whom no evil dwelt, and that he could wait patiently upon his perfect work. Brothers and sisters, I'm not a prophet, but I can guarantee that this week you're going to experience evil in some form, in some fashion. we will encounter a world of mighty men. And the teaching here tonight is to know that God is working. Know that his loving kindness is so much more powerful than the evil desires and the evil words of mighty men and their deems and their schemes and their plotting and their planning trust in him. Trust in Christ and give him the praise. Give him all the praise. Yes, the Lord Jesus calls his followers to flourish in his steadfast love while they wait upon his eternal justice. How would you have responded if Saul came for your relatives? I don't think any of us can answer that question. But how will we respond this week when the mighty men speak evil, boasting, wicked words? Look to Christ. Remember that He has done it all, and that your salvation is secure in Him. Father and our God We thank you. We thank you for the psalm. We thank you. We thank you for the psalmist. We thank you for working in his heart. That he was able, Father, as you spoke to him through your spirit. To pen down your words, to remind us of your steadfast eternal love in and through Christ Jesus. Oh Father, we pray, help us. Help us to be those who wait upon your goodness, who wait upon your steadfast love, who are immersed in your light. As we encounter, Father, evil, wicked, boasting words. Help us, Lord. Protect us, protect our hearts, and lead us to set our hearts and minds fully and completely upon Jesus Christ. But we know that he has done it. We thank you, we praise you. And we ask all these things in you.