Yesterday my wife and I had the opportunity to babysit our three and a quarter year old and one and a half year old grandsons. And I remember one point we were saying we were doing supper and my wife and I were doing actually it was lunchtime We're saying grace before the meal and I was saying we said something about Amen. I said, Amen means yes, really yes, you know, indeed, you know. Of course indeed means mocking to a little kid. Yes, yes, you know. Which is what what it means. So we do want to praise the Lord. We're turning in our scriptures this morning to the book of Acts. I mean coming here on an off and on basis, just continuing where I was. So if you remember where I was with it, then that's where we pick up And the scripture reading this morning, I don't know of any way to shorten it because it's about the apot the uh deacon Stephen, and it takes a while. But it is something that for some of us, this may be one of the only opportunities we have to hear it. So let us hear God's word. And as the Lord tells us through his servant Paul, inasmuch as all Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, since that is true. Paul tells us that it is. That's the word from the Lord. Since it is true, then when we hear the word, when we read the word, let us not just have it pass over us as though it's nothing. But prayerfully ask the Lord to have it take root in our hearts, that we might act on it and respond. Book of Acts, chapter six, verse eight, and following And Stephen, full of grace and power, was performing great wonders and signs among the people. With some men from a men from what was called the synagogue of the freedmen, including both Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and some from Cilicia and Asia rose up and argued with Stephen. But they were unable to cope with the wisdom and the spirit with which he was speaking. Then they secretly induced men to say, We have heard him speak blasphemous words. against Moses and against God. And they stirred up the people, the elders and the scribes, and they came up to him and dragged him away and brought him before the council. Then they put forward false witnesses who said, this man incessantly speaks against the holy place, this holy place in the law, for we have heard him say that this Nazarene Jesus We'll destroy this place and alter the customs which Moses handed down to us. And fixing their gaze on him, all who were sitting in the council saw his face like the The high priest said, Are these things so? And he, Stephen, said Hear me, brethren and fathers. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran. And he said to him, Leave your country and your relatives, and come into the land that I will show you. Then he left the land of the Chaldeans and settled in Haran From there after his father died, God had him move to this country in which you are now living. But he gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot of ground. And yet, even when he had no child, he promised that he would give it to him as a possession and to his descendants after him. But God spoke to this effect, that his descendants would be aliens in a foreign land, and that they would be enslaved and mistreated for 400 years. And whatever nation to which they will be in bondage, I myself will judge, said God. And after that, they will come out and serve me in this place. And he gave him the covenant of circumcision. And so Abraham became the father of Isaac, and circumcised him on the eighth day. And Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob of the twelve patriarchs. The patriarchs became jealous of Joseph and sold him into Egypt, yet God was with him, and rescued him from all his afflictions and granted him favor and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And you made him governor over Egypt and all his household. Now a famine came over all Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction with it, and our fathers could find no food. But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent our fathers there the first time. On the second visit, Joseph made himself known to his brothers And Joseph's family was disclosed to Pharaoh. Then Joseph sent word and invited Jacob his father and all his relatives to come down to him. 75 persons in all. And Jacob went down to Egypt, and there he and our fathers died. From there they were removed to Shechem and laid in the tomb, which Abraham had purchased for some of money from the sons of Hamor and Shechem. But as the time of the promise was approaching, which God had assured to Abraham The people increased and multiplied in Egypt until there rose another king over Egypt who knew nothing about Joseph. It was he who took the shrewd advantage of our race and mistreated our fathers so that they would expose their infants and they would not survive. It was at this time that Moses was born, and he was lovely in the sight of God, and he was nurtured three months in his father's home. And after he had been set outside, father's daughter took him away and nurtured him as her own son. Moses was educated in all the learning of the Egyptians, and he was a man of power in words and deeds. But when he was approaching the age of forty, it entered his mind to visit his brethren, the sons of Israel. And when he saw one of them being mistreated unjustly, he defended him and took vengeance for the oppressed by striking down the Egyptian. And he supposed that his brethren understood that God was granting them deliverance through him, but they did not understand And the following day he appeared to them as they were fighting together, and he tried to reconcile them in peace, saying, Men, you are brethren. Why do you injure one another? But the one who was injuring his neighbor pushed him away, saying, Who made you a ruler and judge over us? You do not mean to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday, do you? At this remark, Moses fled and became an alien in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons After forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in the flame of a burning thornbush. When Moses saw it, he marveled at the sight. And as he approached to look more closely, there came the voice of the Lord. I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Moses shook with fear and would not venture to look. But the Lord said to him, Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. I have certainly seen the oppression of my people in Egypt and have heard their groans. And I have come down to rescue them. Come now, and I will send you to Egypt. This Moses, whom they disowned, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge? Is the one whom God sent to be a ruler and a deliverer with the help of the angels who appeared to him in the thorn bush. This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness for forty years. This is the Moses who said to the sons of Israel, God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brethren. This is the one who was in the congregation in the wilderness together with the angel, who was speaking to him of my Sinai. And he was with our fathers, and he received living oracles to pass on to you. Our fathers were unwilling to be obedient to him, but repudiated him and in their hearts turned back to Egypt, saying to Aaron, Make for us gods who will go before us, for this Moses who led us out of the land of Egypt. We do not know what happened to him. At that time they made a calf and brought a sacrifice to the idol, and they were rejoicing in the works of their hands. But God turned away and delivered them up to serve the host of heaven. As it is written in the book of the prophets, it was not to me that you offered victims and sacrifices forty years in the wilderness, was it, O house of Israel? You also took along the tabernacle of Malach and the star of the god Rampha, the images which you made to worship. I also will remove you beyond Babylon. Our fathers had the tabernacle as testimony in the wilderness, just as he who spoke to Moses directed him to make it according to the pattern which he had seen. And having received it in their turn, our fathers brought it in with Joshua upon dispossessing the nations whom God drove out before our fathers until the day of time of David. David found favor in God's sight and asked that he might find a dwelling place for the God of Jacob. But it was Solomon who built a house for him. However, the Most High does not dwell in houses made by human hands, as the prophet says. Heaven is my throne, earth is the footstool of my feet What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord? Or what place is there for my repose? Was it not my hand which made all these things? You men who are stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears are always resisting the Holy Spirit. You are doing just as your fathers did. Which one of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? They killed those who had previously announced the coming of the righteous one, whose betrayers and murderers you have now become. And you received the laws ordained by angels, and yet you did not keep it. And when they heard this, they were cut. To the quick. And they began gnashing their teeth at him. But being full of the Holy Spirit, he gazed intently into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened up, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. But they cried out with a loud voice, and covered their ears, and rushed at him with one impulse. When they had driven him out of the city, they began stoning him. The witnesses laid aside their robes at the feet. Of a young man named Saul. They went on stoning Stephen as he called on the Lord and said, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Then falling on his knees, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold the sin against them. Having said this, he fell asleep. Let us pray. Oh Lord, we know what you mean when your writer says that he fell asleep. But Father, let us be attentive to the teaching of this year. Let us know that you give us counsel, you give us guidance, you give us wisdom, as you always do in your word. And you show us what it is to live for Christ, to speak for Christ, and of Christ, and to die as one of his people Oh Father, we know not when that time will come for each of us. But we do know the time for living for Christ and speaking for him is now. So, Father, please teach us from your word. May your Holy Spirit empower us to obey and be faithful. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Death reveals who we really are. Um consider the famous there was a famous French philosopher Voltaire, who lived I think in the seventeen hundreds. I'm not sure Sure. I've heard of him. I've read about him. Wrote some plays, I think. And about Jesus, he once said, curse the wretch. It's like the God, like in the Psalms where it says, the fool says in his heart, there is no God. Obviously the same category. Voltaire also said, in 20 years Christianity will be no more. My single hand shall destroy the edifice that took twelve apostles to rear. A little boastful, isn't he? In a wicked way, but boastful. He was proud, confident, and cynical. But when he died, he was heard to say, I am abandoned by God and man I give you half of what I am worth if you will give me six months' life. Then I shall go to hell, and you will go with me. Oh Christ. Oh Jesus Christ. Like any man of his time, if you were today, he grew up knowing here having heard the gospel. He knew the story In contrast, the moment of death also can reveal beauty. John Wesley died full of counsel, exhortations, and praise for God. His final words were, the best of all is, God is with us. The best of all is, God is with us. The best of all is, God is with us. Very well. Adam Iram Judson, a American missionary to Burma, suffered immensely at death, physical pain. And he said to those around I don't know how he said it. I go with the gladness of a boy bounding away from school. I feel so strong in Christ Jonathan Edwards, theologian. He'd called to be the head of what became Princeton College. Dying from a smallpox inoculation. Gave final directions, bid his daughter goodbye, and then died saying, Where is Jesus, my never failing friend? Can you imagine? But you've transitioned into being with him. This passage I read, long passage I read, but there's no place to break it. Um tells us the final, shows us the final day in the life of a man named Stephen. How he lived, what he said, how he died. And Stephen's death revealed him to be a man whose heart beat with Christ's to the very last. He belonged to the Lord. And the word Stephen means a crown or garland. That's what it means. And the Greek word was used for the reward given to a civic leader or the crown of glory given to a victor at the Olympic Games. those centuries. And it's a perfect name for the man who stood so tall in his final day and was crowned with a martyr's crown. And remember, I've said this here before. The word martyr is simply the Greek word for the word witness. You look up the word witness in Greek it means martyr, spelt that way. Somebody who witnesses to Christ. But we it for us it's always been the one who goes who dies because of their witness He shows us how to do that. And never do we see the meaning and worth of life more clearly and poignantly than in the final moments of Stephen. We see how to live, how to speak, and how to die as a Christian. Well, first we we let's look at living as Christ would live. On the last day of life, Stephen lives as Christ would live. His story is introduced in chapter 6, verse 8. And he's referred to first in page in verse 5, just list the listing of what we know to be basically the first deacon's call. Then verse 8 just simply says Stephen, full of grace and power. It's interesting. He's not called as an elder, we know he's a deacon, and yet he's performing great wonders and signs among the people And he's full of grace like Jesus. In the New Testament, the word grace refers to the unmerited, unlimited riches of God poured upon us through Christ. He's full of grace. But more, in pre-Christian times, the word grace was used to describe the charm of a woman or the beauty of your speech. And the word's background suggests all sorts of wonderful characteristics. And this was Steen and Stephen, full of grace. Which makes what happened to him so horrible. And he possesses a kind of charm that touches anyone. What does it say in verse in verse 15? And fixing their gaze upon him, all who were sitting in the council, that's the Jewish council, the Sanhedrin, saw his face like the face of an angel. That's before he began talking. And he poss Jesus, I'm sorry, Stephen possessed a winsomeness just like Jesus. He was just attractive. Lovely. And God's grace can accomplish the same thing in us. It can John Wesley once humorously said, one of the advantages of the grace of God is that it makes a man a gentleman without the aid of a dancing master. We don't need to be taught how to be a gentleman. If we if we're God's people, we become, if we're seeking to follow and we're doing so at least somewhat obediently We become more kind, we become more considerate, we cut become more caring of anyone. It's not just believers. If we're faithful, that is how we begin to act. I'm not saying we're sinless. We will fall down. You will see believers act not those ways. But it will become more natural for a believer to be that way. It should be anyway. Be like Stephen. Verse 8 reveals that Stephen was a man who shared Christ's power as well, which Christ gives to his people. And obviously with someone at this time with the apostles, you have particular power that was manifest among them. Why? Because they wanted to make sure the message that they were saying for the first time to the world around them was known to be from God God. So God gave them particular power. And he's performing great wonders and signs. What does it say about Jesus in Acts two twenty-two? Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs. signs. The miracles and wonders and signs occurred to make sure that people knew this man is from God. It's almost like his calling card. Instead of giving a business card saying, hi there, I'm from God. It's what the person did. It's like when you saw it, you realized that man's from God. What he says is from God. And Stephen would soon deliver a sermon That would give the Sanhedrin, the Jewish council, a whipping, verbal whipping, they would not believe. And this became it because of Jesus' power, not Stephen's. Chapter 1, verse 8 of Acts says, You'll receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. You'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, Samaria, even to the remotest parts of the earth. We know what happened in this instance But at one point in the book of Acts, and actually it's just before this, it talked about many priests becoming obedient to the faith. I wouldn't be surprised if someone out of the Panhedron was at some point then or later convicted This man was from God and came around to Christ. When you hear that. Yes, obviously the vast majority said, fine, kill the man. You don't know the power of God's word. Stephen knew the power of perseverance. Here's, when the mob threw their stones at him, he was like Christ. No reviling, no recrimination, no self-defense. And not like the Old Testament packet patches uh uh passage I read. That man said, Avenge my death. Stephen says don't hold this against them. I mean he's echoing what the Lord said. You wonder if he'd heard from someone what the Lord had said. There's no reason to think he was There at the cross. Or what? We don't know. But he says effectively the same thing: don't hold us against them. So Christ's power enables us to do what we should do and to be what we should be. And Stephen's a man who f shared Christ's wisdom. Verse 10. They were unable to cope with the wisdom and the spirit with which he was speaking. I mean it reminds you of the silly modern, but it actually depicts something accurately. I've seen people who will talk about la la la la la not listening, not listening. I mean I've seen characters do that in movies and things. But you know some people, you're trying to tell them something true. Maybe it's about themselves, which is why they don't want to do Listen. But we've seen that joking thing. But there are people, no matter what you say, they will not listen to what you're saying. And it's as logical as two plus two equals four, who knows what. And they will not listen And they're talking about it with great wisdom he's speaking, and yet we don't care how wise he is, we're going to ignore it You know. So here God had given demon a great mind and spiritual insight. And those are obviously things that we need. But Stephen here we also see obviously is a man who shared Christ's rejection. Of course, Jesus had told his disciples Something that a lot of modern modern-day preachers and teachers seem to forget. You know, we will be persecuted for his name's sake. Not we might be, or some of us will. We will be. If you're living a life, as time goes by, years go by, and if you're living a life where no one ever is ever persecuting in any way, it could be just mockery Well, that's sort of one of the lowest levels of persecution. But if you're no if you're in in nowhere are you being persecuted for being a believer, you feel like saying, what am I doing wrong? And it's not a matter of our being obnoxious. If we're being faithful believers in our lives, we will tick off some unbelievers. And again, it's we're not leading with our chin and being rude. We're just being being l loving godly believers and unbelievers will get really upset with that. So we have to examine ourselves. What am I doing wrong? But looking at this passage, you have the sense of, of course, we we know the end of the story, the old Paul Har Paul Harvey line, but we know what happens at the end. But you can, you know, in having knowing that it's like you know what's coming. You know what's coming. And it's it, you know, Stevens was was already in the cemetery if his enemies had their way. And Steve was one of the seven Hellenistic Jews. Here where's the whole issue that in that my last message from God's Word was about helping the Hellenistic Jews. Hellenistic widows. And uh the Hellenistic Jews were not very popular in Jerusalem. So Stevens, and these are again, these are Jews from Greece. He was from Greece, Greek speaking. Um so Stephen's Hellenistic synagogue had a vested interest in not making waves. And so When Stephen became too hot to handle, I think with the Hellenistic Jews who delivered him to the Sanhedrin, they secretly bring trumped-up charges of blasphemy against him The court's the same court that had convicted Jesus. This is the same same group. The Sanhedrin is the group that appeared before Jesus. So the idea that they would be treating Stephen indifferently would is silly. Stephen's as good as dead. But on that final day, Stephen was living as Christ would, and that's all that mattered. Well, the next thing I want to look at is speaking as Christ would speak. That's what we see Stephen doing here. And once the Sanhedrin heard the charges, the high priest asked Stephen, Are these things so? Even though he wasn't really interested in anything Stephen had to say. And what followed is one of the most amazing and potent sermons that's ever been preached. Stephen knew his Bible, he knew Bible history, he stood tall before the council, and he brings the theology of Christ. Now remember, Christ means Messiah. the m the promised one. He brings the theology of Christ hard down on the on three great pillars or the sort of sacred cows of popular Judaism. The land, the law, and the temple. Three things that were false bases of confidence before God The first sacred cow is the land. According to popular opinion, God gave special privileges to those who live in the real estate there in the Middle East. And the resulting worship left little room for the work of Jesus the Messiah, let alone trying to reach people beyond, you know. Samaria in the outermost parts of the earth. And to prove his point, he cites the case of Abraham in verses 2 to 8. And Abraham spent much time in the land, but he does not live as if he had arrived at the height of God's purpose for him. What's he saying in verse 2? The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia. That's an area east, far east of uh actually modern-day Iraq, Mesopotamia. So God revealed himself even before he was living in the land. Stephen makes another point in verses 4 and 5. He goes from the land of the Chaldeans, settled in Iran, did not have an inheritance. God promised to give it to him as a possession. God blessed Abraham, even though he didn't even occupy a square foot of land. He didn't own any land there. And in verses 9 to 16, Stephen goes on to say, shows that the same was true of the twelve sons of Jacob. God blessed them through Joseph in Egypt, even though the only part of the holy land that they owned was the tomb. In which to bury their family. And Stephen's clinching argument was Moses described in verses 17 to 36. God met and took care of Moses and his people outside the Holy Land. Wasn't in the Holy Land. Moses was raised in Egypt. He matured in Midian, an area just due east of Egypt. Again, it's not the promised land. He's commissioned near Myas Sinai, and God called that area holy ground. Holy ground is wherever God meets his people. Which like here. That's where holy ground is. And not just inside the borders of Palestine The greatest miracles of Israel happened in Egypt and in the Red Sea and in the desert, not the Promised Land. The next sacred cow is the exaltation of the law and the veneration of Moses. And Stephen's basic argument Built on Moses' words in Deuteronomy 18, 15, when Moses predicted that God would raise up a prophet like me from your own people. The Jews' hope of redemption was not supposed to be the law. Yes, those who love God, those who love the fact that He has promised them a redeemer, will be punished for their sins. will follow and obey the law that God has. But the the proof of their faith is the fact that they love God and they want to follow Him. That is true. Now that's not true because they follow the law. But they follow the law because they already loved him. Because he first loved them. And so the Jews' hope of redemption was Jesus trusting in the Messiah, trusting in God's promises. And the Jews in Moses' day rejected Moses and the law anyway. Verses 39 to 40. Our fathers weren't willing to be obedient to him, repudiated him. That's talking about Moses, who was the one who brought them God's commands. And they wind up making, wanting to make fake God. I remember when I was a little boy, we went on a trip to New York from the school I went to. We stayed at the Hotel Taft. I don't know what we saw and did. I know at some point coming into the hotel from outside, and I had my little polar white swinger camera with a picture of Muhammad Al Lee, who's actually coming into the hotel. And unfortunately he's coming in from the dark, so I can't you it's a very murky little picture, but I know I know who's in that picture. But I I had that And I went and I wind up wound up going on that on that trip a long time ago. But the Jews did not care. The Jews did not care What the law told them. Moses told them to look for another prophet. And So in other words, the land was not the important thing for them. The last thing, the last sacred cow that the Jews had was the temple. That's the important thing. The temple Surely God is with us. We have the temple. That's the most important thing. And Stephen answered this in verses 48 to 50 when he quotes Isaiah 66. Heaven's my throne, earth is the footstool for my feet, what kind of house will you build for me? What place is there for my repose Was it not my hand which made all these things? Actually I want to go back a second. I brought up that little anecdote and I just now remembered exactly why I brought up that anecdote. It was left hanging there. When I was there in New York I picked up a little thing from some shop there somewhere of a little teeny Buddha. I couldn't care less about Buddhism or Hinduism or any of that stuff, but a little teeny wooden Buddha about Yeetal. I never prayed to it. I didn't think it a little hunk of brown wood, looking like a little happy Buddha or whatever, would do anything for me. But I had one. I'm glad I don't have it now. I don't know when I got rid of it. of it. But it reminds me of the fact that they thought they had to have some kind of little thing that they could put their hopes in. That's why they made the golden calf. I thought I need you know, I I I thought it was a neat thing to have. But there are people who will put their hope and trust in something other than God Himself So here they're they're they're happy their the big deal is the temple, and they think that well we've got the temple, that's the important thing. And God says to them, you know What kind of house will you build for me? Wasn't it my hand that made these things? In other words, that's not the important thing, the fact that you build that house. And the last thing they look at is the land. No, I'm sorry, the land was the first one. So we have these three things. You have these people thinking that they have the land, the law, and the temple, and that those are the important things. And the Apostle Paul, when he goes through all the badges of his being an apostle, realizes that none of that is important. Being born Jewish, living in living in Palestine, making sure he went to the temple, notched his belt, I got there today, I got there this week. That's not the important thing. Does he know God? Does he follow him? Does he believe in him? So what does this have to do with us today? Well Look at the land. It's possible that since we we live in a privileged nation, we could think that being born in America or something like that is some kind of big deal It can be a blessing for us, but that's not obviously what saves us or puts us in a good relationship with God per se. The law, sometimes we like Jews of old, can make some kind of fetish out of God's word in the sense that, well, I made sure I had this quiet time, or I made sure I did this particular thing, or I read a certain number of chapters God wants your heart. He does want you to read your word. And if you are his, you will want to read his word. But it's not a matter of how many boxes you can check And how many chapters you can say you read. That's not what saves you. So you can carry it, you can mark it, you can have it well worn, and I've got another Bible at home that looks like looks really tattered and stuff. You can have that, but you can fail to have it take root in your hearts. And that's the whole point. That's the important part. The the idea of the temple the Jews had. Well, we can make sure that we because we go to the place we're supposed to go to worship. Anytime there's a worship here, we come here. I make sure I go to the congregational meetings. That's the important thing. I am here. It is God's people do want to worship him, but are you here because you love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength? As much as you you can. Are you doing that? Do you care? Do you care about his body, his bride, the church? Brothers and sisters in Christ around you? Do you care about the church beyond here? Do you love the Lord and you want to see Him glorified in the world? Do you want to see Christ as the Savior, exalted? That's the important thing. And Stephen wanted to make sure that he he he made made the point and drove it home. And the last thing he says, he says, you men are stiff-necked and uncircumcised. And he then makes reference to the fact that they had killed they had killed those who came on on behalf of on behalf of uh God. And Stephen had become a bit stridened, but rightfully so. And earlier back in the back in the 18th century, 18th century, 1700s, there was a English minister named George Whitfield, well-known evangelist. And he preached to a New England church three evenings in a row on the same passage. You must be born again. The message was so vigorous that the elders finally came to him and asked, Mr. Whitfield, why do you keep preaching you must be born again? Whitfield responded, because you must be born again. And Stephen wanted to get his message across. You have sinned. You need a savior. These men were not paying attention. These men were the ones who had their fingers in the ears going la la la. They were not listening. So if Stephen spoke as Christ would speak to that group, to that people, he was blunt as the dickens. Lunches the Dickens. Others you come to with loving, soothing words, comforting words to somebody in in pain. But to these men they needed basically to be hit on the head with a verbal two by four The last thing we see is he dies as Christ would die. His sermon was his death warrant, but he's standing tall. He'd lived like Christ, he'd spoken like Christ, and now he would die like Christ. And in response to a godliness that they either wished to deny or silence, the Sanhedrin went nuts. When they heard this, they were cut to the quick and they began gnashing their teeth at him. Seems like a euphemism, like gnashing their teeth. They acted. They didn't just sit there and grit their teeth You know, it's interesting. It it's like a preacher would know he's in trouble when the congregation begins to frown, but he's in worse trouble when they begin to grind their teeth. I mean, I think it's you know So here we have them winding up, covering their ears, rushing at him, drive him out of the city, start throwing stones at him. This respected, dignified aristocrats descended on the young, innocent Stephen, and they executed him. They killed him. Their action was illegal, brutal, immoral, but they did not care. They did not want to hear the truth They probably took him outside the city where the witnesses repeated their charges, threw him down an embankment. It was the witnesses' privilege to do so, and cast great stones upon him. We're not talking about little pebbles. Some some guys could pick up hefty ones and they would. And the man would be chased and hit and hit again so that he would fall. Uh he would try to get up again, another one another stone or two would hit them again. You had a gang of people doing that. I mean people died by stoning. And to remind you today of the way people die that is Sometimes more mercifully quick, having your head cut off. All sorts of ways that the wicked do not want to hear the truth. So, Christ's brave ambassador died a terrible death. It's interesting. Stephen describes Jesus looking up. He looks up to heaven and God gives him him a a a a window into what he's about to go to live with. What what he's about to see when he the moment he dies. His body his his physical body dies, his spirit goes As Jesus had said weeks before to someone next to him on the cross, today you'll be with me in paradise. Well, he was about to see the Lord in paradise. And but he sees Jesus. He sees Jesus. And Stephen you know, Stephen looks up and sees and recognizes him. He knew Jesus understood his pain and felt it along with him. He knew what Jesus had gone through. Through. Savior and Saint were one in experience and heart. And Stephen lived the last day of his life with remarkable Christ-likeness. I mean, what are we called to? We don't know. But obviously any of us could be called to this. It says they went on stoning Stephen as he called upon the Lord and he says, Receive my spirit. He was just like Jesus who had said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. He was like the Lord even in death. And verse 60 goes on and says, He cries out and he says, Lord, do not hold the sin against him. And then fell asleep. Like Jesus, he prayed for the executioners. This is an overflow of grace. Remember how after Jesus dies on the cross, one of the gospels has a centurion's standing nearby who says, Surely this man was the son of God. You know, we don't know nothing of the background of a centurion, but you know, he's not like he grows up and uh lives there in a vacuum. He'd heard stories. No reason to think he necessarily had ever gone long to hear Jesus speak, but he could have. But he heard stories of what people said about him. And that centurion had that response. Our lives, people talk about our lives being like maybe one of the only Bibles that somebody will ever read because they'll see you the way you live your life. Which is not an excuse for them not reading it, they need to read it. We all do. You don't Just live your life in a particular way and don't need to read the word. But Stephen lived out Christ's power, and it had an effect on those around him And death will ultimately reveal what each of us truly is. How do we respond? I remember hearing of an an anecdote given once of Joseph Stalin, whose policies in the Soviet Union Union were responsible for the death of tens of millions. And I'm told that before he died at one point, he just all of a sudden raised his f his fist in the air, just held it upright for a while. some last act of physical defiance against his maker. On the other hand you have others wanting to be wanting to be with Jesus Jesus and in the even though racked by physical pain, knowing joy, because they're about to be with their Savior Stephen died a martyr's death as Christ would and did. He stood tall through the maximum grace of God. Why did he do it? Because he believed in Christ as his Savior. He knew What Jesus had done for him. And as I think Wesley, I think Jonathan everywhere says, Where's my good and faithful friend? Jesus had told him what would happen to him If someone's faithful, they keep their promises. They are truthful. If he tells me certain things will happen to me after my physical death, I believe him. I know they will come true. I will go to be with him. It's not a pretend, it's not a delusion. He he who is truth has told me that I will be with him. That is all that I that I need. Was it worth it? Stephen would say yes. So brothers and sisters, learning from Stephen's example. And it's not here as an example per se, it's here as an account of what actually happened in time and space. But we see a godly man acting here and we can learn lessons. First, be full of God's grace, power, and wisdom to do his will in our lives. The only way we can do that is if we turn to the Word, feed upon it, learn what God has said, learn what learn what learn what sin is, although we know that pretty well. well. But learn learn what is it was wicked and sinful and learn what is what is God's what got what are God's Teachings. Second, speak lovingly and boldly to out to others of God's offer of salvation through his son Jesus. We have to know what it is. The message to sinners there is a way out. There is a judge. The reason we worry up we worry about our sinful lives is we should. The reason we feel guilty is because we are All men and women are guilty of s of uh because of their sin. But there is a real God, which is the hope or fear of anyone in the world. And he will judge you. But there is a redeemer. And his name is Jesus. And let me tell you about them. That's but we the only way we know that and can share it is if we know what know what the message is. And third, live each moment as if it were your last You have no way of knowing when something like this could come up. You could have a very wicked man who thinks he's pleasing his God, who's nothing more than that little wooden lump that I spoke of. But you could have a wicked man or woman thinking they're pleasing their God who wants to kill you out of the blue. You'd be like Stephen. Well God would have us be like Stephen And glorify him in our lives. Until. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we rejoice. Again, we say that we rejoice. We thank you for what you do, what you have done, and what you do for your people. We do not deserve your favor. We know ourselves to be sinners. Yet you Have redeemed us. You bless Stephen with quite the heritage. He has been with you longer than many. And no doubt he is thankful for the opportunity that he was Was given to serve you and to serve as an example for others. Oh Father, cause us to learn from our brother Stephen, our older brother in the The faith. Learn from what he has done, and know that he was simply a grand way, as it were, but nonetheless, simply being faithful. Because he was a sinner whom you saved. We thank you, Father, for this, and we ask your blessing upon us this day and in the week to come. We ask that you would cause us to be faithful. We ask this in Jesus' name