Please remain standing and turn to Hebrews chapter twelve. As we continue to work through Hebrews, the book of Hebrews, we come to these words today from our God. And uh we begin at verse 18 and read through verse 24, uh but the uh focus will be on verse 22 uh really actually only the first couple of words in verse 22. Uh so let's hear now God's word For you have not come to the mountain that may be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness and darkness and tempest. And the sound of the trumpet and the voice of words so that those who heard it begged that the word should not be spoken to them anymore. For they could not endure what was commanded. And if so much as a beast touches the mountain it shall be stoned, or shot with an arrow So terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I'm exceedingly afraid and trembling. But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. To an innumerable company of angels, to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn, who are registered in heaven To God, the judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect, to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant And to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Please be seated. Last Sunday in our sermon, if you recall, we focused on the author's comments regarding Mount Sinai. It was uh uh reflected in the the uh Hebrews that came out with Moses and their coming to Mount Sinai. It was with reference to that historical occasion. And uh I titled the sermon Coming to the Mount Coming to Mount Doom. Coming to Mount Doom. For uh we saw that this mountain that's depicted here in uh in in um in uh Hebrews twelve, as well as it's depicted in Exodus chapter nineteen, is a mountain that uh was a place of fear. It was a place of gloom. There was much trembling going on. It was a mountain because As God came down and dwelled on this mountain for a brief period of time to meet with his people that he had just brought out of Egypt, it was a mountain of uh Such holiness because God was there It was a mountain of holiness in such degree that the people couldn't bear to hear anything. If when the voice of God said, Don't let anyone touch this mountain mountain. Don't even let a beast set foot on this mountain. It was a picture of the holiness of God coming close to the people of God. But it was the picture of gloom and doom. Nothing could touch this mountain. No person could touch it upon the penalty of death. It's so holy there. Mount Sinai is the place where God gave the Ten Commandments. Where God gave his moral law. They reveal, you see, God's standard of holiness or his standard of perfection. For the Jews, his ancient people, his covenant people, the people racially who are Abraham's descendants. If you're going to live on Mount Sinai, moral perfection is required. And moral perfection as God defines those terms. Actually, the law gives that standard of what constitutes moral perfection. God planned this encounter, and he did so to help the people see their need. To help the people understand that they couldn't meet the standard and at the same time encourage them to look for one who would As the scripture teaches, that one who would is the Lord Jesus. And as the scripture teaches, Galatians chapter 3, the law is our schoolmaster to lead us to Christ. And for anyone who thinks that they can bypass Christ and try to keep the law their own way, Mount Sinai is a curse. It represents the curse, the curse of the law, and as Galatians 310 put it. For as many as of the were are of the works of the law or under a curse, for it is written Cursed is every one that continues not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do that. But the author of Hebrews also makes clear that believers have come to a far different mountain. a far different mountain which can be touched and even has people living there And those people live there in communion with God. The author said to his audience of Christians there in the book of Hebrews in chapter 12, verse 22. But ye, plural, have come to Mount Zion Unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. I wish I had the ability to really say what all that means. I know what it means, but words cannot really adequately describe that that one verse. There is so much packed into that one verse that if we were to try to explain every term today, It would take six or seven sermons. And even then, I wouldn't fully exhaust it. Just to try to understand Mount Zion. From a biblical theological perspective. In other words, from a perspective that takes all of the Bible into account, just to understand Mount Zion. And what it represents as it's used in the scriptures is a task that's worthy of volumes. And I'm going to try to do it today in 30 minutes or so. I can say this as we start. Mount Zion, in summary fashion, Mount Zion is symbolic. For all the blessings God has bestowed on every believer in Christ. It is not a mountain of doom. It is not a mountain of doom and gloom. It is not a mountain of fear and trembling at God's presence. Nor is Mount Zion where the almighty wrath of God for men. Because of their sin is poured out. Instead, Mount Zion is a place for believers of ultimate joy. Amen. But even calling Zion or Mount Zion the mountain of joy Really doesn't do the biblical data complete justice For no matter how much I try to summarize it, I find this concept of Zion to be intertwined. With everything else that we hold dear about our salvation. And it's kind of like picking a thread out of a garment. Once you pick one thread out, you know, then another one you need to pick out. We've got a fully woven garment given to us by God regarding Mount Zion, and there are a lot of threads In that garment. And I hope that you will, as we as we finish today, I hope that you will have a better sense Of what it means for you to be on Mount Zion. The writer of Hebrews, the inspired writer of Hebrews, is not talking about just those believers that he's writing to. First of all, he's talking to believers and he's talking to all of us Just as they have come to Mount Zion, if you know Jesus, you've come to Mount Zion. And what does that mean to you? Why does that make a difference? Well, obviously, you don't want to go to Mount Sinai Because that's not a good place. But you want to go to Mount Zion. Now we need to see why that's such a great place. And that's what I want to try to do. Mount Zion or Zion are biblical terms with many weighty and complex themes associated with them. Mostly the themes are salvate salvific. In other words, they're associated with salvation. I have I did some word searches on Mount Zion and have been able to list about six weighty and complex themes And I'm sure I didn't get all of them. So let's look at them one at a time. What are the themes that Mount Zion is associated with? Now when we first of all when we say Mount Zion, we do have to realize that geographically there is a Mount Zion. And it is on the outskirts of Jerusalem. And as one person who had been there described it, it's not really a mountain, it's a hill. It's not an impressive mountain, just geographically speaking. But it overlooks Jerusalem. And oftentimes what is said about Mount Zion gets connected to what is said about Jerusalem. And you even see that reflected in the verse today. But be that as it may, let's look now at these six different Areas or concentrations of thinking regarding Mount Zion. Mount Zion is the place where Jehovah dwells. Mount Sion is depicted in the Bible as the place where Jehovah dwells. And that dwelling of Jehovah is in connection with First of all, an earthly temple, but also a spiritual temple. David made Jerusalem his capital. King David installed the Ark of the Covenant in Jerusalem. And in Jerusalem is where Solomon finished The temple work. And Jehovah made his dwelling place. In Zion, in Jerusalem, in the temple. And there's that famous incident Where Solomon is dedicating the temple in 1 Kings chapter 8. And he is speaking, and he says in verse 27, But will God indeed dwell on earth? In other words, will God really be here with us in the temple here in Jerusalem? Behold, the heaven and the heavens of heavens can't contain thee. How much less this house that I have built? So there's this admission on the one hand that heaven can't contain God. But nevertheless, right after Solomon says this, what happens? The glory of God comes down and it fills the temple. And everybody who is there to see it is re- is rejoicing and yet fearful. Mount Zion is used to denote the temple where Jehovah dwells. Secondly, Mount Zion is sometimes used as a name for the covenant people of God. Both with reference to apostate Israel, but also to the purified remnant Of God's people, also called the Israel of God, those who are chosen to inherit God's blessing. Both in the Old Testament and the New Testament, this is the case. Revelation 21, verse 9. remarks that call it calls the holy city of heaven the bride, the wife of the Lamb And then it calls it the holy Jerusalem as well. There came to me one of the seven verse nine of Jeremiah, of Revelation 21. There came to me one of the seven angels, which had the seven vials full of the last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, I'll show you the bride. I'll show you the bride, the lamb's wife. That's you. That is you, the lamb's wife, and he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain. And showed me the great city, the holy Jerusalem descending out of heaven from above. When the Assyrians came against Jerusalem during Hezekiah's reign, Zion was left unharmed. It was surrounded, but it wasn't captured. Isaiah 1, verse 8 refers to that event. And unfortunately The Jews, the Hebrews, wrongly concluded from that incident That God in his mercy, since God in his mercy had spared Zion, that Zion was invincible Or their very place, their very city, the holy Jerusalem, was invincible, thinking in earthly terms. In their mind, they were convinced that nothing they would ever do could cause them to fall and lose God's presence. were blessing. And this led to some of the prophets rebuking the Hebrews for their misplaced trust in the temple and in Zion. Jeremiah 7, verse 4. Trust not in lying words, saying, The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. See what they were doing? In the time of Jeremiah, in the later latter part uh of the sixth uh century Right as Jerusalem's about to be destroyed, people were claiming multiple times. Trust the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, that's our hope. Temple of the Lord, that's our hope. Zion's our hope. Jerusal Once our foe And Jeremiah calls these lying words. Why? Because they were acting like unbelievers. In the middle of God's presence. The temple was still there. And Mount Zion is overlooking all of this The temple was still there. God was still present with his people in his glory in the Holy of Holies. And soon after Jeremiah's prophecies come God's judgment, which brought Nebuchadnezzar's destruction of Jerusalem And the temple, along with the destruction of the complacency of the Jews All of which was in Mount Zion's site. The earthly Mount Zion. Of course the spiritual now side and as well. So we see The Bible connects now Zion to the temple where Jehovah dwells. It gives it the name of the covenant. It can be used as a name for the covenant people of God with God. But Mount Zion also is used and associated with the world's center, from which God's law will be spread. And the place to which the Gentile nations of the world will flow. This is eschatologically speaking. This is last day's stuff But it's still associated with it. The prophets frequently go back and forth regarding Mount Zion. Using the historical Mount Zion under judgment contrasted with references to Mount Zion being glorified in the last days. And part of that glory, Zion is portrayed as the seat of Jehovah's World Rule. The place where peace prevails, where Yahweh's word will flow from Zion, and the Gentile nations will stream To it. Listen to Psalm forty eight. Amazing Psalm. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God and the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful is for situation. The joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion. On the edges of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her palaces for refuge. For lo the kings were assembled, they passed by together. They saw it, and so they marveled, but they were troubled and hasted away. Fear took hold upon them there, and pain as if a woman in travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind. But as we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God, God will establish it forever. and that it in the context has to go back to Jerusalem and Zion. Those who will be those the ones who will be graced to live In this last day's Mount Zion will be the saved remnant of God's people. They have been refined by fire and washed clean. So they're holy to the Lord. And in a minute, tell you how they are refined by fire and washed clean. The remnant who are cleansed are cleansed because Yahweh reigns from Zion and He wills. He wills, he decrees their cleansing. Psalm 102, verse 13. For the Lord hath chosen Zion, He hath desired it for his habitation. It's not the mountain he's talking about. This is my rest forever. Here I will dwell. I have desired it. I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread. I will also clothe her priests with salvation, and her saints shall shout alone aloud for joy. So Mount Zion is associated with the remnant redeemed who are cleansed. Fifthly, and this one is amazing even more amazing. Mount Sion is associated with the royal kingship of David. The royal kingship of David, which is also associated with Messiah. God made a promise to David that his descendant would sit upon the throne of his people. 2 Samuel chapter 7 His descendant would be called the son of David. He would also be called the Son of God. God has installed his son where According to Psalm 26, he's installed his king on my holy hill called Zion. I will declare the decree the Lord hath said unto me, You are my son, this day I have begotten thee, quoted by the scriptures themselves, referring to Jesus. This day I have begotten thee. Ask of me, I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, the uttermost parts of the earth, nation streaming to Mount Zion. For thy possession. Now the moral failure of all the kings of Israel to inaugurate this last day's kingdom of God's righteousness. whether it be in Jerusalem or on Mount Zion, leads Israel, some in Israel, to see the king of Zion as the one who is yet to come. And hence Messiah. And finally, Zion represents the new heavens and the new earth where peace and prosperity. Upon now Zion, the gloriously renewed world of God and God's people will live in the exalted city of Zion forever. Joyfully ruled by her king. The Messiah. The Messiah King Peace, blessing, and prosperity will reign in this heavenly Mount Zion under the reign of this Messiah King. Isaiah 65, 25 is referring to that when it says, The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, the lion shall eat straw like the bull, and thus shall be the serpent's meat Can't forget the serpent. And the dust. The dust will be the serpent's meat. They shall not hurt nor destroy all in my ho in all my holy mountains, says the Lord. Psalm 46, verse 4, says, The waters, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountain shake with the swelling thereof, there is a river. the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles most high. God is in the midst of her She shall not be moved. God shall help her, and that right early You, the text says You have come to this eternal Mount Zoy, Mount Zion, the mountain of joy. You. Notice that, verse 22 of chapter 12. You, plural, have come to Mount Sinai. Golly, I'm really mixing it up this morning. You you are come To Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. The tense of the verb there for Arcum is perfect And the perfect in Greek means it stands for action at the time of speaking being complete. What that basically means is it's best to translate this as, you have already come. You, plural believer, have already come to Mount Zion, this wonderful place That has all these different salvation matters connected to us. It everyone who is in Christ now live on in Mount Zion It's the place where God dwells with his people. Well, isn't that coming in the future? Yes and no. It's here now. And you are living there. You are living there. Because Emmanuel, Jesus, has come to live in your heart. And after he came, he sent his spirit to dwell there. And you, 1 Corinthians 6, 16, are the temple of the living God. This is one of those things we call in theological terms the already and the not yet. Both things are true. You already are on Mount Zion, and yet there is promise of greater blessing to come. It's a place. Mount Zion is a place of the eternal peace and prosperity, eternal heavenly blessings. It is a mountain of joy. Because God has made joy to dwell there. Because Jesus, the Messiah, King of David, and the Son of God Has been highly exalted by God and installed on Zion terrain from Mount Zion. And you are there. You are there because the king of Zion, the son of David, the son of God, Jesus, has shed his blood for you. Has shed his blood for your sins, so that you might be declared holy, and with the help of the Holy Spirit, so that you might be progressively made holy. Holy in God's sight. Mount Zion is the place Of God's cascading grace, of God's grace cascading over your souls and perfecting you in Christ's blood once and for all. Even as our text reminds us, the reason we have now come to this mountain is what verse 24 says. Because by God's grace we have come to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, to the sprinkled blood that speaks better things than that of Abel. Mount Zion is for you. The mountain of redeeming grace is for you. Zion, the mountain of God's eschatological hope, is for you. It's yours. God is in the midst of it. Of her, and she shall not be moved. He shall rule the nations, and all the elect people from every nation shall stream with you to Mount Zion. And you were there by the grace of God, the eternal Father, and by the work of his messianic king. the Son of David, the Son of God, Jesus Christ. You will be there forever. And you have just started now Since you've come to know Christ. You see, if what is this what's so important about this? Besides the point that it's biblical and fascinating. What's so important? What does it mean to you? Somebody say hope? Yeah, it means hope. But it also means So what with this world? I do not have to be controlled by this world. I'm living with God forever on Mount Zion. I'm not going to Mount Sinai. Not because of anything I've done, but because of everything that he has done. And I have hope and I have peace And yeah, from time to time I get upset and I worry and I don't like what I'm seeing and I wish it would change and I pray for a difference. But friends, that is not your ultimate reality. Your reality is with God in Christ on Mount Zion. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we do ask that you would help us to capture the vision of the psalmist. And the passages of Scripture that encourage us to see Mount Zion as a glorious place of your kingdom rule. And Lord, see it as a place where others will come And will dwell there because of the same divine electing grace that we have experienced in Jesus Christ Give us, Lord, trust in what your word says over and over again. Give us, Lord, confidence Encourage our faith. Strengthen our hope. Give us, Lord, the longing in our heart To be fully in your presence with our glorified body. But until that day when you decide to take us home to be with you, May our desire to be, be, to glorify you in all things on Mount Zion. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.