Please turn to Hebrews chapter 12, verses 18 through 24. We'll be again focusing this morning on verse 22. Hebrews chapter 12, verses 18 through 24. I I picked that last hymn, and maybe as you go back and look at it, you'll see that in that last hymn there are echoes. of uh things that are part of this Hebrews chapter twelve passage, verse twenty-two Particularly the idea of rejoicing as we come to New Jerusalem and the heavenly hosts, the innumerable company of angels that we'll be talking about today. So listen to hear God's word. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 18. For you have not come to the mountain that may be touched and that burned with fire and to blackness and darkness and tempest. And the sound of a trumpet and the voice of words, so that those who heard it begged that the word should not be spoken to them any more. For they could not endure what was commanded. And if so much as a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned or shot with an arrow. And so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I'm exceedingly afraid and trembling. But you have come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are registered in heaven, to God the judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect To Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Please be seated. Well, this is the continuation of the study of this verse And uh mighty wonderful verse it is, uh Today we're told that we have come to an innumerable company of angels. Those of you who are believers in the saving work of Jesus Christ have come by God's grace to this innumerable company of angels. You know, the minute you talk about angels, there's a great ignorance in the world and in the Christian community in general regarding angels. And I thought it would be important since we're coming to the text says we're coming to an innumerable company of angels that we stop and think about what it is the Bible says about angels. And in one way, you might think that we're handicapped. Because we can't turn to one chapter or one book where you're going to find everything you need to know about angels contained therein. But I assure you that when you look at all of the scriptures, there are significant, there's a significant amount of information. regarding what angels are and what angels do, as well as what they don't do. So as we start this morning, we're first going to look at this matter of how the Bible, what the Bible tells us about angels. And first of all, the word angel is translated in both the Greek and the Hebrew as messenger, one who is a messenger. And that can be broadened in one sense to refer to any agent that God uses to send forth his purposes. To tell someone about his purposes or his will. For example, the same word that translates angels is sometimes used to speak of the prophets. And it's sometimes used to speak of priests of God. And sometimes in the New Testament it gets translated as ministers of the New Testament. So, I mean it's a it's a it's a it's a general word in one sense with a broad application of meaning. But then there's also this special category of beings called angels that we want to look at in our passages this morning. The scriptures, let's get this clear. The scriptures are the only source of true information about angels Shouldn't have to say that. However The misinformation that's out there is not information that's derived from the scriptures. Oh yes, there may be a verse or two that they will hang their hats on and say this is what it means. But it the and and I'm going to talk about one or two of those verses later. But uh but that is not the general uh they that Only the scriptures give the true understanding of what an angel is and what an angel does. One thing we can glean from the Word of God regarding angels, and by the way, I'm going to throw out a lot of different matters, and you can feel free to write this down. But at the same time, if anyone wants a copy of all the different things that I'm going to say about angels, I'll be glad to let you know. you have one. But first first I want to s uh the first thing I want to say too is that they're that they are beings who are very numerous They are numerous beings. Sometimes it's referred to as thousands upon thousands of angels. Sometimes it referred to as twelve legions of angels. Sometimes it's referred to as it is in our text. with the word myriad of angels, which gets translated as innumerable Company of angels. There are many. They are also spoken of, these angels are also spoken of in terms of their rank and their power. We'll speak about that in just a minute or two. As to their nature, they are spirits They are spirits, and they don't have human flesh. Not one aspect of human flesh They are spirit beings. And they are created spirit beings, created by the same God that created you and all things. Sometimes imperfection is ascribed to them. Imperfection. They're not perfectly holy beings. For example, Matthew 24, verse 36 makes this statement Regarding the last day, but of that day and hour no man knoweth, not even the angels. Did you realize that was Connected? No man knoweth, not even the angels, but my father only, pointing out the fact that they're not omniscient. They're not fully perfect. We read also that they are creatures who fall into temptation We read of fallen angels. We don't know why they fell. We only know that they left their first estate. And we also find for Revelation chapter 12 that they are reserved, those who have fallen are reserved unto judgment. So they can't be judged by God. Angels possess superhuman intelligence and power. Sometimes they're referred to as holy angels, sometimes elect. And under those circumstances are angels ever to be worshipped. Their functions include many aspects of fulfilling God's providence. They are agents who announce God's providence to men They are especially agents as God carries on the work of redemption unto his people. The Bible has, and I didn't realize this, but when I thought about it, I think it's I believe it's true The Bible has no notations of the appearance of angels to men until after God calls Abraham. From that time on, there are frequent references to their ministry on earth They appear at times to rebuke the people for idolatry, like in Judges chapter 2. They are involved in the calling of Gideon to his work as a judge. And they help to consecrate Samson. As another judge. In the days of the prophets, from Samuel on, the angels only appear to the prophets Until the New Testament, that is. Now, there also in the in the Old Testament the appearance of a special angel For lack of a better term. And he is designated usually as the angel of the Lord. And he appears to Abraham. At the Oaks of Mamre in Genesis eighteen, he appears to Jacob at Peniel. In Genesis 32, he appears to Joshua at Gilgal in Joshua 5. These appearances are the appearances of God's presence. They are, as such, foreshadowing the day when God will take on human flesh. They are, in other words, foreshadowing the incarnation of Jesus Christ They are revelations of that incarnation that occurs before the fullness of time when Jesus comes. But, as I just said, Christ's incarnation introduces a new era in the work of angels They come with the Lord. They come with the Lord to do him service while he is here. They predict his birth and sing of his glory at his birth. They minister to him after his temptation in the wilderness. And also, Luke chapter 22 verse 43, it says the only the only gospel that picks this up. When Jesus was in agony in the garden, it says he was ministered to by the angels. They declare his resurrection. You find them at the empty tomb. And you find them again when Christ is risen from the risen into heaven. They speak to those who are gathered, men of Israel. Why do you stand here? You shall take his message To Judea, to Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. We're told That angels rejoice when a sinner repents. Luke chapter 15, verse 10, which I'm going to read in just a minute. They will also participate as ministers of judgment on the great day. Now we read this verse in Psalm 34, verse 7, which I read this morning in the call to worship. The angel of the Lord encamps round about them that fear him and delivers them. Keep that in your mind. Matthew 18, verse 10. Take heed that you despise not one of these little ones, for I say to you that in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father. which is in heaven. These two verses are the two verses which generally are used to cite the concept, the false idea, that each individual has a guardian angel. My friends, it's not one angel, it's all the angels. Are our guardians, our ministering spirits? These verses, which I cited, merely indicate that God employs angels to deliver his people From affliction and from danger. They also tell us that angels do not think it's below their dignity to minister to us. Or even our children. Infrequently, angels referred to are referred to as heavenly warriors who will fight or can fight Such as Christ referring to saying to Peter when he tried to cut off the high priest's ear, don't you think I can call twelve legions of angels? There are special angels, in addition to what we might want to call the ordinary angels That's probably not the right term. But there are special angels. Isaiah 6 speaks of cherubim. And the seraphim. Who have a differentiation in their task, but primarily they're involved in serving God's presence in a way that magnifies his glory. And then there are archangels, of which there are only two: Michael and Gabriel. They're greater in rank and power. And they have special tasks regarding the birth of Christ and the return of Christ. In one sense, angels are curious about you. Yeah, they're curious about you. Curious about us. And it's not so much that they're curious about us, but they're curious about the grace of God that you possess. 1 Peter 1, verses 10 through 12 records this, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently. who prophesied of the grace that should come to you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them, that would be in the Old Testament prophets What manner or time did that prophecy signify when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow? And it goes on, unto whom it was revealed, namely the Old Testament prophets, that not unto themselves, but unto us they ministered. These things. Unto us their prophecies were for our time, or the believers' time, which are now reported to you. By them which have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, which things angels desire to look into. I think what that text is saying is angels are interested in how God saves and applies salvation to our lives. They have a desire to look into that and understand the prophecy of God as it applies to the redeemed of God. Well that's what I want to say about angels. And I I hope I've done a comprehensive job if if if ever so briefly. All the things that I have asserted all have connection to scripture and if you want to look at my notes, you can check up the scriptures yourself. Just be too long to talk to you about all of them. But now I want to switch gears, and I want to get back now to our text with all that understanding about angels. It says In addition to the fact that we have come, you have come, to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. That you as a believer have come to an innumerable company of angels An innumerable company of angels. Now the word innumerable is the Greek word from which in English we get myriad. And a myriad is a number, a large number, which is unknown to us. So we've come to a very large number of angels. It's referred to as the company of angels. The company idea that you should be thinking of here It's not the sense of a regiment or a battalion of soldiers, although we have already seen that angels can be soldiers. The word here for company has more the sense of a gathering And in particular, a festival gathering. A festive gathering. As if it were, as if we were waiting for some special people to come to visit us. You know how how you kinda wait and wait and you and they're special and you want to get the house and order you want to get it clean and you want to have the dinner ready and all that kind of stuff. And you're looking forward to them coming with you and maybe like Thanksgiving kind of stuff. of thing. Maybe that helps. But it's a festival. It's a festive gathering of myriads of angels that you, believer, have come to. This innumerable company of angels is joyful. And they're celebrating. They're celebrating. Why would they be joyful? And why would they be celebrating? Or what would they be celebrating? And there are two interconnected reasons that I can find. They're not here in the text, but they're elsewhere in scripture. There are two interconnected reasons why they would be celebrating and why they would be joyful You are said to have come to this gathering. And we read in Hebrews 2, verse 14, this statement. Angels are ministering spirits for the sake of the elect. Angels are ministering spirits for the sake of the elect. That says they're out there and they're active in caring for you, God's children. As you live your life. But you see, if you've come, if you've come to this innumerable company of angels as a believer in Christ, or when you come to that gathering Those angels who have watched over you and cared for you and helped you during your pilgrimage are joyful that you're finally home. You've finally made it. By God's grace you've made it. And that's why they're celebrating But it's interconnected because it's not just that they're glad you're there They are even more joyful for the fact that our Heavenly Father, His Son, and His Spirit, that their work has been effectual. They minister to for him too. They see With the presence of this group of people, believers, coming into heaven, that says that you have come to this place Not will come, but you've come. It's already happened. It's already started since the death and resurrection of Christ. When you have come to this heavenly place, they see God's Plan, fulfilled. They see it vindicated. They see it triumphant. They see evil as being destroyed. They see all of God's elect children washed in the blood of Jesus Christ and perfected by the Holy Spirit. They see the prodigal sons and daughters coming home to the Father. They see sinners Upon sinners returning to their first love Just as the prodigal father rejoices at the return of his son, so too the angels rejoice. At the return of all us prodigals. Such love that God And his heavenly realm rejoices at the presence of redeemed sinners, is so clearly spoken of in Luke chapter 15. And that's why we read the parable of the prodigal son. But if you go back to Luke 15 in its entirety, Jesus tells three stories there, of which the prodigal son is the last. Let me share with you the first two. The first of the stories found in Luke chapter 15, 1 through 7. Jesus is eating with publicans and sinners, and they complain. They complain. About Christ eating with such people. So the Lord tells this story about the lost sheep. And he concludes his words with these statements. About the one who finds the lost sheep. He says, Rejoice with me I have found my sheep that was lost. I say to you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repents More than 99 just persons which need no repentance. Again, that's that's why I say the angels are rejoicing. Because all those unrepentant sinners have repented And they're in God's presence now. And we're there. And then in chapter uh Luke chapter 15, 8 through 10, Jesus follows up that statement with another statement. What woman having ten pieces of silver, if she loses one, doth not light a candle, sweep the house, and seek diligently till she finds it And when she finds it, she calls her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me. For I have found the peace I have lost. And then Christ makes this statement Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repents. What do you think the joy is going to be like? But the angels see the elect, which also is characterized in Revelation as an innumerable number. Which no one can count. What do you think their joy is going to be like? Do you think there's going to be a celebration? Well, heaven itself is the only vessel great enough to contain such joy and celebration. And that's forgiven. Angels rejoice and celebrate in heaven because God, their master, is seeing that all of his lost children have been found and brought home. Through the ministry of Jesus, his beloved Son, and the Holy Spirit. Their redemptive work has reached its end. And now God is with us in glory, can begin in the most intimate of ways, as the last elect sinner comes home. And I struggled with saying to you, what does this mean? What does this mean right now in this place this day? Because the events pictured here are obviously have a somewhat futuristic component to them, even though they have a present component as well. So what does it say? What does it mean to you that you have come and you're going to come to an innumerable company of angels Rejoicing in the heavenly Jerusalem on Mount Zion. This verse twenty-two is another one of God's glorious promises. In order to receive this promise, it demands faith, does it not? It demands God's saving faith, the kind of faith every believer before you and you yourself must exercise. Do we not did we forget about Hebrews 11? Did we forget about all those people by faith, by faith, by faith? Are you any different? Are you any different when it comes down to the promises of God? Oh yes! We live in hell on this earth. And it looks awful. And we're discouraged, and we're depressed, and we're frustrated, because nothing ever seems to go right. For God's kingdom, even though we know that God is in sovereign control and He's bringing His world to a conclusion. We know that. We know that. But we're still discouraged. We're still distressed. Here is at the exact nexus where your faith must be exercised. To believe what God has said and to deny what your eyes are seeing. I'm not telling you to ignore it, but I'm telling you not to get wrapped up in it. I'm telling you to look for your heavenly home as you live here on earth, and don't get the categories reversed. Don't think earth is your home. It is not. This world is not your joy. It was not designed to be your joy. It is not your final destination. Heaven with the myriads of angels and your Creator is where you're going to end up. Live now on earth encouraged, as hard as that may be, for you will live with God forever in heaven With exceeding joy. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen And the blood of Jesus Christ, the mediator, verse twenty-four. has guaranteed that your heavenly host will be with innumerable angels rejoicing with most glorious joy. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord our God, put within our hearts right thoughts about you, about your salvation, about your word, and what it reveals about angels. Help us not to get bogged down with this world. Help us to live in this world and be wise as serpents and innocent as dogs. Help us to recruit from this world those whom you have designed here the gospel and make us reaching always constantly reaching out and praying for uh those who are caught in the despair and the death of this world. They've even made it its idol But Lord, fill us with ever-increasing thoughts of the glory of your presence in eternity. May that be our hope. May that be our confidence. May it be our joy. In Jesus' name, amen.