Turn to Hebrews, our continuing study in Hebrews chapter thirteen, uh, verse one through verses uh five. Excuse me, verse six. The word of the Lord Let brotherly love continue. Do not forget to entertain strangers, for by so doing some have unwittingly under entertained angels. Remember the prisoners as if chained with them, those who are mistreated, since you yourselves are in the body also. Marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers God will judge. Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have, for he himself has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. So we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Thus for ends the reading of God's Word. I've uh intending to focus uh my remarks on verse one Two primarily, and also some of three. Under the title Living as an Ambassador of Christ. When we turn back for just a minute, the last phrase of chapter 12 says that our God is a consuming fire. And that we are encouraged to serve him with reverence and godly fear. And I think it's that phrase that kind of sets the tone for the moral instructions that come in verse thirteen. Um When we talk about God being a consuming fire, we mentioned last time that he possesses power which he uses in two different ways. First of all, the consuming fire of God is such that he judges all mankind according to the moral law. And that's his standard for judging our thoughts and actions. And his fire will consume all those who do not continually obey him. So that's one sense in which God is a consuming fire. But there's another sense that's pictured in the scriptures Namely, the sense of the consuming fire being a refining fire, a fire that refines the minds and the hearts of believers and purifies them. Burning away their evil thoughts and their actions. God's consuming fire both in its destroying and refining emphasis fulfills Malachi chapter 3 verse 1 and following. Where God predicts the coming of his messenger of the messenger of the Lord G uh of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says Behold, I will send my messenger. He will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord. But who can endure the day of his coming? Who can stand when he appears? Because he is a refiner's fire. And he's like launderer's soap. What this means is that for the wicked, when Christ returns, when Christ comes initially, and when he returns God's consuming fire will destroy them forever in judgment. For the faithful, it means that God's consuming fire refines them. to encourage them to ever-increasing holiness before Him. So the question I put to you from the beginning this morning Is which are you? Are you someone who lives in constant dread of God's all-consuming fire? that will destroy you because you know that you are an unrepentant sinner. Or are you one who's being refined by God's fire? Interestingly enough, I just thought of this as we were speaking. Interestingly enough, the first manifestation of the Holy Spirit was with tongues of fire at Pentecost. And Jeremiah remarked In Jeremiah 20, verse 9, that God's word is a fire in his heart. Both of the instruments that God uses To refine his people, the spirit and the word are depicted in this refiner's mode. In Scripture, they are the agents. The Word and the Spirit are the agents that God uses to burn away sin. The sin in your heart, the sin in your mind. And they are the agents that transform you into more and more into the image of Jesus. So thirteen, chapter thirteen, and the exhortations that are found in chapter thirteen describe holiness. Holiness before God, before all believers, and before all the world. Everyone who is washed in the atoning blood of Jesus is called to live as Christ's ambassadors. That means that you're showing the refining fire of God at work in your lives. Showing it to the world. Today, again, we focus on verses 1 through 3. And we see just a picture of some of the ways in which God's people are being refined to be his ambassadors. And the first thing that pops out in verse 1 is the statement, let brotherly love continue. Let brotherly love continue. This is a kind of love which we've often talked about before. It's the kind of love that wherein one has an affection for someone else. It's likened in this statement to the affection that you may have for your siblings, your brothers, and your sisters. Indeed, it is the word, a combination of two words, phileo and and and Adophas in Greek, which come together to form Philadelphia. And as I've said many times here before, a city which is a misnomer. in my experiences. But nevertheless nevertheless, we're not called to be in the city of Philadelphia. We're called to be true Philadelphians in the biblical sense. Under normal circumstances in a family, there may be, there may likely be fights. There may be rivalries and jealousies, but usually when things get tough, brothers and sisters hang tight with each other Defend and support, protect, and care for one another. Christians are not to let brotherly love wane or deteriorate. or encourage situations that are calculated to drive brothers and sisters apart Instead, they're to continue to ask God's Holy Spirit to help them more and more show brotherly love. Let the Holy Spirit work in your life. Let Him apply God's word to you. Help me to show brotherly love, not just to my siblings, but more important, my siblings in the faith. Those who have repented and believed, and those to whom I am currently close to. Now, you all know that the word phil'o does not come is not the same word as adapte Because agape is uh we're also commanded to show that kind of love to one another. A love which is depicted over and over again in the scriptures. It's the love that Christ has for his church, that he loved the world, that he gave his only begotten son. It's the love of sacrifice 1 John 4, 7 states, beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. Everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. How many times? Can that be said? And how many times can it be said that believers are encouraged to love one another as Christ loved us? Here in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 1, we need to take account of the fact that not only are we to love one another, sacrificially as Jesus loved us, but we are encouraged to love one another continually as brothers and sisters in Christ. And it's easier in a sense it's easier in a sense to focus on One of those two loves to the it's easy to focus on one of those two loves to the exclusion of the other or to minimize or to forget about the idea that we're enjoined by Scripture to show both. to each other, whenever the circumstance warrants it, or whenever we have opportunity to do this. Now I'd like to point out also that the text goes on and talks about who we are to show brotherly love. Who do we phileo? Not philet, phileo. Um do not, verse two, do not forget to entertain strangers. Whereby doing, some have unwittingly entertained angels. Well the interesting thing about this idea of entertaining, wow, that's that's the way that gets translated, I don't like Uh tell you why. It's intri it's it y i it it's pretty easy to entertain people, but oftentimes um you know y you kind of wish that you had the day free. Or you didn't have to do that. And in certain senses it is hospitality to entertain others. But that isn't the word here This is a compound word. It's the two words are put together. It's philato. And the other word is the word for stranger. To brotherly love strangers. That's the more accurate translation To brethrenly love strangers. Don't forget to brethrenly love strangers. And incredibly, incredibly, the text goes on To offer an amazing possibility that can occur when you brotherly love strangers. Now I know it's difficult to do that. I know that, you know, we we got priorities, we got things to do, uh, we got places to go, and it all takes time To brotherly love a stranger who may be in need of something. I think there are limits to how far you go with this. You know, in certain situations, you go outside a particular place and you find a whole group of people lined up wanting money. Well, you know, you know, it's always a hard thing to do under those circumstances. What do you do? Um I think one of the first things you do or you don't do is just give them a buck. Because you see, I don't think that's the force of this idea, this brotherly love. It's it's it is a kind of get kind of get enmeshed, kind of get involved, kind of find out what this guy, where this person is coming from and what their need might be Of course you know what their ultimate need is. But you know, just don't just don't casually give them something like a buck or whatever you want to give them, just to the just so Um, just so you can be done with them. Okay? I think that's the that's that's what love of strangers is not But there is this amazing possibility that is there to, I think, encourage believers to look outside their own congregations to other Who are in need. And that possibility is that we might actually unknowingly entertain heavenly messengers. Think about that. That's an incredible thought. That someone you may take the time To love who's a stranger could possibly be a ministry to heaven itself, or heavenly being itself But we are not just called to entertain strangers who happen to be next door or in the marketplace or wherever we come in contact with them. We're not just called to love them. Here I keep saying saying entertainer entertain when I I don't think that's the right word. But we're also called to fellow prisoners Prisoners. Remember verse 3, the prisoners, as if chained with them. Those who are mistreated, since you yourselves are in the body also Remember, prisoners, they too are people you can love as strangers. And it talks about as if you are chained with them. Now that's another aspect of this whole thing that needs some more explanation, this teaching. It implies if you that you are chained with them that in some way you might be Enslaved or in bondage as well. Of course it would if you're not enslaved or in bondage, if you decide that from this passage that you'd like to minister. To prisoners, it implies effort on your part because you got to go to where the prisoners are. Got to go to jail Go to places where they are, where they exist, where they are needy. It means you have to go way, way, way beyond your comfort Why in the world would you do such a thing beside the fact that it's commanded Why would you do such a thing? Or it it's not just prisoners, but outsiders, and as well as those within the body. Why would you love prisoners? Why would you love outsiders Why would you philato your brothers and sisters? Regarding the prisoners, it says because you are chained with them You are somehow, in some way, chained with them. That may mean that you may one day yourself be in prison God hopefully it's not because you've done something wicked and deserved to be there. But you may be in prison someday because you simply love Jesus. You may be one day in prison as you are being persecuted But at the same time, you are chained with them. Recalls the fact That you were one day, as we talked about in Sunday school this morning, you were one day in Satan's chains of sin. You were one day in bondage to sin, just as they are in bondage to sin, only yours was nicer and more socially accepted. Yours was not evil and wicked as theirs was as society defines those terms. However, it is just as wicked in the eyes of God. Therefore, remember you were in prison And show the Lord's compassion to a prisoner. If you are a believer, if you as a believer are imprisoned, Since you are also in the body, show philet, show love. Since you are in the body also. Since you are in the body also. The body is an important point. The body in the church depicts the unity of the body of Christ. 1 Corinthians 12, verse 12, and following. Ephesians 4, verse 7, and following. I think you remember those images of the body is one, but it has many members. When so many in the world in which we live, and maybe some of you as well, are longing for someone To show them care. To actually care for them To care for them out of love for Jesus. A church that shows that kind of care Among its members and to the world is a very bright light and a very dark and uncaring And comfortless world. Show fala to all the members of the body of Christ. Show to strangers who you come show for the strangers who you come in contact with. Show to those in prison that you remember them. All of this can only be possible because of Jesus and his redeeming work, which unites us to him in his death and resurrection. He gives us the Holy Spirit that dwells within us to produce this kind of love along with all the other fruits of the Spirit. He gives us the Spirit. Ultimately, we do show this philetho to others because Jesus has shown love to us agape by his sacrifice for us. But don't forget Jesus also showed Philato in his earthly earthly ministry. When did he do that? Well, think about all the many people who came to Jesus Jesus during his ministry in Galilee, with every kind of disease and affliction, with hunger He provided for them. Remember the feeding of the five thousand? And he healed them all Was that not at least some fla oh going on there? Some compassion When we show phileo inside and outside the church, it expresses to all that true love and compassion exists for all in Christ. even the downtrodden and the oppressed. As Mary said of God's upcoming provision for her in Luke chapter 1, verse 50. Regarding the coming birth of Jesus. She said, His mercy is on them who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm He has scattered the proud and the imaginations of their heart. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things. And I suppose you can argue that some of that is the that most of that is the blessing of eternal love. Life. But that's not all that Jesus did when he was here. The good exalting the lowly and uh filling the hungry with good things, surely he feeds them. Us with his word. He exalts those who are oppressed to the positions not necessarily of leadership, but to the positions of glory in his kingdom. But still, the idea that he ministers to those who are needy And Mary understood that. When you show brotherly love to those in the church, you are literally showing brotherly love to the head of the church. Jesus, who is your brother, and who is not ashamed to call you his brothers and sisters. We can never forget as well that when we show brotherly love to all men, We also serve warning to those who say they are Christians, but do not have the deeds that That accompany their profession. We serve warning that they are in danger not of the refining fire, but of the consuming fire of judgment. As Jesus himself warned them in Matthew 25, then he shall say to those on the left hand, Depart from me, you cursed Israel. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. I was a stranger and you did not take me in. Naked and you did not clothe me. Sick. And in prison. And you did not minister to me. Or you did not visit me. Then they will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we not see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick Or imprison, and did not minister to you. And he will answer them, saying, Surely I say to you Inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. These will go into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. Amen.