Omens. As we continue our study there, we're in chapter fourteen tonight Begin reading at verse thirteen of chapter fourteen. Actually I'll probably back up To verse 10. Remember, we had preaching on the first part of chapter 14 last week, and I said this was part one. This is actually part two now of related text. Let's give attention to God's Word. Romans chapter 14, beginning at verse 10. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, every tongue shall confess to God. So then let each of us excuse me, so then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore Let us not pass judgment on one any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and from mutual upbuilding Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. For whatever was written in the former days was written for our instruction. That through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another in accord. with Christ Jesus. We'll stop there. Praise be to God. Amen. Please be seated Father, we ask now that as we've read your word, you would add your blessing to it. That you would strengthen your servant, that I would proclaim your word only. That these would not be words of wisdom from men, but your words, Father. Guide us tonight. Work powerfully by your Spirit tonight. That we might be made more like Christ. We ask these things in his precious name. Amen. As Mark begins his gospel And as he writes about John the Baptist, the one who goes before Jesus Christ, he refers to him as a messenger that is sent to prepare your way, meaning the way of Jesus. A voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. And that was a reference. Back to Isaiah 40, that passage that we read tonight, and Isaiah adds some words to that, which John doesn't apparently apparently speak. Certainly, which Mark does not record. We read them. A voice cries in the wilderness: prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low. The uneven ground shall become level on the rough places plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. And all flesh shall see it together. There's a sense that John, as he's preparing the way for the Lord Jesus Christ, that Isaiah, as he refers to the coming of Christ, says, you know, there have got to be these things knocked down and made straight and plain and So that you can actually see Christ. Remember As John the Baptist called people out to be baptized, he was calling them to a baptism of repentance. There's a problem in their hearts. And that seems to be what Isaiah is referring to. Make straight in the desert that which is A picture of our heart. A highway for God. Knock down those high places. Fill in the low places Make the rough places a plane. It seems to be speaking of our hearts that need to be prepared for Christ. And I think that's really what Paul is getting at tonight, as he's nearing the end of his gospel. He's not there yet. He has spoken, he's written of the way of salvation, justification by faith alone in Christ alone. He has knocked down all the objections to that. He's answered all the questions. And now, as I've said before, he is telling those who would listen to his gospel, this is how you are to live before Christ. These are the problems that exist within you that need to be purged from you in order to be made more like Jesus. In order for you to live like that living sacrifice, in order for you to be transformed by the renewal of your mind This is the way to live before God in preparation for glory. So Paul continues that tonight. In the passage that we just read. Tonight I want us to see that the call to live in harmony begins with dying to self. The call to live in harmony begins with dying to self. Three simple points tonight. First, give thanks. Secondly, bear with others. And finally, pursue peace Well, giving or give thanks. As I said before, this passage is connected with what we have that which we have covered last week. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. And that's why that therefore is there in verse 13. Knowing that we will give an account of ourselves to God, therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer. Last week we talked much about that aspect of this passage, not passing judgment upon the one who might be weaker in faith. Today, this week, tonight, the positive. Commit to never placing a hindrance in the way of a brother or sister. That's the simple idea in this passage. Commit to that. Never placing a hindrance, a stumbling block in the way of a brother or a sister. As you can see, this is about the church. This is about living in the church. Very specific. And so, in order to understand this passage, in order to grasp what's going on here, Paul is using a very specific example, and that example is of eating. Eating food. And the idea is there are those who are strong in the faith, and there are those who are weak in the faith. Those who are strong in the faith know that everything's clean. Those who are weak in the faith are taking ceremonial laws and bringing them forward. And thinking that they need to adhere to these ceremonial dietary laws. Let's just review them for a moment. These ceremonial laws. You know we have different kinds of laws. We have ceremonial laws, we have rituals that were performed in the Old Testament, the sacrificial laws, sacrificing animals daily, the way to do it. Those dietary laws are part of the ceremonial laws. We have moral laws that haven't gone away. We have civil laws that were part of the nation of Israel. Tonight we're talking about those ceremonial laws, which are dietary laws in nature. Leviticus chapter 11 sets them forth, at least some of them. Speak to the people of Israel. Whatever parts the hoof and is cloven-footed, I'm not quite sure what that is, and choose the cud among the animals you may eat, nevertheless. Those that chew the cud or part the hoof you shall not eat. Ease the camel because it chews the cud. And they go on from there. And that's just the beasts. Then what about those in the water? Everything in the waters that has fins and scales, whatever in the seas or rivers you may eat, but anything in the seas or rivers that does not have fins and scales of the swarming creatures is detestable to you. What about those things that fly? And these you shall detest among the birds. They shall not be eaten. They are detestable. The eagle, the birded bearded vulture, the black vulture, the kite, falcon of any kind, any every raven. Very detailed, very specific. But remember As Jesus spoke, to that which defiled a man, as the Pharisees gathered and surrounded him once again, and told him that the disciples were eating with hands that were defiled, that they had not washed them, they had come from the markets. Around Gentiles, likely. And they had not washed their hands ceremonially And from the Pharisees' perspective, they were defiling themselves because what they were taking into their bodies was ceremonially unclean. Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders but eat with defiled hands? It's related to the dietary laws, but there were laws that were made up by the Pharisees. And Jesus had to call the people to himself in Mark 7 and said, Hear me all of you, and understand there is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him. But the things that come out of the person are that which defile him. The disciples still didn't understand. And he had to provide more clarification. Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from the outside cannot defile him since it enters not his heart but his stomach? What comes out of a person is what defiles him. For within, out of the heart, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery All these evil things come from within. Jesus Christ declared that which Defiles is that which comes from within, not without. He declared all foods clean. But there's still a problem because the Jews, those who were coming out of Judaism, were not grasping this clear teaching yet. Even Peter. Now remember, Peter is an apostle. And he sat at the feet of Christ. And so he would have been aware of these things. But yet, even after Jesus has ascended up into heaven, after he's spoken these things on the earth, Peter still needs to be given a vision and told to kill and eat in Acts chapter 10 He became hungry and wanted something to eat, but while they were preparing it he fell into a trance and he saw the heavens open and something like a great sheet descending, being let down by its four corners upon the earth. In it were all kinds of animals, reptiles, birds. And there came a voice, Rise Peter, eat and kill. Do you see? Even though Jesus Christ had already taught all food is clean, Peter still needed to be taught again. Rise, Peter, eat and kill. Peter said, By no means, Lord, for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. Do you see the problem? For what God has made clean, do not call common. This happened three times. Peter needed to see it three times. Do you see? This was still going on in the church. Peter did not yet grasp that the ceremonial laws, the dietary laws, were gone in Jesus Christ. It's a great blessing to know the truth. Indeed, that's how Paul begins this particular passage. Look at verse fourteen. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself. Paul knows, he realizes, he understands, he gets it, he's received the teaching from Christ Jesus, he's convinced of it, although he is a Jew of Jews. A Hebrew of Hebrews, well versed in the ceremonial and dietary laws, he understands now that they are gone. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus. Paul had freedom. He knew that he'd been given liberty. But Peter still struggled with it, even after the vision. Turn to Galatians 2. 11. Paul has to oppose Peter to his face. While he had been eating with Gentiles, which would have been considered to be defiling by the Jews. He stopped. He stopped eating with them because men came from James. He was eating with the Gentiles, but when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party. The whole idea is being ceremonial clean and unclean. Think of that. Here's the problem. We can skip over to say we really don't understand this. We don't understand what the big problem was. But when we think about the Apostle Peter and what he had to go through to come to the conclusion that it's okay. There's no way that I can become ceremonially unclean before Christ. Even at that point, Peter was constrained. He was not free. Do you see that that liberty is granted only in Christ Jesus? That Christ purchased that liberty, that He perfectly satisfied all the requirements of the law, and now I'm speaking of liberty. the moral law. But all of the sacrificial laws, all of the ceremonial laws, including the dietary laws, were fulfilled in the once-for-all-time atoning sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the one who grants us liberty. Jesus is the one who gives us that liberty. The dietary laws were ceremonial. What was their purpose? Like all other ceremonial laws, they were to set apart the people of God. Certainly to identify them as a set-apart people, separate from the other nations, belonging to God. We couldn't eat what you eat. We can't eat what you eat. As we served in Clarkston, it was so clear to us as we served that these were different people that we served because they ate different food. They couldn't eat what we ate There were restrictions. They placed themselves in a different category. They separated themselves from us by what they ate. God separated his people. By telling them what to eat and what not to eat, by telling them what to touch and what not to touch. And if they had even touched these animals, these birds, these fish, they would have become unclean. Leviticus 11, 24. And by these you shall become unclean. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until evening. Whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening. That was the problem. Yes, the dietary laws set them aside, but it was also a constant reminder to the people of God that they were clean and they were unclean. God was holy and they were unclean and they needed to be made clean and this food was just one way of reminding them constantly that they needed to become clean. And Jesus did that. A truth of defilement was that it was not in the thing that was touched or the thing that was eaten, but it was the sin which resided within the heart, and Jesus cured that ill. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. For as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us. Psalm 103. What a great blessing to know of this liberty in Jesus Christ. So let us give thanks for that which Jesus has done, for granting us liberty, for giving us freedom, not freedom to eat more, no, but freedom to live with a clean conscience. To live, knowing that our hearts have been circumcised, that we've been made clean in the blood of Christ, that nothing can defile us. Nothing can defile the one who truly trusts in Jesus Christ. I think that's in part what Paul was getting at as he finished up Romans 8. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. I'm sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers Nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nothing. Nothing can defile us in Christ Yes, give thanks. That brings us to our second point. Bear with the failings of others. This might be the centerpiece of this passage, but the centerpiece really points us someplace else. And this great blessing, this liberty that those Christians had that we enjoy today, those strong Christians back then. That blessing that they received, that thing that they were thankful for, it could also become a curse or a means of sin. Verse 15 in chapter 14: For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. This passage takes a bit of time to understand. And what Paul is saying is that those who know that they had the liberty to eat all foods Should think about who they are eating in front of. That their liberty might actually cause one to sin. And Paul helps us to understand that If it was unclean, for anyone who thought it to be unclean, it was in that sense unclean for that person. It's such an interesting command and a truth. First. The law does not change. Those who considered the ceremonial dietary laws to yet be in force and effect did not change the fact that Jesus had declared all foods clean. It didn't change that. The moral laws of God do not change. And so there is this principle which endures to this day that the one who eats eats in honor of the Lord, the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. But If one thinks that that particular food is unclean, then it it is unclean. And you have to scratch your head and say, well, how does that work? Why is that? If the moral law does not change, if one can't declare something to be sin if God hasn't done so How can that which is not unlawful become sin for themselves? Well, Paul helps us with that in verse 23. Whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. That's the key. If one believed that a particular food was unclean That they have been commanded not to touch it, not to eat it, that that ceremonial dietary law is still in place, then to eat it would not be eating from faith. They would not be eating in such a way as to please God. That even if God has not made something off limits, if someone partakes of it. To please himself, knowing that it would be displeasing to God, or at least thinking that, then that one would be partaking of it in sin. For the motive of the heart was was to desire that which in their heart God had kept from them In short, this is called coveting, or lusting, or desiring that which God had not given to them. This would clearly not be presenting your body as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God. That's the problem. Whatever is whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. That is a precept that stays with us to this day and should be on our minds. Not just with regard to this, but with regard to everything we do. And so there's the call, verse 15, chapter 1, excuse me, verse 1 of chapter 15. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak. And not to please ourselves. Again, to present your body as a living sacrifice. Don't eat. Do not destroy the work of God. You see that, verse 20. Do not for the sake of food destroy the work of God. Verse 15: Do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. Clearly, this context was with one who was a true believer. A brother or sister in Christ. That God had begun a good work in them. He brought them to a sincere believing faith, and he would bring it to completion. And the idea is Don't destroy what God has done. Don't destroy the one for whom Christ died. The role of a stronger Christian was and is to become that which encourages and lifts up the weaker brother, to not become that which causes a weaker brother or sister. to stumble. It is not good to eat meat or drink or wine to do anything that causes your brother to stumble. And I'm going to encourage us, brothers and sisters, to look beyond this eating. For this applies to us. Don't do anything that's going to cause your brother or sister to stumble. Keep your faith to yourself. That's such an odd verse. Verse 22. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Paul does not mean don't share your faith. That's not the context. This was said in the context of passing judgment on a brother or sister who had yet to hold that the dietary laws had been vanquished. Or even one who esteemed one day above another ceremonial celebration days, new moons, festivals. That's the context. Don't bring out the big guns and start firing away. Bless your brother and sister. Think of this: Jesus Christ did not please himself. But allowed reproaches intended for others to fall upon him. Look at verse 3 of chapter 15. Paul is using this to point the readers of his gospel to an example, the example of Christ. For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on on me. Brothers and sisters, we don't want bad things to to come to us. We don't want unpleasant things to fall upon us. We naturally welcome We desire good things, pleasant things, the beautiful things, but when it comes to difficult things, things that we don't agree with, when it comes to things that take away our pleasantness, our pleasant lifestyle, we shun them, but That's in part what it means to bear with those who are weaker in faith. Doesn't this seem to pale in comparison to what our Lord Jesus did? Isn't that why Paul makes the comparison? Bearing with the weak can be difficult. Bearing with the weak seems to pull down those who are strong. Those who are strong want to appear strong to others. Bearing with the weak seems to be some kind of failure, degradation of the strength of the strong. But that's what Jesus did. Jesus not only bore our weaknesses, he received our reproach. That which was due sinners. If tonight you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, He not only lived amongst your weaknesses But the innocent one took upon himself that which was to be laid upon you. We should begin now to appreciate what was being said in this passage. If Jesus received your reproach, meaning that Jesus took what was due for you for your sin. Meaning the eternal wrath of God, and suffered much shame, then can you not consider bearing with those who are weak in the faith? Paul is merely calling those who are strong in the faith to bear with those who are weak, and he gives this specific example of Christ Jesus. Knowing that there was no such thing as a real idol. Knowing that there was no such thing as something sacrificed to an idol because it didn't really exist. Paul was merely telling them don't lead a weak brother or sister astray by eating in such a way that would harm their conscience that would destroy them. It's merely saying, look at what Jesus did And if you're being conformed to Jesus, then as he bore your reproach Then can you bear with those who are weak in order to build them up and not destroy them? Brings us to our third point, pursue peace. As I began tonight, being a living sacrifice means dying to self, dying to self-pleasure, dying to self-enjoyment, certainly. Certainly dying so that your brother and sister would be lifted up. And here we get some just very specific, some short, some short uh precepts for us to follow, practical theology. Versus walk in love. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. And Paul was really saying to us, walk in love. Don't do something that's going to grieve your brother or sister, even though you know, you know better that they don't know. And by your works, by your actions, you could be grieving them. And so walk in such a way that you're building them up. Walk in such a way that you're Showing your love. And it would help us if we went to 1 Corinthians chapter 13 to see what love is, and it's patient and kind. It doesn't insist on its own way. It's not irritable or resentful. Love bears all things. Now we might be able to better appreciate what Paul meant in 1 Corinthians 13 when he said, It bears all things, even the weaker brother or sister. Paul tells us that the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy and the Holy Spirit. Jesus gave many parables describing the kingdom of God. But now the shadows are gone. And the description of the kingdom is given plainly in this passage. The kingdom is a condition of the heart, isn't it? Yes, we can think about glory and being with Christ for eternity, and we might Think of that as the kingdom, but the kingdom is here now amongst us, and it's a condition of the heart, and that is why Jesus told Nicodemus, you cannot even see the kingdom of God unless you're born again. And so Paul tells us that the kingdom is not eating and drinking. In other words, The kingdom of God is not a matter of pleasing yourself, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. In other words, If you seek to please others, if you seek to build up others, to live in harmony with others by dying to self, then you will indeed enter into that righteousness, into that peace and into that joy of the Holy Spirit. That's the positive side of not placing that stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother, isn't it? And verse 19, pursuing peace. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and from mutual upbuilding. Indeed, the whole passage has really and truly been about that, about Pursuing peace about doing that which is involves mutual upbuilding And as you die to yourself, as you offer your body as a living sacrifice, as you seek to bear with weaker brothers and sisters, as you commit to not placing a means of stumbling before any, but seek to only build up others in their faith, then there will be harmony. Do you see how one follows the other? And all of this is merely an indication that your living is that sacrifice That you have hope. That you have hope, certain hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. Which enables you to be that living sacrifice, which enables you to bear with weaker brothers and sisters, which enables you not to to place that stumbling block before them, but only to build up others in their faith, and in this way you will work toward harmony In this way you'll work towards peace, and you will not leave your brother or sister to sin against their conscience. You'll be lifting up their interests as you bear with them, which results in harmony and peace and mutual upbuilding. We might ask a silly question tonight. Why is this harmony so significant? Why is peace such a significant theme with Christ? And you might say, well, we know because we were at war with God and Christ ushers in peace. He gives us peace with God. And I would say, yes, of course. But let me say this. Simply, there can be no church. There can be no true bride of Christ. There can be no salvation outside of peace. If the bride of Christ, or more clearly, the church, is to dwell in the presence of the Almighty God, then it must be done so in peace and in harmony. Brothers and sisters, we'll never achieve that kind of peace in this life, that perfect peace. We'll never achieve that perfect harmony in this life. But there will be perfect peace and harmony and glory. And yet the call in this passage is to pursue it, to strive after it. Meaning that it's clearly part of dying to self, and clearly part of being that living sacrifice where one dies themselves and bears up with the weakness of others. And then we've got to get to that point where we ask that question, who's strong and who's weak? I think that's part of Paul's point. Because we're all weak outside of Christ. It's only in Christ that we're strong. It's only in Christ that we can do all things You see that word in? In Christ? Paul alludes to that. He alludes to the fact that we're not seeing ourselves as accurately as we might in Christ Jesus. To be strong in your faith must mean that you're in Christ. The strength of your faith comes not from within, it comes from Christ. And if you're in Christ tonight, then you must be a peace seeker. You must love peace. Because Christ never lifted himself up above the weak. Christ never disdained those who were weak in faith. He always praised them, those who had any faith whatsoever. So the call tonight is not to place ourselves in divisions. Well, they're strong and they're weak, and we've got to bear with them. No, I think the call tonight is to think on Christ. The one who truly is strong. The one who truly has born with us. Who has suffered our reproach? And I think Paul's call tonight is very simple. To be like Christ. To be strong in Christ, to recognize our strength comes from Christ alone, that we have nothing within ourselves to boast about Paul's call is so very clear that the call to live in harmony begins with dying to self. Praise God for Jesus Our prayer tonight should be that we should all, each and every one of us, be more like Christ. Knowing his strength, knowing that he bore with our weaknesses, so that we can live in harmony with one another. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in Heaven. We ask now that you would help us to see ourselves rightly in Christ, to not create divisions, but to bear with one another. To pursue that peace, the peace of Christ, with each other, to lift one another up in in mutual edification, in mutual upbuilding. That we would each one be pursuing that harmony which we see here in this passage, which only comes from having that certain hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, Jesus, for bearing with our weaknesses. Help us, Father. To bear with one another. And we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.