Thank you. And if you'll remain standing and take your Bibles and turn to The first epistle of Peter, chapter 1, it's on page 1203. 1 Peter chapter 1. And while you're turning there, I'll just comment that Peter in chapter 2 talks about a living stone, and here in chapter 1, he talks about a living hope. A living hope. 1 Peter chapter 1, we're going to be looking at verses 3 through 5, but let me start reading at verse 1 for context. This is God's word. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus. Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit For obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood, may grease and peace be multiplied to you Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. To a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. And there's more verses, but we'll look at them tonight. Please be seated. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this very precious word. We thank you for every word in our Bible. We know, Lord, that these words of yours in the Bible are inspired. Infallible and inerrant. And we thank you, Lord, for your word, which is a lamp to our feet and a light to our path. So, Lord, please give us the help of the Holy Spirit to understand this passage. to lay it up in our hearts, to understand what uh it is that you want to say to us this morning, what the Spirit has to say to the churches. So Lord, please we ask, open our eyes to behold wonderful things. in your word, sanctifies by your truth, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. In our daily ordinary speech and conversation, how often do we say something like this? I hope that such and such. Or I hope this and that. Here's some examples. I hope that it rains tomorrow for the sake of the flowers in our garden. Or I hope it doesn't rain tomorrow for the sake of my vacation at the beach. So here hope is just wishing Or you might say to someone and mean it, really sincerely mean it, I hope that your medical treatment will be successful. So hope there is well, meaning, sincere desire. In fact, there's a lot of ways that we use the word hope. There's a whole spectrum of meanings. And at one end of the spectrum might be something that you call faint hope. Here's an example. I hope to own the hope diamond. Do you know what the Hope Diamond is? It's one of the largest diamonds ever discovered on the earth. And if you want to see it, it's on display downtown Washington, D. C. at the Smithsonian Institution. You think I'll ever own the Hope Diamond? That is a faint hope, maybe a zero hope. Now, moving along in the spectrum, how about modest hope? For example, I hope sometime to visit the OPC mission works in Uganda. That's where Pastor Chris and Grace Ann are right now. In fact, they should have finished their worship service. Maybe Pastor Chris was preaching. Tomorrow he'll start teaching at the seminary there, mentoring men who are preparing for the ministry. Uh modestly, can I hope to visit Uganda? Well, it's not impossible, but at my age maybe not terribly likely. Let's move along the spectrum to a personally strong hope. I hope that my wife loves me. And will continue to do so, in spite of the fact that I am often very unlovable. But if she's watching, thank you very much. A personally stronghold. Now when we come to hope in the Bible, and you see it right here in verse 3. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope. When we come to hope in the Bible, it's much, much stronger. It's not just wishful thinking. It's really a confident expectation based on facts and based on God's promises. That's really what it means. And there's an example. That's why we read this passage in Genesis, where God and two angels visit Abraham. They have a meal, and then they talk about Sodom and Gomorrah. But along the way, something happens. Sarah's inside the tent preparing their lunch, and she hears God talking about the fact that you're going to have a son. In a year's time. And this is a wonderful promise for them because they had they didn't have a son. But there was a little problem, just a small problem. They were way too old to have kids at that point. Abraham was a hundred years old, Sarah was ninety. Some years old. And inside the tent Sarah kind of snickered to herself. And the Lord heard that and said, No, you will have a son. And what's interesting, we didn't read this, but the previous chapter, chapter 17 of Genesis, Abraham, it says, fell on his face and laughed when God told him he was going to have a son. So here they are in a situation that uh what do they do? Do they believe God? And yes, they did. So when you get to Romans chapter 4, verse 18, Paul writes that in hope Abraham believed against hope. Against hope means that this hope, it looked laughably, no hope for them. And yet he believed in hope. God promised? Abraham had a confident expectation based on God's promises. And lo and behold, a year later, it happened. And so in fact Sarah, although she left, she's included in Hebrews chapter 11, that's the pantheon of the heroes of faith. By faith, Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, because she considered him God faithful who had promised. Quite amazing. Well, in this letter of Peter, after the greeting and the salutation, then Peter begins the letter in verse 3. With an exclamation. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Exclamation mark And may I just say, when you're reading the Bible and you come across a verse or a sentence that ends with an exclamation mark, pay special attention. And I noticed that Psalm 96 that was read for the call to worship, a number of those verses in that Psalm end with an exclamation mark. The psalmist is so full of praise. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Stop a minute. Can we bless God? Normally we ask God for a blessing. Lord, would you bestow favor upon us? Would you bless my marriage? my job, my kids, our church, whatever. And that's because, you know, God is almighty. God is superior. Abraham was a great man. And at one point he met a very mysterious character named Melchizedek. Yes, Melchizedek was a king. Melchizedek blessed Abraham. And in Hebrews, when it talks about this incident, Hebrews 7 verse 7, The inferior, Abraham, is blessed by the superior, Melchizedek. Now what made him superior Well, he sort of comes out of nowhere, and Hebrews says he had no ancestors and we just don't know where he came from. And furthermore, he was both a king and a priest combined, which was very, very unusual. And that's why the writer of Hebrews says, Jesus is a priest not after the order of Aaron, but after the order of Melchizedek, going back to this mysterious character. But nevertheless, We can bless God, because blessing also has another meaning, which is to praise, to exalt. And so we can bless the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In the Jewish synagogue, in the normal liturgy of the Jewish synagogue, There's something called the Amidah, which is nineteen blessings, the sequence of blessings. Each one starts with, Blessed are you, O Lord. And ends with, Blessed are you, O Lord. And there's a blessing on God for His power and His might. There's a blessing for His holiness. There's a blessing that He is a forgiving God and so forth and so on. And so I I would say in your personal devotions and in your family devotions It's good to remember those opening two verses of Psalm 103. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Yes, we can bless the Lord. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus. Christ. This is the full name of our Savior, Lord Jesus Christ. And interestingly enough, according to the commentary, it's only used 35 times in the New Testament Kind of used not very often, right? There are twenty-seven books in the New Testament. It's used in eleven of them. You like these little factoids of information. The full name of Jesus Christ. Now, I have a full name. James Walter Van Damme. It is rarely used. Well, okay. The federal government uses it for my tax returns and for my passport, and the state of Maryland uses it for my driver's license. And I have to confess that when I was young my mother used it upon occasion when I had done something not so good. This is the full name of our Savior, and it's very, very meaningful. Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, absolute sovereign, King of Kings. the ruler. Jesus, I think you know that means Savior. The angel appeared to Joseph and said, you shall call his name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. Jesus is the New Testament version of the Old Testament name Joshua. It's the same thing. Savior, the one who saves. And Christ, which means the anointed one, is again the New Testament version of the Old Testament mazzaga. Christ equals Messiah equals anointed one. This is the one who was promised all the way back in the Garden of Eden, the one who would smash the head of the serpent although his heel would be bruised. But there's one other little word in the name that Peter uses for our Savior. Let's not forget it. Our Lord Jesus Christ. Our Lord Jesus Christ. He is ours and we are his. And can you say that this anointed one is your Savior and the Lord of your life? Now Peter continues, according to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. According to his great mercy. Peter is using covenantal language. Mercy. Goes back to this Hebrew word. If you'd like to know, I just know a few Hebrew words. Shalom. Hesed is the word here. It's a complex word. It has a range of meanings that go from Covenant faithfulness, steadfast love, loving kindness, grace, loyalty, mercy, and goodness. And you'll see that different translations used in different places But you may have a footnote saying it's the same word. It's this very, very powerful, rich word, according to his great mercy, his loving kindness, his covenant faithfulness. God has done something amazing. He caused us to be born again. And later in chapter 1, I think it's verse 23. Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. There it is again, born again. So what does Peter have in mind here? Is he not thinking back to that nighttime visit of Nicodemus? A Pharisee didn't want to be seen by the other Pharisees visiting this new rabbi, Jesus, but he was curious And so he came, and the twelve disciples were always with Jesus, so very likely Peter was there and saw this encounter. And Nicodemus started asking questions, and Jesus responded by saying, Nicodemus, you must be born again. And he was stunned, confused. You mean I as an adult have to go back inside my mother's womb and come out again with a second birth? And Jesus said, No. You must be born of water and of the Holy Spirit. This is a spiritual birth that we're talking about. Where your hard, stony, sinful heart is transformed into a living heart of flesh that loves the Lord. That's what he was talking about. To a living hope. Born again to a living hope Hope. Confident expectation based on facts or God's promise. Now what is the fact that Peter cites? And it is Born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. This is that ultimate, stupendous fact in human history. It's just absolutely amazing. And why was uh why did Peter call this a living hope? Was it not because It's based on the resurrection. Jesus had died and come back to life and now ever lives. It is a living hope. It is a hope that will never be extinguished. You'll never lose it. It's an undying hope. But the fact is that there was a time when Peter had no hope. No hope at all. They had the Last Supper, they go to the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus is praying his heart out. And what's Peter doing? He's snoozing. He's no comfort. He's no support. Then they come to arrest Jesus. What does Peter do? He runs away with the other disciples. But it gets worse Then it's recorded for us that Peter's in the courtyard of the building where Jesus is being interrogated by the Sanhedrin. And somebody looks at him and says, aren't you a disciple of this man who's been arrested? Oh, no, no, he denied that. And a little bit time goes on and then somebody says, But you know, you talk like a Galilean. Aren't you one of his disciples? And Peter said, absolutely not, and this time he used an oath But a third time. Somebody said, For sure, I recognize you. You are one of Jesus' disciples. And he denied it again, and this time it's recorded that there was Not only oaths, but there was cursing, and he put an oath on himself. I'll be condemned if I am. And at that point, the rooster crowed. It was early morning. And Jesus happened to catch Peter's eye. And Peter ran away and wept bitterly. It's recorded for us. Now that was Friday morning early. That's the day that Jesus was condemned. Jesus was crucified. Jesus was killed. Jesus' body was laid in the tomb. A big stone was rolled in front, blocking the entrance. A military seal was put on there. Do not enter And Peter had no hope. No hope of asking for forgiveness from his Lord and Master. No hope of restoring their personal relationship. He wept bitterly. And I would think all day Friday and all Friday night he didn't sleep. He wept Saturday morning, Rooster froze again early in the morning, like they always do. And he must have been reminded. I did that terrible thing. More weeping. Saturday night, probably no sleep again. Sunday morning, Rooster Crows. Again reminded of that terrible thing that he did, those denials. But but wait a minute Two ladies that had gone early to finish the embalming process of the body of Jesus came hustling back to where the disciples were, and they said, Jesus is gone. The stones are rolled away, the Roman guards have vanished, and the body has disappeared And at that point was there a little bit of hope reborn in Peter's heart. He and John ran like crazy to the tomb. John got there first. And it says he bent down and he peered inside. So the entrance is not, you know, as high as a door like this. It's probably waist-high. He had to bend down and peer inside. He did not go inside. He may have sensed that something very holy and sacred had happened inside. Peter comes trundling along. Peter's impetuous. He goes right into the grave. He looks And what did he see? And John records that Peter saw the linen cloth lying there. And the facecloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. This is John 20, verses 6 and 7. Let's try to pull apart these verses a little bit. Jesus' body was laid in the tomb. So it's carved out of the hillside of rock, and there was some kind of a ledge that the body was laid on. And then the Jewish tradition was you wound the body with these linen strips, and and as you wound the body you inserted these powdered spices to keep, you know, it's part of the embalming process. So he's wound the body's wound with these strips. It's like a strait jacket. You really can't move. And furthermore, there was like 75 pounds of spices worked into this. So Even if Jesus woke up, he couldn't move. But something happened. And if we had been there, it would have been like the body just vaporized. And went right through the the linen, the gray claws, which we know was true because later when he appeared to the disciples in the upper room, it says the door was locked and suddenly Jesus was there. Right these material constraints. And the grave clothes, these linen cloths, loaded with the spices, just collapsed. Then it talks about this head piece. So the body was wound, and the head was wound, the face and the throat were left open, but the head was wound in like a turban, like a hat. And that was just lying there separate in the place where the head had been, maybe still in the shape of this turban. And there were two angels, and they said, come, look at the place where Jesus lay. In other words, one at one side. The angel, the other angel at the other side, and they're saying, here's the proof. It couldn't have happened any other way except that he was resurrected. And came back with a new glorified body. And if I can just say something personal, I there was a time I was struggling with faith, and this passage in John And the explanation that I tried to summarize right now, which I ran across in a book by John Scott called Basic Christianity, helped me a whole lot. And convince me that, yes, he rose from the dead. Yes, Christianity is real. It's really real. Now, this hope that we have, the first point, which I forgot to tell you of the of the message is our hope is established by God. It's based on this resurrection of Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you, Lord. Then Peter shifts gears, and this is point number two. There is this inheritance And point number two is that we had this hope established by God, and now we are told that this hope is maintained by God. And Peter talks about this hope in terms of being an inheritance. Now, what is an inheritance? I think you know what an inheritance is. It's a um gift of property, say a house or land or possessions, furniture, money, stocks and bonds, that's given to the recipient from an ancestor at the death of that ancestor. So, for example, children receive a bequest, perhaps from their parents when the parents pass away. Uh I'll just say something in a minute. Inheritance is not a wage for work done. It's a gift. Pure and simple, a gift. And our faith is a pure and simple gift, not of works, lest any man should boast. But it's been pointed out there's two problems with an inheritance. One is the inheritance may not last. Uh the money that your parents have may be used up or stolen, and stocks and bonds, investments in the market may have crashed and collapsed. And maybe you've inherited a house, but you take a real close look at it, and it's in such bad shape it's worthless. So will the inheritance last? Will it be there? And even if it is, problem number two, will you be there? Will you last long enough? Will you survive to receive the inheritance? And Peter says neither of these problems applies to our spiritual inheritance as Christians. Look in verse 4, the end of verse 4. This inheritance is kept in heaven for you. And you can see that from these three very powerful adjectives that he uses to describe the inheritance, number one, imperishable. Number two, undefiled. Number three, unfading. Imperishable. Imperishable. We've already Read chapter one, verse twenty-three, you have been born again of imperishable seed, the living and abiding word of God. And In chapter 3, if you look ahead to that, Peter talks about the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. And if you read that chapter, you'll see that that compliment is aimed at you ladies. Congratulations. And Paul, this is a favorite word with him, just to pick up on some verses from 1 Corinthians 15, the great chapter that talks about the resurrection from the dead. Paul says, the trumpet will sound. The dead shall be raised imperishable. If you're reading King James, incorruptible. And we shall be changed, for this perishable body must put on the imperishable So this inheritance will never perish, will never fall apart and go away. And it's undefiled. You may know some occasions in history where someone inherited, say, a great amount of money. But that money had been obtained through wicked and nefarious means. It was dirty money, so to speak And that is certainly not the case with what we and inherit from Jesus Christ, because we inherit because of his pure and righteous obedience. Jesus was wholly, harmless, undefiled. And so we have a clean, a pure inheritance, undefiled, and undefilable. It can never be Dirty. It will always stay clean. And it is unfading. I know some of you like flowers. And you know there are annual flowers and perennial flowers Annual flowers bloom for a season and then they fade and they die. Perennial flowers are supposed to last from season to season to season. Our inheritance is perennial. It lasts. It will never go away. The grass withers, the flower fades, the word of our God stands forever, and in the same way, the grass withers, the flower fades, but our inheritance stands forever. Don't you think it's a little interesting that Peter uses these three negative adjectives, imperishable, undefiled, and unfading? And one of the commentaries mentioned that, well, in our human experience, we just don't have adequate terminology to describe this amazing inheritance that we have. And so Peter said, it's not limited by being perishable. It's not limited by being defiled. It's not limited by fading. It's so much more. It's so much beyond that. It's Again, Peter may have in mind the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus said, Don't lay up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. I I used to have a favorite blue wool sweater. I wore it in wintertime, like today. And one day I pulled it out to put it on and and lo and behold there were holes everywhere. The moths had been having a feast. And eventually it had to be thrown away. Moth and rust. But our inheritance in Christ is not that way. It is imperishable, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you. And then Peter continues, you who by God's power are being guarded through faith In other words, God is keeping our inheritance for us. But he is also keeping us for the inheritance. There's a perfect symmetry. The inheritance will last and you will last, you will receive it, because you are being guarded by God's power. The commentaries say this word guarded is a military terminology, which means garrisoned. You're being defended by this army. Remember Elisha had a servant. The Syrians came and the servant was scared stiff. And Elisha said, Open your eyes. See around us, this army of the Lord. It is a garrison, and we are being guarded through faith. He who began a good work in you We'll bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. Philippians 1. 6. And there's a song we sing and the chorus goes, I know whom I have believed. And I am persuaded that he is able to keep that, to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Now, if we had time, we could talk a lot about the biblical doctrine of what's called perseverance of the saints. Maybe a better name for it is the preservation of the saints because as we persevere, and tonight we're going to talk about suffering, as we persevere, we don't do it in our own strength. We are preserved by God. If you want to read more about this doctrine, you can find a very good discussion in the Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 17. But let me just say that this doctrine of the preservation of the saints, which we see here by God's power, we are being guarded through faith. This doctrine is a comfort to us. Because I'm not totally nervous and anxious all the time thinking, oh, I just said something, I just did something, and that's it. My faith is the shambles, my salvation just turns into dust, and I have no hope. It's not that way. We are being guarded through faith by God's power. But I want to say something else. This doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, the preservation of the saints, is not a license to sin what and do whatever you want and assume that you're still going to be saved. If you're a true Christian, you will want, with all your heart and soul and mind and strength, to live lives of holy obedience to our Lord and Savior, out of thankfulness. This salvation is ready to be revealed in the last time. Ready to be revealed in the last time. Jesus on the cross said, it is finished. And then three days later, God confirmed that by accepting what he had done and raising the Lord from the dead. It is finished. It's ready to be revealed We're already enjoying it partly, but when the Lord comes back fully and completely, we'll see his salvation revealed in the last time. You don't have to add finishing touches. You don't have to be called in as a consultant to God in what he's doing. It's done. It's ready. Thank the Lord for that. And through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Verse 9, he talks about the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. You are taken out from under the sentence of death and condemnation. You're moved, you're transported from darkness into the kingdom of light. Your sins are forgiven. Watch quick. You're credited with the righteousness of Jesus. You have the promise of eternal life. This is just amazing. And this is our living hope. This is our confident expectation. based on this fact and history of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and based on the promises of God, which are yes and amen. in Jesus Christ. Let's pray. We thank you, Lord our God, for this living hope that you've given to us. And for this marvelous inheritance that you've established for us and that you maintain for us, and you maintain us for it as well. All of your grace, nothing of our works. And that is why we can sing, My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. And on Christ the solid rock I stand. So Lord, please preserve us, protect us, for joyful service as your people, all to your honor and glory. For we ask this