Let's turn now to the sermon text tonight from 1 Timothy chapter 3. 1 Timothy chapter 3. And tonight we will be reading verses fourteen through sixteen and focusing on verse fifteen. Hear now the word of the Lord These things I write you, though I hope to come to you shortly. But if I am delayed, I write so that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in the house of God. Which is the Church of the Living God, the pillar and ground of the truth? And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, believed on in the world Received up in glory. Thus far ends the reading of the Word of God And again, I'm focused on verse 13, where Paul tells the people and Timothy, who is the ultimate recipient of this letter. That uh he hopes to come to them shortly, but in the case that he is delayed from getting there He has written to Timothy so that he and the rest of the church may know how they ought to live in a proper way in the house of God. And that house of God he identifies as the church of the living God. And he further identifies it as the pillar and ground of the truth. As we have been going through Timothy, we remember, again, just briefly, that Paul wrote this letter to his young apprentice, minister, his friend, who he left behind to go on another missionary journey so that Timothy would stay at Ephesus And put things in order at Ephesus would help establish and ground the church there, the church of the redeemed believers. And while Timothy was there, he was to uh uh uh take specific Focus and interest in preventing false teaching from gaining a foothold in the church And that was his charge. Now, Timothy wasn't simply to do this on his own It was a big job, and the Apostle Paul then proceeds to tell Timothy that you also need to have others who are helping you. He called them elders and deacons. And he even went so far as to give Timothy what the spiritual qualifications of these rulers are. And you see them immediately before spoken of, immediately before our text tonight. So we can clearly say that Paul is speaking to Timothy about how Timothy is to help the church. To mature, to grow in the things that it understands, and to do the things that are pleasing to God Do the things that bring edification to the people of God, as well as begin discipling others who have not heard the message of Christ's gospel. In verse fourteen, he says, These things I write to you. And again, those these things of verse 14 has to refer broadly to all that Paul has written up to that point in First Timothy including his extensive teaching on elders and deacons, and including uh how Timothy is to help the people uh be protected from false teaching And now he turns to their conduct. How they are to live in the house of God. Now, when Paul uses the term house of God He does not mean that um uh how we tend to use the house of God today Because we might drive by or people might drive by today any building that looks like a church and say, oh, there's a house of God Whether it's a Jewish synagogue or a Muslim mosque or a Christian uh Or a Christian church or a Mormon temple. You know, the general uh tone of language today has really relativized The meaning of a house of God. But Paul didn't talk in relative terms. He made it very clear what house of God he was speaking about. Because he goes on to describe it. He says, I know, I write to you, verse 15, that you may know how you ought to conduct yourself in the house of God. Which is the church of the living God? He gives a real qualification. The house of God is the church. But it is not just any building. It's the church where God lives with his people. And it's that that point about the church being the place where God lives with his people that also in Christian understanding has not received its proper emphasis. Because sometimes people who are Christians, who even come into the church, think that the church is a building where they go to socialize or to make those all-important business contacts Or the place they go to hear the latest dogma of teaching from the leaders of the church Or they may think of it as the place they go to worship. And that's become a very broad term today. Many people today think of worship in terms of entertainment, that the church is just another form of entertainment. But But Paul isn't playing games here. He describes the church as the church of the living God. It's God's residence. It's God's temple. Now, when we come into church today, when we came in here tonight Or when we came in here this morning, we don't see any signs that say God lives here. We don't see signs that say God is in residence now. But the fact is, he is. And how do I know that? And how should you know it? It boils down to when Jesus died, he resurrected again And before he went to heaven, he told his disciples that I'm going to give you a new comforter, another comforter. And he called that comforter the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit. Is nothing less, or no one, not not nothing. He is no one less than God Himself And listen to how the New Testament talks about God living with his people. It does so on multiple occasions. For example, 2 Corinthians 6 verse 14, be not unequally yoked with believers with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? What accord, or what concord has Christ with Belial, or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And, listen, and what agreement has the temple of God with idols? Four you are the temple of the living God He's writing to the church. You are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them I will walk in them. I will be their God, and they shall be my people. So come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Touch not the thing devoted to idols. I will receive you, I will be a father unto you, you shall be my sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty. This verse, these verses from first, from 2 Corinthians chapter 6 Verse 14 and following. These verses do not stand in isolation from the rest of Scripture. It has been God's determined plan from the beginning to have a people for himself. A special people, a special treasure, the people of his own possession And God, throughout history, would bring about that desire When God first talked with Abraham and gave Abraham the promises of his covenant A very important part of that covenant was this promise. I will be your God, and you will be my people. And in addition to that promise, was the mechanism to accomplish that dwelling of God with his people. The mechanism was In your seed, all the nations of the world shall be blessed. Galatians chapter 3 identifies the seed of Abraham, not Ishmael. Not even ultimately Isaac, but Jesus. It is through the work of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ that God assembles to himself. His people, and unto whom he gives his spirit Unto them, he dwells not just with them, but in them. As Ezekiel chapter 36 promises, another of God's promises, I will put my spirit in you. And he will cause you to walk in my statutes. You shall be my people, and I will be your God. This is really rich stuff. And as Israel goes through her history, first of all, it was Abraham's seed. That the promises were made to. And the Hebrew people began to pick up on that, and God did special work with the Hebrew people. And they were the ones who received the oracles of God. They were the ones who, at various different times in history, received the direct intervention of God in their own history. They were the ones he fought for, so that they might have a land flowing with milk and honey. They were the ones he delivered out of Egypt. With a mighty hand during Pharaoh's oppression. They were to be, you know, the true children of Abraham. But they squandered their birthright, even as Esau squandered his. They desired the things of the world more than the things of God. And they wound up worshiping idols instead of the living God. And so God brought destruction. Upon the people of Israel. First with the Babylonians, excuse me, first with the Assyrians, then with the Babylonians, and ultimately with the Romans. But before the Romans bring their destruction, another destruction came to Israel, and that was the advent of Jesus Christ. For what does the name, what was one of the names of Jesus? One was the name Jesus, for you will save your people from my sins. And his other name was Emmanuel, which is interpreted God with us. Jesus in the flesh is God with us. Jesus in the Spirit is the Holy Spirit. And he lives in the heart of every believer. And that's why I say this is God's residence. When we come into the church to worship, God is here en masse. He's here in your hearts. He's present with us. And that is so fundamentally different from every other religion. Every other religion doesn't have a redeemer who can do those things. Every other religion doesn't have a redeemer who dies for his people. And who then condescends, after he dies with them, for them, to rise from the dead. Declaring victory over sin, which is our great nemesis, and then to dwell with them for the rest of their life. And you can even find, as great as the idea is that God dwells with you now through his Holy Spirit, this is not the ultimate expression. of God dwelling with his people. The ultimate expression of God dwelling with his people comes when Jesus returns. As the book of Revelation reminds us, in chapter 21, verses 1 and 3, I saw a new heaven and a new earth For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, there was no more seed. And I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the temple of God is with men. And he will dwell with them. They will be his people. And God himself will be with them and be their God. Now you see, friends, if it is true, if it is, if this if what I'm saying is true, if the Bible is true, which I have no doubt that it is There is incumbent upon us a way to behave in the church of the living God. If you thought for one minute that God was coming back tonight and he was going to visit your house, I guarantee you that your conduct would be shaped up. You would throw away those those empty reminders of sin. You would get yourself ready. If you had the time. You would say to your wife, get the house clean. An important guest is coming. And you would start living in a very prescribed holy way. But we, according to the text, we already in the church are living with God And the church is defined here as the church of the living God. Now that that's an interesting phrase, the church of the living God. You see, part of our sin, when we reject God and when we reject his laws. Is to make God dead. What do we do? We craft idols. out of precious material, out of stones, out of wood. But the one thing all those idols have in common is they can't speak. They can't hear We place them on a pedestal, we worship them. Whether we craft them with our out of precious materials or whether we c craft them out of the most rudimentary things. or whether we craft them in our minds and place them in our hearts, we bow down to them, we give them homage and worship, but they say nothing. And they do nothing important for your salvation. No idol ever died for his people like Jesus did. But our Jesus is not a dead Jesus. Our Jesus is a living Jesus. He rose from the dead on the third day. That's the glory of the resurrection. We worship the God who has triumphed over death and whoever lives. To intercede on our behalf and to be sure that the conduct, that the affairs of his church and his people are taken care of. And later in Second Timothy chapter one, verse eighteen verse eight through ten. Paul exhorts Timothy to remember this. Be thou not therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be thou a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works. but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. But is now made manifest, now has been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death. And hath brought life and immortality to life through the gospel We serve the living God, the God who has abolished death and brings in the day of his immortal reign. 1 Corinthians chapter 15 verse 45 puts the same thought this way. The first man Adam was made a living soul. The last Adam was made a life-giving skill. The church is alive. The God who inhabits the church is a life. Why? Death does not overcome him, but he overcomes it Everything about the true church of Jesus Christ is alive because God dwells in her through grace, through the grace of Christ and his resurrection. This thought hit me, and I think I'm expressing it correctly, but see if this doesn't hit you. This is not, I didn't pick this up anywhere else. But it came to me. The faithful church of Jesus Christ, the living church of the Lord Jesus Christ, is the only place on earth Not shrouded in the valley of the shadow of death It's the city set on a hill. It's the light that cannot be extinguished that shines in the darkness. Now, the last thing that is said about this church of the living God, where God lives with his people, in accordance With the promises that have been made to Abraham and have been demonstrated how God cares for his people. It says that the church Is the church of the living God the pillar and ground of the truth? The pillar and ground of the truth Pillars and ground, if you think of ground as a foundation, are both construction terms. And I, if you'll pardon me, I'm not an engineer, but I know a little bit about the fact that if you're gonna build a building, you better have a good foundation. And if you build two stories on that building, you better have support. Whether you call it a wall or whether you call it a pillar. They are used both. The ground and the pillar are used to support the building. And what supports The church of the living God is something called the truth. And what is the truth? There are many things that claim to be the truth. But Jesus said, I am the way, I am the truth, and I am the life No one comes to the Father but through me. That's the truth. I believe Jesus. Regardless of what others want to tell me. I didn't always believe that, and maybe you didn't either, but I believe it now I believe he is the truth. I believe that what he has said is truth. I believe that he has, by his, by God's grace, he has He has put together his truth in what we call the Bible. And as we focus and read and meditate on the Bible, we become Familiar with the truth. The truth about life. The truth about death The truth about our sin. The truth about God. The truth about salvation. Now it has intrigued me about this term pillar and ground that the church of the living God is called the pillar and the ground. And something clicked in my mind. About a previous time when I was reading something in the Old Testament where pillars were mentioned. Do you know that pillars are actually mentioned frequently in the Old Testament? And I was particularly interested in trying to remember a question that I had maybe that came 20 years ago. into my mind. God has a way of reminding things that you don't think you saw have solved or understand. But sometimes it takes a while And it was this this it was this very passage in 1 Kings 7. You see, friends, what Solomon was building was the Old Testament Temple. And the Old Testament temple in Jerusalem was the place where God came to dwell with his people. If you read on in 1 Kings chapter 8, you'll hear the story of how God's glory came down upon the temple at the dedication by Solomon and so filled the temple. That people could not bear to see that glory. Nevertheless, God was symbolically present with his people Which points forward to the time, foreshadows, typifies the time when Christ would come in the flesh. And dwell with his people as the Emmanuel of God. And foreshadows The very coming of the Holy Spirit. You know, you remember Jesus said to his disciples, You may not think it, but it's better that I go. Because when I go, the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, will come. And he'll live in your hearts. I can live with you. The Holy Spirit will take up residence in your heart. Now comes the last piece of the story. Two pillars. Pillars in the temple. That which helps sustain the temple Of the Old Testament people of God. Two pillars out of twelve were named Two names Jachin, or in Hebrew Yashin, and Boaz. Now I suppose, if you remember your Old Testament history, that you might conclude that Boaz, for example, was some sort of patronage being paid by Solomon to his great-great-great-grandfather The character known as Boaz appears on the scene in Ruth, in the story of Ruth, that marvelous little four-chapter book of Ruth. And I said he was the great, great, great, I'm not sure how many greats, but several great grandfather of Solomon. Because when Ruth and Boaz married, they had a child. The child's name was Obed, which is from the Hebrew word Avad, which means servant. Servant. Pastor, you're not making sense. What does that have to do with things? Well Obit had a son. His name was Jesse. Jesse had a son. His name was David. David had a son. His name was Solomon. David also had a greater son. His name is Jesus. For if you go to Matthew chapter 1, 1, you'll hear the scripture say, here is the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of Abraham. Son of David. So pictured on that one wall, that one pillar, was the word Boaz. Not in any way due to Solomon giving patronage to his great-great-great-great whatever grandfather. But in the providence of God, it's pointing forward to that which really does sustain the church as the pillar and ground of the church, namely the truth, as it's found in the gospel of Boaz's descendant. Jesus. Now the other phrase, the other name was Yachin, or however it's Yacht Yaxin or Yachin. in Hebrew. That word means to establish or to confirm. Now think about what's going on in the temple. God is dwelling with his people. That's what's being pictured That name to confirm and to establish in that kind of context Means that God has set his mark on Israel or on Abraham's seed. And he will establish their preference in his sight before Jesus with Jesus, with the descendant of Boaz. I'm conflating the two ideas. And so the Church of the Living God is the place where God has established His ultimate dwelling place with His people through Jesus, our Lord and Savior. He is the pillar and ground of the truth that needs to be lived and proclaimed and taught by the church. Isn't that incredible? Isn't that amazing? Two names. For pillars that have that much importance and significance. Oh, by the way, I forgot to mention one other thing. Another place where the word pillar occurs in the Old Testament is where? Pillar of Fire. Where did the pillar of fire occur? When when Egypt, when Israel came out of Egypt, and what did the pillar of fire do for Israel? Protected her, established her. This is my people, Pharaoh. Get your hands off. I am with them, and you cannot stop me. And yes, yes, the church from time to time isn't as strong or potent a force. As it should be. But when the church stands firm on the Word of God and seeks to proclaim it, Don't underestimate the power of God with us. Don't underestimate the power of the gospel. These are words of life as God intended them to be. Life to his people May God bless you with this word. Amen. And let us pray. O Lord our God, we thank you, Father, for your marvelous way in which Your word fits. Sometimes, Lord, in obscure ways Sometimes it takes a lot of digging. But Lord, when we find a treasure, that digging Is the that digging is needed to find that treasure, Lord, what how rich your word is and how it helps understand other passages in Scripture Father, we thank you that through Christ you have chosen to dwell with us to make us your particular people. May the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ continue. To be your people, living for your glory and proclaiming your word as truth, especially as that word Reaches its great and final conclusion in Jesus Christ, whom John described as in the beginning was the Word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. Amen.