Please remain standing, turn to Hebrews chapter 10, and verses 32 through 39. Hebrews chapter 10, verses 32 through 39. Let us continue to hear the word of the Lord joyfully. But recall the former days in which, after you were illuminated, you endured a great struggle with sufferings. Partly while you were made a spectacle, both by the reproaches and tribulations, and partly while you became companions of those who were so treated. For you had compassion on me in my chains, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your goods. Knowing that you have a better and enduring possession for yourself in heaven. Therefore, do not cast away your confidence Which has great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that after you have done the will of God you may receive the promise For yet a little while, and he who is coming will come and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by faith But if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who draw back to perdition But of those who believe to the saving of the soul. May God bless the reading and the hearing of His word to you. Please be seated. Well, this has been a uh a good long journey through Hebrews ten. And those of you who have been with us for this journey, the last few weeks we have been focused on the The verses that lead right up to our verses today. We focused on verses 28 through 32. And we uh we looked at those verses with the uh idea that uh The warnings that the author of Hebrews is giving to the people in the church are real warnings. We noted that in any church there will always be believers and unbelievers. There will be wheat and tares, as Jesus taught in his parable. There will be servants of Christ and Antichrists, as 1 John 2 wrote in his epistle And even the Apostle Paul reminded us in Acts chapter 20 as he addresses the elders in the church at Ephesus He says, there will be some among you after I leave who will rise up and seek to take disciples away from them and away from the Savior. The plain, simple truth is that people masquerade at being Christians And they masquerade not in the public, but in the churches. And we cannot always know that those who are doing such activities We cannot always know who they are. And this is what we looked at the last couple of weeks We looked also at the fact that the scripture says that such deceivers are guilty of trotting the Son of God underfoot. Counting the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified and saved as an unholy thing, and despising the spirit of grace. Pretty strong indictment, pretty strong words are being leveled as an accusation against those who are playing at being a Christian. God is not mocked, and he sees whereas the rest of us maybe can't see. He sees the heart. And he is warning. He is warning through the Hebrews these individuals in this passage. He's warning those who are playing at church. to repent. Or they will suffer the fiery vengeance of the Lord at his return. He even goes so far as as to say it is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the Almighty God in judgment In the truest sense, we have to say that the deceivers in the church are not among the just. They are not living their lives as this text ends up saying in verse 38, the just shall live by faith. Theirs is not a life of faith. It's a life of unbelief. It's a life twisting faith to their own personal advantages. Their life is not a just life. It is not a life lived by faith. It is a lie. It is a life that is a lie. They are spiritual children of the Pharisees. And we must remember what Christ ultimately said about them. One in Matthew chapter 23, verse 27, our Lord declared, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are whited tombs Which appear beautiful on the outside, but are full inside of dead man's bones and all uncleanness. Even so, you also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. Now, even as that warning is issued to the entire church, a point we also made. Not everybody in the church is behaving that way or living that way. There are deceivers and there are believers in the same congregation. And the believers need to take lessons or need to stand up and look at what God says will be the product of an unholy life. If you're not one of the just, living by faith. And so I want today to explore with you Not the life of the unjust, the unbeliever, but what the life of the just looks like. what the life of the believer looks like in accordance with this passage. We could go to other places to see this, but this passage has some uh help as well and I want us to focus on these things uh this morning Now, when we say that the just shall live by faith, that that is like a key slogan. For believers. That's a key identifying feature of the believer's life. When we say that, we need to appreciate the fact That this slogan, this identifying feature, did not appear after the advent of Christ. Rather, it is the consistent ongoing teaching of the entire Bible that the just shall live by faith. That is not a new thought. The quote in verse 38, where we read this Connects us to a multitude of different places in the Bible. It connects us, for example, to Romans 1, verses 16 and 17. Where Paul writes, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes, the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For therein the righteousness of God revealed, for therein is the righteousness of God revealed, from faith to faith as it is written. The just shall live by faith. Shows up there. But that quote from Hebrews That quote that Hebrews makes from Romans 1 also shows up in Habakkuk, in the Old Testament book of Habakkuk, chapter 2, verse 4. Where it says, Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him. In other words, lifted up is a is a word that's that you should say pride. Behold the soul that is prideful Is a soul that is not upright or holy or just Or righteous in that person. A prideful heart cannot be a just, holy heart in God's sight. But the just shall live by faith. There it comes again in the Old Testament passage of Habakkuk. But I know that all of you are well enough versed in your Bibles to realize That the preeminent quote regarding justification, regarding how to be righteous in God's sight, this preeminent quote, the just shall live by faith, whether it occurs in Hebrews, Habakkuk, or or Romans, focus our attention on the preeminent patriarch of the righteous, faithful. Believers in God. And that preeminent patriarch is who? Abraham. Abraham. And you're not you're not wrong if you said Jesus either, but but humanly speaking, humanly speaking. The preeminent patriarch of righteous, faithful living in God's promises is Abraham. In Genesis chapter 15, All the way back at the beginning, you know, in Genesis chapter 15, verse 4, Abraham comes to God with a with a mild complaint. Lord, you've told me You told me that I'm going to have an heir. But I don't have any, and I'm getting well up in years, Lord. I'm over 90 years old. And God says to Abraham, he says in verse 4, The word came to the Lord saying, This shall not be your heir. And he's referring to one that Abraham refers to. a certain Eliezer of Damascus. He says, that shall not be your heir. But he shall come forth out of thine own loins. He shall be your heir. Can you imagine that? A man is being told by God that he's 90 years old and he's going to have a kid. And he's going to be his heir. He will be the heir. And then God took Abraham outside. He brought him outside. He said, Look to the heavens. Count the stars if you are able. And so shall your heir be. And what did Abraham do? He didn't laugh at God. That was Sarah. You know, later. Abraham believed God. And God reckoned it to him as righteousness Abraham, all of his life was a life, all of his life was a life believing in God, and specifically God's promises. He did not waver regarding the announcement of Isaac's birth. He did not waver when God told Abraham to go and sacrifice Isaac. Having said that, I must also say that Abraham was not perfect in living his just life. By faith in God's promises. He made some mistakes too. And that isn't that wonderful? He's human. He's like us. We can connect with him. We're not faithful, Lord. We are not faithful, Lord, in being just, but by your grace, you are teaching us We must live by faith in you and in you alone. That is how we live. And you count that as righteousness. You credit that as righteousness in our account. And none of us None of us on our own will ever come to that conclusion or will ever believe that way. God must do a magnificent work in our life wiping away all those ideas in our former existence as sinners that we live by our own choices. And we live by our own merit, and we're holy enough if we do enough good. God must erase that. And praise God that He does in the heart of a believer. Praise God that He makes those thoughts that we used to think were the way to gain God's favor, He makes those thoughts ugly now. In our mind and in our heart, as we think about the perfect righteousness of Christ that makes us holy. All his life Abraham believed in God's promises. It was not perfect, but it didn't have to be Because Abraham also had Jesus as the focus of his faith. If you don't believe me, wait till we get to him Hebrews eleven where he says in verse I'm not sure the exact verse, I didn't look this up, but Abraham went forward to sacrifice Isaac in accordance with God's command because he reasoned that God could raise up another son. He believed in the resurrection. Can you imagine that? But that's for later. But that's what living a life of faith believes. That God is not the God just of the dead, but also the God of the living. So as we look at a the briefly at the verses that are before us What does the life of the just who live by faith look like? Let me just highlight some things in verses 32 through 37. But remember the former days in which, after you were illuminated, you endured a great deal of affliction. Now the author here is encouraging those who are in the church, who are the believers, to remember what Their life was the minute the grace of God came into their heart and took them out of the darkness of sin and brought them to saving faith into the light Of the Son of Righteousness who rises with healing in his wings. Think about it. You once Lived a life where you endured much suffering. Partly because you were made a laughing stock, both by the reproaches and afflictions. and partly because you became companions of them who were so used. For you had compassion on me in my bounds And took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that you have in heaven a better and enduring possession. Cast not away your confidence, which has great reward, for you have need of patience That after you have done the will of God you might receive the promise. For yet a little while he that shall come will come and will not tarry Look at that life as the author describes those believers in the church. He points out several ways, he says, that they are living by faith. Let's number them. They endure affliction They are willing to be made a laughing stock for their faith They will show compassion on others who are in trial and affliction. They will joyfully give up their goods, their material goods, to help those who are in need. Because they know. How do they know? Because they believe by faith that they have in heaven a better and enduring possession They will not cast away their confidence in God and embrace someone else or something else. And they need patience because the trial will be great. They are characterized as enduring a great deal of suffering. Suffering that comes because they identify themselves as Christians. And you remember our Lord made it very clear. That the world would hate you if you identify with Jesus as Lord and Savior. They suffered also some sort of material poverty because they weren't afraid to give to others Who were suffering need, who were suffering worse than they were, and who needed help. They displayed compassion I mean it's just a it's just a veritable list of what their life looked like. And I believe this is the life of those who are careless Characterized as the just who live by faith. It's not an exclusive list, it's not an exhaustive list, but it does focus us in a certain direction. Those who are just, who live by faith, live to serve Jesus. The author and perfecter of their faith, and they live to serve those who are called Jesus' people. Their actions are actions of the redeemed heart. They are the truly justified, who, when they serve others, are serving Christ and serving his kingdom. Sometimes they don't even realize that they're serving Christ and his kingdom. Do you remember Matthew 25? The goats didn't realize that they were serving Jesus when they gave someone who was hungry a loaf of bread, or when they gave someone who was thirsty a load. drink. You see, they are in some ways the good Samaritans of this world who help the afflicted and the suffering Never asking to be repaid, never wanting to bring glory to themselves. No, they do what they do. They live by faith to serve Jesus and to bring him glory. We must have confidence in Christ. But it's more than that. We must have confidence in God. We must have confidence in his promises that he who has said such things can do those things, even when our eyes tell us, no, he can't Even when the world is careening to destruction, we must believe that God is in control. Not the forces of men. That if the world is careening to destruction, it's God's plan. It's God's will. We may not understand that. We may not want that. We may not like that. But don't blame God when things go wrong When things don't go the way we want them, believe in his promises. And I like as we come toward the end of this subject matter, something that the author apparently knew a good bit about. There's going to be one thing you're going to need. Beside the Word of God, there's going to be one thing you're going to need to keep focused on living by faith. And that's the virtue of patience. Patience is needed. Don't grow weary or disillusioned. Pastor, how can you tell me that? I am suffering. I am afflicted. I am in pain. It's not just the world, but physically I'm a wreck. Spiritually, I'm a wreck. How can I keep going? It's not easy. But you know where patience comes from? It comes from God. And if you don't have patience to continue to live by faith, then brothers and sisters, ask for it. That's one thing you could do. But there are two other things you must be aware of. God encourages our faith and our patience When we read and meditate on his word, and we come in contact with the Almighty You cannot fully understand God. Completely you can't do that. But you You can't even get a sense of who he is until you grapple with what the Word of God says about him. Even as we read from the opening call to worship today About the greatness of God, the magnificence of God. The psalmist knew. He understood He understood that life is not about him, that life is not about this world. Life is about God. And his promises and living faithfully. You don't have patience, you're struggling with waiting. Read the word. Meditate on the word. And you know what? If you are having a problem with patience, and are you having any other problem living by faith? The Holy Spirit will start working in your life to help the deficiencies. You got a problem with patience? What is one of the fruit of the spirit of the Spirit Is it not patience? Patience. Is it not long suffering? Long suffering. Joy. The life of the just one is a life of confidence, not in himself, but in Christ, the fulfillment of God's promises. It is the life that patiently waits for Christ's return. It is the life that believes in God's promises, that doing God's will will reap an eternal reward. It is a life not looking for temporal blessings. If they come, they come. But the life is not designed around securing them. It's a life really desiring eternal reward in heaven with God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit Those who are the just who are living a life by faith love God. and have compassion on God's people. I believe this is what living by faith is. This is what it looks like. And I pray that God would give you all grace by faith to live and suffer for Christ, serve others, and if necessary, die. For Jesus' sake. Let him help you believe in his promises in Christ, knowing this, that even death in Christ is unto your eternal glory. Amen. Let us pray. Mighty God, let us, as your people, Rejoice in your word, which is a guide and a lamp unto our feet. It shows us the way that leads to you and unto eternal life. Thank you, O Heavenly Father, for that word. Thank you for the revelations of wonder and glory that you bring to us on every page of your word. May your spirit attend to the preaching of the word. May it bring about, Lord, in your people an ever-increasing confidence in you. That they are among your just through faith in Christ. That they live, Lord, to serve you. And to advance the cause of your kingdom glory. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.