We're going to uh hear from the Word of our God at this time. If you'll turn uh with me to Hebrews chapter 4. We're going to begin reading at the end of chapter 4 Chapter 4 verse 14 and continue through into chapter 5 verse 10. So will you rise to hear the word of our God? Hebrews 4, beginning at verse 14. This is God's word. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. Let us hold fast our confession, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. For every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God, to offer gifts And sacrifices for sins. He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward, since he himself is beset with weakness. Because of this, he is obligated to offer a sacrifice for his own sins, just as he does for those of the people. And no one takes this honor for himself, but only when called by God, just as Aaron was. So also Christ did not exalt himself to be made a high priest, but was appointed by him who said to him, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. As he says also in another place, you are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. In the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death. And he was heard because of his reverence Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered, and being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. And that is the word of our God. You may be seated At this time the offerings of God's people will be received. But then constantly The Venom in the We please rise Praise God on the blessings Praise all creatures give me no, praise above the heavenly ghost Almighty God, we give you our thanks because you have lavished your kindness upon us. We thank you that you've demonstrated your goodness and the extent of your love and grace by not even withholding your own beloved Son from us. Indeed, even when we were yet sinners in rebellion against you, you gave the Lord Jesus to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins. And now, our Father, we who have tasted the sweetness of the Savior We who have the preciousness of life in its fullness through the Lord Jesus. Because we are glad, we are thrilled that you give to us the opportunity to demonstrate our joy and gratitude By presenting these tithes, gifts, and offerings. And so our Father, we ask that whether they be large or small, that they be a true and appropriate reflection of our devotion to you and our delight in the Savior. Use them, we pray In Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. We're going to sing again And uh this side number uh three hundred two. Come Christians join to sing, so will you rise again to sing in three hundred two. So that's that's fine, five, seven, three, two, three, three, four, four, two, three, six, seven, four, four, still, hold, two, five. Christians are interesting, the faith of Christ our King. For his throne rejoice, praises his praise of choice. My third again. I may no young let praises still aside. Hallelujah is our guiding friend. Hallelujah, I'm not in the strain. Alain Son Heaven's wisdom is goodness will add off. Singing forever, Hallelujah We're going to read again from the Word of God. We're going to read this time from the Book of Numbers. Numbers chapter twenty. And uh let me just orient you as you turn up the uh the to the scripture. Uh in the book of uh Numbers and Particularly in Numbers chapters uh twenty and twenty-one, Moses describes the final leg of uh the journey of God's people uh into the land that God has promised them for forty years. They have been wandering in the wilderness. And in Numbers 20, God describes how they began to move from the wilderness in the south. uh up around to the east and they're going to enter the land of promise from the east. So uh God uh Moses is describing some of the events that took place on that last stage of their journey. And so we come to God's Word. Numbers chapter twenty, beginning to read at verse twenty-two. Hear the word of God's truth. And they journeyed from Kadesh, and the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came to Mount Hor. And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron at Mount Hor on the border of the land of Edom, Let Aaron be gathered to his people, for he shall not enter the land that I have given to the people of Israel, because you rebelled against my command at the waters of Mereba Take Aaron and Eleazar his son and bring them up to Mount Hor, and strip Aaron of his garments, and put them on Eliasar his son. And Aaron shall be gathered to his people and shall die there. Moses did as the Lord commanded And they went up Mount Hor in the sight of all the people, and Moses stripped Aaron of his garments and put them in Eliasar his son. And Aaron died there on top of the mountain. Then Moses and Elizar came down from the mountain. And when all the congregation saw that Aaron had perished All the house of Israel wept for Aaron. Thirty days. That's the word of God. Let's pray for understanding. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you that this is your word. We thank you that your Holy Spirit has guided the hands and the pens of men of old as they uh wrote down that they set down this word for us. We thank you your Holy Spirit has providentially safeguarded this word so that this morning we might have it in our hands and in our ears And now we pray for the work of your Holy Spirit, bringing that word into our hearts, writing it on our hearts, and causing it to be engraved there in such a way as to call forth faith And praise and obedience. And indeed, our Heavenly Father, we ask for your saved sinners here this morning, that we would be built up on our most holy faith We pray for those here who might be here this morning as unsaved sinners, that they might see and recognize and hear the sweet voice of the Lord Jesus calling them to life in him. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen Will you please be seated? In twenty eleven, that's uh about four years ago, in the year twenty eleven. There were two and a half million Americans who died. That's typical. Two and a half million Americans died in 2011. You probably know some of those ones who died in that year. Most of those didn't make headlines, most of those didn't find their way into the news in any a particular way. All of those of course were uh li significant lives in one way or another and you'll know that if some of those were people known to you One who did make the headlines when he died in 2011 was uh Frank Buckles. Uh he died on February 27th of that year. He made the headlines uh because he was the last surviving American veteran of the First World War And he made the headlines because uh his death represented the severing of a living link between us and Something had happened long, long time ago, something very significant that had taken place. And now with the passing of Mr. Buckles, that that link was severed and people had a sense of the passage of time and and uh uh a sense of the end of an era. And if you can appreciate that or understand that, you'll get some sense Of how the people of Israel must have felt when Moses records for us the death of Aaron. Because Aaron was someone who was well known to all the people of Israel. He had been there right at the very start of their nation. When the people of Israel came into being as a nation, Aaron was there. He was there with Moses when the uh when uh Moses went head to head with Pharaoh He was there when the people of Israel went through the Red Sea. He had served the people of Israel as their high priest for 40 years. You'll remember that during that forty years a whole generation died out, so that when we come to Numbers chapter twenty, everybody knew Aaron as high priest. In fact There were very few people who could remember a time when Aaron hadn't been there and when Aaron hadn't been prominent, and now Aaron is gone. It's the end of an era. How do you cope with something like that? How do you get your mind around that? And even more importantly, what does that mean for us? Why has the Holy Spirit seemed to it that the death of Aaron should have been recorded and set down so that we here today in 2015 should be reminded again of the death of of this servant of God. That's why I want to take you into our verses this morning and I want you to think with me through the verses. We're going to think firstly about verses 22, 23, and 24 in which uh Moses describes for us something of the tragedy uh of Aaron. Uh and then in verses 25, 26 and 27 we're going to to hear about Aaron's departure And uh then in verses uh twenty-eight and twenty-nine we're going to get some good news about Aaron's successor and of course uh the Bible. uh is the Bible is about good news. Uh and so if we uh if we're starting off by thinking about death and the pervasiveness of death and the uh the awfulness of death And we're going to end up by focusing squarely on the good news that we have, because we have a Savior who has triumphed over death and the great, and so we are able to celebrate and rejoice in the great things that our God has done. So we want to see first of all in verses 22, 23, and 24 something of the tragedy of Aaron. Now you might say, well Aaron surely is not a tragic figure because after all he's uh He is a figure of note. He is someone who's gone down in the annals of history, someone who's been recorded in the uh the scriptures, the word of God that does not pass away. Erin is recorded there And he's recorded there as a figure of note, isn't he? Yes, we said earlier that he was uh there when Moses went. Face to face with Pharaoh. He was there when Moses called down the plagues on the people of Israel. He was there when the Israelites went through the uh the Red Sea. He was there during the forty years in the wilderness. He was the high priest for God's people. He was right at the very center of their uh shared religious experience, their shared worship of God. And you can just imagine what a resume someone like Aaron might have had. The things that Aaron did, the achievements, the accomplishments the lives he touched, the influence he exerted, the the number of people who who would have known him. And yet Aaron was a tragic figure because we discover in the verses that we have that Uran rebelled against God. You see, the tragedy of Aaron is In this. Aaron was someone who lived a good long life. We know that Moses died at the age of 120. We know that Aaron was Moses' big brother, so we know that Aaron was uh more than 120 years old A life full of accomplishments. And yet Aaron's death was a tragic death, and you know why? Aaron died almost within view of the land of promise. He died just weeks or months before the people entered the land that God had promised to give them, all those years. He and the other people of Israel have been going through the wilderness and now they come almost to the land of promise and it's at that point that Aaron dies. And you say, What a tragedy that was That that that Aaron should have lived all those years making his way toward the land of promise, uh bearing with the people of Israel through uh all the things they endured. What a hero he was, and yet he's a flawed and tragic hero. And we uh we hear about that in verse 24, because God says to Moses, Aaron shall not enter the land that I have given to the people of Israel, because you rebelled. Against my command at the waters of Maribah. And you may remember what happened there. That was the uh a place where God uh uh told Moses to uh speak to the rock and he would uh uh he would uh bring uh water forth from the rock and Moses and Aaron went off and instead of Moses speaking to the rock Moses A batted by Aaron berated the people. You're a nation of rebels. Remember this wasn't the first time the people had grumbled about God and about uh uh how God was caring for them. And on this occasion Moses lost it and and Aaron seems to have lost it with him and they went out and they berided the people of Israel instead of speaking to the rock uh and asking for the water that God had promised. Uh Moses and Aaron took it upon themselves to berate the people of Israel. You're a bunch of rebels And uh God uh seeing that disobedience on the part of Moses and Aaron, when it says in verse twenty-four, you rebelled against me, that's plural, you plural Moses and Aaron rebelled against God. They disobeyed God. Well, they've been doing so well, haven't they? They weren't like the rest of the Israelites grumbling and complaining and disobeying and worshiping idols and doing all the Moses and Aaron had obeyed, and yet here at this point they rebelled against God They berated the others, your rebels, but God says, actually, Moses, you and Aaron You are rebels as well. Very easy for us to uh to look at the others. Oh yes, they certainly were rebels, but Moses and Aaron, well they uh they're paragons of obedience, aren't they? But in God's eyes, they weren't. They failed. We want to uh we want to give Aaron a mulligan, don't we? Well, you know, Er that was just one that was just one failure. He was doing so well. He came so close to the uh the goal. Let's just Sweep that one under the carpet. Let's just pretend that one let's just rewind and pretend that didn't happen. But God doesn't do that. God is a righteous God. God is a God who, for the sake of his holy character, cannot Abide, cannot tolerate, cannot endure, cannot permit rebellion. And so not only did that whole series of rebellious people of Israel have their bones scattered in the wilderness But now Aaron also is a rebel. He's going to die outside the land of promise. And of course when we see that we realize just uh that we also uh are are like that. It's easy for us to look at other people. It's easy to s for us to see their acts of rebellion, isn't it? And it's easy for us to to measure ourselves. We can always find someone who looks worse than we are. And it's nice, isn't it, for us in our sinful hearts to be able to say, Well, at least I'm better than that person. At least I didn't mess up the way they did, or not as often as they did, or not as flagrantly as they did. But you know the fact of it is We are all rever we're all sinful. We're all under sentence of death. We're all uh remember what uh Paul says in Romans chapter five that through one man death as sin entered the world and death through sin. It infects us all. A few months ago remember we were uh we were hearing about Ebola And for many of us Ebola was something out there. It affects other people in other parts of the world. And then uh then we uh heard that the case had been identified here in the United States. We started to pay attention, didn't we? Uh and then we heard that that some uh medical professionals have been infected and then we we really uh we're really paying attention because we're thinking, well if they can get it, I can get it. Uh and you see If other people are sinful, if other people are liable to the infection of sin that Adam brought into the world, we also are infected with it. Our symptoms might not be as evident, they might not be as flagrant, but our hearts are infected The seeds of death are sown in us. We're a part of the tragedy that affected Aaron, and we're a part of the tragedy that affects the entirety of the human race because death and sin is abroad in the world. No matter how much we might achieve, how much we might accomplish, how successful we might appear to be, we fall short And of course you know that the land of promise is a biblical picture of the great promised land, the great rest, the great place of peace that God has. uh for his people, heaven the way we otherwise describe it. We fall short of that. We're not going to be able to enter there because we're infected with sin. Despite our accomplishments, despite our achievements, we're not able to make it. We are infected by death. We stand under God's condemnation. Uh Matthew Henry says that death accompanies us and the grave awaits us. Uh those two and a half million Americans who died in twenty eleven, similar numbers twenty twelve, right up uh through to the present, we know that we also are under sentence of death. And yet, and yet just As we remember that Aaron was infected by just as we see Aaron tragically die, we're reminded of the words that we read from Hebrews, where the writer to the Hebrews speaks of the one who is a better priest than Aaron. Uh a a priest who who is not infected by sin, a priest who doesn't offer sacrifices not just for other people but for himself. Remember that was what Aaron did Uh he offered sacrifices for the people of Israel, but before he could do that, he had to offer sacrifices for himself. Why is that? Because he was a sinner. He was there all along. And now And now says the writer to the Hebrews in Hebrews 5 verse 2, we have a high priest who uh excuse me, in Hebrews uh uh a little bit later on, we have a high priest who does not need to offer sacrifices for himself because he's without sin. He is a high priest, says the writer in Hebrews later on, chapter seven, verse twenty-five. He is a high priest who is able to save to the uttermost because he ever lives To make intercession for his people. He always lives. He is risen from the grave. And he's able to save to the very uttermost because of what he did on the cross. and because of the life he now lives and the intercession that he now makes for those who trust in him. So as we see the tragedy of Aaron, we're pointed to the triumph of the Lord Jesus. in our verses a description of Aaron's departure. And Moses describes his brother's department, his funeral, if you like. uh in verses uh 25, 26 and 27. And it is a state funeral. This is a national occasion. Did you notice that in the uh in the passage that we read Moses tells us that Aaron and Moses went out in the presence of all the people. This is a public event. It is a state event. In verse 27, the whole congregation is watching. And uh you've seen those kinds of uh funerals on the television, haven't you? The state funeral, there is all the the pomp and ceremony, there are the uh the crowds uh lining the streets, the people uh looking to see and knowing that perhaps it's a an historic occasion uh maybe having a sense not just of sadness but of the momentousness of those uh kinds of occasions. Here are the people of Israel watching this funeral procession. But It's a funeral procession that's unlike any funeral procession they've ever seen before. And why is that? Well, the reason for that is that the individual, Aaron, who's about to be buried, He's part of the procession. He's walking along with Moses his brother and Ili is our his son. He's imagine the kids who who's uh mommy, mommy, daddy Who's who's who's going to be buried? Whose funeral is it? And and uh Mummy and Dad said, Well see see the one the one that's wearing the high priest gear? The one that w He's the one that's g he's the one who's gonna be buried. It's his funeral Uh and the whole people, uh the whole nation sees uh Aaron part of his own funeral process of course we're a little bit like that. ourselves aren't we because we're all walking towards uh towards our own grave. We're all on our way. We're all under that that sentence of of death. And and yes, as uh I said earlier, the grave awaits us. But uh so here's here's Aaron. Uh and he's but he's a part of this uh funeral procession. He's on uh his way. Now that that's a sobering thing, but I want to just lift out from uh Moses description some uh things to encourage you and I want first of all to encourage as you think about Aaron's departure I want you to realize first of all that it is a a departure uh that is planned by God It's planned by God. And that's important for us to notice. And let me just take you back again to the scripture. The Lord said to Moses, let verse 24, let Aaron be gathered to his people. And uh we and then in verse 25, Aaron will be gathered to his people. He shall die there. He'll gonna die on Mount Whore. God uh planned Aaron's death. Now we plan funerals. God plans deaths. Our lives are in God's hands. And if you are a child of God, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus, this high priest, this faithful, unflawed high priest then you can be confident uh that the God who gave you his son is a God who hauled you in his hands. Later on in Numbers in chapter thirty three, verse thirty-eight, uh Moses uh few writing a few months uh later on reflects back and he says uh that uh it was on the first day of the fifth month of the fortieth year that God commanded Aaron to make that last uh that last uh hike up Mount Hor. God had the date chosen. It was going to be the 40th year out of out of Egypt The fifth month, the first day, God knew that all along. And on that day at that time, God uh said to Moses and Aaron, Now's the time. Now is the time for uh for you to make that that trip up the mountain because you, Aaron, are going to die. God knows the time when his Saints are going to die. Precious in the Lord's sight is the death of his saints. And uh God commanded um Aaron to to make uh that trip. And of course, uh our God is the good The good shepherd who speaks to his people, the sheep hear his n his voice. When the Savior uh calls us to himself, it's the right time And the voice that calls us is uh yes it's a commanding voice, but it's a loving voice. Isn't that right? The good shepherd who leads his sheep out and in so that they find good pasture. He has got good pasture uh for his sheep. And he calls his people to the place where they enjoy that pasture. And what a blessed thing that is. So so God had that plan. God planned the death of Aaron. But not only did God plan did you notice that uh Aaron was going to be gathered to his people. Did you notice that? Aaron is not stepping out into some uh great darkness. He's not stepping out into the uh into the void. Verse 24, let Aaron be gathered to his people. And then we're reminded of uh of that a little bit later on in verse 26. Aaron shall be gathered to his people God says it twice. Aaron is going to be gathered to his people. He's not going to stop existing. He's not going to go out into some kind of darkness. He's not going to be wandering like some kind of ghost. He's going to be gathered to his people. And of course, you'll remember that that's the the kind of epitaph that's given to the patriarchs time after time throughout Genesis uh and in the in the scriptures. So and so this faithful servant of God was gathered to his people. He was gathered uh to his people. And of course we are reminded That there is that great body of those who trust in God. And that when we depart from this life, when we go out from this world, we go into the presence of that great That great host, and they're not weeping and mourning. They're rejoicing and celebrating. And well may they rejoice and celebrate, because of course they are with uh the Lord Jesus. Remember what Paul uh says uh about uh while we're in this uh life, while we're in this body, we're away from the Lord. But then you remember Paul and Philippians uh chapter uh three chapter one verse twenty three saying about how he uh he he would love to go to be with the Lord Jesus because that's better by far. And so as we see Aaron depart he departs and But he departs as one who is going to be with his people. And we know that those who have died in the Lord are in the presence of the Lord Jesus. We know that as we uh trust in the Lord Jesus, when the time comes when our good shepherd calls us to be with him, then we go to be with him, and we go to be with the redeemed saints in a place of joy. And and did you did you notice as well that uh Aaron uh not only is the time of his death planned, not only is he going to uh be with his people, but did you notice It is an unusual uh funeral in all kinds of ways because uh when I think of a funeral, uh I think of a casket going down into the ground Uh uh and uh that's kind of the picture we have. Isn't that the the memory that perhaps uh many of us have here of loved ones or dear friends? Uh casket going down into the ground or maybe the casket and the ho the the hole in the grind awaiting it. Here Aaron's last the last glimpse we have of Aaron is not someone going down into the ground, but someone going uh up a mountain. Now in the in the eyes, in the minds of the people of Israel, now they they've seen Uh they they've they've seen uh Moses go up mountains on various occasions. Now when Moses uh went up the mountain, do you remember why he went up the mountain? He went up the mountain To meet with God. Isn't that right? That was what happened at Sinai. Moses would nobody else could go up. Moses would go up. He was the appointed mediator. He went up because up on the mountain he would meet with God. That was where he went to meet with God. And now here the people of Israel are again. And they're watching, and here's Aaron. Where is he going? He's going up a mountain. And so the message that's being sent is that Aaron is going to be with God. Aaron is going to meet with God. He's going to be uh with the God who redeems in spite of our sins, the God who provides a mediator, the God uh you remember Aaron offering those sacrifices and Sprinkling the blood uh on the on the mercy seat. Uh and of course as Aaron did that year in and year out, Aaron was pointing to the fact that God had appointed a lamb, a lamb without spot or blemish, a lamb whose blood would be shed for the sins of the world. And now Aaron, whose sins are covered over by the blood of the Lord Jesus. Aaron is going up that mountain and he's going to meet God. He's going to be with God. He's going to be with his people because God has called him home. That's a glorious thing. You remember the Lord Jesus in Acts chapter 1 verse 2. Luke tells us that Jesus was taken up. He's speaking of Jesus after uh his resurrection. Jesus was taken up. The disciples stood there with their eyes looking upwards because Jesus had been uh taken up. He had gone into the presence of his father. Here is Aaron. He goes up the mountain. That's what we, the people of God, look forward to with confidence We go into the presence of our God because of the blood of the Lord Jesus, our great Redeemer, our great high priest that has been shed for us. And so we look at the departure of Aaron and we see foreshadowed in it The fact not only that we also die unless the Lord Jesus returns first, but that we ha our death is a controlled death. Our God calls us to himself Our God brings us into the presence of his people and into the presence of our Savior. Our God lifts us up into the heavenly realms. What a glorious, glorious thing there is pictured for us here. And then we see not only the departure of Aaron, but we see uh also Aaron's successor. Before I get to Aaron's successor, though Did you notice in verse 30, uh excuse me, verse 29, the people uh mourned. Uh the people mourned for 30 days. They grieved uh over Aaron. And yes, well might they grieve Aaron because Wow, uh there he'd been such a prominent figure in their experience as a people for all these years. Now now he's gone, the people grieve. But you know, I wonder. It mixed in with that grief. If there wasn't just maybe a little bit or maybe more than than a little bit of grief. Excuse me, not only grief, but a little bit of guilt Because remember these people had grumbled against Aaron. They complained against Aaron. They complained against Moses. They complained against God, but they complained against Aaron too. There were some of those people uh who had bad things to say about Aaron and now Aaron is gone. Brothers and sisters, those departures are very significant. When we go out from here today, we never know Not just when, we never know if we'll see each other again. We may na we may never I have a friend uh who would say from time to time, uh speaking of of groups of people that This group will never assemble again in quite the same way. There may be those who have gone out from us And we're not going to see again. And we talk about paying our last respects to someone. That's something we do at the funeral, isn't it? Pay your respects to people now while they're still around. Oh yes, pay your last respects to them when they're gone by all means and uh honor them uh the time of their passing. But see to it that when the Lord takes them from you that you're not left with A grief that's mixed in with guilt because of the things you said about them, because of the way you treated them, because you grumbled or complained to them or about them or spoke ill or meanly of them. So when you mourn the passing of loved ones, don't let it be the mourning of the missed opportunity. And don't let it be the mourning that comes from the the wrong that has not been put right. Keep short accounts with each other So that your relationships are pure and good and wholesome and Christ-like. But we wanted to look at Aaron's successor, didn't we? Because if Aaron has gone God has appointed a successor for Aaron. And remember what we said. Here's that funeral procession going up the mountain. There there are the three of them. And uh Aaron is the one that's easily recognizable because he's wearing all the paraphernalia of the high priest. He was to wear the high priest garments as he uh walked to his own funeral. And now a bit later here we are and we're watching and we can see a movement on the mountainside. Yes, there's there's someone coming down, but oh there are only two. There are only two coming down but But that the high priest, the high priestly guard. There's still a high priest. And now Ilizar, the son of Aaron, is coming. The people still have a high priest. God has seen to it that there's a high priest for his people. Now of course we know that Aaron and Eliasar were only uh pointing forward to the great high priest. But but what I want you to see is that our God is determined that his people will have a high priest. And back in Numbers 20 they had high priests who were types and shadows God, who is committed to his people having a high priest, has appointed the Lord Jesus to be the great high priest, the great atoning sacrifice, the great redeemer, the great mediator. Through whom we come with confidence into the presence of our God. And God all along, and let's go back to Eleiezar for a moment. All along, God had been preparing Isar uh for the work that he was to to pick up. And and let's just um think about that for a moment because here's Aaron. Aaron's gone. And the people of Israel might have perhaps been tempted to say, how will we ever manage without Aaron. Now sometimes in our congregations there are people and we say, how will we ever manage without that person? And we look on that person as being Indispensable. And when it comes to pass that the Lord takes that person, maybe relocates it, maybe they get married, moves somewhere up, maybe he calls them home through death. And we say, What's going to happen now? God may take away his workmen. He may take away his servants, but he does not stop his work. The work goes on and God is preparing others. Jesus says, I will build my church. Sometimes we we look at faithful servants. We say Uh how is Jesus Church going to get built without this one or without that one? It's Jesus who's building his church. And and if your congregation is anything like let me tell you about Knox very briefly, and I appreciate your prayers first We have a revolving door congregation because people come to our area for a while and uh then they they move on. They get redeployed with the military. New administration comes in, they they they move the people coming and going all the time. This year the Lord is taking from us. As we look at our As we look at that revolving door, right now the the revolving door, it's the people are on the out side, the outwards part of that revolving door. The Lord is uh the Lord is taking about a tithe of our congregation. A tenth of our membership is set to move away from us this year. Not because something bad's going on at Knox, but because the Lord has chosen to move people away. And we are looking at this and we are saying What's going on? How are we going to manage without these saints? Faithful laborers, many of them. How will we get by? But but you know the the Lord's uh the Lord's servants may depart, the Lord's work continues. Because Jesus builds his church. So if you have an experiment, an experience like we're having, remember that Jesus builds his church. God can take away the Aaron's. There are others to take Aaron's place. Here's Eleisar. And and we've already met Eleisar. Of course we we only met him in our reading this morning for the But we started at the beginning uh of uh uh Exodus and and read right up through to Numbers chapter twenty. We'd have met Eliasar earlier because we discovered that Eliezer was an assistant to his his father Aaron. He wasn't the high priest yet, but he was He was doing priestly work. He was involved and God was training him and making him ready. And you can imagine the people of Israel looking at Eliezer, little Eliezer, and saying, Well, what use will he ever be? And now here he is, all those All those years of faithfully helping out as can you imagine isn't that a wonderful thing that that his dad Allowed him to be involved in the Lord's work. The people of God allowed him to be involved in the Lord's work so that when the time came and the high priest was needed, God had a man all prepared and ready to take over And uh I want to uh I want you to see that uh God's servants don't just spring out of nowhere. God prepares his servants And uh don't uh don't sit back and say, well when God needs me, he'll make me ready for the work that I have to do. Get involved now. Uh and and you young people uh who are here today, be be uh helping out, be about doing Jesus uh works. Serve in the little things. Remember what Jesus says, the one who's faithful over a little, I will appoint him over much. I'll entrust big responsibilities to uh that person when they show that they're faithful in little. Here's little Elliot, all grown up. Look at him wearing the high priest's robes. Who would ever have thought that he would have While God was preparing Eliezer all through those years, he was making him ready for this place when he was needed. That's that's what God does. He makes people ready. But of course we know that uh Well, God's done even greater than that. Galatians chapter four. In the fullness of time, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law, the Lord Jesus, the one who has come uh born into the world in order to be our great high priest, this sympathetic high priest that we're uh reading we were reading about earlier, the one that allows us to come with confidence into the presence of our God. And the one who allows us to be looked upon with favor by our God because Jesus has shed his blood. Isn't that marvelous? Earlier we talked about the one who has died and we're s that the living link with the past is severed. And we look at ourselves and we look all the way back to the Garden of Eden and we say, oh the the link with paradise has been severed There's no going back to that blessed relationship with God that Adam and Eve enjoyed in paradise. The bliss of that, there's no going back. Sin and death have come in. The link is severed. We're lost. We're done. Jesus, by his death, by his death reestablished the living link that we have. with our God. Re-established the living link. He opened up for us a new and living way through the curtain, that is his flesh, so that we can come with confidence into the presence. of our God. And so it's by a death that we are brought again into fellowship with God. And so at the Lord Jesus stands before us. Someone has said that as uh Aaron took the uh those robes off and put them on his son Eleazar It was as if God was giving Aaron a picture of what he was going to do and providing the great high priest, the great redeemer, the Lord Jesus. And of course, in the scripture this morning, these words we've looked at, God gives us a picture. Of Jesus and what Jesus does. And don't we praise our God for the great salvation that He has accomplished on behalf of His people? Let's pray together. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning for the Lord Jesus. We thank you that He has defeated death. We thank you that He has triumphed over the grave We thank you that he ever lives to make intercession for us. We thank you that he is a sympathetic high priest to whom we can come with confidence to find help and grace in our time of need. And so, our Heavenly Father, we pray that our eyes would be opened to see Jesus, and that we would rejoice to know that we have such a glorious Savior as this. And that we might be glad and call forth your praises, we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen