Let's turn in our copies of God's Word to Matthew once again. Be in chapter five, on page nine hundred and sixty-four of your pew Bibles, I believe. We're in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount, and in particular this morning, we're at verse 43. As Jesus continues to unfold the law of God, let's give our ears to the very word of God. You have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes the sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same. And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same. You therefore must be perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect. Amen. Praise be to God, please sit Would you pray with me? Father, we come now to a difficult Passage, we are beside ourselves And seek the Spirit. We seek His work, Father. We ask, Lord God, that you'd open our hearts, that you would certainly convict us this morning of sin, how we have erred. How we have failed to apply your law. Then, Father, we pray that you would help us to see the radical love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Guide our hearts now. I pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen. About sixty-seven years ago, in nineteen fifty-six, there was a group of missionaries that went to Ecuador. One of them was Jim Elliott. He went with four others. They were seeking to serve a particular tribe there in Ecuador. They flew in And in 1956, shortly after they arrived, they were killed. They were speared to death, all five of them. By the members of the tribe that they came to serve, by the members of the tribe that they came to give the gospel to. Jim Elliott was survived by his wife. Her name was Elizabeth. And you may know the account Sometime later, after her husband was murdered by this particular tribe, Elizabeth took her daughter and returned to Ecuador. Where she lived and served this very same tribe. On a website that I found there was a quote from Elizabeth And she said, the deepest things that I have learned in my own life have come from the deepest suffering. And out of the deepest waters and the hottest fires have come the deepest things I know about God. There's an element of radical love in what Elizabeth Elliott did. And that's really what this passage is about this morning. As Jesus continues In his Sermon on the Mount, as he has given us this snapshot of the the picture of a heart that is actually following after him in the Beatitudes He has told his disciples that given this nature of your heart that I'm placing within you now you need to be salt and light. And then he began to open up A few of the commands of God. He told them that they shall not be unrighteously angry with their brothers. But they shall not look with lustful intent. That Moses had accommodated them when he allowed them to divorce That their yes should be yes, that their no should be no, that mercy triumphs over justice. And now Jesus comes to what may be this last portion of his exhibition of his exegesis, so to speak, of God's law. This morning, I want us to see that to sincerely love your enemies, the radical love of Jesus Christ must be known and experienced. To sincerely love your enemies. The radical love of Jesus Christ must be known and experienced. We'll see that this morning in In three points, first corrupting the command, secondly, loving the enemy, and finally receiving the reward We're now at the end of this particular section, or close to the end of it, of the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus is dealing with the law. This last substantive point on the law in the Sermon on the Mount. And there's a sense that he's been leading up to this all along. For we know that he's been describing matters of the heart. The way that he changes the heart to be like his is what he's been describing. And I don't know that we can say that we can see a progression in the law as he unfolds it. But I can say that it seems as though that he has saved the hardest, the most difficult For the last. And I wonder whether the disciples were having difficulty as they were hearing this portion of his exposition of the law. I think we might. And I think as we open up this passage, we should be asking ourselves, how, Lord? How can I do this? No first, corrupting the command. Jesus has established a pattern as he's going through portions of the law in which he references back to the Old Testament. Well I say back, that was the only thing that was in existence at the time that he was preaching And the disciples would have been able to say, Oh yes, we've we have heard that, because he was alluding to or quoting directly from what we now have as the Old Testament. And now, following that pattern, he begins once again. You have heard that it was said. You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But this time it was different. Because only half of what he said is actually in the Old Testament. Certainly, to love your neighbor. This command is clearly rooted in the nature of God and his love for his people, and thus is found in the Old Testament, Leviticus 19, you shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge Against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. But this second part, you shall hate your enemy Does not appear to be found in the Word of God. You may be thinking, well, God did say Destroy those seven nations in the promised land, the Hittites, the Gergeshites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hittites, the Jebuzites You must devote them to complete destruction and show no mercy to them. That command, that call we find in Deuteronomy, was followed that if you intermarried with them, they would lead your sons and daughters away. To serve false gods. You might think, well, the Ammonites, the Moabites were also two groups of people. They were not to be killed, but they were not to be favored either. No Ammonite or Moabite may enter the assembly of the Lord, even to the tenth generation, because they did not meet you with bread or water. On the way when you came out of Egypt. They hired Baron, the son of Bear, to curse you. But we see this passage was qualified, wasn't it? It's related to only two nations, and they were ones who were opposed to the Israelites and thus to God. Even then it was limited to the tenth generation. You may be thinking of Esther, where the Jews were given the opportunity to strike down their enemies with the sword, killing and destroying them. But there was no command, actually, to kill. Seems like that was taken up in a sense of self-defense. In all these examples, there was a reason provided by God to the people who were to be destroyed or avoided. But there's nothing in the sense of a general command to hate generally those who you consider to be your enemies. Nothing. It's not part of the law. Indeed, we read it in Leviticus 19. You shall not take vengeance or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people. Indeed, God's commands call for just the opposite of hatred, don't they? As Job was defending himself One of the defenses that he calls to have his friends here is that he had not rejoiced in the ruin of those who hated him. And Job called cursing his enemies a sin. And then we have those positive commands within the Old Testament. In Exodus 23, if you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall bring it back to him. You shall rescue it. And then as we read in 2 Kings chapter 6, when Elisha leads those who were sent to destroy him to Samaria, and he And their eyes are opened, and now the king of Israel says, Should I kill them? And Elisha said, No. Set bread and water before them. That they may eat and drink and go to their master. And then you may be familiar with Proverbs 23: If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, if he's thirsty, give him water to drink For you will heap burning coals on his head, and the Lord will reward you. So what was Jesus speaking of? You have heard that it was said. This must be a reference to what the disciples, the Israelites in general, had been and were being taught. That's the only conclusion we can come to. It's either a misunderstanding of the Word of God at best, or at worst, a purposeful corruption of the Word of God. Hendrickson, a commentator, writes this that it must have been a popular way in which the average Israelite during the days of Christ's ministry summarized the second table of the law. He must have learned it from the scribes and Pharisees. That's speculation, but they heard it from someplace. And it was well known as Jesus quotes it Christians have a tendency to modify the law of God, don't we? We've been given an example of that within the Garden of Eden. And we know that we have a tendency to inject or insert into the law of God extra things, things that are not there, things which in our human reason we think should be there. Paul picked up on that in Romans. Romans chapter 6. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? Do you see the idea? God's poured out his grace upon us, so let's just continue sinning so that his grace will abound. That's the injection of human reason into the law of God Indeed, Jesus rightly began this portion of the Sermon on the Mount. With his statement that I'm not here to change the law. I'm not here to modify the law. I'm not here to inject human reason into the law. In the present case Teaching. You shall love your neighbor, but hate your enemy. In the present case, it seems like that standard was being lowered by men. Because the idea was clearly do good to your enemy. That's what Scripture was telling the Israelites, and yet now they had lowered that standard from doing good to hating. We tend to lower God's standards so that we can fit within it. So we can feel good about being bad. There's a lesson for us in that this morning. We have to watch our hearts constantly. For we want so desperately to be those who keep God's law. And so we have a tendency just to shrink it back bit by bit as we even think about the Sabbath day. And how we keep it holy, how we shrink it back so that we can fit within our Humanly defined, reasonable standards, not God's Brings us to our second point, loving the enemy. So now because the law had been corrupted. Jesus makes it crystal clear for those who are hearing. He removes all possibility of ejecting human reason into the very word of God. He takes away misunderstanding, misinterpretation, or a generalization of passages which called upon the Israelites to harm nations occupying the promised land. And now he says to them, I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. There are two different imperatives or commands here in this very short passage. First to love your enemies, clearly, and then secondly to pray for those who persecute you. And as we look into this, as we consider this, we Have to ask ourselves if we're to love our enemies, we need to know who they are. Who we're called to love. Who's the object? Of our love this morning. Consider the text. You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Jesus here puts neighbor and enemy side by side. In doing so, in the minds of those to whom he was speaking, He was speaking to them of two different categories of people in this world. First those who are our neighbors, their friendlies, those who like us, those who are kind to us, and then all others Those whom you might consider to be opposed to God, and to you as a follower of Christ. Two groups of people Jesus was not speaking about Satan. He's not speaking about the rulers against about the cosmic powers over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Ephesians chapter 6. He's not speaking about those enemies. He's certainly not speaking of the intangible, the last enemy to be destroyed is death. Now Jesus was speaking about people, people who you perceive to be opposed to God and thus to you as a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, those who desire to bring harm to you. And the Old Testament has much to say about Enemies. Haman, the Agagite, was the enemy of all the Jews. We read that in Esther. He's the focal point. Throughout the Psalms, even as David writes, we read about strong enemies, those who hated David. These then, in Jesus' day, Pharisees, scribes, chief priests. We could just group them together and say possibly we'd perceive enemies as being those who hate God and Jesus Christ. This is the group, the set. of people that Jesus called his disciples to love. Now you may be asking that second question, well what what kind of love? What kind of love is this that Jesus speaks of? Jesus uses that word, at least as it's recorded for us in Matthew's gospel, agapao. It's a verb, but it certainly has its nouns. It means to have a warm regard for and an interest in another That's from a Greek lexicon. From Psalm 25, we read: all the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness. The steadfast love or faithfulness, this loving kindness, is translated in the Septuagint In a different way, a different Greek word. But it means that you're concerned for someone in need. You want to pour out mercy on a person. You want to have compassion for them. You pity them. That's the idea. It's what God poured out. And we know in the greatest commandments is the Lord Jesus reviews them. He said, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. We might think that love for God and love for neighbor would be different, but it's the same Greek word used for both. A warm regard for an interest in another. Having affection for one This is certainly shown by the Good Samaritan. If you remember that passage, uh this one comes down from Jerusalem, clearly a Jew. And he's beaten. He's robbed. He's led half dead. And the priest and the Levite walk by him. They go to the other side of the road. They pass by and they don't stop. But who stops is the Samaritan. And the Samaritan was perceived as an enemy of the Jews. They really disliked one another, and that's a soft word. They were perceived as enemies. And it's this Samaritan who has compassion, who has pity, who pours out mercy on this one who In another situation, he would be perceived as his enemy. He binds up his wounds, he pours out oil and wine, takes him on his own animal, and brings him to an inn and took care of him. The Samaritan displayed that kind of love that Jesus spoke of to his disciples. Elizabeth Elliot displayed that kind of love when she returned to the tribe in Ecuador. But that's just part of Jesus' command, isn't it? The second part is to pray for those who persecute you, and the trouble here is not that these words are difficult to translate or understand. They are not. They are straightforward. Just as the words to love your enemy enemies were straightforward. This portion to pray for those who persecute you is so crystal clear. This actually may be the harder of the two He's requiring his disciples to take a portion of their precious time, their communion, their fellowship with the living God, and petition him sincerely. For the good of those who are actively bringing harm upon them. To love can be somewhat vague, can't it? Is love always active? Can love just be a heart attitude? Does love require zealous pursuit? Prayer does. Without question. Prayer requires zealous, sincere pursuit. And that's the idea that's included within this command to pray. To pray fervently for the good of the ones who were persecuting you consider Stephen remember he he's one of those who was called to serve tables, maybe one of the first deacons. But he was also a gifted preacher. And as those who didn't like what he was preaching bring him before the crowds. And s Stephen begins preaching this long historical sermon. He brings it to conclusion, and he speaks of Jesus as the righteous one whom you've now betrayed and murdered. And as the people heard that, they were enraged, and they grind their teeth at him. They cried out with a loud voice. They rushed at him, they stopped their ears, and they began to stone him. And as he's falling to his knees, he cries out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And then he fell asleep. Stephen was praying for those who were actively stoning him. Now, instead of applying corrupt human reason as to why his disciples should do these things, love their neighbors, and pray for those who persecute them, Jesus leads the disciples in divine reasoning. This radical love, so revolutionary, so extreme, and going beyond turning the other cheek, which we read last week For in turning your cheek, you could still harbor hate within your heart, couldn't you? But now, with this seemingly new command There was no possibility of secretly keeping or storing up hatred for your enemy, the one who is perpetrating evil upon you. There was to be an active, a zealous pursuit of good. For the persecutor, the one spewing hate. And so Jesus knew that these disciples would be asking him, if not outwardly, inwardly, why? Why should I love these wicked men? Why should I be kind to those who seek to harm me? Why should I take my time and prayer, even to think of those who would persecute me. And Jesus merely points to the nature of his father. For he makes the sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. Dr. Luke records it this way: for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. There are certainly other passages in the scripture which tell us the same. He gives rain on the earth and sends waters to the field. God is the Lord is good to all, and His mercy is over all that He's made. This is what's called common grace. From a ligonier peace, he restrains sin, evil, misery, wrath in this fallen world while conferring general non-redemptive blessings on all mankind. John Murray put it this way: every favor of whatever kind or degree falling short of salvation which this undeserving and sin-cursed world enjoys at the hand of God. Common grace. And so as the Christian loves his enemy, there is a reflection of God's nature, his common grace being bestowed upon those caught in the darkness of their own making. This is foundational for our understanding of this passage. This common grace, this nature of God is foundational. And to grasp this command, we actually need to go just a little bit further than God's common grace. We need to go to the saving love of God and of His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. In Romans chapter 5, we read this passage that is so powerful. While we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. While we were still sinners, while we were enemies Paul uses four words to describe us weak, ungodly, sinners, enemies. It's then, at that point in time, when you are reconciled to God by the death of his son. This is radical love. This is the kind of love that you are to radiate. And we all need to admit on its face This command is hard to receive. It's hard to grasp. Others have been hard. Unrighteous anger, no divorce, turn the other cheek. But this love for enemies, praying for those who persecute, intellectually, it is hard. And so to truly understand this passage, to grasp it, the meaning of loving your enemy, it would appear that one would need to actually experience the love of Christ. And this is what I mean by experience the love of Christ. You must know that you don't deserve it And that really doesn't even go far enough. You must experience the love of Christ, knowing that you are unlovely and unlovable. And that begins to get to the true experience of the love of Christ. To get to the bottom of it, to believe this command. To heed this command, to practice this call, to know what it is to love your enemy, it would appear that you must first experience the love of Christ, knowing all along that He loved you, even when you hated Him. When you despise him. Like those who wagged their head at Christ as he hung on the cross. Indeed, it's like those who spat upon him, who slapped him in the face. That's a picture of your heart when Jesus loved you so much that he would die for you. Now, if you've experienced that, if you truly understand your condition, you understood your condition, and at that moment you received the love of Christ, all the while knowing that you were undeserving of it. And that he had every right to say to you, away from me, I never knew you, but that was at the time that he suffered blood and died. That's experiencing the love of Christ. And when you experience the love of Christ that way, You can understand a bit of what it means for you to love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. We can look at examples. Elizabeth Elliot is a wonderful example. Stephen, as he's being Stoned is a wonderful example, but you must understand this passage experientially, because it's too difficult otherwise. You must put aside your bitterness and your envy, your covetousness and pride, so that you love even those who hate you. Brings us to our third point, receiving the reward Interestingly, Jesus inserts a condition here in this passage, his last passage on the law, on the Sermon on the Mount. But I say to you, love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you. Verse 45, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. And he continues in verse 46, for if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same. There's an implication here that if the disciples would not or refuse to heed this call, if they refuse to pursue The love of their enemies, if they purposefully neglected to pray for those who persecuted them, if they rejected the call to love those who did not love them, then they would not Be sons of the Father in heaven. And they would have no reward in glory. Now many times in scripture we are tempted to read the text in this way. If I do this thing, this thing commanded by the Lord, called for by the Lord, as a result of my work, as a result of my good deed, I will be received by God. I'll be received into his favor. I will enter into glory because of what I have done. The text that we have before us this morning is one of those passages. It could be read this way: if I love my enemy, then because of my love, because of that. What I have done, then I will earn the title son. Because of these love for my these enemies of mine, because of my prayers For these wicked persecutors, then I will be received into the household of God and forever blessed And we need to say here that this kind of thinking, this kind of interpretation is completely wrong. Do not leave here this morning believing that you can earn your way into the glory of God and to his favor. You cannot work your way into the family of God. You cannot earn or merit the title son or daughter. You cannot cause God to turn to you because of what you perceive as a good work. We can also say, if you refuse to pursue loving your enemies You will not be called a son or a daughter. If you reject prayer for those who persecute you, you will have no place in the kingdom of God, but will end In your sins, in the depth of hell. But this is a description of an unregenerate heart. It's a description of a heart, of a stony heart, which is dead to the things of God. It's the description of a heart which hates God and hates his word and hates his law The truth is it's the Lord Jesus Christ that changes your heart. As one is born again, as one receives a new heart, as a new heart is gifted by the supernatural work of the Spirit, then the gift of faith. Is that which Jesus Christ works in you works in a formerly dead heart? Then as he's changed your heart, as he's given you a new heart, as he has given you the gift of faith, then you will desire. To pursue loving your enemies. You will want your persecutors to know the love of the Lord Jesus Christ and be brought to a saving faith in him. This will be your desire. But even that desire will not be that which you can boast in or take credit for. Brothers and sisters, really and truly, to understand this passage requires you to ask this question of yourself, what is the purpose of my life? Why am I here? If the answer to that question is to gain as much wealth as possible, Or to have as much pleasure, or to live comfortably, or to have power, or you can fill in the blank If any of these things, these worldly things are your goal, if that's your purpose in living and existing, then none of these laws, including this one of loving your enemy and praying for those who persecute you, will make any sense. There'll be foolishness For it will not be compatible with your goal, your purpose. For to love your enemy is to give up your expressed purpose of gaining as much as you can for yourself, of living that comfortable life. But if your purpose differs from that, if your purpose is not to exalt yourself but to glorify the living God, if you believe that you've been placed on the face of this earth not to pursue as many worldly pleasures as is humanly possible, but to know Jesus Christ and His sufferings and the power of His resurrection, then all of these laws Including this one, to love your enemy and pray for those who persecute you. They're completely aligned with your purpose. Indeed, as the Spirit lays up these laws in your heart, they help to keep you aligned with your purpose. Do you see, as your heart has changed and you're no longer pursuing your own interests, above everything else, now it's possible Now it's possible to love your enemies because Christ has loved you and is loving you Now it's possible for you to want salvation for even those who persecute you. Now it's possible to pray for those who seek your demise. Now in Christ it's possible to want for them that saving relationship with the Son of God. Because in Christ you've been given that reward. That undeserved reward. You've been made whole. You've been rewarded with a crown that you did not deserve. Your heart has been completely changed. You're no longer praying that your enemy, your worldly enemies, would die in their sins, but now you've been supernaturally changed and live that abundant life in the righteousness of Christ. Here then is that secret to truly loving your enemies, experiencing and meditating upon the love of Christ. For you, knowing that you've been forgiven, that you've been taken from the depths of hell from suffering the eternal wrath of God and given abundant life. That you didn't deserve any of it because indeed you were God's enemy and you hated him, and just at that time he poured out his everlasting love upon you Do you see? Do you see now why and how Jesus calls you to love your enemies? Because he's graciously rewarded you with abundant life. You've been saved by him. And you'll want that salvation for even those you consider to be your worst enemies. Yes, to sincerely love your enemies, the radical love of Jesus Christ must be known and experienced. Elizabeth Elliot indeed demonstrated a love for her enemies, and we know that that was only possible. Because of the way the Lord Jesus Christ had loved her and changed her heart. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, help us. Father, we seek to change your law, to lower your standards. Help us not, Lord. For your standards are perfect. They are a beautiful reflection of who you are. And so give us the strength we need, Father and the Spirit, to seek to uphold them, to pursue that love that you call us to, that radical love that's been poured out upon us. That others might see Christ in us. Guide our hearts, Lord. We must have the Spirit's work. We pray these things in Jesus' name