Our second reading from God's Holy Word this morning, and the text for the scripture message to be preached from this morning is from The book of Acts, as it's known, the Acts of the Apostles, chapter 5, verses 1. Verses 1 through 16. I think that's what I have listed in the bulletin. Yeah, through 16. And inasmuch as all Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, since that is true. Let us not simply hear or read, but prayerfully ask the Lord to imprint upon our hearts the teachings, the truths of this, His Holy Word. The book of Acts, chapter 5. But a man named Ananias with his man Sapphira sold a piece of property And kept back some of the price for himself, with his wife's full knowledge, and bringing a portion of it, he led it at the apostles' feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your control? Why is it that you have received this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God. And as he heard these words, Ananias fell down and breathed his last. And great fear came over all who heard of it. The young men got up and covered him up, and after carrying him out, they buried him. Now there elapsed an interval of about three hours, and his wife came in not knowing what had happened. And Peter responded to her, Tell me whether you sold the land for such and such a price. And she said, Yes, that was the price. Then Peter said to her, Why is it that you have agreed together to put the Spirit of the Lord to the test? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out as well. And immediately she fell at his feet and breathed her last And the young men came in and found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. And great fear came over the whole church, and over all who heard of these things. At the hand of the apostles, many signs and wonders were taking place among the people. They were all with one accord in Solomon's portico. But none of the rest dared to associate with them. However, the people held them in high esteem. And all the more believers in the Lord, multitudes of men and women, were constantly added to their number to such an extent that they even carried the sick out into the streets, and laid them on cots and pallets, so that when Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on any one of them Also, the people from the cities in the vicinity of Jerusalem were coming together, bringing people who were sick or afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all being healed. This is God's Wonderful true word. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we have read weighty and dramatic accounts of immediate acts of your judgment upon sinful men and women. O Father Let us take these accounts seriously as seriously as we take, well no, Father, more seriously than we take our sin. And then cause us to take our sin as seriously as we should. For we In lying to ourselves or lying to you whenever we lie, whenever we do not tell the truth. And so, Father, cause us to be a people of truth, for you indeed are God of truth. You show us the truth about ourselves. You show us yourself. And give yourself to us. Oh Father Father, cause us to admit to our sins, and then admit to our utter dependence upon you each day as we follow you. We ask all It is there has always been lying As long as there's been truth, there's always been something that's been an untruth, the opposite of it. And there's always been someone or something wanting to distort. Uh there's the cliche these days, the last few years, of what's referred to as fake news, uh a description of events or something that is actually different from what is actually true. And I think the original fake news was there was a serpent that once said, did God say? And that was the original fake news. uh the serpent twisting around trying to get Eve to doubt God's true word. And here we are in well I You could say the silly season of politics, but sadly these days, if you ever look at the political world, it's always. They never they never stop campaigning. Uh they never stop trying to sell themselves and that kind of thing. And the sad thing is You simply want honesty. You simply want, you know, even if I don't vote for you, I want to know what you actually think. For sure. And sometimes you can admire someone, at least they that's what they think. They're not simply trying to sell me something. It's what they actually think. And you simply you want to know that, you want to hear that. And obviously when you have when you had the The story of what what happened with Jesus for the early apostles was an astounding thing. I mean here you have this man everybody, faithful Jews for centuries have been awaiting the coming of the Messiah. Those who were faithful Jews who believed their, you know, the Old Testament is about this much of my Bible. They believed what it said. They were faithful Jews. And remember Simeon at the temple? The Lord has said, You will not die until you see the Messiah. You saw him as a baby, but yes, he knew it was the Messiah. There was a woman named Anna also waiting to see the Messiah in the temple. There were other faithful Jews. Uh Nicodemus was somebody who was a faithful Jew who, when he began to hear the truth, realized you are the one So there were people who who were waiting for that. And along comes the Messiah finally comes. And it's almost like the idea of the old story of crying wolf. People didn't believe that it actually happened Because there have been fake messiahs for years and years. The wrong person showing up. Finally, the real one shows up. And people are wondering what to believe. What to believe I mean the word of God from prophets had actually stopped with Malachi 400 years before the birth of Christ. There had been no prophets They had God's word, and they're waiting to hear how God speak to them again. But of course, when God speaks, God will speak with truth. And so here we have the they say the Messiah has come. There are people who say they've seen him. Is that fake news or do they believe it? Did that really happen? Can you believe this person And so here you have this community of God's people living and sharing amongst each other. And Hebrew, obviously, this story today is an example of the importance that God places upon being truthful in the fellowship of God's people. God is someone who is who is upfront with us. God is someone who is true with us. He tells us, you know, this is in here you will find out what I am like. I do not tolerate sin. But my loving kindness is everlasting to those who seek after me. All these things, come to me, come to me. And so here we have this community of God's people who know that the Messiah has come. They've had their sins forgiven by Jesus. They're living together in community. They're trying to move forward and tell other people the Messiah's come. And even people who weren't Jews who didn't know what a Messiah was. God has come and He has forgiven your sins. Trust in His Son. So here we have this community. Well, who do we have? Who do we have here? The story opens up with Ananias and Sapphira. And here we have things going well in this church. Th what I would read when I was here a few weeks before, the end of chapter four, the congregation was one heart and soul. They were sharing things with each other. It was wonderful. They're giving testimony. Abundant grace was on them all. There was no need because everybody was just helping everyone else. And then the last couple of verses it says there's a man named Joseph whose nickname was Barnabas. The nickname means son of encouragement. Bar is son, Nabas means encouragement. So we we he was such an encouraging fellow that we always we called him Barnabas. His name is actually Joseph. But he's the son of encouragement. They're all helping everything. Everything is wonderful. Well, Satan of course wants to disrupt this, doesn't he? Here we have people who are loving each other, sharing with each other, being honest with each other, you know. You know, here I'm trying to help you. I mean there's no there's no there's no mask, there's no trying to get one over on you, sell something to you. I just want to help you. I care about you. God's giving me his love. I want to show you I want to show you love as well And so here you have Satan with an attack. And like before he attacked the church from outside, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, locking up the apostles. Now Satan's like, I'm going to attack them inside. I want to get inside. It's almost like putting a mole in there, you know, or some spy in the in the Christian ranks. I'm going to disrupt him inside, like he does in local churches. And here he winds up working, his agents in this case are a husband and wife, Ananias and Sapphira And the Sapphire is an Aramaic word, which means beautiful. And the husband's name is Ananias, which in Hebrew means God is gracious Which is true. I'm not sure this man was leaning on God's grace, obviously. And few people's lives have contradicted their names more dramatically. And Acts 5 records nothing beautiful or gracious about this particular couple. But what do we, what is, what is a reason God is giving us this text? He's using the occasion of their sin to teach us how to serve him. He's using the occasion of this sin to teach us how to serve him and how he expects us to live as his people. Well, what's this hidden? Verses 1 and 2. Excuse me. Verses 1 and 2. We, you know, man named Sophyrus sold a piece of property. We're not told what it was, we're not told how big it was. We're not told what the gross gross cost was. We're not told, you know, you know, what the net profit or any of this, but we they sold something. But we do know that it's like they sold something for a a hundred, says kept back some of the price for himself, and maybe they gave eighty. But they made it sound like, well, 80's all we got. So we're giving you the whole thing. That seems to be what's being described. And they brought a portion of it and laid it at the apostles' feet. And here, I mean Ananias and Sapphire had presumably seen what Barnabas had done, because here in verse 37 of the chapter before, it says Barnabas owned a tract of land, sold it, brought the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet. Okay, everybody seemed to like that. And everybody's praising Barnabas. Ananias and Sapphire are like, hey dear, why don't we do that? You know, they'll peep they'll really pat us on the back and think we're wonderful You know, maybe we can be in charge of the next charge of the next meeting or something. And so they now still sell property too. And we'll give the proceeds to the church. Let's get it do the same kind of thing Barnabas did. We'll get the same kind of reaction that he did. And they agreed the problem was they both agreed to claim to give the entire sale amount But they held some back. And they made everybody else think that they'd given the whole thing It's like sometimes occasionally it reminds me of I I've often not wanted to click this, whatever, like on the internet occasionally I've given a donation to a charity. And I'll do it sometimes on the internet. There's a box you can click if you want it to remain anonymous. I don't care. I'm giving it because I want to help this organization or whatever. Not because I want it to be known that I gave. But obviously here, they want to be known that they gave. And it wasn't some kind of mere it wasn't some kind of mere miscalculation in the checkbook. Oh dear, you got it wrong. We gave this, we got this much for it. We don't have that. It's premeditated deception It's interesting when you look in the Old Testament, some of the Old Testament laws about what are the penalties for certain crimes, there's a difference between Intentional crimes and unintentional accidental crimes. You could be penalized for some unintentional accidental ones, but the penalty was less because it wasn't done on purpose. It reminds me of a woman once who I in an office I worked in about 25 years ago. Young lady, she was a Product of her time, and she'd mis she'd get something wrong in what she said. She said, Oh, I'm sorry I lied. She didn't mean she lied. She meant she got it wrong I'm thinking, miss, no, lying is really a bunch of lying's a bad thing and it's you know what's true and you on purpose say the wrong thing. But but here they they knew what was right. They knew you know this is not pious pretense. I mean this is a pious pretense. This is a religious sham. It is Christian fraud. Pretending to give you know everything you got from it. I've sacrificed it all, gave that whole property, and you got the whole thing. And what does God think of this is spiritual deception? What does God think of this This is a serious issue for the church. Ananias and Sapphira appeared to be Christians. And looking over commentators of the last few centuries, there's people who argue both ways. I mean, we're not told that they were damned to everlasting damnation. We're not told that they went to hell when they died. We just know they they suffered a punishment at that moment in front of the whole church. You know, some people think they're wicked imposters, but you know, we are susceptible to their sin, a spiritual error to which believers still fall. Their punishment, to use a Puritan writer's words, was a sanctifying discipline. It's separating out from the body something that was unclean in the body And God was giving basically as a giant object lesson for God's church, just like what happened with Achan from the Old Testament, which of course is why I chose it. It's an object lesson for God's people. This is how important I take it. Some people here might remember that, I think it's in the book of Numbers. There's an example given for about worship. And Aaron's two children, Nadab and Abihu, his two sons, offered up strange fire before the Lord. Lord. We don't know what they did wrong. We just know it was not it was something that was not what God had called for. And they were struck down dead. It was an object lesson for God's people. I treat worship seriously and I expect you to too. I've told you how I want it done. You're not free to do it differently. So likewise here, lying is lying. And God's like, no, I will not put up with that in my church. And It's interesting one 20th century pastor Donald Barnhouse on the basis of this text said he would never let his congregation sing the third stand of a hymn called At Cavalry. Because the stanza says, Now I have given to Jesus everything, now I gladly own him as my king. And Barnhouse said, You see, if God acted in the same way today that he did in the fifth chapter of Acts You'd have to have a morgue in the basement of every church and a mortician on the pastoral staff because we'd be struck dead again and again and again. I mean, I thought of choosing a hymn for today's I Surrender All, or All for Jesus. But we've got to catch ourselves: do we really mean that? Is it our desire? Good. It may be our desire. But let's not fool ourselves about how well we're doing with surrendering all and giving all to Jesus. That's what we always need to be reminded of, isn't this? Because none of us truly gives everything to Jesus all the time. Reminds me of a young fellow I once saw at a church where I was serving, and he. He was the husband of of a woman whose parents went to the church and there and he was saying and he he casually commented about how he kept all the Ten Commandments I I just I I just sort of I felt almost like a chill. I'm going, you should love the Lord God with all your heart, your soul, your mind, your strength. You know, have no idols. We have idols of all sorts of things. We put things before God all the time. I'm not trying to give us an excuse, but don't boast of your holiness. So why did Ananias and Sapphira do what they did? New Christians? It I mean what the way they acted w was in keeping with regular sinful people. Um maybe they wanted to be on the inside. I they wanted the praise of men. Um You know, at the words they're making a crass attempt to rise up, you know, in the church or something, but you know, we don't know what kind of well all their intentions. But they had just seen Barnabas be generous And presumably you saw people offering thanks and praise to Barnabas. I mean what they probably was partly what they heard was giving praise to God for what Barnabas did, but they're thinking we'll get the praise if we do it And so what they do is they lied. Um you know, if they were new Christians, if they actually were Christians, we don't know. The habits of the old life are hard to let go of. Misrepresenting. I mean that's lying. If you sold it for 100 and you say and you and you give 80 and you say, I'm giving all the proceeds that sale to that, close is no cigar. You lied And so they overestim you know you know they just they thought it didn't make any difference. They didn't need to be truthful with God. So that's their sin. Well how is it punished? Well, look at the scene. Ananias has just put the gift down in front of Peter. A little bit of a conversation with Peter. And he puts it down, he lays it at the feet. And verse three and four, Peter doesn't say, Thank you so much. He says, Why is Satan Filled your heart delight of the Holy Spirit and keep part of the price of the land. Can you imagine what Ananias is thinking and feeling then? Scared to pieces. How do you know? You know, Peter explains that he did not have to give anything. But in pretending to give everything, he was now instead of being filled with the Spirit under Satan's control And people are listening. We're not told this is some one-on-one interview. Presumably they're this in front of the body of the of God's people. They hear it, they see it. God is doing this in front of his people. So in lying to the church, Ananias is lied to the Holy Spirit and thus to God. I remember years ago when I would discipline our daughters, who were now 28 and 25. five. But when they were very little, I remember one time you know giving my uh older daughter some spanks, three, four, five spanks on the on the backside. And I remember she I would say, Hannah, what did you do? And she would say, I did such you know, I did I I did such and such. I said, What was wrong with that? You had told me not to. What difference does that make? Oh do this back and forth with her. What difference does that make? I'm supposed to obey you. Where does it say that? The Bible. What difference does that make? Well, that's from God. Right. You finally made the connection You disobeyed God. I mean I was trying to make help her see there's always a chain, but the only reason I'm trying to direct her in things is because I'm under God and God has told me that, you know To guide her and direct her and lead her and that sort of thing. The same thing here for them. You lied to God. All of life lived is under God's eye You know, like the old the little be careful little eyes what you see. The father up above is looking down in love. Be careful little ears what you hear. Well, we live as God's people, and unbelievers live not as God's people. 24-7. We don't have off time. We're not free to be sinners and lie and do all sorts of things and then come back in. And the time we c we call ourselves Christians is the only time that counts. It's always. We're always supposed to be honest. And every time we're not dishonest, we're always accountable to God for it. 5 and 6, Ananias dies. The young men take him out. Breathe his last. Breathe his last. Or just died. And it just it's used in the book of Acts to describe sudden, terrible, judicial death. And we have these young men of the fellowship. Imagine the deacons coming in or something. It's not normally one of the deacons' tasks, but you can imagine this. They take his body away. And his sin was not casual deception. He's fa he he pretended to have a deeper commitment than he had. And we share Ananias' sin not when others think others think that we're more spiritual than when we are, but when we try to make others think That we are more spiritual than we are. We are more holy than we are. When we lie about who we are. We lie to God, we lie to others And you know when a preacher urges his people to deeper devotion to God, implying that his life is an example, when in fact it's not. He is repeating Ananias' lie as well. And when an evangelist calls people to holy living, but he's secretly having an affair, he is an Ananias, committing multiple sins, obviously, there. And that that gives us a lot to think about if we dare. See, there's a much better way that was open to Ananias. He didn't have to sin. When Peter asked him about this, you know, he could have fessed up. I mean, you know, he could have said, Peter, friends, Sapphire and I were going to get out give everything, but we've decided to keep some for our needs. We wanted to do the same as as Barnabas did, but we just didn't feel we could give all all all of that at this time. And if they'd been honest, there's no reason to think that this kind the judgment would have fallen You know, as the Lord said to uh to Cain before he killed his brother, sin is crouching at the door, but you can master it. In other words, you don't have to give in to sin. You don't have to let your anger take over you. You don't have to let your desire for what you think is prestige take over, and you think that you're going to be okay by lying. No Follow me. Obey me. I am a God of truth. I want you to speak truth. You must speak truth. Always. Spiritual deception is wicked to God. When we lie to believers, we're not just simply lying to them, but to the Lord. And so Ananias is cold in the grave. When Sathara shows up, boom, his wife shows up, she drops. And the thing is, here we go through, here we get further depth, and it's like, here you have Peter confirm me. Tell me whether you sold the land for such and such a price. Well, this conversation is not here Earlier, because obviously there's some there must have been some reference to the price and things like this earlier. But here you have Peter double checking, and yes, she's in the same deceit. She's not going to be honest, unlike her husband. And you know and she she drops dead too. Like a heart attack or stroke just drops Can you imagine the effect on the church with this kind of judgment upon them? Presumably they had some friends in the church We don't know what children they had. Could have been married to the somebody else in the church. Like you see, you know, all these things. You know, now these people are dead And they're dead, obviously, by God's hand. I mean, obviously, if you think about it, all that happens is at God's hand, but still, they're dead at God's hand. And Luke says, verse 11. There's great fear came into the church. I think of the modern expression, you think? I'd say. Yeah You know. Just like the people of Israel and when they're hearing the noise from the mountain, it's like, uh Moses, you go up by yourself, will you? You know. Same thing here. It's like they're just, you know, scared almost scared, scared what to say. And, you know, we have to make sure that we don't take God's holiness and God's judgment lightly. When he tells us in 1 John chapter 1, verses 5 and 8, we cannot say we have any no sin, you know, we make God out a lie, or truth is not in in us. He's faithful to confess, you know, forgive us our sins as we confess them. Don't toy with him and don't play with him. Well he'll keep as I keep on going back, he'll keep forgiving me. Because there's some people who thought they were believers who as time went by became more and more hardened to their sin and it became more and more obvious to others that they had never really known the Lord. Because they kept thinking that I'll just keep going back And just get you know f freak get out of jail pass kind of thing. God wants if you are his, if you are someone who is truly following Jesus Christ now You will sin, but your sin should hurt you more and more. It should pain you more and more Soon after doing so, or in the in the hours and days that follow, you should feel badly about it. You should want more and more to follow. You should desire more and more the things of God if you are his. Because if those things are not true about you, then you need to seek him out with fear and trembling. truly care because you should want to turn away from your sin. You should want to not lie as often as you do. You should want to not lust as often as you do. You should want to not covet and envy. And have other things more important than God, then you do. If you're a Christian, God is conforming you to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. So you should be moving away from ungodly desires You should be moving away from lying as we see here. They didn't. They didn't. But if we're his, we should be moving more and way more away from this. And as we see it, and if we look and look into our own lives, we'll see that we lie to ourselves about things. We'll say that we shaded the truth, which is a different version of a lie. We misrepresented something. Well that's a lie. What there's no white lies, you know, this is silly. If it's untrue, it's untrue. So we see that all the time. But if we're his, we should not want to do that. I'm not saying we'll never do it, but you know, it should it should it should get Yes. That should hurt us. So they're punished. Well, why this punishment? Why is God so why was God so severe then? We don't see this happening all the time now. I don't think that people have stopped lying in the church. We don't hear stories of people dropping like rocks all over throughout church history. So but why was it done then? Because you know it's part of understanding the text. Well it did happen, so why did it happen then? Well, this is a pivotal time in church history. The beginning early church. The way that they attempted to reach their goal line. was dramatically opposed to the whole thrust of the gospel, that for God to allow that kind of behavior to go unchallenged, just like Paul is challenging things in the church in Corinth. You know, they're they're men sleeping with their with their mothers or something like that, that kind of thing. I mean we've got to stop this. This is not who this is not who God's people are. Likewise, lying in the chur lying in the church You know, it would have set the whole mission for the church off course. Similar thing happened in the case of Achan. God's people had just gotten to the promised land. I mean, I I I felt like I should have, at some point earlier in the passage, interrupted myself and say what was he kept on talking about being under the ban. And if you don't know the term, it's sort of like talking about taking things under the ban. Things that were under the ban are things that God said, don't take those things. And anything he said, don't take those things, those things are things that are under the ban. That's what the phrase means. Things that you are banned from taking, basically. So if it's under the ban, it's like it's on the list of things of not to take. And he said took them. He disobeyed God. He's better, I I you're not supposed to take anything that belongs to these unbelievers. And because this is a destruction that is caused by spiritual pretense and is poisoned to the life of the church throughout history. Hypocrites. Christians being hypocrites. It's like, well, yeah, we're a church full of sinners. So of course, in one sense, we are hypocrites But hypocrite is a secular cliche for a churchgoer, rightly so if we countenance this kind of lying. Rightly so. And you know, you know, we also know this kind of spiritual pretense can poison our relationships inside the church. Ephesians 4. 25 says it perfectly. The Apostle Paul says, therefore, laying aside falsehood, speak truth. He's sort of saying He he's saying twice what he doesn't you know, laying aside falsehood will obviously that means speak truth. It's the whole thing about repentance. It's like aiming toward sin And it you it's like a dial going all the way from over there to this way, pointing in the other direction. The opposite thing of of of um falsehood is truth. Each one of you with his neighbor Because we're members of one another, talking about life in the body. And the consequences of deception are so great, and it comes to us so naturally, because we are deceivers by nature. We're deceivers by nature. I mean Adam and Eve, hiding from God in the garden. It's his creation. I mean it's really pretty ridiculous. He made creation, he made them, and they're going to hide from him? I mean it's really pretty ridiculous But here they are trying to hide from him because they're trying to deny, they're trying to lie about what happened. We we we disobeyed you. Satan, how is he described? He's the accuser, but he's also the liar, the deceiver. A deceiver is one who lies. And he brought about our fall by making us believe his lies, disbelieving God. Like you can't trust God. As if God would not tell you the truth. And we naturally alter the facts. I mean you can hear the cliche of a man catching a three and a half pound uh fish quickly becomes four. Maybe it's five or six pounds You're just trying to impress people. You know, you know have you ever been talking freely and enthusiastically and suddenly realize that you're exaggerating? It's easy to And it's basically true, but you know, the deception can be addictive. But the grace of God can change us from this. We can force ourselves and catch ourselves to not lie about things. And you know, there was a wonderful anecdote that I ran across from an Englishman. I don't think he was a I don't know that he was a Christian But he was a writer named Samuel Johnson almost 300 years ago. And he has this wonderful piece of advice, and he says, accustom your children constantly to this, the telling of the truth. If a thing happened at one window, and they when relating it say it happened at another window, Don't let that pass. But instantly check them. You don't know where deviation from truth will end. It's more from carelessness about truth than from intentional lying that there's so much falsehood in the world. It's more from carelessness about truth, as if it doesn't matter. And there's so much falsehood in the world. You know, and here we are, we're people who are deceivers by nature. I was joking with a friend of mine recently. When I was in college age, I went through a really horrible, lousy time of heavy drinking for a number of years during the time period of college. I actually flunked out of college and had to go back years later and finish. And I remember when I was had that bad drinking problem. Um I actually, one of the problems is if you're in that kind of circumstance and situation, you have to figure out what story you told to who. Because you're always messing up things and getting into one jackpot or another. And it's like, well what's my s you're trying to keep your lies straight. Told this guy this told us guys, and you you start tripping yourself up. That's sort of thing. We're deceivers by nature. I mean it's nice to be able to actually not have a foggy memory so I can somewhat remember what actually did happen. But, you know, we we're deceivers by nature. We live in a world where people are pretending like what is actually true doesn't make any difference. Or they'll say that's true for you and not for me. And so you're trying to talk about objective reality and you know you're wondering what kind of world they're talking about where they can say that reality is different for them than you. And that kind of thing. And God tells us in the most dramatic way that it should not be so. No, I want you to tell the truth. Now we we we need to be loving and kind and compassionate and gracious. We can bluntly in our own mind tells think to ourselves, I think your hair is ugly. Or that dress is is just Horrible to look at. Well, there's no reason to volunteer that your that thought. The fact that you honestly think it doesn't mean you need And if the person asks you something about it, you can say something that's still true, but very very much, you know, different different words and things like that. But our our pattern should be just truth, simply truth. And laying aside falsehoods, speak truth, as Paul says. And as you pro you know The body can only enjoy health and function correctly when each part passes the truth to the brain. It's like one of those interesting things I remember reading years ago. was the problem with something like leprosy wasn't that it made things limbs fall off or people go blind. The issue was your nerve endings no longer worked. And you no longer feel the nerves at the end of the toes or the end of the fingers, or you didn't blink, blink. And that's what it was the loss of feeling and sensation that causes the loss of limbs Not something else. So information, truth, about the fact that you just stuck your toe on something and you now have a gangrenous infection. That fact was not getting to the brain. Likewise, we need to be honest with ourselves. We need to be honest with others. You know, Prophet Isaiah says, Woe to those who call evil good and good evil. We have to know what God w what is true, and then follow what God has told us what is true, and then speak it to each other. And so Peter confronts Ananias and Sapphirais about their heart deception, and their story is a confront is a call to confront ourselves. I mean, when we were saved, we had to be confronted by the fact that we are sinners before holy God. All men and women on this earth are all creatures of God. And we all sin. We all fall short of the glory of God. And as we're confronted by God, the time we're born again, if we are, we see our sin. And we see who he is, and we will and if we're his, he's given his eyes to see the truth of his word. We hear his voice when it's read. And we now know what he tells us is true. We know it's true. And so we want to follow. And he is one who has shined the light upon our upon ourselves. We now know the truth about ourselves, that ultimate truth. We are sinners before a holy God. But another truth is more wondrous and is so undeserving. He has chosen to forgive us our sins. Which he did not have to. I don't earn my forgiveness of sins. I don't merit it. It is undeserved. And he chose to forgive me my sins. And that's all because he showed me myself. And he showed me him him he showed me him. And so because of that truth, I can come to God. And so as we as we look at this, we have to look at ourselves and think: are we honest and true with ourselves? Are we honest and true with others? I mean, do we practice spiritual deceit? Do we fool ourselves about where we are with the Lord? Do we know that we're far behind where we need to be in spending time with him in his word? In reading his word. If we're not sure about a particular thing, whether it's sinful or not, talking to a brother or sister in Christ. Can you help me understand from God's Word how I should live, what I should do? I want to follow him. I don't want to to to God to be sad with me or upset with me for this or that. Help me understand. I want to follow. Because he is trying to make us holy. He is making us holy. And we must help each other become and then remain honest and obedient to God. Luke ends by saying that great fear comes over the whole church, over all who heard these things. God's teaching his people to fear him, and the fear is the beginning of wisdom, isn't it? We've heard that from the book of Proverbs. If anyone objects that God's execution, summary execution of Ananias and Sapphira is in out of proportion to their sin, He should remember that everyone who dies in his sins without a personal saving knowledge of Christ dies the same death as this couple The drama of sudden judgment ought not to obscure the fearful reality of death without Christ. I I so when I hear about somebody I know, I just you know who has family who've died and stuff and I want to say, were they a believer? I'm sad for your loss. I know it hurts like the Dickens. to put it mildly. But did they know the Lord? That's that's the that's the destiny of every man for for e each of us wants to die and then comes the judgment Where have they gone? Because there are there are two places to which we go. We all go to one or the other. None of us deserve to go to one of them. But some of us too. So where are where are we with the Lord? And you know for Christians It's not it's not just simply a message of fear. If Ananias and Sapphira warn us, Barnabas is the model for our lives. And after this judgment from God, the people begin to honestly assess what God wanted of them and where they were in their lives. What's the result? Verses 12 to 16? You'd almost think it was a whole different chapter. Many signs and wonders taking place. Wonderful things happening. The church is growing. Multitudes being added, constantly added to their number. Sick. They want Peter's shadow to fall on people. I mean in those days God was just having all sorts of signs and wonders to say, these are my people. They'll tell you about my son. Listen to them. And that's the that's what's happening here. And so when the church is great, great unity, great grace, great power, and great care, it is perpetuated by great honesty And we have to keep our our sp spiritual life in alignment with that. And three practical steps that I'll close with. First, take an honest look at our lives concerning deceased. Dishonesty. We're first dishonest with ourselves. Or you're fooling yourself. I'm okay. God doesn't really expect me to look at the Bible I don't need to read it. Hey, if I pray on Sunday morning, isn't that enough? No. He wants more Where you are with the Lord is between you and the Lord, but we know what He's calling us to here. A hunger and a thirst for holiness and righteousness is not is not in a person who never wants to read the word, never wants to pray. You're fooling yourself. You're you're lying to yourself if you think that's true I mean, are we and we are we truthful people? Do we exaggerate? Do we misrepresent? Um do we try to make ourselves something we're not? And you know, to acquire objectivity would be helpful to seek the perspective of someone else, a loving brother or sister in Christ, a spouse, or a good friend. You know, do you see any do you see any lying in me? Do you see any deceit in me? I mean, if we're seeking God's holiness and righteousness, which he says we should be seeking I'm not just saying that as some kind of added extra for top-level Christians. We're all supposed to be seeking holiness and righteousness. All of us. So as we do that, we want to be seeking to be more honest. And we're not going to be able to see ourselves as well as sometimes someone else can. So one-on-one privately, talk with someone else, ask them, please help me with with this. Second, lay the results before the Lord. There's one-on-one, you and the Lord, in prayer. But lay the results before the Lord. I mean the Psalm 32 puts it wonderfully. The psalmist says, I acknowledged my sin to you and my iniquity, or my sin I did not hide. I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. And what does he say? You forgave the guilt of my sin. Repent of all sin, relying on His grace. If you confess your sins, he'll forgive them. And among those sins are lying. Lying to yourself. Self-deception. Ask him to remove habits of deception so the truth becomes the habit. I mean how does something become a a habit? By doing it again and again. And you have to do that intentional practice. Third, covenant that with his help, you will consciously refrain from lying in all forms. And there are times and places here and there you're hiding something from one person or another. Don't lie about it Don't lie about it. You have to get out of the habit of lying to get out of the habit of lying. And the way to do that is to stop doing it Let us speak the truth in love to God and to each other. Because then Chris others will then be attracted to us. You know Come to know Christ by God's grace. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your love to us in Christ. O Father, we are sinners. We sh we show ourselves daily how we are sinners. But, Father, we pray that we should be like the Apostle Paul, who, although the longer he was saved, the more of a sinner he thought he was. It was only because he was growing in holiness that the contrast between what he knew you called him to and the sin that remained seemed so sharp for him. But he was indeed growing closer to you O Father, we pray that you would bless us with the desire to turn away from lying and deceit, misrepresentation and exaggeration. And to be truthful one with the other. Then we might be able to tell your truth to others around us. We thank you for your love to us in Jesus. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.