If you turn your copies of God's Word now to the Psalms, this morning we'll be in Psalm 9. I believe that's on page 531 of your Pew Bibles. We'll take a break this morning from Matthew's gospel. To consider this Psalm nine. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. To the choir master, according to the Muth Laban, a psalm of David I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart. I will recount all your wonderful deeds. I will be glad and exalt, and you I will sing praise to your name. almost high. When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence. For you have maintained my just cause You have sat on the throne giving righteous judgment. You have rebuked the nations. You have made the wicked perish. You have blotted out their name forever and ever. The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins. Their cities you rooted out. The very memory of them has perished. The Lord, but the Lord sits enthroned forever. He has established his throne for justice, and he judges the world with righteousness, he judges the peoples with uprightness. The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. And those who know your name put their trust in you. For you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. Sing praises to the Lord who sits enthroned in Zion. Tell among the peoples his deeds, for he who avenges blood is mindful of them. He does not forget the cry of the afflicted Be gracious to me, O Lord. See my affliction from those who hate me. O you who lift me up from the gates of death. that I may recount all your praises, that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation. The nations have sunk in the pit that they made. And the net that they hid, their own foot has been caught. The Lord has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. The wicked shall return from Sheol all the nations that forget God. For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever. Arise, O Lord, let not man prevail. Let the nations be judged before you. Put them in fear, O Lord. Let the nations know that they are but men. Oh man, praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we ask now that by your Spirit you would not only open our hearts And give us understanding. Father, we pray. Convict us. Convict us of sin. And yet at the same time remind us of Christ. Remind us that He's on the throne. Remind us that He has secured the victory. Remind us that in Christ we are more than conquerors. Guide us now, we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you confident this morning? Confident of victory. Those that passed by Jesus Christ on the cross, as they were watching him die, The chief priests, the scribes, the elders who were mocking him, saying, He saved others. He cannot save himself. Let him come down now from the cross and we will believe in him. They thought they had won. They considered that they had secured the victory. The trap that they laid for Jesus had worked from their perspective, and they were confident that as he hung on the cross that he was never coming down. They were confident of victory. In a sense that brings us to our text this morning, Psalm nine. We don't know much about when this psalm was penned by David. We do know that he wrote it. We do know that he wrote it to the choirmaster, obviously to be sung, according to Muth Laban. Now, I believe that that word is uh is used only once here in the scriptures. I could be wrong The New King James translates this word, this Hebrew word, or meaning, as it's sent to the chief musician, is to the tune of death of the sun. Not quite sure what the Hebrew means there, but at least that's what the translators of the New King James concluded. We can say that David seems to be under attack in this psalm. He's cognizant. He's aware. Obviously, he's aware of the wicked. You have rebuked the nations. you have made the wicked perish. Trouble is actually the backdrop to the psalm. The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. And there's a plea for help as he admits that he's been afflicted. Be gracious to me, O Lord, see my affliction from those who Hate me, again, a reference to the wicked, a plea for help. Yet, in this time of trouble There is the promise, the duty, and the commitment to praise God. It starts that way. I will give thanks, I will recount, I will be glad and exalt, I will sing praise to your name. And there's a call to praise. He not only he not only obligates himself to praise There's a call to praise. Sing praises to the Lord who sits enthroned in Zion. Tell among the peoples his deeds. There's the anticipation of praise. Verse 14, that I may recount all your praises in the gates of the daughter of Zion, that I may rejoice in your salvation. And this is alongside the recognition that the wicked will not win. The Lord has made himself known, he has executed judgment, the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. And that through God's work Through the work of the Lord, through the lifting up of the oppressed and the destruction of the wicked, the Lord has made himself known. That seems to be the centerpiece of the Psalm, verse sixteen. The Lord has made himself known. He's executed judgment The psalm is full. We might sum it up this way. The Lord Jesus Christ supplies confidence to worshipers. as he makes himself known through his kingly rule. The Lord Jesus Christ supplies confidence to worshipers as he makes himself known through his kingly rule. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, the Lord emboldens worship. Secondly the Lord rules forever. And then finally, the Lord makes himself known. As we're going through this psalm, I'd like you to be asking that question once again, am I confident? Am I confident of victory? Well, first the Lord emboldens worship. As we've already said and noted that the situation for this Psalm, even though we don't know the exact circumstances was that David was seemingly under attack. He's writing, if he's writing about his own experience, and he may not be, he's writing about one under attack. And that may be why the New King James Version translates that beginning or that title as to the tune of the death of the Son. We know that generally David is writing about those who are oppressed. The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed And in particular, he's writing about his own affliction or about the affliction of Jesus Christ. Be gracious to me, O Lord, see my affliction from those who hate me. And then there's that concern. Arise, O Lord, let not man prevail. There's oppression, there's trouble, there's affliction, there's concern that man, that wickedness, that evil is poised, it's positioned to prevail. And yet, there's praise. As we've already noted, David begins with the four I wills. I will give thanks. I will recount or tell of your wonderful deeds. I will be glad and exalt in you. I will sing praise to your name. How is that? Or why is this praise here at the beginning of the Psalm? Well consider what follows. Six times David used verbs of action, all ascribed to the Lord. You have Look at verse four. You have maintained my just cause. You have sat on the throne. Verse five: You have rebuked the nations You have made the wicked perish. You have blotted out their name forever and ever. And then in verse 6, the enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins their cities. You rooted out. The very memory of them has perished. Consider that David puts all of these in the past tense. You have maintained my just cause. He puts it as being done. It's complete. The oppression that he was experiencing, if this is about David, didn't last. The affliction was seen and was noted by God and man did not prevail. The Lord did not leave his servant in trouble. Yes, trouble had arisen. Yes, the wicked had been attacking and assaulting, but the Lord acted past tents. Look at verse 5. You've rebuked the nations. You've made the wicked perish. Think of Psalm 2. Why do the nations rage? The kings of the earth set themselves, and rulers take counsel together against the Lord. He's rebuked them. What does that mean? Rebuking can be done in anger, and it seems as though it was in this case. But rebuking can also be connected to command and change. He rebuked the Red Sea and it became dry. That word rebuke is To reprehend for some fault. It's to check or restrain. It's to chasten, it's to punish. That seems to be exactly that which the Lord was doing with regard to the wicked. He rebuked. He checked, he restrained, he chastened, he punished the wicked. It's as if it had already been done. The wicked were made to perish. Or as the New American Standard has it, you've destroyed the wicked. Not you will destroy the wicked. Not at some point in time and some days in the future as I'm looking down the halls of time, you're going to dash and decimate those who plan and plot evil against you and against your people. No David knows from his perspective, even as he writes, the wicked have already been destroyed. The Lord has crushed their evil and wicked assaults and the plans for future attacks. That's David's understanding. His inspired perspective. That's his confidence. That's his boldness. And this is how and why he begins the psalm. I will give thanks. I will recount your wonderful deeds. I'll be glad. And exalting you, I'll sing your praise, O Most High. You see, he's emboldened to worship because he is considering the wonderful deeds of the Lord and subduing his enemies. Which he perceives as being complete. And that encourages and emboldens David into a worshipful stance. a worshipful posture as he begins the psalm. Remember, this was to be sung. This was to be used in worship. Is that how Jesus was able to go to the cross? Did you ever think of that? The cross, which ultimately was a profound act of worship. Isn't this how Jesus was able to suffer through the cross? As he considered and dwelt upon the wonderful deeds already accomplished by his father. Isn't that how Jesus could hang on the cross suffering the pain and agony of the crucifixion and the eternal wrath of his father being poured out upon him, and yet at the same time plead with God to forgive, for they know not what they do. Isn't this how Jesus could be so concerned about his mother? That she would have someone to protect and provide for her when he died, such that he gives to John the Apostle Mary, his mother. Isn't that how Jesus could say to the thief on the cross, hanging next to him, dying next to him, today you'll be with me in paradise Because he had unwavering confidence in the covenantal works of the living God. You see, it seems as though it was because Jesus was confident that his father was destroying the wicked, the plans of the wicked, even as he hung on the cross. Such that there would be a tomorrow, such that there would be an ascension, such that there would be a return on clouds with angels in glory, that there was in fact paradise. Even as Jesus buying to his own death was in fact destroying the wicked. Do you see simultaneously he's glorifying his father and destroying the wicked? These two things go together. Do you see that? Father, the hour has come. Glorify your son that the Son may glorify you. Seems to me that that's how Jesus was able to suffer and yet at the same time glorify his Father, believing and knowing that through his death evil, sin, wickedness was in fact being destroyed. He was being decimated, thereby making a way for worship, as the veil was also at the very same time being split, being torn in two By his death. You see the Lord makes a way for worship, doesn't he? Even in the midst of affliction and persecution the living God, the only divine one, the creator of the universe, the one who created all people, all human beings, including you. For the purpose of worship, makes a way for his worship. He always will. The only question is, will you take advantage of all that he provides, all the encouragement he gives to embolden you to worship? Even to sing this psalm in praise. Do you have that same boldness that David had? The confidence of the Son was the confidence that Jesus clearly had on the cross Indeed, I believe this psalm is written about the confidence, the embolding, embolding meant of Jesus Christ. There was never not one day, not one hour, that Jesus doubted the ability and the promise of his Father to destroy wickedness and sin. And so through the cross, he praised and glorified his father. That brings us to our second point. The Lord rules forever. We should be asking at this point how How is it that this confidence, this emboldening, this spurring on to worship happens? How is it that the victory of the Lord was considered by David as being complete at this point? This seems to be the root, the foundation of David's praise, his worshipful words, the belief that the victory was already won. How did David understand This victory and how how had the Lord actually secured that victory which we read about? Consider verse seven. The Lord sits enthroned forever. He has established his throne for justice. And that's followed up by verses 8 and 9. He judges the world with righteousness. He judges the peoples with uprightness. He's a stronghold for the oppressed. Seems to be the answer of how. How is it that the Lord secured his victory over the wicked? by and through his possession, his ownership, indeed his creation of the throne of righteousness. Well that brings us to even consider and remember that there's only one eternal kingdom. Recall the dream set forth in Daniel's prophecy as the king has that dream. of this image, this mighty image of brightness. The head was an image of fine gold, the chest. of silver, middle and thighs of bronze, legs of iron, feet partly of iron and partly of clay. And then a stone, cut out of the mountain, by no human hand, struck the image and broke the whole thing in pieces. Everything other than the stone becoming like chaff on the summer threshing floors, the wind blowing them away. Everything else broken in pieces, this image gone And Daniel interprets the dream saying, well, the God of heaven is going to set up his kingdom that will never be destroyed, and his kingdom will break in pieces All the kingdoms that existed on earth. But God's kingdom shall stand forever. So Daniel is telling us so very clearly there's only one eternal kingdom. Only one kingdom will survive all others Jesus speaks of that very same kingdom as he gives his disciples the parables. And so this battle set forth even in this Psalm 9 This battle is for the throne of that eternal kingdom. It speaks of that battle. Indeed, the battle is centered upon the throne. Who will be king? Who will govern? Who will be sovereign over the eternal kingdom, the single kingdom that will exist forever? It's the throne that Eve sought to occupy in the garden as she disobeyed God. It's the temptation that Satan used to draw Eve into her sin. You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be Like God. You'll be able to sit on his throne. It's the throne that Satan desires to have for himself. If he could get rid of Adam and Eve, then he could take the throne. It's the kingdom that Satan knows is coming, and he's seeking to grab and grasp that throne. He's currently the prince of this world, the ruler of this world The Prince of the Power of the Air and believes that he can sit on God's throne. But that's not possible, is it? Because God's throne is a throne of righteousness. And Satan can never ascend to the throne of righteousness because he's the embodiment, the originator of unrighteousness. Satan will never be able to convert the throne of righteousness to the seed of unrighteousness first because the living God, as we have seen, he's destroying Satan's throne of unrighteousness. But more significantly, this eternal throne belongs to and possessed and is possessed solely by the one who defines righteousness. Even Jesus Christ. No one else has the right, has the privilege, has the ability to occupy or sit on this throne. No one understands, no one grasps righteousness the way Jesus does. His throne has been established in and for justice. He's the king of justice and he rules even today in righteousness and thus in justice. In this world, where Satan rules, there will never be perfect justice, not for the oppressed, not for the afflicted, not for the followers of Jesus. So now you should be able to see the basis for the praise of the psalmist. The victory is certainly secure. But he can write and rejoices in the fact that God has provided a king for his throne. And to him was given dominion and glory and kingdom, and that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. His kingdom is one shall not be destroyed. Yes, as for me, I've set my king on Zion, my holy hill. Jesus is enthroned in his own righteousness and thus is consistently and constantly pursuing justice, ultimate justice for the oppressed and the afflicted. And so David praises. He recounts the deeds of the past wondrous works of the triune God because the throne of righteousness is occupied by the one who will never leave it. Jesus Christ. Are you rejoicing over that today? Even as you suffer affliction as a result of being a follower of Jesus Christ, can you and do you rejoice in the fact that He sits on the throne? Is that your mindset? Is that your heart's attitude? One of complete confidence in the rule of Jesus Christ. So much so that you should be able to live in your afflictions with the mindset, the heart attitude, that justice, that the righteousness of Jesus, the pure justice of Jesus Christ, always prevails. Even as you're being attacked because of your faith in Jesus Christ, even as you suffer persecution, you should be able to, like the disciples, the apostles who were persecuted for proclaiming the good news, Rejoice in your suffering because Jesus is using it as he rules. And so the victory is secure because Jesus sits on the throne. He's been victorious as we think about the resurrection. Indeed, every single Sunday as we celebrate the resurrection, we're thinking of the victory of Jesus Christ and his seat upon the throne. And as he sits on the throne, he's projecting his victory, isn't he? From his throne, from his throne room. You see, the darts and arrows of Satan, Satan himself, sin, and finally death, which results from sin, has each one been conquered. And his throne projects that, his throne proclaims that. Such that Paul can write in Christ, you are more than conquerors. And so that's how you can, even today, as you're suffering in this world of sin and misery, praise God. For you know that Christ's victory has not only been secured, but is being proclaimed by Jesus as he sits today on his righteousness Throne of justice. Indeed, you can sing of it with joy and rejoicing. For you know that ultimately sin, Satan, and death have no hold upon you. And it's all because Jesus is on his throne And because he is, he will never release his grip and his grasp upon you His throne is eternal. And that's cause for praise this morning, just as David writes of praise. That brings us to our third point. The Lord makes himself known. Look at verse sixteen. The Lord has made himself known, he has executed judgment, the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands. This seems to be the centerpiece of the psalm. That the Lord has made himself known. And here the psalmist speaks very particularly about the judgment that he has, again the past tense, executed. You should be asking right now, what judgment is David speaking of? What's he referring to? And so we see here in the shadows of the Old Testament the judgment of the cross. And the judgment of the resurrection. Well, first, consider the cross. What happened on the cross? What happened on the cross at Calvary as Jesus was hanging, ultimately dying, wasn't that affliction? Isn't that not what the psalmist writes of? As he writes of affliction. Be gracious to me, O Lord, see my affliction from those who hate me. O you who lift me up from the gates of death. Is that not to be ascribed to the Lord Jesus Christ? So consider the cross. What happened on the cross? As Jesus was hanging and ultimately dying. You see on the cross, Satan, the wicked, the evil, and all those who wagged their heads at Jesus Christ. in rebellion, in unrepentant rebellion, believed that they had accomplished their will in putting to death the word of life, the bread of life, the pure righteousness of God in his Son. They believed that they had secured victory at that moment that Jesus gave up his spirit and breathed his last. They, in a sense, had set a trap, at least from their own minds, had set a trap for Jesus with Judas. The wicked had planned and purposed to to bring about the final and permanent downfall of Jesus through false and lying witnesses. They had set a snare Persuading the people to ask for the murderer, Barabbas, to be released in place of the innocent Jesus, the workers of evil persuaded Pilate To sentence the pure and innocent, righteous God man, the Lord Jesus, to death on the cursed cross. This was their purpose. This was their plan. This was the darkness within their wicked hearts. And yet, in righteousness, as the Lord continued to sit upon the throne, he turned their wicked plans into salvation for each and every one of his children. As Jesus gave up his spirit that day, and pursuant to the wicked plans of the evil workers, God the Father was working out his perfect providential plan decreed before the beginning of time. To use their wickedness, to save each of his precious children, as he poured out his wrath for their sins on his own son. Do you see the judgment there? The judgment that's spoken of by the psalmist? As God the Father was pouring out his eternal wrath on his Son for the sins of each and every child of God, each and every elect. Each and every one that he had chosen before the beginning of time, he was at the very same time not only thwarting their unrighteous Plans, but also fixing his judgment against those who had sent Jesus to the cross He was setting his judgment against those who would reject and who did reject and who would reject the Lord Jesus as Savior and King, even on the cross. The wicked were storing up for themselves an eternal suffering in the pit of destruction and damnation. Do you see? Because God was not saving them through the death and to the blood and to the broken body of Jesus. He was fixing his judgment upon them. This truth comes to light even more so as the tomb was empty on the third day, the resurrection. By the pleasure of God and through his receiving the righteous sacrifice of his Son, the Lord Jesus, he's raised to life from death, never to die again. The judgment against those who so hated Jesus Christ that they would send him to the darkness, the lifeless tomb was poured out upon them as he rose to life again. The snare that they had set was only a trap, an eternal trap for themselves. That's what the psalma speaks of in this passage. Please don't miss this great and eternal truth. The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins. Your cities you rooted out, the very memory of them has perished. It's a picture of judgment. The wicked, even the memory of the wicked is spoken of as being erased, as if God never made them or knew them. He's forgotten them. Each and every one who hated the Lord Jesus Christ, who called for him to come down from the cross. And if he did so, they would believe upon him. These are those whose memory has perished. Now you might be thinking, God knows everything and doesn't forget anything, and that would be true. And yet the psalmist writes here as if the triune God were human and could actually forget. But I think he also writes in this way to set up the contrast between the wicked and those whom they afflict. See, the Lord of heaven and earth will never forget the righteous. Think. As Jesus Christ, the righteous on the cross of Calvary, cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We have the impression that God the Father forgot Jesus Christ, and that's just not true. This psalm, this song, unequivocally tells us that God the Father does not forget his son and never will. And in all this, the Lord is making himself known through his wonderful works. To the fact that he doesn't forget you. You see, to be saved, you need to know God, don't you? That's what we read this morning. This is eternal life, that they know you. And the only way to know God is by His revealing Himself to you. And that's really the import of this psalm, isn't it? That God indeed has made himself known. Yes, through his judgment he's made himself known, but throughout this psalm This proclamation of the wondrous works of the Lord, He's making Himself known to you even this morning Know him as the God who listens and hears and will never forget. He who avenges blood is mindful of them. He does not forget the cry of the afflicted. Know him as the God of grace. Verse 13, be gracious to me, O Lord. See my affliction from those who hate me, O you who lift me up from the gates of death. Know him as the God of destruction, the God of creation, who puts the wicked in their place. When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence. Think of those who came to arrest Jesus Christ and they're asking for him and he tells them that I am the one whom you seek. What happens? They fall down before him You stumble and perish before your presence. God of creation puts the wicked in their place. You've made the wicked perish. You've blotted their name. out forever and ever. They came to an end in everlasting ruin. The living God destroys that which we've brought into our hearts, into this world, our sin. Know him as the one who destroys your sin. And then know him as the God of salvation. That I may, verse 14, that I may recount all your praises, that in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation. Salvation accomplished only by his eternally begotten Son, Lord Jesus Christ. You see, Lord is making himself known to you this morning. Are you knowing him? Are you receiving this psalm as a way to know your Heavenly Father? And more importantly, for you this morning, His Son. Your Savior. Oh, that we would mine this psalm. That we would dwell upon this psalm and see the riches of Jesus Christ in it. And know him. And know his father as Christ reveals him Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ supplies confidence to worshipers as he makes himself known through his kingly rule. The chief priests mocked Jesus Christ as he hung on the cross, thinking that they had achieved victory. But this psalm, this psalm proclaims, it shouts, it sings It sings of the victory already accomplished by Jesus for you this morning, if you're trusting in Him. Now praise God for His wondrous works by and through His Son, the Lord Jesus. Amen. Our Father and our God, what a joy this psalm is, what a reminder of what you have done in Christ. How you care for those who are afflicted and oppressed, who are in Christ, who are in your Son. And how you raise your son up as he cried out to you, not forgetting him. But raising him up on the third day. Oh, so glorified by his sacrificial, by his atoning. This atoning sacrifice on the cross at Calvary. Help us, Lord God. Give us that confidence we need in Christ. Embolden us in Christ. To bring you that worship, that praise, that honor, that glory that only you deserve. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.