If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Leviticus, tonight we're in chapter 27, the last chapter of this book. I believe you'll find that on page a hundred and twenty-five of your Pew Bibles. Leviticus twenty seven. Let's give attention to the holy word of God. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, if anyone makes a special vow to the Lord involving the valuation of persons Then the valuation of a male from 20 years old up to 60 years old shall be 50 shekels of silver according to the shekel of the sanctuary. If the person is a female, the valuation shall be 30 shekels. If the person is from 5 years old up to 20 years old, the valuation shall be for a male 20 shekels and for a female 10 shekels. If the person is from a month old up to five years old, the valuation shall be for a male five shekels of silver, and for a female, the valuation shall be three shekels of silver. And if the person is sixty years or older, And the valuation of a male shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female ten shekels. And if someone is too poor to pay the valuation, then he shall be made to stand before the priest, and the priest shall value him. The priest shall value him according to what the vower can afford. If the vow is an animal that may be offered as an offering to the Lord, all of it that he gives to the Lord is holy He shall not exchange it or make a substitute for it, good for bad, or bad for good. And if he does, in fact, substitute one animal for another, then both it and the substitute shall be holy And if it is any unclean animal that may not be offered as an offering to the Lord, then he shall stand the animal before the priest, and the priest shall value it as either good or bad. As the priest values it, so shall it be. But if he wishes to redeem it, he shall add a fifth to the valuation. When a man dedicates his house as a holy gift to the Lord, the priest shall value it, either good or bad As the priest values it, so it shall stand. And if the donor wishes to redeem his house, he shall add a fifth to the valuation price, and it shall be his If a man dedicates to the Lord part of the land that is in his possession, then the valuation shall be in proportion to its seed. A homer of barley seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver If he dedicates his field from the year of Jubilee, the valuation shall stand. But if he dedicates his field after the Jubilee, then the priest shall calculate the price according to the years that remain until the year of Jubilee, and a deduction shall be made from the valuation. And if he who dedicates the field wishes to redeem it, then he shall add a fifth to its valuation price, and it shall remain his. But If he does not wish to redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more. But the field, when it is released in the Jubilee, shall be a holy gift to the Lord, like a field that has been devoted The priest shall be in possession of it. If he dedicates to the Lord a field that he has bought, which is not part of his possession, then the priest shall calculate the amount of the valuation for it up to the year of Jubilee And the man shall give the valuation on that day as a holy gift to the Lord. In the year of Jubilee the field shall return to him from whom it was bought, to whom the land belongs as a possession. Every valuation shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary. Twenty Gerahs shall make a shekel. But a firstborn of animals, which as a firstborn belongs to the Lord, no man may dedicate, whether ox or sheep, it is the Lord's. And if it is an unclean animal, then he shall buy it back at the valuation and add a fifth to it. Or if it is not redeemed, then it shall be sold at the valuation. But no devoted thing that a man devotes to the Lord of anything that he has, whether man or beast, or of his inherited field, shall be sold or redeemed Every devoted thing is most holy to the Lord. No one devoted who is to be devoted for destruction from mankind shall be ransomed, he shall surely be put to death. Every tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or the fruit of the trees, is the Lord's, it is holy to the Lord. If a man wishes to redeem some of his tithe, he shall add a fifth to it, and every tithe of herds and flocks Every tenth animal of all that pass under the herdsman's staff shall be holy to the Lord. One shall not differentiate between good or bad. Neither shall he make a substitute for it. And if he does substitute for it, then both it and the substitute shall be holy. It shall not be redeemed. These are the commandments that the Lord commanded Moses for the people of Israel on Mount Sinai. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Will you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we come to a passage now which contains words that we have difficulty understanding, procedures, valuations, offerings, vows. Lord, help us. Guide us by your Spirit this evening, add your blessing to the reading of your word. And Father, illumine our hearts tonight. We so want to know more of you and more of Christ. Guide and direct us that that would be the case. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. How are you pursuing communion with God? It's an interesting question. One again that we probably don't think on much. How did Jacob pursue communion with God? If you remember the account in Genesis, Jacob was told by his father to go and find a wife. From the house of Laban. It was in a different place. He had to go a bit far away, and so he was sent away to do just that. And on his way Jacob has a dream. He has a vision. If you know the account, it's called Jacob's ladder. And as he wakes from his sleep, he says to himself, surely the Lord is in this place. And he says, How awesome is this place! And then Jacob makes a vow. He calls that place, Bethel, and he says, if God will be with me. And will keep me, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear, so that I come to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God. And I will give a full tenth to you. In a sense, Jacob was saying, Lord, if you commune with me, If you keep me, if you provide for me, then I will give you a tenth. Jacob desired communion, and he offered a vow. Voluntary vow to give back to the Lord That's exactly what we have this evening at this last chapter of Leviticus, chapter about vows. As we've traveled, in a sense, through Leviticus, we've seen that the Israelites had erected a tent, a tabernacle, at the end of Exodus, but couldn't enter into it. As we've gone through Leviticus, we've seen that Leviticus is the chapter that allows them access into the tabernacle, actually access to commune with God. The tabernacle, the tent of meeting was there, but they had no key to get in. And and so through Leviticus, we're seeing the keys that were given. to the Israelites to allow them to commune with God. And then we come to this last Chapter. We could see all of Leviticus as as being those keys given to the Israelites, and then we come to this chapter on vows. It's an interesting chapter, and we might be asking ourselves, why is this here? It's a good question to ask. Hopefully as we go through this passage tonight we'll have an answer at the end of the evening. I'd like us to see that the God of creation desires communion With all those who willingly give themselves over to serve His Son. The God of creation desires communion with all those who willingly give them over. To serve his son. We'll see that in two points tonight. I know your outlines might call for three, but we'll just limit it to two tonight. First, the desire for communion. And then secondly, the call to communion. As we go through this chapter tonight, I'd be asking you to think, to ask yourselves the question. Again, what am I doing to pursue communion with the living God? Well, the first head then. The desire for communion. What is it that God desires? Is it possible to come away from Leviticus and conclude that the Lord our God wants strict obedience? to his commands. And that's it. That God sits in heaven evaluating the way in which the priests would sacrifice the animals, the burnt offerings, the sin offerings, the guilt offerings, the peace offerings. But he's checking off boxes, overseeing, scrutinizing the way the tabernacle was constructed. Was it the correct size? Were the correct materials used? Was porpoise skin actually incorporated? How about the garments that the priests were to wear. Did Aaron actually wear the plate on his turban, on the front of his turban on Aaron's forehead, which said, holy to the Lord? Were the animals truly unblemished? Did people bring the right animals or the crane offering or the right oil to be offered? Was blood sprinkled in the right places? How did the Israelites camp around the tent of meeting? Did they proceed out of the camp in the order that he had proclaimed? Was leprosy identified and addressed as the way that he had commanded? Certainly. Some could finish the reading of Leviticus and consider that this is exactly what the Lord desired, this and no more. That may very well be the way the Pharisees read Leviticus. As their teachers instructed them. As they instructed and criticized and admonished and rebuked their students, the Pharisees apparently sought after a strict, unwavering law-keeping, more importantly, tradition-keeping. That was the goal. That's what Paul says in his letter to the church at Rome. Israel, who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness, did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they didn't pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works, keeping the law. For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness. Indeed, that was the Pharisees' boasts. Paul recounts how the Pharisees would boast He was a Hebrew of Hebrews as to the law, a Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless. That's the way they held themselves. This for the Pharisee was everything and the only thing. From their perspective, their corrupt perspective, the strict adherence to the ceremonial and civil law was God's design desire, his ultimate will. And now we come to chapter twenty-seven of Leviticus, which is all about vows. In Deuteronomy, we read about vows. If you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay fulfilling it. For the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and you will be guilty of sin. But if you refrain from bowing, you will not be guilty. Moses is saying that the vows were voluntary. Once you vowed, you had to keep it. But there was no requirement to vow. We read tonight from the Westminster Confession of Faith regarding vows. The first part was that it's like an oath, but not quite. It's to be performed. A vow involved an action. It was a promise made by anyone to dedicate and to give his own person or a portion of his property to the Lord. according to Kyle and Deletech, I can't really pronounce his name well. For averting some danger or distress, for bringing his possession to some desired earthly good. That's the idea. Kyle continues, making a vow, therefore, dedicating anything to the Lord by vowing was not commanded, but was presupposed as a manifestation of reverence for God. That's the idea. Again, Jacob's vow. If God will be with me and keep me in this way that I go, give me bread and clothing to wear. And allow me to come to my father's house in peace, then the Lord shall be my God. And all that you give me I will give a tenth. An obligation now, once committed to, but not obligatory God didn't command the Israelites to enter into or commit themselves to vows. They were wholly and completely voluntary. No one was required to make them. So why is this here? Why is chapter 27 here in Leviticus, amongst everything else, that wasn't voluntary? Amongst everything else that was obligatory, they were required to do this if they were to enter into the tabernacle, if they were to be a people holy to the Lord. A chapter, a book full of commands, full of laws, full of statutes, ceremonial rites, which they were obligated and required to perform. Not all commentators agree as to why this chapter is here. Again Kyle says that these vows formed no integral part of the covenant laws. They weren't part of them. But they were a free will expression of piety And they took the position that they were here, this chapter on vows were here to kind of incorporate them into the whole structure of their relationship with God. So we need to ask ourselves, why is this here? Did God desire only strict Outward, external keeping of the law, the ceremonial law, the civil law? Or is there something more? Did God desire something more? I'm going to suggest tonight that this chapter, which is appended to this book Tells us that God wants something more. Consider Adam and Eve for a moment. God had given Adam the command, the covenant of works, as we might refer to it. You may eat of every tree of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. From the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Now we don't read after that passage of God sitting on his throne in glory in heaven, just watching Adam. What's he gonna do? Well let me check on him. What's he doing today? Has he touched it? Has he has he gone to it? Is he headed there? We don't read of that. We don't read of God looking down and observing Adam's activities We don't read of the Creator, the covenant maker, evaluating Adam's work, waiting and watching to see if he would keep the command. What do we read? We read of God being in communion or fellowship with Adam and Eve. After Adam and Eve sin And as they were seeking to cover their sin with fig leaves, they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. Well, this tells us that they knew they'd heard this sound before. They'd heard God walking in the garden in the cool of the day before. They knew what it sounded like because God had been with them. He had been in their presence. He had been fellowshipping with them. He had been communing with them in the garden. God was not on his throne, so to speak, with a notepad and pencil in hand. No, he he did not have a clipboard with an evaluation sheet. He was with them. He was communing with them. He made them for communion with him. God's will was certainly for them to keep the law, but it was much more than that What else do we see? Well, as we read of God's interaction with Adam and Eve, and certainly with the serpent, as they sin against him, We see that he communes with them even in their sin. The Lord rebukes each of them, admonishes each of them, and foretells them of their chastisements to the woman. I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you. Do you see? God was yet communing Even though it was a chastisement, even though he was telling the woman how she would experience pain as a result of her law-breaking, he doesn't destroy. But he sends them away to be reconciled. God was communing. You see, God wills to have communion with his people. Yes, he desires law-keeping, but the God of creation desires more than keeping of his ceremonial and civil laws. We see this throughout the history. of redemption throughout Scripture. Where do we see that, you say? Well, Genesis chapter 1. Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Why would God make man and woman in his image and likeness if he didn't desire to commune with them? Yes, obviously. And then throughout Scripture, especially in the prophets, we have a repeated call to return to God. After Adam and Eve sinned and the whole world is thrown into inclination to sin, there's this repeated call to return to God. Isaiah 55, let the wicked forsake his way. And the unrighteous man, his thoughts, let him return to the Lord. Joel chapter 2. As Joel gives his picture of the locusts which invade like an invading army. Picturing for us the end days, the end time, the judgment of God. Yet now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart. With fasting, weeping, mourning. Rend your hearts, not your garments. Return to the Lord your God, for He's gracious and merciful. Hosea, we read, of return to the Lord three times Even in that picture of the wife of whoredom straying away from God, being Israel itself, God calling Israel to return. Come, let us return to the Lord, for he has torn us that he may heal us. He goes after lost sheep, doesn't he? Again, Hosea, go again, love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel. Jesus is that sheep. He's the shepherd who goes after the straying sheep. We read that even this morning in Matthew. If a man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine and go in search of that one that went astray? Yes. And he rejoices over it. It's a picture of who Jesus is and what he does. God calls out to the prophet Ezekiel, I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord, so turn and live. The Lord desires his people to ascend the holy hill and abide with him. Who may abide in your tent? Who may dwell in your holy hill? And in so many passages throughout Scripture on communion and fellowship, especially in John. As Jesus prays the high priestly prayer, what does he pray? They may be all one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be. in us. And as John writes his first epistle, he begins it by mentioning fellowship. That which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And we can't forget that the father gave up his son. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. Is that not evidence, powerful evidence, that the Father desires communion with his children? Yes, indeed, he wants your entire being As the scribe came up to ask Jesus which is the most important commandment of all, Jesus answered, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. The Lord desires communion. Indeed, the entire history of redemption is a testimony that the God of creation desires communion with his people. If you're not convinced yet, consider Revelation. The Apostle John uses the most intimate relationship known to mankind to describe the desire of the living God. And I saw the holy city of the New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. That's the way that scripture that Jesus Christ refers to the church as his bride. He so desires communion that he would refer to you tonight as his bride. John doesn't stop there. Revelation 21, he heard the voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He dwells with them, and they will be his people. And God Himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning or crying or pain. That is a God who desires communion, has planned for communion, and will most assuredly bring eternal communion to pass. That brings us to our second point, the call to communion. These vows here in chapter 27 would indicate that there were some among the Israelites who desired to give more than the strict letter of the law. Remember that vows were voluntary. They were not required And so as we read through this chapter, as we read through it tonight, we saw that there was a provision made for different ways that you could serve God above and beyond the law. As a provision for those who desire to serve the Lord in their persons. The Lord said to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel, say to them, if anyone makes a special vow, To the Lord involving the valuation of persons, then the valuation of a male from twenty years old up to sixty years shall be fifty shekels of silver. The idea here is that those that desired to do such a thing, to give themselves over, to serve the Lord. Would be placing themselves, so to speak, into the sanctuary. But they couldn't because they weren't Levites There was a special special work for the Levites that only the Levites could uh uh complete. We saw that here in this whole book of Leviticus That it was the priest who would go in to the tabernacle to serve there. And so if a person wanted to serve the Lord, it seems as though what what Moses is saying, okay, you can you can vow yourself to the Lord. And then be bought out to be redeemed. So that money now goes into the sanctuary, goes into the tabernacle worship. It was this idea that you would serve the Lord with your whole person. And since you couldn't serve actually in the tabernacle, that you could redeem yourself or others could redeem you, paying that fixed sum. to the priest, that then that money could be used in the service of the tabernacle. That same concept would be true for animals, property, homes, voluntarily given up. If the vow is in an animal, it may be offered as an offering to the Lord. And if it is in the unclean animal, it may be offered as an offering to the Lord When a man dedicates his house as a holy gift to the Lord, the priest shall value as either good or bad. Or land, if a man dedicates to the Lord part of his land that is in his possession, the valuation shall be in proportion to its seed. The concept, the significant concept here, was that there's an opportunity to serve God. With all that you have beyond the law, at your desire, voluntarily. It's an idea of pouring yourself out, of giving everything, just as Jesus was poured out. In Psalm 22, which is a messianic psalm, we read, I'm poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint, my heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. Jesus Christ gave everything. He dedicated everything to his Father. And that's what we see, for this is my blood of the covenant which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. Jesus Christ poured himself out. And that's the call, isn't it? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. Gordon Wenham, commentator on this particular book Books writes this. Leviticus 27 points out that holiness is more than a matter of divine call and correct ritual. Its attainment requires the total consecration of a man's life to God's service. It involves giving yourself, your family, and all your possessions to God. Seems to be the idea behind the vow. Not that people were to put themselves in an impoverished state. But it was a call to desire to serve Serve with everything you have. We began tonight with a New Testament reading from Ephesians 5. And I'm going to go out on a limb and say, I think Paul is really talking about that service to the Lord, which goes beyond the law. In Ephesians 5, Paul clearly speaks of the law. He clearly calls those who would read this letter in Ephesus. to heed the law, to keep the law, let there be no filthiness or foolish talk or crude joking, which are out of place. But instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous has no inheritance in the kingdom of God. Therefore, do not become partners with them, the sons of disobedience. Then Paul moves beyond the law. He first says, keep the law, don't break it. And then he says this: walk as children of light. And try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. And take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. He's going beyond the law. He's saying Serve serve at a different level. He writes of communion. First he writes of with communion with the Lord Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. So you've got to be in communion with God Himself to understand what the will of the Lord is. And then he writes of communion with the body of Christ. Addressing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart Giving thanks always and for everything to God our Father in the name of our Lord Jesus, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. See, always connected the work of the Christian to the Trinity, the Father, Son, and the Spirit are all mentioned in this passage. Well then you might think that Paul is speaking of just mere singing here when he speaks of singing spiritual songs and and hymns and psalms. And I think he did. But I think he meant more than that. Paul was writing that song that is sung by your heart. A heart of thanksgiving. He's speaking of a making melody with your heart of submission, with your heart of reverence. And all of that seems to be going beyond the letter of the law. It's a kind of Christian service, a Christian attitude, a Christian heart, and a response. That is received by the Lord as a pleasing melody, making melody to the Lord with your heart. Going beyond the law, devoting yourself wholly and completely to the Lord. And as you do, that brings the person into sweet communion and union and fellowship with the triune God. So what is it? What is it to vow? What is it to volunteer? Because that's exactly what this is. A free will offering, so to speak. That's just what Isaiah describes. As he walks into that worship service that's going on, Lord in the temple, the seraphim flying, holy, holy, holy, he recognizes that he's ruined. Because he's a sinner? And now he's in the presence of a thrice holy God. The foundations were shaking at the voice of the seraphim, the house was filled with smoke, and he understands that he's a sinner. And what happens? The seraphim brings to him a burning coal and touches his lips and tells him, Your guilt is taken away, your sin is atoned for. He's cleansed. And what does he say? As God himself cries out, Whom shall I send? Who will go for us? And Isaiah says, here I am, send me You see, Isaiah was willing at that point to give of himself because he was cleansed, because he had been washed clean in the blood of Christ that was to come. Nothing else really mattered for Isaiah at that point. His sin atoned for. He was made right in the presence of God, and so he gives himself over wholly and completely to serve the living God. Whom shall I send? Here I am. Send me. What are you willing to give up? To make this communion with the Lord Jesus Christ melodious What are you willing to give over? That God would draw you even closer to Jesus Christ, because I think that's what these vows are all about. Being drawn closer to God. What are you willing to release your grip on? Something that's so valuable. What are you willing to give back to the Lord? That's the idea described here in Leviticus 27. What are you doing today to make your communion with the living God even sweeter and closer? Are you asking yourself? Are you pondering that question? We should be. I think this passage tonight is a call just for that. How can I make my melody? The melody of my heart be more melodious to the living God Yes, the God of creation desires communion with all those who willingly give themselves over to serve his son. Jacob vowed. Didn't have to, but he did. And the door is open tonight. For you to draw even closer to the Triune God through the Lord Jesus Christ. As you give yourself over wholly and completely to Him. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this book. It has been difficult at times for us to grasp and truly understand your commands to the Israelites, how they were to serve you in in particular and ways to us that are strange And yet, Lord God, through it all, you've been pointing to Jesus Christ, even as you have done tonight. With each of these vows, knowing that the Lord Jesus Christ gave himself up wholly and completely, poured himself out, not leaving anything That he might serve you and love you and in fact be drawn ever so closer to you. Help us, Lord. Help us to be those who Give of ourselves daily, hourly, like you would draw us ever closer into that communion and union with Jesus Christ. We ask this all in his name. Amen.