If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Matthew once again, we'll be at the end. Matthew twenty-eight, I believe that's on page nine hundred and ninety-three of your pew Bibles. This is our second sermon on this passage and quite possibly the last sermon on Matthew in this series. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Matthew twenty-eight at verse eighteen And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always. to the end of the age. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we have been studying this book, this gospel, this good news now for years. And you have blessed us. We ask even now, Lord God, that you bless us one more time. As we take up this gospel of Matthew, help us to understand this commission. Help us to understand your desire, Lord God, to make disciples and help us to exalt Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen. Are you a student of the beauty and loveliness of Christ? That may seem like a strange thing to ask, given that we're going to look at this great commission this morning, this command to make disciples. What does the loveliness of Christ have to do with evangelism, with making disciples? Well consider what we read from Deuteronomy chapter six. God's command To meditate upon, to learn his commandments, his statutes, to keep all of them. And not only that, then to set them around you so that they're always with you. And then to teach them to your children. Why? Well, you'd say, well, that your days may be long, that you may multiply greatly. But actually, what I want you to see is that God has commanded these things. So that you might see the beauty of his word. Deuteronomy 6 is evangelistic. It's calling the people of God to meditate upon his word and then proclaim it. And that necessarily points to the beauty of the word, doesn't it? The loveliness. Of the Word of God, which brings us to our passage this morning. As we've been studying the Matthew's gospel, we've been learning so much. But here at the end, we've learned that Christ has been crucified, that he's been buried. That the Marys have gone to the tomb to anoint him, and they find that the tomb is empty. The angel tells the women not to be afraid and tell them to go and tell his disciples they go and depart with fear and joy. They meet the risen Lord Jesus Christ and tells them the same. The chief priests and the guards try to cover up what has happened, the truth of the resurrection. The disciples go now to meet Jesus on the mountain. Some doubt, some worship. And then he proclaims this: that he's been given all authority. And as a result of being given all authority, gives these disciples a command to baptize. Baptize into the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and to teach. And those things would be gathered up into that heading of making disciples of all nations and Jesus tells them that I will be with you always. That's the passage. I'd like us to think upon this this morning in this way. That saved sinners are called to the awesome work of saving more sinners by the presence of Christ. For worship. Saved sinners are called to the awesome work of saving more sinners by the very presence of Christ. For worship. We'll see that on three points this morning. First, the responsibility. Jesus calls for more disciples. Secondly, the reassurance. Jesus encourages disciples. And finally, the reason. Jesus desires communion. As we go through this passage once again this morning. In a way, the final time in this Gospel of Matthew, I want you to be asking yourself that question. Am I a student of the beauty, the loveliness of Christ? Well, the first point then. The responsibility. Jesus calls for more disciples. This passage on his face appears to be all about evangelism. What is it? What is it to be an evangelistic person? What is it to evangelize There's a lot of Greek behind this. It can be broken up. The Greek word can be broken up into two parts, meaning one meaning good, or and the second part meaning message. So a good message. That's the idea. To evangelize is taken from that Greek root, and it can be summed up in proclaiming the good news. That's the idea. And in a sense, all of Matthew's gospel is evangelistic. All of Matthew's gospel is filled with good news. And so it's not strange that we would end this way. It actually begins with good news, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ. In other words, the gospel begins with who Jesus is. The one born of Mary by the power of the Holy Spirit. We go through the genealogy of Jesus and then we get to the supernatural conception of him. We read of that visitation by Joseph of a messenger who tells him this is what's going to happen. An angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. telling him who this Jesus would be, revealing the identity of Jesus. Behold, the virgins shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us Good news. It begins with good news. It continues with with good news as the magi see the star and are drawn by the star that's supernatural work of God leading them to the Christ, where they worship. Good news is being proclaimed supernaturally by the Lord, the appearance and direction of the star, calling these foreigners. to the good news, to Christ Himself to worship. And now it ends with this. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. You see how the good news moves from the supernatural Now to men, women proclaiming Christ The call to take this revelation and proclaim it by the mouths of those whom he has saved. Such that other sinners would be saved. Well, Jesus doesn't leave them merely by saying, well, go save more He actually tells them how. He gives him an objective process. This Greek word here, make disciples. in one Greek dictionary is defined this way to cause one to be a pupil. To cause one to be a student. That's the idea behind making disciples. And they were to do that by baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Now many times we think of baptism as that which happens up here with some water and sprinkling going on, and that is baptism. But I think Jesus Christ was actually speaking of a little bit more than that outward physical ceremony. I think he's actually speaking of to be truly baptized into the name of the Father, Son, and the Spirit means more than that outward symbol. That sacrament that we do. To be baptized into the name. is really all about the work that God is doing through the person and work of Jesus Christ upon that one who has been made a disciple. See, it's God who's giving. And the one who's been made a disciple is receiving. That person is receiving forgiveness. As they're baptized into the name of the Father, Son, and Spirit. They've been washed clean, white as snow. Their sins are being mortified. killed off, slain, as they've been made a disciple of the Father, Son, and Spirit. And they're clothed with righteousness, which then grants them everlasting life in the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, that's what's being received. That's what's being given by God as one is truly baptized into the name of the Father, Son, and Spirit. And then teaching them. These go together, we can't separate them. Baptizing and teaching, making disciples, made up of these two things. Baptizing and teaching. Well, which commands are to be taught? Jesus says very clearly, all. All of that command you. So you can take the whole gospel of Matthew and say, let's begin with this. This is what you need to be taught. Things like, which is the greatest commandment, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. You need to be taught that. You need to be taught to let your light shine before others. You need to be taught that You should give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. But you should love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. And you should lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven, not treasures on earth, and all the while be seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Teaching them. Baptizing and teaching. These are the objective duties that are involved in making disciples. But what about the subjective? What about the personal work of discipling? How does one cause another to become a pupil, a student of Jesus Christ? Now you might be thinking, well, we need to go and have Bible studies. We need to we need to come and sit down around a table and I need to open up the Bible and I need to teach it. Well, that's not what I'm talking about. These are good and right and necessary. They're commanded and we must do them. But what's your involvement? What's your role? In addition to sending out and praying for those who will be missionaries and church planters, what's your role in everyday life, making disciples? Or how do you cause another one to want to be a student of Christ? If the goal is to make disciples, what you're really doing is you're causing others to desire Christ. So the question becomes, as a follower of Jesus Christ, how do you show others that Jesus is not merely worth following, but that he's everything to you. How do you show others that your life is hidden in Christ? How do you demonstrate that Jesus is your all in all? In other words, how do you show others the beauty and the loveliness of Christ? Well, it's by being lovely yourself, isn't it? The problem is that none of us are. And so we have to show the loveliness of Christ through our own personas. Well, how do we do that? It's by meditating ourselves. It's by remembering ourselves why Jesus is lovely to you. Sometimes we forget and fail to meditate upon the loveliness of Christ, don't we? Many of you have been followers of Jesus for years, for decades. Have you meditated upon the loveliness of Christ recently? I imagine that many of you Are thinking in your heads right now, no. And so we need to ask for forgiveness, don't we? For this neglect, this failure. And to ask that the Holy Spirit would work in us this remembrance of the loveliness of Christ and the joy of being immersed in His beauty At this point we should be asking ourselves, well what is it? What is the loveliness of Christ? For those of us who have failed to meditate upon or even think upon it, we need to be reminded of what it is. We need to be edified, some of us. Even this morning, we might sum up the loveliness of Christ this way. First consider Jesus' love for his Father. It is unquenchable. It can't be put out. It is a a fire within him. His love for his father is unending, it's perfect, it's pure, it's unbounded, it's unlimited for his father. The loveliness of Christ is bound up in his love for his father. It's so deep, it's so penetrating, it's so all-encompassing that Jesus' love for the Father, that he would separate himself from it. From the Father's love and communion, so to speak, in order to do his father's will on the cross at Calvary. That's how deep his love is. That's how unbounded it is. That's the beauty of Christ. His self-sacrificing love for the Father, which removed everything that was in its way. That was obstructing it such that he could please his father. That's beautiful. That's lovely. It's a bit like Paul on his way to Rome on the ship in which he was riding encountered that storm, that treacherous storm. In order for Paul to get to Rome, everything had to be sacrificed. Everything had to be cast off of the boat, the ship. The tackle, the cargo, the the little boats. It had to go. Even the crew had to be cast off the boat as it struck the rocks in order for Paul to be preserved. Nothing could stand in the way for Paul's passage to Rome. You see, that's the beauty of Christ. There's nothing that could stand in the way of his fulfilling the will of his father as he went to the cross. Isn't that what drew you to Jesus? Isn't that the beauty of the Lord Jesus Christ? It shines out of the darkness? It's like a rose. A beautiful flower that's that's folded up upon itself, isn't it? And then it just begins over time to to unfold and spread out the petals. display that beautiful red or or yellow or white. You see it in all of its beauty over time. It's Christ. It's astounding. His rich, his deep color, his mercy, which has no end. His compassion. Shown forth to the hearts of his disciples as they questioned the need to feed the five thousand, or his longing the shepherd the flock, the sheep of God who were straying and wandering as he goes up to Jerusalem because they had no true shepherd, or the heartbreak, the mourning and sorrow of Jesus over the rag ravages of sin as he See, he saw the tears that people were shedding due to the death of Lazarus. See, that's the beauty of Jesus, isn't it? It shines so powerfully in the pages of Scripture. It's his mercy, it's his loving-kindness, it's his compassion. And it's his desire to defeat sin and death for you. See, that's where it culminates, doesn't it? All of these beautiful attributes, the natures of Christ, culminate on the cross. It's Jesus' desire to give of himself to save you. A wretched sinner. Because he loves you so much that he would defeat that which has held you in bondage. Even your sin, and that looming darkness of eternal death, that which is waiting for all those who reject Jesus as their Savior See, that's the beauty of Christ, for you in particular, that Jesus so desired to save you from sin and death. that he would lay down his own life in perfect loving alliance and obedience with his father's will See, that's what you're called to show forth. And that's what you're called to use to make disciples. It's the radiance of Christ which is in you and also outside of you. It is what Jesus used to woo the lost to his Father. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. No more revelational dreams, no more supernaturally leading stars. No. Now, Jesus is using formerly lost sinners to witness to those who are yet lost. Beggars used to save beggars, sinners are to proclaim salvation to other sinners, the hungry, showing others who hunger, where food may be found and enjoyed. Are you a student of the beauty and the loveliness of Jesus Christ? We need to be. We must be if we will fulfill this command. That brings us to our second point. The reassurance. Jesus encourages disciples, and we won't spend long on this. But it's important that we understand this passage. You may be thinking right now, I can't do this. I can't I can't make disciples. And you're right. You can't And it's God, it's the Holy Spirit who truly makes disciples, but even beyond that It's not even you who's working. It's Christ in you who is working It's the good news who is working. Remember what Moses was told at the burning bush, as he asked Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? He said, but I will be with you Moses didn't lead them out. God did. You see, that's the point that's That the Lord was getting across to Moses. It's not you, Moses, it's going to be me, and I'm going to speak through you. I'm going to be with you. And I'll bring my people out. And that's exactly what Jesus is saying to his disciples. I am with you always to the end of the age. He uses the same words that were given to Moses. As Moses asked who he was, what name shall I use? I am. I am who I am. He uses those same words here Here in the last verse of this gospel of Matthew, I am with you always. It's not you. It's Christ. You see The evangel, the one who evangelizes, and that's all of you, even though you may not be preachers, you may not be teachers, But through you the radiance of Christ is evangelism, this work of evangelism, the spreading of the good news of Jesus Christ cannot fail. Because it's Christ that's being radiated. It's Christ that you're reflecting It's Christ that's being spread about, and He's actually present each and every time that you engage with someone, not physically, spiritually. But that doesn't mean that everyone's going to be saved. That doesn't mean that everyone you invite to come to worship is going to come. No. But it does mean that the Word of God and the efforts of spreading the good news will always accomplish that for which God sends it. Always In Isaiah's case, it was keep on hearing but do not understand, keep on seeing but do not perceive. In every case. God's word shall not return to him empty, but will accomplish what he desires each and every time because Christ is present. The success of the Word of God is dependent upon the presence and the nearness of Jesus Christ, not you To be assured, be reassured, be encouraged. God will use you. In the way he desires, and he will accomplish the making of disciples. Because Christ is near, because Christ is present. Brings us to a third point. The reason. Jesus desires communion. Why would God save anyone? Why would the Lord Jesus desire to save more? That's exactly what he's saying here, isn't it? If you're here this morning and you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ to save you, does he really need more? You see, Jesus is the King of the Kingdom, isn't he? This Matthew's gospel may be summarized by saying it's all about Jesus Christ the King. He speaks of the kingdom of God. He teaches of the kingdom of God. There's a sign over Jesus' head on the cross which read, King of the Jews. And once again we we get to the end of the gospel and Matthew refers to his kingship, all authority has been granted to him. So why this commission? The kingdom exists. Jesus has been seated on his throne. Isn't that enough? Isn't that sufficient? Why this making of disciples as being the last word From the Spirit-inspired Matthew, such that it would be so significant, so important, that the Spirit would lead Matthew to end the gospel this way. We know that God is self-sufficient. He doesn't need more worshipers. He doesn't need more disciples. He is sufficient within himself. So why? We see it in the promise, don't we? One of the men who went along on our trip to Ukraine brought this out to me. I'm so thankful for it. See it in the promise in Psalm 2. You're my son, today I've begotten you, ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage It's promised by the Father to the Son. We see in Psalm 110, your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power. We see it in the Old Testament. God has promised that he will give his son nations, a people. But know this See this. That both of these promises, these emanate from or arise from and are founded in the Trinity's desire and will to create, to mold and shape, to develop a people. for worship. It really doesn't get any simpler than that, does it? God's desire, the Trinity's desire, to have a people for worship is set forth here in this passage. It ends with this passage, this desire of God. Not that he needs worship, but only that he desires it. And you see, worship is communion, isn't it? That means that this may be the most exciting and awesome part of the Gospel of Matthew. We usually think the cross is. But I'm going to try to persuade you this morning that this is the most exciting and awesome part of the Gospel of Matthew. Making disciples. That God desires to commune with you. That's what he's saying. God desires to enter into communion with you. Is there anything in the Gospel of Matthew which is more awesome and powerful and amazing than that? Who are you but a sinner? That the creator of the universe, the only divine living God, the true God, would want to enter into communion with you. And not a one-time event, but an eternal relationship with you through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. See, there's really nothing more awesome than that. Because out of that flows the cross, actually. This truth is set before us here at the end of Matthew's Gospel, the good news. Isn't that the best news? That the living God, the one who made you, desires to commune with you and to fellowship with you in worship. See why this message is such good news? That sinners, wretched, abominable, filthy sinners can and will be brought into the eternal presence of the divine holy creator to worship, to serve him, and to commune with him forever Many times we think that the picture, the description of the torments of hell, can be a motivator to bring people to Christ, and it can. But how much more is this picture of a true, intimate, deep, personal, loving communion and fellowship with God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit forever. in bliss and true happiness with eternal rejoicing, how much more is that a motivator to woo people to Christ? See you have it now, don't you? You have this communion, this fellowship with the triune God, not fully, not completely yet. But you have it. And the call this morning is to go and tell others Go and shine the beauty and radiance of this Christ, this Jesus Christ. Go and make disciples because the Lord Desires to commune with his people. Saved sinners are called to the awesome work of saving more sinners. By the very presence of Christ for worship. Saw that in the beauty of the word, didn't we, in Deuteronomy chapter six. Deuteronomy chapter 6 leads directly to the beauty of our Savior. Brothers and sisters, Christ is telling you to go. Go and tell others and radiate his beauty to them. That beauty that you meditate upon, that beauty that drew you to him to begin with. A beauty that tells you that there is a living and true God who desires to commune with you, to fellowship with you forever. Go and make disciples. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, we thank you and praise you for this gospel of Matthew. We praise you for our King, our prophet, our priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we thank you for his beauty, for his For his loveliness. And we ask, Lord God, even now, help us to be those who meditate upon it, that we might shine it forth. For the world to see. Help us, Father, to make disciples. All for your glory, all for worship, all for communion with you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.