If you turn your copy of God's Word back to Matthew's gospel this evening, doing something a little bit different tonight. We're continuing our study of Matthew 22. I think you'll find that on page 983 of your Pew Bibles. We studied this parable this morning, but we left verse 14. For tonight. Let me read the parable again as we seek to open God's Word. And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying, The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son. And sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come. Again he sent other servants, saying Tell those who are invited, see, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen, and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast. But they paid no attention, and went off, one to his farm, another to his business, while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them. The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city. Then he said to his servants, The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. Go therefore to the main roads, and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find. And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests. But when the king came back, came in to look at the guests, he saw there was a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless And the king said to the attendants, Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness in that place where there be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? As we seek now to continue opening your word, we pray for help. Help me, your servant, tonight, to speak only your words, your truths. Guide and direct me by your Spirit. And help us all, as listeners, as hearers, to receive your word with joy and rejoicing. Help us to understand Holy Spirit and then apply this text to our hearts. All for your glory, all for the exaltation of Jesus. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. Well, have you heeded the call to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ to your salvation? In a sense, that's what this passage asks each of us tonight. Have you heeded the call to believe? Throughout Scripture, we have examples of those who preached the Word of God. Isaiah was called to go to a people who would hear and not really Here. Stephen, one of the first deacons, as he preached the word of God Ended his preaching by calling those who were around him listening a stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, who always resist the Holy Spirit. The people were enraged as he preached to them the truth of God's word. And he who was full of the Holy Spirit gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God and said, I see this heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. He proclaimed Christ. crucified, died, risen, ascended, and at the right hand of God. Paul, as he was incarcerated, was called to preach the good news to King Agrippa. Telling King that he was called to open the eyes that people may turn from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith. in Christ. He's calling all that he came in contact with to turn and believe But he also told King Agrippa Agrippa for that reason the Jews seized him and tried to kill him. The good news has gone out. It's been proclaimed to many, but it's only been received by those who are chosen. That brings us to our text tonight, as Jesus Christ continues to preach upon the kingdom of heaven. He continues to receive pushback from all those around him. Those who had made the house of God into a den of robbers, those who had taken the house of prayer and converted it into their own use. And Jesus then cleanses the temple and restores it to that which his father had erected it for, and yet No one would listen. Our passage tonight is is fairly straightforward. We heard the preaching of the word on the actual parable this morning. And this last verse, for many are called but few are chosen, is really a summation of the entire parable. The parable actually leads to this end. And we would call this last verse indicatives or statements of truth. And there are actually two of them. Two truths contained within a single verse The first being that many are called, and the second being very clearly that few are chosen. We might sum up the teaching here in this one statement. That in the infinite wisdom and mercy of God, he calls all And chooses some for eternal life in Christ. In the infinite wisdom and mercy of God, he calls all and chooses some. For eternal life in Christ. Tonight we'll only have two points, two truths, two doctrines, and they come straight out of the verse. First, many are called, and secondly, As we go through this single verse tonight, with the preface being the entire parable You should be asking yourself that question. Have I heeded the call to believe upon Jesus? Well, first, many are called. To begin understanding this single verse, this text, we must understand what Jesus refers to as the call or or being. Called. What is it? In general terms, for many are called. That word in the Greek is is very straightforward. It pertains to being invited or Called. We can think of Abraham. As the writer to the Hebrews puts it by faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called. to go out to a place that he was to re- to receive as an inheritance. He was called from his country. He was called out of his country. He was called by God to go to a particular Place called out of his father's house, go from your country. Called. Moses Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Remember, Moses was brought into Pharaoh's house so that the Lord would sustain him as Pharaoh had issued that decree that all the Israelite or the Hebrew males should be killed and saved him by bringing him into Pharaoh's house. But Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Instead, he was called by God at the burning bush. God called him out of the bush, Moses. Moses. He was called to lead the Israelites, the people of God, out of the house of slavery, out of the house of bondage into freedom that they might worship the living God. Paul, or Saul, as he was initially named, was called out of his sin by Jesus Christ. If you remember that passage in Acts chapter 9, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Who are you, Lord? I'm Jesus, who you are persecuting. Saul was called by Jesus Christ himself out of his sin. Ananias, a disciple, was called to go and anoint Paul for his ministry, the Lord said to Ananias, go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine. He's called out of his sin, chosen, selected to preach the good news. He was called. And then as Paul writes his letter to the saints at Rome, he refers to those to whom he is writing. As those who are called to belong to Jesus Christ, called to be saints. There's an action there in this word that's happening in the hearts of the people. They are called to come and believe upon Jesus. And then if we were even to turn to the last book of the Bible, Revelation 17, we'd read, They will make war on the land, meaning the those who oppose Jesus. And the Lamb will conquer, for he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those with him are the called and chosen and faithful. That gives us an idea generally of what it means to be called, but what about specifically? What about specific calls to salvation? Where can we find those? In Scripture, well we begin in Isaiah 55, that passage that we read earlier this evening. Come Everyone who thirst, come to the waters, and he who has no money come, buy and eat. These are the words of Christ calling sinners to come to him to Listen to him, listen diligently to me, and eat what is good. Feast upon Christ. Delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me. A very specific call to leave your sin, to repent of your sin and come to Christ here that your soul may live. Well, not only in the Old Testament, but in the New Testament, time and again we hear that specific call, Jesus Christ. At the end of Matthew chapter 11, come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Those that would hear this, truly hear this, would feel burdened by their sin, unable to rid themselves of the guilt. Until they came to Christ. Come to me, you who are laboring and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. In Mark's gospel, the first event that he records with regard to Jesus' preaching is very short. The time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. This is what Christ Himself is preaching. This is how Mark records the first instance of Jesus' preaching. In Luke's Gospel we read this, bear fruits in keeping with repentance. A call to turn from sin. A call to believe upon Jesus And in John's Gospel, as Jesus stands up at the last day of the feast, the great day, he stands up and cries out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. And as Peter begins his preaching, as Jesus has now ascended, and now the apostles are carrying on the work of Jesus Christ, proclaiming the good news. Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Even the Philippian jailer, as he is bound, Paul and Silas, and the chains fall off at night, the gates fly open, he's ready to slay himself. Paul calls for the lights to be turned on, and the Philippian jailer asks them, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And the answer was crystal clear and singular. They said, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. The call is throughout the Word of God to come, to come to Jesus. To rest in Christ's finished work, to believe upon Him to your salvation. Call is universal. We must see this picture. The parable sets it forth and Indeed, it's summed up here in verse 14. The picture is the call of the gospel, the truth of the good news of salvation in Jesus Christ is to go out to everyone. This differs from those who would say that the atonement is universal, that Jesus died for every single person. No. Jesus died for those whom God has chosen, but the call The call is universal. The call to salvation in Jesus Christ is to go out to all, just as Jesus instructed his apostles, go, make disciples of all the nations. There are none who are to be excluded. The good news is to be taken into the main highways. We see in this parable, the main thoroughfare where where most of the people would hear the good news the Son of God taking on human flesh, becoming the God man, so that the human nature could and would live a perfect and pure and innocent life according to God's word and his law, perfectly keeping it, earning life itself And then heading to the cross, the glorious cross at Calvary, that he would die in the place of sinners The innocent one for the guilty, the pure one for the impure, the king for his servants, the beautiful for the wretched and ugly. This is the good news. Wishes to be proclaimed to all universal call set forth here in parable form The invitation is now not limited to one nation or to one people. It is to go out and command it to all peoples, all tongues, all tribes. No one is to be left out. All are to hear. You may be thinking or asking yourself, well, what is the purpose of the call given this second part of the verse? Well, certainly the Lord desires only those who delight in him to actually come and be with him for eternity. Think of that. The call is to salvation in Jesus Christ, and the call is to eternal life, spending it with the triune God forever. He's looking for such people who will worship him. That's what Jesus told the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman at the well, the hour is coming and is now here when True worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. That's such a wonderful verse. That's such a wonderful truth that that's who God is seeking. Even as Isaiah proclaims the truth with regard to the Sabbath, if you honor it, meaning the Sabbath. Not going your own ways or seeking your own pleasure or talking idly, then you shall take delight in the Lord. You should take delight in the Lord. God the Father is looking for those who will take delight in Him. Who will look forward to worshiping him in purity for eternity. Well you may be thinking another question tonight, why why call those who will never be chosen? In other words, is the universal or the general call sincere? Why not just call the chosen? So the question, is the call actually sincere? And the short answer to that question is yes, everyone who believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ will be saved. John records that in his gospel. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. But whoever does not believe is condemned already because he's not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. The scripture is clear. The call is sincere. Whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. See, everyone knows God. Isn't that what Paul writes to the saints in Rome? For What can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to them. His invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him and exchange the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. So everyone, all people, have the foundational knowledge of God, of God's law, which has been written on their hearts, our hearts. All have a conscience. All are made in the image of God, and thus all know their need for cleansing. And so the call goes out. And it's up to the individual to believe. It's up to the individual soul to confess sin, to turn from sin, to turn to the Lord and plead for forgiveness in the blood of Jesus. And the call makes that crystal clear. Time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. If it were not sincere, would Jesus have preached it? It's a call, it's a command, it's pronounced and published for good. It's clear, it's understandable, it's not hidden or complex. The words need some explanation, but are given such that even a child can understand and comprehend. Those who spend eternity in hell will have no valid complaint. They cannot truly complain that I didn't know In other words, if I had known, I would have heeded the call. They cannot truly state that. They cannot truly state that I wanted to believe, but God would not let me. It is true that God fashions the heart. I will have mercy upon whom I will have mercy. I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience vessels of wrath? Prepared for destruction in order to make known the riches of his glory, the vessels of mercy. Yes. God loved Jacob but hated Esau. The sovereignty of God and the free will or responsibility of man are two Parallel truths. They're both true. They both exist at the same time. God never forces men to think, to believe, or act in ways that are against their wills. And it's true that God hardened Pharaoh's heart. But only after Pharaoh hardened his own heart. So is the call sincere? Yes. The call is an open door for anyone to come and believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ to their salvation. If it were not, we would have a God of deception, a God who misleads people that he created If it were not a sincere call, how could we understand? Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, and he who has no money, come buy and eat. Come by wine and milk without money, without price. If it were not sincere, we'd be subject to a god of lies and untruths. It must be sincere. So we serve a God of truth and purity. We serve a just God. His work is perfect. His ways are justice, a God of faithfulness and without iniquity. Just and upright is he. Even Nebuchadnezzar recognized it. For all his works are right and his ways are just Brothers and sisters, we serve a God who is forthright and condescends to commune with those whom He has made. So then you ask, why do not all heed the call and believe to their salvation? In one significant sense, that question is answered in the next head or the remainder of this verse. But in another equally significant sense, the question is answered very simply with the truth that those who do not believe or heed the call do so because they choose not to. In other words, those who do not heed the call love their sin, and as a result, they hate Jesus. John states this crystal clear truth This is the judgment. The light has come into the world. And people love the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light, and does not come to the light lest his works should be exposed. Yes, God chooses, but men also choose their sin over Jesus. Many are called. Which brings us to our second head. Few are chosen. This truth is set forth pictorial in the parable. The man who comes into the wedding hall without a wedding garment was invited. He came, he responded to the invitation. He entered, but he was removed for lack of a wedding garment. picturing the requirement to be one of those not merely invited, but actually chosen to stay and feast. This is part of the doctrine of election. And this verse tells us very plainly that God chooses. It's set forth more fully in Romans chapter 9, when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac. though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad, in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works But because of him who calls. The older will serve the younger, as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. God chooses. We see this also opened up in our standards Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter three, we read this those of mankind that are predestinated unto life, God, before the foundation of the world was laid according to his eternal and immutable purpose. And the secret counsel and good pleasure of his will has chosen in Christ unto everlasting glory out of his mere free grace and love. without any foresight of faith or good works or perseverance in either of them. God chooses It's clear throughout Scripture. It's called the doctrine of election or predestination. And I'm here to say that it's a blessing. If you're here tonight and listening to this message, if you're following the Lord Jesus Christ, Have you counted this as the greatest blessing from God? All that needs to be done is to consider the import or the clear implication of this verse. Many are called, few are chosen. Obviously uh God does the choosing. It's God who elects certain persons, it's God who chooses certain men, women, and children to be with him in glory forever. One must be chosen from the many who are called. And so if we were in a mathematics class, we draw a large circle, a large diagram to indicate those who are called. It would be huge. You couldn't fit it on the blackboard. And then we'd have one small circle within that larger one. It would be a subset. And a smaller circle would represent those who are chosen by God out of those who are called. And so here's the blessing. You don't deserve to be called. You don't deserve to be chosen. No one does. You can't point to anything within yourself. You can't point to your goodness. For you have none. You cannot point to your works, for they are filthy rags. You're doing only your duty, and that mingled with sin. You can't point to your faith. For your faith is a gift from your Maker All you can do is raise your hands and your heart in praise and thanksgiving for you've been given a priceless gift. Oh, by the grace of God, which He has showered upon you, life forever in the blessed presence of your Savior. To those who are here tonight and not believing upon Jesus To those who remain in their sins, loving their sins, you have been called. You've heard the call even tonight. And you have a responsibility to heed the call. It's sincere. Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, let him return to the Lord. That's the call. It's bearing upon you tonight. Return to the Lord, for he will abundantly pardon. It's not too late. Your sin is not greater than the blood of Christ, which can wash away your sins. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden. Feel the weight of your sin bearing down upon you. An unbearable burden. And run to Christ, for He will lift it and bear it in your place. It's one more application I'd like us to consider tonight. Now that we know that God chooses, and that only a few are chosen in comparison to the many who are called, let me ask this question. Should the church still send out missionaries? Should the church still proclaim, repent and believe? Believe upon the Lord Jesus and be saved to all. I'm glad you said yes. Because Jesus commanded it. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that have commanded you. Secondly, no one knows. Who's chosen? Who's elect? Who will spend eternity with God? No one knows. All are perishing in their sins without Jesus. All need to hear the good news. Of Jesus Christ. Third, compassion requires the church to continue its call. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. The second is this: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. How can you love your neighbor and let him die in his sins without calling him to faith in Jesus Christ? What are we to do? This passage tonight should cause us to question our efforts, shouldn't it? How are we joining in this call, this command? What are we doing to participate in the universal call? Not all are called to preach the good news. I'll grant that. But there's more than preaching involved in telling others of the good news of Jesus. We can Send people to tell them. We can help prepare men to go. We can pray for those who are going. We can have conversations with our friends down the street about what Jesus has done in my heart. Pray for conversions. Pray for our missionaries. Pray for the word to be preached faithfully. That is the ordinary way. That men, women, and children are brought to salvation. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? How are they to believe of him whom they've never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? It's interesting that in that same chapter we read in Isaiah 55, As we just meditated upon the need for faithful preaching and our need to pray for faithful preaching, Isaiah Isaiah writes this, so shall my word be that which goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty. But it shall accomplish that which I purpose. God's word always always, brothers and sisters, always accomplishes that for which he sends it. Let's pray that his word would be preached faithfully until Jesus returns. And the infinite wisdom and mercy of God, he calls all and chooses some for eternal life in Christ. Stephen and Paul preached. They preached the good news. We don't know how many were saved by and through their preaching. But we do know that as they preached, it accomplished exactly that which God had purposed it for. Praise be to God. Amen. Do pray with me. Father and our God, we Thank you for this passage, a difficult passage for us to grasp and wrap our minds and hearts around. Now we ask, Lord God, that you would convict us. of the need to participate in this universal call. Help us, Lord, to be those who pray. Pray earnestly and pray zealously for our missionaries, for our home missionaries, for our pastors, our preachers who are proclaiming your word, and we ask, Lord God, once again, that your word would never return to you void. That would always accomplish that for which you send it. We pray, Lord God, bring more lost souls into your kingdom. We pray that your call as it goes out would fall upon the ears of those whom you have chosen. Oh Father, we pray for conversions, even in this place. Help us, Lord. Help us to be faithful. Help us to be prayer warriors. Work in our hearts. And help us to give you all the praise. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.