Brothers and sisters, uh let's let's open our uh scriptures to the book of Acts, Acts chapter eight. I'm gonna read a a portion there. It's chapter eight, beginning at verse four this is uh just after Stephen has been stoned And has been killed for his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Acts chapter 8, beginning at verse 4 Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word. Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ. And the crowds with one accord paid attention to what was being said by Philip. And they heard him and saw the signs that he did. For unclean spirits crying out with a loud voice came out of many who had them. And many who were paralyzed or lame were healed. So there was much joy in that city. But there was a man named Simon who had previously practiced magic in the city and amazed the people of Samaria, saying that he himself was somebody great. They all paid attention to him from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the power of God that is called great. They paid attention to him, because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic But when they believed Philip, as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. Even Simon himself believed And after being baptized he continued with Philip, and seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed and stopped there Let's pray. Lord God, we pray that you would be with us tonight, that you would guide our hearts as we continue to study the means of grace. Father, help us too. Hear you speaking to us through your word. Help us, Father, to grasp this means of grace which we call preaching. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I just read this portion of scripture to us and I wanted to point out a couple of things from Acts chapter 8. First that Philip was going down from Jerusalem to Samaria, and he was proclaiming, he was preaching the word. Remember, Philip was a deacon Uh he was uh in charge of ministering uh to the physical needs of the people, along with six others, but Philip was also a preacher. We see that here so very clearly in this passage that he was called as well to preach, to proclaim the word of God. And here we just want to take a few moments to just take this text apart a little bit, not a lot, but just see that the crowds were paying attention to the word preached. To what Philip was saying to them when they saw the signs that he did, the unclean spirits crying out and leaving many. There was much joy in the city as a result of Philip's preaching. But then we see a contrast, don't we, with Simon, who was a magician, who had amazed the people. And they had given him much attention. They Paul paid attention to this one man and saw him as someone great. They even go as far as to say out loud, this man is the power of God. It is called grave. There's this competition seemingly going on between the true preaching of the word and these magician acts of Simon. He amazed them with his magic. Then we see that they believed. As the word goes out, and as the spirit changes hearts, men and women come to believe. As they see signs and miracles performed. Now, what I want us to see is that the attention was no longer on a man as it was with Simon But on the word of God preached. People heard the good news, they're baptized. The signs and the miracles that Peter does are not to draw attention to himself but to the word, so that the word would do its work, and that is bring people to believe. That's Philip, the preacher. and the deacon. And it gives us a little taste of the preaching of the word. Well, let's review a little bit of where we've been in the means of grace. So far, we've seen That while a Christian is at first converted, meaning that a Christian is born again, brought to faith. in Jesus Christ, yet after that point in the Christian's life, the growth doesn't stop. It actually continues. And here we see this quote from Joseph Herod. It involves various means of grace, this growth, this spiritual growth. through means given by God, various means of grace, in the pursuit of personal holiness and divine communion. Growth doesn't stop. Means of grace are required. This is what God uses to cause us to grow in his grace. grace. We saw that big umbrella of God's grace, common grace, such as rain falling, the sun shining as it was today, kind of hot here today. I was a little surprised. But that's common grace. And then we have saving grace, which is a particular grace of God where he brings men, women, and children to himself to love, to serve Jesus Christ. And then we have the means of grace under saving grace, which are those means used by God to cause spiritual growth to occur. That's what we're studying. Grace. Well, last time we asked that question, which was asked by the shorter catechism: what does every sin deserve? And we see clearly the wages of sin is death. Every sin deserves God's wrath and curse. both in this life and the life to come. What's the solution? How does God, what does he require of us that we may escape his wrath and curse due to us And we saw that answer. Faith in Jesus Christ, repentance unto life, with the diligent use of all the outward means whereby Christ communicated to us the benefits of redemption, the means of grace. Now, we're not going to be focusing upon faith and repentance tonight, neither did we last time And it's not because those are unimportant. They're extremely important. They just don't fall under the umbrella of the means of grace. So it's not like we're skipping over those two things. kind of are, but we we recognize their significance, we recognize their importance, we're just focusing upon another topic, another area, means of grace, not faith. and repentance. Well, what are the outward means or the outward and ordinary means whereby Christ communicates to us the benefits of redemption? Here we see a list given to us by the shorter catechism. Especially the Word, his ordinances, which would be made up of His Word, sacraments, and prayer. That's not an exclusive list But as the divines wrote this are saying, these are the big ones. These are the big ways, the big means that God gives to us for us to grow spiritually, drawing closer to Christ Jesus. And we see it there in Acts chapter 2. The New Testament church devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, the word, fellowship, worship, the breaking of bread sacraments. At least that's how I'm attributing it. And the prayers. We see that broken out for us there in the shorter catechism. And then we also saw how could the word, how is it to be read and heard that it may become effectual to salvation? Last week we focused upon the private reading. Word may become effectual to salvation. We must attend thereunto with diligence, preparation, and prayer, receive it with faith and love laid up in our hearts, and practice it in our lives And we went through some various scripture proofs to really drive those points home in our private scripture reading. Well tonight we passed that. We passed the private study. Now we're going on as we continue studying the word as a means of grace. to that public proclamation of the word called preaching. That's where we are tonight. That's what we're going to focus on the next few minutes. That means of grace, which we refer to as preaching. Well, Westminster Catechism, the larger catechism, asks the same question that we saw in the in the shorter, but it gives a broader, a more full answer to it How is the word made effectual to salvation? Spirit of God. Now notice it's the Spirit who makes the reading effectual, but especially the preaching of the Word. A means of enlightening, convincing, and humbling sinners, of driving them out of themselves and drawing them to Christ. Conforming them to his image, subduing them to his will, of strengthening them against temptations and corruptions, building them up in grace and establishing Their hearts in holiness and comfort through faith unto salvation. That's the long list. But it's just amazing that God does all of that As we give attention to his word, as we fix our minds on it. And not just the reading, but here, especially the preaching of the word. An effectual means. All that's included. Now we're not going to take time tonight to break all this down. It would be good for us to think about this, meditate upon these each each of these things, even open this up prior to the service of worship on Sundays. Hmm, this is the sty kind of thing that I should be receiving as I'm receiving a preached word. Well, let's do that tonight. Let's focus on the preaching of the word. We've got to ask ourselves that question, what is the preaching of the word? Well, it helps to go back to the Old Testament, uh, even to uh Nehemiah to think about, to get our hearts fixed on what is the preaching of the word. Nehemiah Chapter 8. This is kind of amazing. Now, if you think about Nehemiah, what's going on in this book? Nehemiah had been told that the the walls around Jerusalem, Jerusalem were broken down. They've been burned. The gates are are destroyed. He is crushed by this news of his city, the city of God, the temple area, that which guarded the temple. And so he's called to go back and reconstruct the walls around the city. Ezra is there. And they come together, and what happens? As the walls are rebuilt, there's this reading of the law, this preaching of God's will. Word. So Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly, both men and women, and all who could understand what they heard on the first day of the seventh month, and he read from it Facing the square before the water gate from early morning until midday. Think about that for a moment. Whenever you're tempted to Look at the watch during the service. Look at these people were there from early morning until midday listening to the word preached. In the presence of men and women and those who could understand. And the ears of all the people were attentive. To the book of the law. So right there we're learning. What is preaching? It's the reading of God's word with explanation. We're going to see that in a moment. But the people were attentive. They were listening. Their ears were fixed upon that which was being proclaimed to them. What is it though? And Ezra blessed the Lord, verse 6. The great God and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands, they bowed their heads and worshipped the Lord with their faces to the ground. The preaching of God's word is part and parcel of worship. We can't separate the two They go together. Being attentive to the word preached is certainly part of worship. We have other elements. Yes, of course. We might even think of preaching as the centerpiece of that worship, as the people hear, they receive the Word of God And the response as Ezra blesses the Lord is, Amen. That is true, that is true. And they lift up their hands, they bow their heads, and they worship. What else? As we continue to study this particular passage, as he reads from the law of God and Clearly gives the sense. Look at this. So that the people understood the reading. He's giving the sense. He is explaining that which he is reading. In such a way that the people understood what they were hearing. Now, don't forget, and I don't think you are, but it's the spirit who's doing this work The preaching must be done in such a way that it is understandable, but it's only the Spirit who places that understanding within the heart. the heart as that word is read and preached. Nehemiah, who is the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribes, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, This day is holy to the Lord. your God. Do not mourn or weep, for all the people wept as they heard the words Of law. Preaching is that which is designed by God to penetrate our minds. We see that understanding. They understood by the work of the Spirit And strike deeply at our hearts. They heard the words of the law and they were weeping. They were smitten by it Then he said to them, go your way, eat the fat, drink sweet wine, and send portions to anyone who has no Nothing ready. But this day is holy to our Lord. Do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. So the Levites calmed all the people saying, Be quiet, for this day is holy, do not be grieved. And all the people went their way to eat and drink and send portions and to make great rejoicing, because they had understood the words that were declared. Wow. There should be rejoicing in preaching. Yes, weeping. As we're convicted of our sins, as we see how we've offended a holy God. But then there's rejoicing. And you see why they rejoiced. they understood. Biblical preaching should in fact bring conviction of and lamentation over sin, as well as great joy. and rejoicing in salvation. Hopefully we're getting the picture as to as to what preaching is. Here is as Paul writes to his prodigy, his student, that he's bringing up in the Lord Timothy. He's telling him in the first letter, devote yourself to public reading of scripture, preaching, to exhortation. to teaching. All that is included in the preaching of God's word. It is public. It's the public reading of Scripture and it is exhortation. Explaining what it means. It is teaching. It is opening up the Word of God. And here we see that Timothy was not to neglect the gift that was given to him. Preaching is a gift. And the church recognizes that gift here by the elders laying hands upon Timothy. It's public reading. It's an exhortation. It is teaching. But it goes beyond that as well, doesn't it? In the second letter, Here he tells Timothy to be ready in season and out of season to reprove, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching. Warning him, warning Timothy, that in the days to come, there will be those who will not endure this kind of teaching. But they'll accumulate for themselves, they'll draw others to themselves to suit their own passions and turn away from listening to the truth. I don't think that was true just for Timothy's death I think we're saying it in our day as well. So we need to continue faithful preaching. Reproving, rebuking, exhorting, with patience, teaching, preaching the truth. Paul is very clear as to what the preaching of the word is. Well, here are a couple of folks that are commenting, not on any particular scripture passage, but preaching in general. This is from Daphne. a Southern Presbyterian who lived uh a few years ago in the eighteen seventies is when this was published. He wrote, The preacher is a herald His work is heralding the king's message. Herald does not invent his message, he merely transmits and explains it He's expected to deliver and explain his master's mind. That's the idea behind preaching. It's not something that is brought to the pulpit that is just a good idea It's not how to live a moral life. It's not political in nature. We can fill in many, many other blanks there. It's opening up the king's message. It's heralding what God has said and explaining it. Sounds simple, sounds straightforward, but it doesn't always happen. Debney goes on to say the main action urged in every sermon, meaning that there is to be an action urged in every sermon, is to believe and be saved. A simple message, but a clear message. To be proclaimed, urging those that are hearing to do something here, believe, and be saved. The appropriate mission of the minister is to preach the gospel for the salvation of souls. You don't see in this these two quotes, the appropriate mission of the minister is to ensure that everyone votes the right way, or that everyone is living a moral life out of the preaching of the word, out of that call to believe and be saved, out of the presentation of the gospel, there will be leading up a godly life for some but here's the here's the central action that's urged believe and be saved preach the gospel so that souls may be saved saved. Murray Capel is another a little bit more recent writer, 2014. who was stressing the need for application in preaching that we need to take God's word, the truth of God's word, and apply it to our hearts. For Paul preaching was not just about giving them meaning of the biblical text. It certainly was that. It was about speaking so that people might hear Christ and be changed by him. Preaching is not a lecture. Preaching is not just giving out information. If that were the case, we could just print up the lecture notes, hand them out, and you go home. Memorize these notes. No, no, no, no, no. Preaching is preaching to the heart in order that our hearts would be changed. The aim is that the biblical text is proclaimed and the people will encounter God Himself in a life-shaping way. Life-shaping way. That's the idea, that's the concept Now, I think we see that that point right here in Colossians. I don't think Capel made that up. Paul writes Him we proclaim Christ, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may present everyone mature in Christ. Meaning that as the word is preached, not only are people being warned, not only are people being taught Not only is wisdom being declared, but Paul's expecting a change that we may present everyone, those hearers, those listeners Mature in Christ. We may present everyone having been changed to be made more like Jesus. Well If we're not convinced yet of the significance of preaching, then we just need to open up the letter to the Romans. And here Paul says it very clearly and very boldly, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Just a bold and blunt statement. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? You see what Paul is saying. It's normally through the preached word that people are brought to know, to love, to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. It's normally through the preached word that people are brought to salvation. That we could just stop right there. Or we could have started there and ended there. That's the focus. That's the focal point. That's the means of grace preaching of the word. Well, the less Minster Larger Catechism continues to open it up for us. How is the Word of God to be preached by those that are called thereunto? Well, here's a laundry list of what the preaching is to be made up of. Sound doctrine. diligently, in season, out of season, plainly, not in lots of theological terms and words that are only known by a select few, no plain preaching, not in enticing words of man's wisdom, not full of men's wisdom, no full of God's wisdom. In the demonstration of spirit and of power God's power, God's spirit. Preaching should demonstrate that that's how it's being done. Faithfully, making known the whole counsel of God, not sticking to favored texts but preaching through the entire scripture, all 66 books, wisely, applying themselves to the necessities and capacities of the hearers, knowing the congregation, zealously, with fervent love to God and the souls of the people, aiming at his glory. I want you to see that Ultimately, that's the purpose of preaching. That's how the means of grace works it out. That's the ultimate end, the glory of God, and the conversion, edification, etc. salvation of souls. There you go. A summary of how God's word is to be preached. Don't we see that as Peter and John preach? And as they're brought before the council. They saw the boldness of Peter and John as they preached Christ. They were uneducated common men. I doubt that they were preaching in a way that was full of theological terms. The council was astonished. Why? Because it was in demonstration of the spirit and the power. They recognized that they had been with Jesus, glorifying him, zealously proclaimed with love to God and love for the souls of those who are here Well, that's what's required of the preacher, what's required of the listener. This is what I want to spend a little time on tonight. What's required of those that hear the word preached? It's required of those that hear the word preached that they attend upon it with diligence. Preparation, prayer, examine what they hear by the scriptures. Receive the truth with faith, love, meekness, readiness of mind as the word of God, meditate and confer of it, hide it in their hearts, and bring forth the fruit of it in their lives. Well Before we go on to the next slide, I just want to focus on one thing here. Break this down in a minute, but examine what they hear by the scriptures. Remember what the Bereans did. They were preached to, and then they opened up the scriptures to see if what was preached to them was in fact in the scriptures, whether it was true. Examined it Grace Anna and I used to sit under the preaching of a pastor in Virginia, and he would tell every time he got up to the pulpit, keep your Bibles open. Make sure that you know I'm preaching God's word It was a a good warning. It was a good uh good message to tell us every single time he got into the pulpit Well, what's required of the listener? What are you doing on Saturday night? That's a question for our young people, especially as as they continue to grow and have more pressures placed upon them, reschooling and and uh college possibly and the and the The thought that I need to be studying or maybe with my friends late Saturday night. What are you doing Saturday night? How do we receive the word preached with diligence, preparation? and prayer. Are you getting enough rest? We need to rest so we'll be fresh for worship of God. Are you reading through the scripture passages that will be used in the preaching of the word? It's much better If we are well acquainted with the passage that's going to be preached, you're reading through it, meditating upon it the night before, praying over it. Are you praying for the preacher? Isn't that part of being diligent? Isn't that part of preparing? Isn't that part of prayer? Are you praying for the word to return to the Lord, having accomplished all that he desired? He's the one who sends it out. He is the one who will ensure that it doesn't return to him void. He is the one who will ensure that it accomplishes all that he wills, and we should be praying for that. Are you praying for understanding? Sometimes we can sit in a sermon and get lost and our minds kind of glaze over. And have we prayed for understanding prior to entering the worship of sermon? service of worship. How do we receive the word preached with diligence, preparation, and prayer? And do we receive it? Receive the truth of God's word with faith, love, meekness, and readiness of mind. How do we do that? First, we must believe that the Word of God is in fact True, that it is absolute truth, that it has come from God Himself, that it is through men who've been inspired to enscripturate his very word that we've been given to it, it's been preserved for us, that that's what we're receiving. Have to have faith. Have to have faith in order to receive it in that way. We're praying that God would increase our faith, that we would receive His word as truth, as the word of God, that that is what is being heralded to us, that it's precious. Secondly, do we pray for a contrite heart? We could mix and match here a little bit. We could go back to the preparation aspect, but in order to receive the truth with faith, love, meekness, and readiness of mind, don't we need to be praying? that God would remove the pride that's within us that would fight against submission to the very word preached. To met our nature. Do we pray that God would take that pride and remove it, crush it, cast it out, so that it would make room for that meekness That humbleness of heart, that readiness to receive all the instruction the Lord has for us as we sit under his word What's required of the listener? And then after the preaching of the word, what do you do? After the service is over, what do you do? Do you meditate upon it? Confer of it What do you do when you confer with somebody? You're going back. You're engaging with them. You want to find out how to Create a garden. You confer with those who who know. As you meditate, you go back over something that you've received You stir it around. You think through it. Meditate. Confer of it. Hide it up in your heart. That's required in the preaching of the word. And that if you're doing these things, Preparing with diligence, with prayer, receiving it with love and faith and meekness and humbleness of heart. Meditating upon it, conferring of it Hiding it up in your heart, but I think the idea is that the Lord is going to bring forth fruit in your life. He's going to cause you to grow spiritually. As you do these things, as you're receiving this means of grace. As we wrap up, I want to go back to to Philip, that deacon, that preacher, back to Acts chapter 8. Because there's more. It's not just that competition he had with Simon, but he won as he preached the word. There's more. Now, Philip was having much success where he was. Many were coming to know the Lord. As he preached the word. As we continue on We read in verse 25. Now when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem. The apostles. Preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. Now, verse 26 An angel of the Lord said to Philip, Rise, go toward the south, to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert. Now think of this. The word is going out. They're receiving a wonderful response. The Spirit is working powerfully in the hearts of many And now Philip is told, you know, I'm going to take you out of this very successful ministry. I'm going to put you on a desert road. Hmm. He rose and he went, and there was an Ethiopian, a eunuch, the court official of Candace, Queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure He'd come to Jerusalem to worship and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. This was a Gentile who we would think of as a Gentile, not a Jew. He was reading scripture. He'd come to Jerusalem to worship And now Philip has been sent to this very place on this desert road where this Ethiopian eunuch would be. Not multitudes. Just this one. So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah, the prophet, and asked, Do you understand what you're reading And he said, how can I? Unless someone guides me. And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. What is he was he asking? He wanted the word preached, although he didn't use that word. He was opening up the scroll. He was able to read it. Apparently an educated man. And yet he wasn't understanding. Remember what was happening with Ezra and Nehemiah. They were explaining the word. They were opening the word. The means of grace was through the explaining, the opening of the word, being that herald. What's Philip being asked to do? Be the herald. Be the preacher. Eunuch said to Philip, About whom I ask you, does this prophet say this? About himself or someone else? He was reading in Isaiah, like a sheep, he was led to the slaughter, and like a lamb before its shears is silenced, so he opens not his mouth, and his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe this generation? For his life was taken away from the earth. That's what he was reading in Isaiah. And so Philip. Opened his mouth, beginning with this scripture, and told him the good news about Jesus. preached. Philip preached Jesus Christ to him from the Old Testament, what we would consider to be the Old Testament today He was telling him that in fact this was not about Isaiah. This was about Jesus. He was giving him the good news. He was preaching. And he, meaning the Ethiopian eunuch, commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down to the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. Meaning that the eunuch believed. Meaning that he was trusting now in the Lord Jesus Christ after he received the word preached. They came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord carried Philip away, and the eunuch saw him no more, and went on his way, rejoicing. Are you seeing the beauty of the word preached here, the means of grace poured out on this particular one? And the Lord uses that. to bring him to salvation, to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. One more brought into his kingdom through the word preached, to this means of grace. And he went on his way, rejoicing. We usually stopped there. What happened to Philip? Phil found himself as at Azatos. And as he passed through, he preached the gospel to all the towns until he came to Caesarea. The Lord was pleased to continue using Philip as his herald. He had done what the Lord had called him to do. The Lord used him. He used the preaching as his means of grace. In this case, of the Ethiopian unit to save him But also in those cases where pre-people who have been saved, using his word preached, to continue to build them up in Christ. convict them of sin, to comfort them, and to make them more like Jesus Christ. Preparing for his return. May the Lord bless uh the preaching of his word. Well, that ends our session tonight. Next week, Lord willing, we'll turn to the sacraments. As we continue on to the means of grace, the word, the sacraments, and prayer. Praise be to God. Amen.