If you want to open up your scriptures to Psalms, I'm going to be reading there from Psalm 23. Excuse me, not 23. Twenty two Psalm twenty-two. Let's give attention to God's word. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me? From the words of my groaning My God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. And you our fathers trusted. They trusted and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued, and you they trusted and were not put to shame. But I am a worm and not a man Man. Scorned by mankind and despised by the people, all who see me mock me. They make mouths at me, they wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him, let him rescue him. For he delights in him. Yet you are he who took me from the womb, you made me trust. You at my mother's breast. On you I was cast from my birth and from my mother's womb You have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. Many bulls encompassed me, strong bulls of Bashan surrounded me. They open wide their mouths at me like a raving and roaring lion. I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my heart. My strength is dried up like a pot shirt And my tongue is fixed to my jaws. You lay me in the dust of death. I'm gonna stop there Father, I ask now that you be with us, that you would uh guide and direct our hearts this evening as we once again consider the means of grace and in particular the Lord's Supper. And having read this passage, we have even begun thinking upon the Lord Jesus Christ and upon his death. and upon his sacrifice so that we might be saved. Help us, Lord God, as we continue our study tonight, that you would direct us not intellectually merely, but uh but our hearts will be drawn even closer to Christ and we will be looking forward To this coming Lord's Day and to that next time we will be able to participate and take and eat and drink the Lord's Supper. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen Brothers and sisters, as I just indicated, we are uh in the means of grace, and that means what we're doing is we're studying that way in which the Lord uses those ways that the Lord uh uses or those things that he uses to build us up in conformity more and more to Christ, to build up uh build us up in holiness, uh, to uh to continue to help us die to sin and live to righteousness, that we might be an even sweeter communion. with our Lord and with our God. And we refer to these things as the ordinary means of grace. And we've been studying uh the word, the sacraments, and we will be studying, Lord willing, the prayer. But these are the ordinary means of grace. We've considered the private study of God's Word. We've considered the preaching of God's Word and how these things are a means of grace for us, how we grow in grace by and through them. And uh we've been studying the sacraments. Uh we have studied them generally, we've studied baptism. We've already had two lessons on the Lord's Supper. Lord willing, we'll conclude tonight with our third and then move into prayer. As we considered the Lord's Supper, we had these four questions set before us. And we began with how does the Old Testament foretell or create that foundation? Or how is the Old Testament full of shadows and types that lead us to the Lord's Supper? Well, we consider As we look back at the New Testament, two things, two significant feasts we might call them. The first was the Passover. And we looked at the Passover and saw that clearly this was a precursor to the Lord's Supper. The Lord had not come yet. Jesus had not been uh incarnate. The Son of God had not taken on human flesh yet. But this Passover pointed to his coming. It pointed to the fact that he would shed his blood like a lamb. that was shed for the Israelites and the blood placed over the door at the posts and on a lintel so that the destroyer would pass over Each and every home that had been marked in this way, each and every home of the Israelites, the Hebrews. So their firstborn was saved from the destroyer, wasn't allowed to come in uh and and put to death the firstborn. Whereas throughout all of Egypt, the Egyptian firstborn suffered that loss as the last um as the last plague. But the Lord protected those who were inside by the blood Well, we see that they were required to eat the flesh of the lamb that had been slaughtered and roasted. And that points us clearly again, not only the blood, but also the eating of the flesh, the drinking of the blood, so to speak, of the Lord Jesus Christ, points us uh to this Lord's Supper, the elements. They, the Israelites, needed that supernatural strength to exit We need that supernatural strength to continue to press on in the spiritual war that we are in. But we saw also the Feast of Unleavened Bread pointed to the Lord's Supper Whereas the Passover clearly was fixed upon the death, the blood uh the need for these uh this to to cover over ultimately their sins and to release them from their bondage just as we need the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, we need his death that we might be raised to life. And here that feast of unleavened bread was celebrated with joy and rejoicing because they were celebrating the harvest. Um and so they're connected. And so both of these things come together as we celebrate and remember the death of the Lord Jesus Christ in the Supper. and then also his resurrection, all the benefits of redemption. Lord's Supper appears to have both of those Old Testament festivals in view. Well, last week, I'm going to go through this very quickly. Last week we considered the question of what is Jesus doing in the Lord's Supper. Remember, he said to us, take and eat, drink. And so as he tells us to do these things, as he commands us to do these things, It's not merely what we do in the supper, but it's it's what Christ does in the supper. The focus of the Lord's Supper is upon his death, his body and his blood being expressly referenced. And as we think upon the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we think upon his death, what does that death of the Lord Jesus Christ show forth During the Supper. We talked about this last week, and very quickly we saw that it showed forth the love of the Father for his children. It showed forth the love of Jesus Christ for his father. It showed forth his dying to self. It showed forth the faithfulness of God the Father It showed forth the power of his blood. It showed forth the purity and the holiness of his blood. It showed forth the true life. in his blood and it showed forth the promise of his return for the church. And here I do have the correct scripture passage. I didn't have that last week And then finally it showed forth the promise of eternal communion. And that's just skimming over the top What was Jesus Christ doing, or what is Jesus Christ doing in the Lord's Supper as he points us to his death? All of these things must come in into our thinking. as we think upon what we are actually receiving from Jesus Christ as we focus, as we fix our mind. upon the death of our Lord and Savior. Well, this week, as uh as we look at that third question uh of the Lord's Supper. And I think what we're really going to be doing as we as we think through the third question, I'm hoping we're also going to see the fourth question involved in there. But I wanted to take a few minutes just to generally consider the Lord's Supper as we open up into this third lesson. Just a few minutes because the Lord's Supper is so broad and so big, I'm concerned that we're just going to miss a couple of key points. We're not going over all the Lord's Supper We're going over some key aspects of Lord Sapper, and here I want to go over a couple so we don't miss them as we just think about the meaning. of grace. Well, who is to partake of the Lord's Supper? If we're going to be asking the question, what's the believer to do in the supper? We should also be asking ourselves, who is it that is to partake of the supper? And we just look at uh larger catechism, question 168, and and It's the definition of what the Lord's Supper is. And in that definition, we see it's for those who are able to worthily communicate. And that really means to take the supper, who they're able to do it worthily. Not that n they have achieved some um some badge, not that they have earned the right to take the supper. But who acknowledge who they are, sinners, saved only by grace, trusting only in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ to come into and be in communion with the triune God that that we in our own strength can do absolutely nothing to earn our way to the table, so to speak or to be in God's good graces. It's all Christ. And so if you're a worthy, if you're a worthy partaker, you're one who's recognizing all of these things that I'm a sinner That the only way for me to be saved is by and through the blood of Christ. And I'm trusting in that blood only. Not his blood plus, but only in the blood of Christ. for my salvation. And I profess that to the church. And so that those things that Faith, that sincere faith, and that turning away from sin, that repentance, uh makes one worthy to partake. And it's one who is actually being nourished and is growing in grace. So it's not one who's not professed faith, because one who's not professed faith is not going to be nourished by this meal One who's not professed faith is not going to be one who's going to continue to grow in grace because they haven't started. And their union and communion is confirmed. So that union and communion has already taken place. This is one who has already professed faith, and so it's a confirmation of that union and communion and a renewal. of their thankfulness and engagement to be gods and Jesus Christ's as members of the mystical body suffers only for believers who've been admitted to the table. Well Who is to partake? This is a question and answer that's found in uh John Flavle's uh books. And he asks the question, our morally honest and sober person, is he qualified for the sacrament? And he says, no. Civility and morality do not qualify persons. They're not the wedding garment, but regenerating grace and faith. Does in the smallest measure. You see what he's saying? He's saying it's not civility, it's not morality which dresses a person, which makes a person a worthy partaker. No. And he's referring to the parable that Jesus spoke of the wedding feast as as the king calls uh all who have been invited to come to the feast and they say no we're not coming so he tells his attendants, his servants to go out into the streets and bring in everybody that they can find into the into the wedding hall at the feast. And the king comes out and he sees one who had no wedding garment. He said to him, friend, how could you get in here without a wedding garment? And the and he was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants, bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. You have to have the wedding garment. We have to have Jesus' righteousness wrapped around us. That's that regenerating grace and faith. Those are able to partake. Admittance to the Lord's Supper, to the Lord's table, is an act of discipline by the elders of the church. Remember what Jesus said to Peter with regard to the keys of the kingdom, I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. The keys are given to those in the church with the uh authority to exercise them in our church. That would be the elders. Who's able to partake of the Lord's table? It's those that the elders admit to the table Now, if we have visitors come and they're members of a Bible-believing church and they're in good standing, they've been admitted by their elders to the table, they are welcome and more than welcome to come and partake. of the table. So there are some qualifications around who is able to partake. It's good to know that as we are going to look and consider what the believers to do as they Well, what about the elements? As we're speaking about the Lord's Supper, we want to touch upon this. Not not a lot of speaking, but just a very little bit of speaking. Jesus Christ told us very clearly, take eat, this is my body, drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant. Well, brothers and sisters, these elements do not change, as we discussed last Wednesday. There's nothing that happens to the bread and the wine or the grape juice. Nothing physically changes. We ask for a blessing upon these elements to set them apart so that the Lord would use them as He's ordained from eternity past. We ask for that blessing. But we're not asking for them to be changed, and there's nothing in Scripture which indicates to us that the elements of the Lord's Supper change. And so we don't consider that this is actually the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. No? No, the elements don't change from bread and wine to something else in the body and the soul of Jesus Christ was sacrificed once in time and is in one place only These are important things, important doctrines for us to remember. So as we as we take the Lord's Supper, we are celebrating the once-in-time sacrifice. of the Lord Jesus Christ, who now, after being resurrected and has ascended Sits at God's right hand. That's where he is today. Until he returns, that's where he will be. He will not be present physically in the bread. and the line. Well, that was just a couple of things I wanted to touch upon before we get to uh this question number three on the Lord's Supper. What is a believer to be doing in the Lord's supper? What are we supposed to do? Yes, we're to eat and drink. We understand that. That's very clear. But as that's happening, what are we supposed to do? Well, actually three different times. that we can think of when we're thinking of the Lord's Supper. Three different occasions to consider what we're doing or or what we're doing before During and after the receiving of the elements of the Lord's Supper. Now when I'm talking about before, I'm not talking about two minutes before, and when I'm talking about after, I'm not talking about two minutes after. Talking about in preparation, during, and then as time passes, how do we consider what has happened to us? I just want to go over the before and after quickly. We don't want to dig into this, or at least we don't have time to dig into this tonight. As I said, there's much to the Lord's Supper. We're not going to hit on everything But i if we if we think about the before, and that's why we try to announce the Lord's Supper when it's coming We can advance so we can prepare. And so before we come to the supper, we're to prepare ourselves by examining ourselves to make sure that we are in Christ. We think about our faith. We consider our sins. We consider how we've repented. We consider the measure of of our knowledge and faith and repentance and and love to God and the brethren and charity to all men, and have we forgiven those that we need to forgive and And are we meditating upon this and are we praying? All of those things are good things for us to be engaged in. before we come and take the Lord's Supper. Where are we standing in Christ? Are we praying? Notice what they they use here serious meditation and fervent prayer. I think this is a good direction for us, good advice, good counsel. And these are the things that we should be engaged in. As we anticipate coming to the supper. What about after? Remember, we're going to focus on the during. Well, after we've received the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. We're told here to seriously consider how we behaved, how we've taken it. And if you find that something has happened to you, is there a quickening of your spirit? Is there greater comfort as a result of taking the supper? And if you find no present benefit In receiving the supper. What do you do? First you wait Wait for the fruit of it to come in time, as they advise you. But if as you're examining yourself, and if you're not finding that quickening of the soul and comforting Maybe what we need to do is humble ourselves and to be more diligent and more careful. before the next administration of the Lord's Supper. There are things for us to do before we take the supper. There are things for us to be doing after we receive the supper. Let's talk about during. That's our focus tonight. What are believers to be doing during the supper Remember, the Lord said, take, eat, drink, clearly commands, and so we say, well, yes, we're commanded to take the supper, but But we're supposed to be active. Those words, those verbs indicate an active receiving. of the Lord's Supper, not passive, not just sitting in the pews, we're to be active Now the question is how or in what way. Now I want to dig into this a little bit. This is Westminster larger catechism question answer number 174. The question is what should we be doing during the Lord's Supper, basically And here they write to us, it's required during a time of the administration of the supper, that with all holy reverence and attention we wait upon God. Diligently observe the elements and actions, heedfully discern the Lord's body and affectionately affectionately meditate upon his death and sufferings, and thereby stirring up in ourselves a vigorous exercise of their graces in judging themselves, sorrowing for sin, earnest hungering and thirsting after Christ, feeding on him by faith, receiving of his fullness, trusting in his merits, rejoicing in his love. Giving thanks for his grace, renewing of their covenant with God and love to all the saints. That is a lot. This is one reason why we study the means of grace. Because there's so much caught up in receiving the supper, so many things for us to be uh meditating upon, um praying over as we receive the supper Well, let's just touch upon some of these things tonight. We're not going to hit upon all of them, but just some. Just some of them. First, did you notice that that they wrote that we should be waiting upon God in this ordinance? This is not something we try to flex our muscles and make something happen within ourselves. It's a great mystery going on in the Lord's Supper as we receive it, and as the Spirit works. We're called to wait To wait upon the Lord. Well, if we return back to Leviticus in chapter ten, we'd see that there were a couple of priests who did not wait upon the Lord as they were seeking to worship, as they brought strange fire, Nadab and Abayu, sons of Aaron, each taking their censor and and putting it uh an incense incense that that it was unauthorized fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from before the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. Moses said to Aaron, this is what the Lord has said, among those who are near me, I will be sanctified. And before all the people, I will be glorified. Nadab and Avihu did not wait upon the Lord. They thought it was within their powers to make worship. To make it happen. We're called to wait upon the Lord in holy reverence and attention during the administration of the supper. Wait upon him It's part of what our prayers should be about. Lord, visit us as we take the supper. Work powerfully in us. Quicken our spirits. Comfort us. Wait upon the Lord. Tells us five, through the abundance of your steadfast love will enter your house. The psalmist does not say, I will through my strength will enter your house. I through my perseverance will enter your house. I through my intelligence will enter your house. No. Psalmist knows that the only way he can enter into the house of God to worship will be in fear. but will be through the admittance of God Himself, through the abundance of His love. So there's one negative verse, one positive verse. Yes, wait upon the Lord. Observe the elements What does that mean? These things are given to us, brothers and sisters. outward signs, outward symbols. They're tangible. The Lord Jesus Christ does not tell us merely to hold up a picture of bread. Hold up a picture of wine. Or just read the words. No, he's physical bread wine or fruit of the vine. He's giving them to us to be observed, to be touched To smell? To taste? We've been missing it during COVID I'm hoping we're getting it back to it soon, but as the bread's broken, as it's fractured, you should be able to hear that As we think upon the breaking of Christ's body. And even the pouring out of the fruit of the vine. Just watching that Thinking about how Jesus' blood was shed In Exodus 24, Moses reads the book of the covenant to the people. And the people respond All that the Lord has spoken, we will do and we will be obedient. And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people. Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. Well, we don't throw the fruit of the vine. But think of that. Observe the elements. The Israelites couldn't help but observe the elements as the blood was thrown on them, as it sprinkled over them. They're cleansed. Observe the elements. Observe what we do with the elements. Allow the elements to be tasted, to be smelled. All of your physical senses should be taking this in. And it should all speak to you of the Lord Jesus Christ. Diligently observe the sacramental elements and actions Heedfully discern the Lord's body Habat right in Paul's recitation of uh the words of institution. Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup for anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body. Eats and drinks judgment on himself. Discerning the body means that as you're taking the bread, And the wine and the grape juice. As you're seeing these things that represent That symbolize the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus. You are remembering and knowing who he is and what he has done. And it was Jesus. It's Jesus and Jesus alone who merits life. It's not us. It's not the one who's taking. It's the one who's giving. It's his body. It's his blood. And there's a respect, there's an honor, there's a reverence. That goes along with taking these elements. We take them by faith, and by faith we discern the body of Jesus. And what Paul was saying here was, there are those that had come and were taking the the elements unworthily, because they weren't believing in The Lord Jesus Christ. They were profaning the elements and profaning Christ. They weren't discerning his body. So as we receive the elements, that's part of what we should be doing, discerning the Lord's body. This is that which represents Jesus, his body and his blood. This is the one who died for me. This is the one who earned life for me. This is the one who atoned for my sins. Concerning the Lord's body heedfully. Meditating upon his sufferings. That's why we read Psalm 22 as we began meditating upon his death and his sufferings My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Yeah, I think the reason the psalmist begins there is because that is probably the greatest suffering. that our Lord Jesus Christ endured. His separation from his Father. As our sins are poured out upon him on the cross, he's separated The very Son of God is separated from his father because of our sins, and he cries out, Why have you forsaken me? My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a potshered We can think of the physical pain and suffering as well. But I think the greatest suffering that our Lord endured was that sin was laid upon him But here's the catch. They put the word affectionately before meditate on his death and his sufferings. It's interesting that they would use that word, affectionately meditate on his death and his sufferings. So we are to be affectionate as we're taking the bread, as we're taking the wine or the grape juice. were to be affectionately meditating upon his sufferings, that this one in love died for me, and he's calling for me to love him in return. And that love just springs up out of his sufferings, doesn't it? affectionately meditate on his death and his sufferings And sorrowing for sin. I'm not sure how we couldn't, as we meditate affectionately upon his sufferings, I am not sure how we couldn't at the very same time sorrow for our sins. In fact, it seems that that might even come first. We read Psalm fifty one and we know that the psalmist here that David is sorrowing for his sins before a holy God, I know my transgressions, my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil. in your sight sorrowing for sins It's good and right for us to be weeping over our sins as we take the supper That's not where it stops. That's not where our doings stop, but it needs to be part of our doings, doesn't it? Part of our doings is is to sorrow over our sins. Zechariah puts it this way, and maybe this is even more powerful than in Psalm 51, and I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and please for mercy, so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him As one mourns for an only child and weeps bitterly over him as one weeps over a firstborn. Sorrowing for our sins is clearly, clearly that which we should be doing as we take the supper. What about feeding on Christ? Think of the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman who was there merely to get physical water to quench her physical thirst, and she meets the God of the universe. The one who can satisfy completely, eternally, all of her hungering and thirsting spiritually. And Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. Do you think of that? As you think upon all that Christ has done, as you're receiving the elements, as you're eating the bread, as you're drinking the wine of the grape juice. Meditating upon this, Jesus tells us that we will never be thirsty again in him That his body and his blood is full. We will lack nothing in Christ. Never be thirsty again. That's part of feeding on Christ by faith, isn't it? As we meditate, as we pray over and think upon this truth This is what Calvin wrote. But to understand this advantage properly, meaning feeding upon Christ, we must not suppose that our Lord warns, incites, and inflames our hearts. by the external sign merely. He's saying just it's not just the it's not the bread and the wine to be external stuff. The principal point is that he operates in us inwardly by his Holy Spirit in order to give efficacy to his ordinance, to make it effective in us The Spirit's working, which he has destined for that purpose, meaning to be fed by him as an instrument by which he wishes to do his work in us. Do you see? That's how we're fed We're fed by the work of the Spirit. And brothers and sisters, this is a great mystery But we know that as the Spirit abides, as we take the bread and the wine and the grape juice, we are being fed truly. Just as we are being nourished physically, we are being fed spiritually by Christ. It's happening as we feed upon Him by faith. That's the Spirit's work. And that's how we should be receiving the elements, indeed the whole ordinance. Not only receiving of his fullness, but trusting in his merits alone. That's part of discerning the body, I believe, but here it's very specific. We receive his fullness and we trust in his merits, not in mine, not in the pastors, not in the churches, not in our parents But in Christ. So what Paul writes to those in Rome, we therefore have now been justified by his blood. Much more shall he been saved by him from the wrath of God More than that, verse 11, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. There are his merits, it's his work, it's all Christ. Now we can say that intellectually. Because we take the bread, as we take the wine and the grape juice, We should be trusting only in his merits And then giving thanks. Giving thanks for his grace. I think the the supper would be empty if this were excluded or not included in it. Much thanks. For by grace you've been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. Not a result of works, so that no one may boast It's all grace, brothers and sisters. And as we take the stopper, we should be filled with thankfulness. It should be part of what we are doing in the supper. Praising God, praising Jesus, praising the Spirit for all of their works in us. And notice this last verse in Ephesians, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them part and parcel of the Lord's Supper is building us up so that we can serve others, so that we can love our brethren, so that we can continue to press on That's part of it. Well, that was just a skimming over, brothers and sisters, of the things that we are to be doing during the administration. of the Lord's Supper. Not so much before, not so much after we touched upon those things, but during the supper. Be good to get that larger catechism question and answer number 174 and keep it before you. Study it. Bring it to worship This is what we're to be doing. And this is good news. Lord willing next week we will begin a study of prayer as a means of grace. That concludes our spread of night on the Lord's Supper