Let's begin in in prayer tonight. And she come off. What happened again? Father in heaven. We come before you and ask for the Spirit to guide and direct our steps tonight. That you would illumine our hearts, that Father, you would uh open up your word to us in a powerful way. And you'd help us, Lord God, to see The the foundation, the the base, the beginnings of what we now today observe as the Lord's Supper Feed us with your word and make us more and more like Christ, even in this short time. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, we've been studying studying the means of grace. We're going to continue to do that tonight and for a few more Wednesday nights. But uh as we've done in the past, we'll do again. Uh by the time we're done with this, you're going to be tired of some of these slides. It's good for us to just review a little bit. What is this? Are we talking about the means of grace? Again, as this author put it in Scripture, we are taught that there are various ways, various means that are used by God To make us more like Christ. But after after the one who believes in the Lord Jesus Christ has come to that belief, after there's been that conversion after one has been brought to faith in Christ and in repentance, that that's not where things stop. We see throughout Scripture the call to be holy, the call to be perfect as our God is perfect. And knowing that we never get there, knowing that we won't get there until we enter into glory, there are yet those things that God uses in our lives Which we refer to as means of grace or the ordinary means of grace to make us more like Christ in this life, to dress us in his righteousness So to speak, that's what we've been talking about. Then we talked about the fact that there is this one large umbrella of God's grace He can split up in our humanness into common grace and saving grace, and we do that. Particular grace is what God uses to to bring us to salvation in Christ. But once he does that, then And he uses these means of grace to conform us to the image of Christ throughout our Christian lives. Well, we've outlined this study in this way. There are these three general areas, the word Sacraments and prayer that God uses and that we refer to as the means of grace to bring us into conformity with the Lord Jesus Christ. And we did that. We talked about the Word and talked about private study of the Word, how we need to do that to be fed by Christ. We talked about the preaching of the Word and how that strikes at our hearts. And as it does, we're convicted of sin and we're given much encouragement in the promises of Jesus. We talked about the sacraments, or at least we're in that now. We talked about the sacraments generally in baptism. Tonight, Lord willing, we're going to begin to talk about the Lord's Supper as a means of grace. And then as we finish up our study, we're going to go to prayer and see how the Lord uses that in our lives to bring him closer to himself. Well, that private study of the word we saw is used and is effectual in its use as we attend to it with diligence, preparation, and prayer, receive it in faith and love, and lay it up in our hearts and practice it. That's what the shorter catechism calls us to do, meaning that's what it sees Scripture calling us to do, that private study of the Word. Then the preaching of the Word and Colossians really brings that together for us As Paul wrote, Him we proclaim, meaning Jesus Christ, warning everyone, teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may present everyone mature in Christ. And there we see this growing that occurs. through the preaching of the word. That's what Paul knew to be the case, is he's the inspired writer. As we receive the preaching of the word, we are maturing in Christ Jesus. Well, you began that study of sacraments a couple of Wednesdays ago and we have learned that the sacraments, they're only two, baptism and the Lord's Supper in the New Testament, and they're signs and seals of the covenant of grace. We have to always keep that before us. Always remember that baptism, the Lord's Supper, are signs and seals, not the actual thing, but they're pointing to the actual thing. That actual thing is Christ and his benefits. So baptism and the Lord's Supper are pointing to Christ. They're pointing to his benefits. And not only that, not only do we have a spine and the seal of the covenant embrace, which point to Christ, which point to his benefits then we're also professing through those sacraments that we will be engaged to the service of God in Christ. Those things are going on, pointed to and represented in both baptism and the Lord's. Supper. Well, last week we spent some time speaking about baptism. That's a sacrament we know of the New Testament. that Christ ordained to be that sign and seal of what? Engrafting into Christ. Of what else? Remission of sins by his blood. and regeneration by his Spirit, being adopted, and of resurrection to everlasting life And that solemn admission into the visible church. And then that open and professed engagement to be holy and only Christ belong to him. All those things, sign and the seal. That's what baptism is. It's a sign and a seal of all these things And it represents them in the way Christ has ordained them to represent them. Well Now we're on to the Lord's Stopper. That's where we are in this outline tonight. We want to begin. We want to jump into this tonight. Now, let's just get a definition quickly, a long one, of the Lord's Supper. And this comes, this comes from Westminster larger catechism. It's a long definition. We're not going to spend a lot of time on it tonight. Lord willing, next week we'll spend time breaking this down Tonight, let's just let's just read it, have it before us, think about it. This is question number 168 in a larger catechism. And it asks that question, what is it? What is the Lord's supper? Well obviously it's a sacrament Of the New Testament, wherein, by giving and receiving bread and wine according to the appointment of Jesus Christ, his death Is showed forth. And they that worthily communicate Feed upon his body and blood to their spiritual nourishment and growth in grace. Notice those words, growth in grace Have their union and communion with Him confirmed. Testify and renew their thankfulness and engagement to God and their mutual love and fellowship. With each other as members of the same mystical body That's a long definition. It's got a lot in there, a lot of pact in one sentence. I think the uh the folks that used to write back then uh forgot about the use of periods They liked long sentences, and this is a long one. It's got a lot in there. Well, I want to start breaking this down, but you're going to see that tonight as we break this down, we're just going to look at this first portion. Our Lord Jesus in the night wherein he was betrayed. Now this is the Westminster Confession of Faith. This is the first paragraph defining the Lord's Supper In the night wherein she was betrayed. Well, where do we see that? Do you see that in Matthew's Gospel and the other Gospels? And here, this is a very familiar verse in the New Testament. As Jesus celebrates the Passover with his disciples, he moves immediately into the first observation of the Lord's Supper or ordains or establishes the Lord's Supper. He institutes it that night Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread, after blessing it, broke it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, Take ye, this is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks And gave it to them, saying, drink of it all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for their forgiveness. of sins. The night that he was betrayed, Christ institutes this thing we now call the Lord's Supper. Well, there you have it. That's where we're going to jump into this evening. Westminster larger catechism saying the Lord's Supper is a sacrament of the New Testament. Jesus Christ instituted it as he was about to head to the cross What about the Old Testament? That's what I'd like to focus on tonight. I think there's a sense in which I didn't do enough of that with regard to baptism. So I want to take tonight and really think about the Old Testament. Let's go back. Let's go back to the Old Testament to see where this begins because we know that as as God's covenant of grace unfolds, that's what it's doing. It's unfolding. It's not that this is something new. It's not that this is something that Jesus pulls out of the air and institutes without the background, without the signs. And the seals of the Old Testament without the shadows of the Old Testament coming and now unfolding like that rose. So let's go back. Let's go back and take some time to consider the Old Testament to see where this Lord's Supper comes from, or what was the shadow of the Old Testament that now comes to fruition in the New Testament. Well, let's open up for a minute Exodus chapter 12. That's what I told you as we began tonight. I'm going to read there, Exodus 12, the first 13 verses. Let's give attention to God's Word. The Lord said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, This month shall be for you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year for you. Tell all the congregation of Israel that on the tenth day of this month every man shall take a lamb according to their father's houses, a lamb for a household. And if the household is too small for a lamb, then he and his nearest neighbor shall take according to the number of persons, according to what each can eat. You shall make your count for the lamb Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male, a year old. You may take it from the sheep or from the goats, and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the month When the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs at twilight, then they shall take some of the blood, and put it on a two door post and a lintel of the houses in which they eat it You shall eat of flesh that night, roasted on the fire, with unleavened bread and bitter herbs, they shall eat it. Do not eat of it any of it, raw or boiled in water, but roasted its head with its legs and inner parts, and you shall let none of it remain until the morning. Anything that remains until the morning you shall burn In this manner you shall eat it, with your belt fastened, your sandals on your feet, and your staff in your hand, and you shall eat it in haste It is the Lord's Passover. For I will pass throughout the land of Egypt that night I will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments. I am the Lord The blood shall be assigned for you on the houses where you are, and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt. Now remember, as Moses is proclaiming this to the Israelites, as he's telling them how to prepare, we've had nine plagues come prior to this final plague, this tenth plague. Israelites are told to prepare for this one that's coming. This is the plague that will separate them from their bondage to the Egyptians This is the plague that will cause the Egyptians to tell them to go. But there's much imagery here in the Lord's Passover that we need to see and think of how this relates to the Lord's supper Well, take a look here at verse 7. And they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and the lintel of the houses. in which they eat. And you see here a picture. The lintel is that portion that goes over the top, the post, for those on the right and the left, and you see here the blood placed on all three pieces. Blood of the lamb, the blood of the unblemished lamb, a male, a year old. He placed a sign on the door where the Israelites lived. Blood shall be a sign for you in the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you. I strike the land of Egypt. Remember what God was about to do. As he was bringing the tenth plague upon the Egyptians, he was bringing it in such a way that he would slay the firstborn. of every single family. The firstborn of all the Egyptians would die that night. Every single household in Egypt Would have death raining down upon them as the Lord passes over. But all of the Israelites, all of the Hebrews Would be spared. Now think of this. It's not because the Hebrews were righteous people. It's not because they were sinless people They all fell into the same camp and category. But with this blood, this blood that has been shed, blood that becomes a sign, God's wrath does not rain down and pour out upon them. It's a sign. It's a sign that he will indeed pass over. It's a sign that he will have mercy. It's a sign that he does have mercy. He has compassion on these particular people because of the blood. When I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt. Think of this as we read take a bunch of his up and dip it in the blood that is in the basin. Touch the lintel and the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin. None of you shall go out of the door of his house until morning. I'm sorry, we didn't read that earlier. I just read that now. What I want you to see is that first portion that we read, verses 1 through 13. now is sandwiched with this verse 22 and 23. They were required to stay in the house. They couldn't go out. As God was passing over the land of Egypt, and slaying all the firstborn, they needed to stay within that place where the blood was marked, where the blood marked them out. Verse 23, for the Lord will pass through the through to strike the Egyptians. And when he sees the blood on the lintel and on the two doorposts, the Lord will pass over the door and will not allow the destroyer to enter your houses to strike you. It's a bit like the ark Noah and his sons and their wives and his wife had to remain in the ark. God had to shut them in. As the floods came, everything else was wiped out on the face of the earth. Only Noah and his family survived because they remained in the ark. Only the Israelites, the Hebrews, survived this plague of death to the firstborn because they stayed inside. where their homes had been marked out by the blood. God would not allow the destroyer to enter in See now why the the sign was placed upon the lintels and the posts of the door The destroyer was not allowed enter entry into these particular houses. They had to be inside. That's important for us because We see that they were to be active participants as the Lord God passes over, as the destroyer is passing over, they're to be active. They're to be actively engaged first in being inside. after having placed the blood on the lintels and the posts. But they're also to be active participants in another way. They were to eat the Passover. They were to ingest the lamb. In this manner you shall eat it With your belt fastened, your sandals on your feet, your staff in your hand, and you shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. See, they slay the lamb They take that blood, they place it on the lintels, on the doorposts, they go back inside, and now once inside, as the Lord is passing over, they're actively ingesting, they're eating the lamb. It's been prepared in the way that he called them to prepare it. There was a particular way. And there was a particular way that they were called to even eat it. See, here that with your belt fastened, your sandals on your feet, your staff in your hand It must have given him pause to think. Why? Meeting dinner. It should be sitting at the table, relaxing. No, no, no. Belt tied Sandals on her feet, staff in hand. Why? Actively participate In the Lord's Passover. They were dressed for action. They were prepared. And it was as if God was saying, I'm preparing you once nourished, now go out. Wait. Wait for me to pass over. Stay in that place where I'm protecting you. But dressed for action Be nourished, be strengthened. And then go out. In this manner you shall eat it with your belt fastened, your sandals on your feet, your staff in your hand, and you shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Suffered. They were fleeing from slavery. Remember that. The Egyptians had been oppressing them. They had cried out to God. He was now responding to their cries. He remembered his covenant. He was saving them from this oppression, from slavery, and the Lord wanted them out quickly. Should make us think about being separated from sin. That slavery That they were in for 400 years has something to do with sin has much to do with pointing us to our sin and then about being able to flee And you shall eat it in haste As those in Judah and Jerusalem were going out into the wilderness to be baptized by John. And as some of the Pharisees come out. John says this He said therefore to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, you brood of vipers, who warned you to flee From the wrath to come. You see the picture. John is out preparing the way for the Lord. And he is baptizing a baptism of repentance, a baptism that would seek to separate them from their sins or at minimum confess their sins. and turn away in preparation from the Lord coming. And here he's even mentioning the idea of fleeing from God's wrath. And you shall eat it in haste. Who wanted you to flee? Remember Joseph? I've been studying Joseph. How he fled from Potiphar's wife. He did not want to engage in that which would bring the wrath of God upon himself God had warned him to flee. In haste you shall eat it. It's the Lord's Passover. But thanks be to God. That you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. And having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. Isn't that what was going on in Egypt that night? Once slaves of the Egyptians Now being called to be obedient to God, to hear his commands, to eat in haste And to leave. Leave the land of the pagans. Be set free. Become slaves of righteousness. Eat it in haste, prepare to live righteously before God Well, we're told that while in the house they were to eat the flesh that night, roasted on fire with unleavened bread and bitter herbs. They shall eat it. It was not just something that smelled good, that that created this wonderful uh odor in the house. No, they were to eat it. Eat very specifically the flesh to ingest it, that which was your sacrifice, that which had the blood which has been placed upon the lintel, which has been placed upon the doorpost, which which is the reason why you're marked out, which is the marking out so that the Lord and the destroyer would pass over and not enter in, eat the flesh. Jesus Christ said, whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day My flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in Now I don't think that John verse chapter 6, 54, and 55 and 56 is really a description of the Lord's Supper. That we can see that there's some imagery in the Lord's Passover, that Christ picks up himself. As he's speaking to those who would hear him, he's telling them that they must feed upon him if they will be saved. Isn't that the idea? The Israelites had to slay the lamb, place the blood on the post and the lentils, and then feed upon the sacrifice. Jesus Christ tells us that we must feed upon him in order to be saved. The Israelites needed supernatural strength And as we consider the Lord's Supper, we're going to be seeing that we need supernatural strength to continue that spiritual battle which we're in today. Well that was the Lord's Passover. That was to be observed by the Israelites Throughout their generations. Yes, it was a it was a once-in-time event, the passing over, the tenth plague, the saving of the firstborn of the Israelites, the death to the firstborn of the Egyptians. But it was to be observed. It was a festival to be observed throughout their generations. Just one more thing. There was a second feast which the Israelites were called to observe. And I've been pointed to this by Naham Sarna's book called Exploring Exodus. I thought it was very interesting and very helpful. The second feast that the Israelites were called to observe. Called the Feast of Unleavened Bread Verse 14, I'm going to read a bit more of this chapter for us. Verse 14 of chapter twelve of Exodus, this day shall be for you on Memorial Day, and you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generations, as a statute forever you shall keep it as a feast. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. On the first day you shall remove leaven out of your houses. For if anyone eats what is leavened from the first day until the Sabbath, that person shall be cut off from Israel. On the first day you shall hold a holy Sabbath, excuse me, a holy assembly And on the second day a holy assembly. Excuse me, the seventh day a holy assembly. No work shall be done on those days. But what Everyone needs to eat that alone may be prepared by you. And you shall observe the feast of unleavened bread, for on this very day I brought your hosts out of the land of Egypt. Therefore you shall observe this day throughout your generations as a statute forever. In the first month, from the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread until the twenty-first day of the month at evening. For seven days no leaven is to be found in your houses. If anyone eats what is leavened, that person will be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he's a sojourner or a native of the land. You shall eat nothing leavened in all your dwelling places, you shall eat leavened bread Well, there you have it. The Feast of Unleavened Bread. We have the Passover, and we have the feast of unleavened bread. Notice notice the difference in titles. The second one is called a feast. If we were to turn to Leviticus, Leviticus chapter 23, we would read there in the first month on the 14th day of the month at twilight is the Lord's Passover. Verse 5. And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to the Lord. For seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. If it wasn't clear in Exodus, it's crystal clear here in Leviticus, there are two different things going on, certainly connected. But two things. The Lord's Passover on the fourteenth day And beginning on the 15th day for the next seven days, the Feast of Unleavened Bread As noted by Sarna, these are two distinct festivals. I think that helps us as we consider how this flows out and then into The Lord's Supper. Now listen to how Ezra characterized the feast of unleavened bread. Remember, in Ezra The people, the exiles, have been allowed to return to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple. Very specific purpose. The king Sends them back, King of Assyria, sends them back to Jerusalem for the specific purpose of re-erecting, rebuilding the temple. This was a great thing in the history of redemption The people of God being allowed to return to Jerusalem to re-establish that place, that center of worship. Now as they do, just listen. Listen to this in Ezra. Um On the fourteenth day of the first month, the returned exiles kept the Passover. Let me in fact just turn to Ezra very quickly and uh and read that entire passage. Ezra chapter 6. Starting at verse 19, on the 14th day of the first month, the returned exiles kept the Passover, for the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together. All of them were clean. So they slaughtered the Passover lamb for all the returned exiles, for their fellow priests and for themselves. It was eaten by the people of Israel who had returned from exile and also by everyone who had joined them and separated himself from the uncleanness of the peoples of the land to worship the Lord the God of Israel. Look at that, think of that is very similar to what we have in the first Passover. The Hebrews were separated from all Egypt from the uncleanness of the land. Ezra And the people do the same thing. Verse 22. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy. But the Lord had made them joyful and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, so he aided them in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel. Again, we see very clearly these two separate things going on as they return, as they're as they're building, rebuilding the temple, as it's been dedicated, it's been finished. They have the Passover, they eat the Passover, and then they celebrate the feast of unleavened bread seven days. Notice these words with joy. For the Lord had made them joyful. What's going on here? Let's just think about those words for a minute. They're not associated with the Passover meal. Those words are associated with the feast of unleavened bread. Think of the resurrection. Now after the Sabbath Toward the dawn of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb, and they see the angel, and he speaks to them, telling them that Christ, he, Jesus, is not here, for he has risen. As he said, come see the place where he lay. And so as they do, what do they do? They depart quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy and ran to tell his disciples, do you see the connection? Joy is clearly associated with the resurrection. The Passover being clearly associated with death The feast of unleavened bread, associated with joy, with the harvest, with new life Lord's Supper appears to flow out of both of these Old Testament observances, festivals. The Old Testament ceremonial rites, Lord's Passover. And the feast of unleavened bread. As we see in the supper, we are remembering the death of our Savior. But we're also rejoicing in his resurrection. Both of these Old Testament passages, both of these Old Testament rites, I think must be seen together in order for us to begin to appreciate what the Lord's Supper is and what it represents to us. Well, brothers and sisters, well Lord willing, next week we'll jump into that definition that we began with. and start to break that down. I'm hoping that this kind of introduction into the Lord's Supper is helpful to us As we go forward and then try to unpack all of what we have in the Lord's Supper, as we do, referring ourselves back to these Old Testament ceremonial rites It's the Lord's Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Amen.