So tonight, brothers and sisters, we're going to continue our study in the means of grace. We're going to be looking at baptism. And even as we do, I want to say up front a little qualifier, we're just gonna touch upon baptism tonight. There's so much more we could be studying and and thinking through and um um opening up, but just know that we're just going to be skimming over the top tonight. Well let's let's review where we've been so far. As we are studying the means of grace, what we're really doing is is looking at those ways, those ordinary means of grace that God uses to help us, to guide us in our pursuit of that personal holiness, that divine communion. uh that uh Herod speaks of here in this article that he wrote. Uh we see throughout scripture that God calls us uh to be holy as He is holy, not that we're ever going to make it to that point of perfection, but in our Christian walk after conversion We're to be those that grow in grace. And the question for us, the question we've been asking is how do we do that? How do we grow in grace? What has God given us that we can grow in grace. And we have talked about grace many times. We see that big umbrella of God's grace, which we've broken up into common grace. and saving grace. And then as one is saved, as one comes to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior and believe upon him and trust in him, then the question becomes how do we grow? How do we grow in that grace? And that's where these means of grace come into play for us. And so we've outlined our study and broken it up into three heads, word, sacraments, and prayer. We've been speaking about and had three lessons in this so far, the study of the Word, the private study of the Word. We found that that the word is to be studied privately by each of us, and it's to be read, it's to be heard, and is, as we do that, it's effectual to our salvation, or we might even substitute for that word salvation. Sanctification or growth in grace. We saw question 90 in the shorter catechism that the word may become effectual to salvation. We must attend thereunto with diligence preparation and prayer. Receive it in faith and love laid up in our hearts and practice it in our lives. That's a very compact answer as to how we use the word to grow in grace, how God uses it within us. to cause us to grow in grace in our private study. Well, we also uh found that the preaching of the word was one of those means of grace that God uses to draw us closer to Christ. And here, Colossians is just an excellent verse. Colossians 1, 28 Where we're told so very clearly, as Paul writes to those in Colossi, him, meaning the Lord Jesus Christ, we proclaim. You could substitute the word preach, him we preach, him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may present everyone mature in Christ. And so we see the idea there. As Paul, the preacher, exhorts as he teaches, as he edifies, as he preaches What's he doing? He wants to uh make everyone mature in Christ. He wants them to grow in grace. That's the idea behind preaching of the word to those who are saved. Present everyone mature in Christ. We've seen that. We reviewed that. Well Last week we began on the sacraments, word sacraments, and prayer. We jumped from word, we finished our study on the word and Then we jumped into sacraments generally, and we did a general study on the sacraments as a means of grace. And we saw that there are holy signs and seals of the covenant of grace. Very important for us to remember that. as we're now going to be studying baptism and the Lord's Supper. And those signs and seals are not the thing itself, but what they do is they represent Christ and his benefits to us, to those who are the recipients of the sacraments, those who are taking the sacraments, those who are enjoying the sacraments And they confirm our interest in Christ. And they are also that which creates a separation between those who are in the church, we'll see that tonight with baptism, and those who are out of the church. It also puts a separation between those who are being fed, those who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, and therefore are taking the supper, and being fed and nourished Creates a separation between those and those who are not able to come to the table, are not being fed by the supper, are not hearing the word of God creates that separation and then solemnly to engage them to the service of God. You see, we're going to see tonight that it's it's a two-way street, so to speak It's the means of grace. The sacraments are means of grace where God is pouring out his grace upon us, but there is also a response required as we receive that means of grace. that engages us in the service of Christ. And so there's an action involved, there's a participation involved By those who are taking the sacrament, be it baptism or the Lord's Supper. Well, that's the review of where we've been in the means of grace Tonight, as I said, we're going to be focused on baptism, one of the two sacraments, as a means of grace. Well, I said, if you have your Bibles with you, turn to Genesis 17. We're going to read their portion of this. And this is the covenant That God makes with Abram, and he changes in this covenant his name to Abraham. Let's give attention to the reading of God's word. When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram. And said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you and may multiply you greatly Then Abram fell on his face. And God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham. For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you And I will establish my covenant between me and you, and your offspring after you throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God And God said to Abraham, As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house were bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring, both he who is born in your house, and he who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised So my covenant, so shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant Any male, any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. strong reading of God's word. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that you would help us as we have read your word. We pray that you'd add your blessing to it and guide us, Lord God, as we seek to study a little bit upon this means of grace, this uh sacrament that you've given to us called baptism. Help us now, Father, we pray. Help us to glorify your name and to exalt the name of Christ. We pray these things in his name. Amen. Well, let's um let's jump into this uh this idea, this concept, this uh truth This command of baptism as a means of grace. Well, what is it? What is baptism? The word is not to be found in the Old Testament, only in the New. That creates some Possibly difficulties for us. Maybe some questions might arise from that. Were there any baptisms in the Old Testament? Well, in a way no, but also in a way yes If the sacraments are holy signs and seals of the covenant of grace, we've already learned that. And if the covenant of grace was instituted by God all the way back in the Garden of Eden, remember Genesis 3. 15 That's the beginning we see as from a human perspective of the covenant of grace, as God is now speaking to uh to those who have sinned against him. And as he does so he speaks to to each And he tells the serpent, I will put enity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise His heel, covenant of grace, instituted from our perspective there in the Garden of Eden. Well, if those two things are true, and and they are then shouldn't there be some sort of baptism in the Old Testament? We read about it just now The word baptism was not there. But as we read through Genesis 17, we saw that God was establishing his covenant with Abram, who had now become Abraham, the father of nations. And the covenant was not merely between God and Abraham. It was between God and Abraham and the offspring or the descendants. of Abraham throughout their generations. And and here's the catch. Here's the significant, well, many significant things, but here's one significant thing. The promise, the covenant, was to be God to Abraham and to his offspring and to his descendants. I will be their God. This is probably the most significant promise that we have in the covenant, in the covenant of grace, where God covenants to be our God It's significant. The name of God, Elohim, was given to the offspring of Abraham. I'm hoping you're beginning to see some connection between circumcision, the covenant of grace here, the sign of circumcision, the sign of the covenant of grace here in the Old Testament. And then the sacrament of baptism. Here, God places his name. He gives his name. To the offspring of Abraham. I will be there, God, to be God to you, to be Elohim to you. That's the covenant of grace given to Abraham and given to us This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. The covenant promised to be God to you was so connected with the sign, sign and seal, circumcision, that God actually equates the two. This is my covenant. You shall be circumcised. Now it's not baptism, but it's a sign and a seal of God's covenantal promise, of God's placing his name on the descendants of Abraham. to be their God. It shall be a sign of the covenant. Circumcision is a sign of the covenant of grace. Very clear. It couldn't be much clearer than we have here. Here then in the Old Testament is the sign and seal of the covenant of grace, circumcision. Well, circumcision clearly involved cutting, and thus the shedding of blood, the removal of foreskin, pointed to the need For the Israelites to be separated from their sins, or for the Israelites to mortify or cut off their sins. It's a very graphic picture. But isn't that exactly what the sign is pointing to? Their need, the Israelites' need, to shed their sin. And the ceremonial rite also pointed to the need for blood to be shed, so that the punishment for their sins could be atoned for. You see, both of those things are caught up in circumcision, and there's likely more, but at least those two things, very important for us to think about those things as we are headed towards baptism. Clearly circumcision was a sign and a seal of the covenant of grace. If we go back a couple of chapters in Genesis, as God is Over time, entering into covenant with Abraham in Genesis 15, he calls Abraham to bring to him a heifer or a cow. Female goat, a ram, turtle dove, and young pigeon. He is to prepare these in order to enter into covenant with God. What happens here? Well he cuts them in half, lays each half over against each other, so that that flaming torch Flaming pot can go right to the middle. That's how they entered into covenant in those days, staying to those who were entering Well, in order to slay them, they had to shed blood. Here circumcision, a sign and the seal of the covenant of grace, the covenant was established through the shedding of blood. Always pointing to the need for Christ to shed his blood. Well, although then there's no mention of any such ordinance. This is a quotation from James Bannerman. He's referring to baptism now. This is a side note. There's no mention of baptism in the Old Testament, no mention of any such ordinance in the law of Moses. Yet As Bannerman notes, there seems to be no doubt that it was a ceremony that had found its way into the practice of the Jews. I don't want to get us too sidetracked on this. I want us to see circumcision. as that which the Scripture says it is, the sign and the seal of the covenant of grace in Old Testament. But as people come from Jerusalem and Judea and the surrounding region to John the Baptist, to the Jordan, where he was baptizing confessing their sins, we don't read that this is a strange thing that's happening. This is a new thing that John is doing, this baptism. And so there's an implication that the Jews, at least at this point in history, were somewhat accustomed to baptism. Don't know where or how or why, but there's some evidence of that. James Banner pulls it out. That's a side note. Don't make that the primary thing. Well, when Jesus Christ was crucified on the cross at Calvary, his perfect atoning sacrifice was the final, the ultimate shedding of blood that we needed, wasn't it? It was the shedding of blood that the Israelites needed. It was the shedding of blood that Adam and Eve needed. It was the perfect atoning sacrifice, the bloodshed of the Savior. After this, after this, once in time, all sufficient sacrifice, atoning sacrifice There's no need for the sign and the seal of the covenant of grace to contain with it a picture of cutting or of shedding of blood. Jesus Christ had done that. So now the sign in the New Testament only needs to point us back to that which Jesus Christ has done. Water. Water now points to the work of the Lord Jesus Christ in cleansing the children of God. You must see the cross as that once-in-time point in history when things change. In a sense. Because Christ is the fulfillment of the covenant of grace. All of the ceremonial rites up to that point in time were always pointing to the cross. And now the sacraments that we have, that we've been given by Jesus Christ, point back to the cross. It's important for us to see that as we understand the means of grace, God was not changing. Our steology was not changing. The doctrines of grace were not changing. But This once-in-time event of the Lord Jesus Christ sacrificing himself on the cross at Calvary Changes not our doctrine, but the way that we look back. Israelites were looking forward, we are looking back to the cross, and then we look forward To the return of Christ. Water now points to the work of Christ in cleansing the children of God. We see that, don't we, in scripture and throughout scripture as the psalmist David writes Psalm 51, as he is sinned with Bathsheba, and he is inspired by God to plead with him. You see in these two verses, just two verses of Psalm 51. This pleading that God would wash him. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my sin. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me. And I shall be whiter than snow. Then in Acts 22, as Paul is recounting, as Paul is recounting his conversion And now why do you wait? Rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling upon his name. Baptism doesn't save. But it represents, it points to that washing away of sin. Hebrews 9, 14. How much more will the blood of Christ, as he's comparing it to the blood of goats and bulls who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works. Isn't that what the blood of Christ does? Isn't that really the idea behind baptism? That water is pointing to that cleansing, that purifying. Of the blood of Christ. And then 1 John, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Yes, this is the idea. This is the theology behind baptism. Baptism then is a sign A sign of or points to the work of the triune God in cleansing and joining us to Christ We see it in each of these scriptures, don't we? Well, what is baptism? Here's the Answer given by the Westminster Larger Catechism. It's a long one. And if you have time, it's good to go back and read this. There's another slide we'll get at the end of this presentation. meditation, which I'm going to urge you to go back and look at. But this is a good one for you to look at, to think about, to to meditate upon It's full of scripture, and we're going to go over the fullness of scripture in this baptism. Baptism is a sacrament of the New Testament wherein Christ Has ordained the washing with water in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost to be a sign and seal. Important, fix that in your minds, a sign and a seal of engrafting into him. of remission of sins by his blood and regeneration by his spirit, of adoption and resurrection unto everlasting life And whereby the parties, look at that, parties, not just one, parties, baptized, are solemnly admitted into the visible church And enter into an open and professed engagement to be holy and only the Lord's. Are you seeing the two-way action here? The grace being poured out by and through this sacrament, and then that engagement as a result of receiving that grace To be wholly the Lord's and only the Lord's. Let's break this down. Before we break it down, let's get a quote from Bannerman. Baptism is symbolical of unseen and spiritual blessings. We never should think of the sacrament as the thing that it points to. They're different. They are clearly and closely related, but they're different. This sign. Change ahead. Isn't that the idea behind baptism and the Lord's Supper? There's signs. There's signs of unseen spiritual blessings. They represent something else, and they are blessings, and they are spiritual. We can't see them. It was a mystery to them. But they do involve change. The means of grace working upon our hearts. Bannerman continues the distinguishing practice in Christian baptism. That the person who received the ordinance was baptized into the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost was symbolical, get this, of his dedicating himself to the Father. Through his justification by the blood of the Son and his sanctification by the grace of the Spirit. Braman wants to make sure he included the Trinity there But do you see that the response that is actually caught up In in the sacrament of baptism, it's not just we receive. It's Also that exchange as we receive that we are in fact by and through it dedicating ourselves to the Father, to be only his, belonging to the Lord Jesus Christ. Through his justification, meaning the Son's justification, and to the sanctification of the Spirit Now, let's break down that Westminster larger catechism answer. He or they wrote that it was ordained by Christ. Clearly, we see that in the Great Commission, don't we? Go therefore, as Christ is about to ascend to his father, to go back to that place that he was from. He's about to, he's telling his disciples the last thing he says to them as recorded by the Gospel of Matthew is this, go Therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you. Ordained by Christ. It's a command. It's not a suggestion. It's not a good idea. It's that which Christ has called his apostles to, and thus the church to. to make disciples. And you see that once a disciple is made, so to speak, It's the work of the Spirit. Once a person is converted, then they're baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit is placed on them because they have been changed, because they've been had their supernatural change occurred to their heart. Thus heart of stone has been taken out. A heart of flesh has been put in so that they can come to a believing faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and then they're baptized. I'm talking expressly now about adult baptism. And that's one reason why I said at the beginning, we're only going to touch upon baptism tonight. We're really not going to get into infant baptism. But what I want us to see here is that Christ ordains it, Christ commands it. This is what the church is to do. Make disciples Placing the name of the Father, the Son, and the Spirit upon them in baptism, and teaching them All that he's commanded. Baptism is right in the center there. Ordained by Christ. First part of that definition that was given to us by the larger catechism In grafting and adoption, they're related. And we see that here in John 15. And this is the passage in which Jesus speaks about himself being the vine, and that if you're not engrafted into him, if you're not abiding in him, there's no way you can produce any fruit. You're going to be cut off. You're going to be thrown into the fire. In grafting. That's what baptism is a sign of That as one comes truly in faith to the Lord Jesus Christ, they are engrafted into Christ Baptism is a sign of that. It represents that, as the name of Christ is placed upon this one. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me, and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing Did you see what Christ said before he said that? You are clean because of the word I have spoken to you. See how baptism is placed in imagery here, even in John 15. Baptism, that washing with water, representing cleansing. And as one is cleansed then, engrafted into Christ Galatians 3, verse 27, for as many of you as were baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. Baptism, the sign, the seal, the covenant of grace, representing the putting on of Christ, the one who is fully righteous Think of that putting on Christ, being dressed in his righteous robes. Baptism being a sign of that. pointing to that, that truth. What else? Remission sins. That was. in that definition. And now while you wait, rise and be baptized and wash away your sins, calling on his name. Baptism doesn't really wash away sins. It points to it. It's a sign of it. Washing with water, cleansing away the filth of sin. Calling on his name. Baptism represents all of that. Why do you wait? Go be baptized into the name of the Father, the Son, Spirit. And as you are, you know that He will forgive your sins. Regeneration by the Spirit. That's what this signs and seals. A promise of God. Remember. Remember what What Abraham was told. Remember, remember the covenant that that was entered into to be your God. But before he did that, he told Abraham, or Abram, walk before me and be blameless How's that possible? Here it is. By the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit That's how it's possible. Baptism points us back to that. Baptism points us to that truth that it's the Spirit who washes, it's the Spirit who regenerates, and even the regeneration here is tied and connected to washing and renewal. You've got to be regenerated in order to be washed clean in the blood of Christ. Regeneration by the Spirit And then resurrection to eternal life. We might even want to jump to that and say, well, that's what it's all about. Well Significantly it is. But all those other things are so important. We really can't get to this eternal life until we've been through those other aspects of what the what baptism is pointing to, what baptism is a sign and a seal. For if we have been united with him in a death like his baptism into his death. We shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. Romans 6, 5. Resurrection unto eternal life. Baptism points to that. It's all inclusive What a blessing. Well, I want to quickly go through uh portions of the Westminster Confession as to what it also says We'll skip the first paragraph because the larger catechism in the first paragraph don't parallel, but they're very close to paralleling one another. We'll start with the second paragraph on the Westminster Confession. There are some other aspects to baptism that I want to make sure we get tonight. The second paragraph, the outward element to be used, is water. That should be fairly obvious. And not a whole lot of debate. I think there were at times that maybe the Roman Catholic Church wanted to add things to it. Just water. That's the command. That's what Christ said. And in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost or Holy Spirit. Spirit by a minister of the gospel lawfully called thereunto. This is a sacrament of the Lord Jesus Christ. He gave it to his disciples who became apostles. He gave it to his church. And so now the ministers of the gospel have stepped into those shoes, not completely. But they are the ones who are to administer this sacrament. And the sacrament is to be water and water alone, and most importantly In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. We have a triune God, and we're being baptized into that name The three persons, yes, but into the single living God who is and exists in three persons. Paragraph 3, the dipping of the person into the water is not necessary. Some of our Baptist friends would disagree with that. It's okay. But baptism is rightly administered by pouring or sprinkling water upon the person. Again, we're not going to go into a lot of detail. In fact, we're going to We could spend even the whole evening on discussing this particular point. I don't think that's profitable for us tonight. We could get into it in a different time But our Westminster Confession of Faith recognizes that baptism is rightly administered by pouring or sprinkling of water. We see that in Scripture. Paragraph four, not only those that do actually profess faith in and obedience to Christ, meaning adults, adults that profess faith should be baptized But also the infants of one or both believing parents are to be baptized. That's it. No one else We don't perform baptisms on people just walking by the church, stopping in for the afternoon, thinking it might be a good idea to get baptized. No, there needs to be a profession of faith, a sincere profession. of faith by adults, by those that are old enough to understand what it is to profess faith, they're to be baptized. And also their infants, of at least one believing parent. Again, we're not going to jump into the The doctrine of infant baptism tonight. That would again take some time. This is what our confession states, and this is what we can glean from scripture, and that's one of the reasons why We begin tonight with Genesis 17. The Old Testament sign and seal was to be placed on males eight days of age and older. It was to be placed on infants. These infants weren't professing faith. These infants didn't know who God was, but the sign and the seal of the covenant must be placed upon them. They were to be brought into the covenant family, even to the extent God tells Abraham that any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised shall be cut off. From his people he's broken like covenant. It was a command, even for the infants, to be circumcised. Paragraph 5, although it is a great sin to condemn or neglect this ordinance, yet Grace and salvation are not so inseparably annexed unto it that no person can be regenerated or saved without it. Or that all that are baptized are undoubtedly regenerated. You could sum this up by saying baptism doesn't save. And that will be very clear. And that's the idea behind this particular paragraph. That if one trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ, If one is repentant of their sins, we see that as being the things necessary to enter into glory on one's death. Trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ for their salvation, repenting of sins, is all that's necessary Baptism is a command, but yet if one has not been baptized, it doesn't prevent them from entering into glory. And alternatively, we can't say that every single person who is baptized, every single person who does profess faith and receives baptism, we can't say that that person is really and truly regenerated. Baptism doesn't save. The sixth paragraph tells us that the efficacy or the effectiveness of baptism is not tied to the moment in time when it's administered. Think of infant baptism We're not saving infants as they're baptized. Yet, notwithstanding, by the right use of this ordinance, the grace promised is not only offered, understand that, it's grace that's offered. But is also really exhibited and conferred by the Holy Ghost to such as that grace belongs unto. Catching that? It's actually exhibited and conferred to those God has chosen, to those God is saving, to those God has saved. Through his son, according to the counsel of God's own will in his appointed time. So baptism could be administered to an adult At the age of 22, who didn't really believe in the Lord Jesus Christ at that point in time. But at the age of 30, came to a saving faith in Christ Jesus. The baptism is not tied to that point in time when he was 22, but now it is effective at 30. That grace has been poured out. It's the idea. It's not tied to the time when it's administered. But it's poured out when and as God wills. I think that's what Jesus was saying to Nicodemus as he came that night And Jesus told him that he had to be born again in order to even see the kingdom of God. In order to enter the kingdom of God, he had to be born again And here's Jesus' response. Don't marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes, so it is with everyone who's born of a spirit. You see, which Jesus was telling Nicodemus? God worked as He wills by and through His Spirit to do that supernatural surgery on the heart, and we don't know when it's going to happen. Or if it's going to happen. Baptism isn't tied to the moment in time when it's administered but to that moment in time when God determines to apply. And then the last paragraph, the sacrament of baptism is but once to be administered unto any person. Unlike the Lord's Supper, which we take frequently, baptism is a once-in-time sacrament. Now, you may be thinking, well, what good is it for me today? I was baptized. you know fifty nine years ago well of much of much good this is what I'd like us to be considering thinking about meditating upon praying over. This is larger catechism and I got the number wrong. I think it's 166 maybe or 167. But how is our baptism to be improved? That's the question. I'm wondering, do we think of baptism that way? When we think, if we think at all of our baptism, do we think it's something to be improved? Maybe not. This is what the divines wrote. As they meditated upon the scriptures, as they drew out this doctrine of how our baptism continues to work in us throughout time The needful but much neglected duty of improving our baptism is to be performed by us all our life long, especially in a time of temptation. And when we are present at the administration of it to others, by serious and thankful consideration of the nature of it And of the ends for which Christ instituted it. We've been through that tonight in part. And the privileges and benefits conferred and sealed thereby. We've been through that in part. Tonight and our solemn vow made there. And remember, I was trying to get us to think about the idea that we are committing ourselves to God by and through our baptism. By being humbled for our sinful defilement, our falling short and walking contrary to the grace of baptism and our engagements Meaning our commitment to belonging to Jesus by growing up to the assurance of pardon sin and of all other blessings sealed to us in that sacrament. By drawing strength from the death and the resurrection of Christ into whom we're baptized for the mortifying of sin and quickening of grace by endeavoring to live by faith. to have our conversion in holiness and righteousness as those that have been therein given up their names to Christ And to walk in brotherly love is being baptized by the same Spirit into one body. Well, this will be posted uh on various platforms, Sermon Audio, I believe, Facebook. YouTube. You can pull this up and or you can just email me and I can send you a copy of Larger Catechism This would be a wonderful thing for us to pray over, to think through, to meditate upon how we are called. To be improving our baptism and all the benefits and the blessings that are involved in our baptism. Next week, Lord William, we'll begin to look at the Lord's Supper and see what a blessing that is to us as well. I'm gonna stop there. It's the end of our presentation for this evening