Amen. Please be seated. Now the reading of God's Word comes to us for the sermon text from Philippians chapter 4, verses 8 and 9. The letter to the Philippians, Paul's letter to the Philippians, we're in chapter 4, verses 8 and 9. We are we are moving towards the end, but we're taking it a little bit out of time. So here we are, Philippians 4, 8 and 9. Here one thing Paul gives, the instruction Paul gives is what he wants the Philippians to think upon or meditate upon is the language in this translation to meditate on these things. It's sometimes also translated, think on these things. What sorts of things ought they to think on? And why would they need to be reminded of that at this particular juncture in their lives when Paul writes to them? Those are some things to be considering and thinking about, remembering the situation the Philippians find themselves in. And uh Paul, in that setting, writes to them these instructions from Philippians 4, verses 8 and 9. This is God's word. Give your attention to it, and may He bless the reading of it. Finally, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure. Whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report. If there is any virtue, and if there is anything praiseworthy, meditate on these things. The things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, these do, and the God of peace will be with you. That's part of the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it, and may He also add His blessing to its preaching this morning. So again, very clearly in verse 8, you know, you get you kind of got a big list of a number of things there. You've got about eight things there, it looks like. Things that are true, things that are noble. Things that are just, pure, lovely, of good report, that which is virtuous or of virtue, and that which is praiseworthy. These are the things Paul says. Think upon these things, meditate upon these things. Why would his readers need to hear that? Now, you know, giving this list of about eight things, it's really just a very emphatic way of making one point. Think upon good things. Meditate upon good things, right? Everything that's listed there, these are all words that describe something good. Something good rather than something bad. Meditate on these things. These are all good things. These are things that are worth meditating upon. But the question is, why would Paul need to give this instruction at this particular juncture? And in the situation that the Philippians find themselves in. Well, why might the Philippians be tempted not to think upon what is good? Why might they be tempted not to focus and meditate upon things that are true, noble, just, pure, lovely, of good report, etc. Well here keep in mind what is their situation? What are they going through? We know the Philippians are going through some circumstances that that involve the possibility of some real anxiety Notice the verses just before this, in verse 6. There was need for Paul to remind his his readers to be anxious for nothing. Well he wouldn't say that unless there was a reason why they needed to hear that. He wouldn't say that unless there was some reason why they needed to be reminded not to be anxious. Because their circumstances were going to press them to be anxious. And so what is he saying? He's saying in the midst of the possibility of anxiety In the midst of the difficulties and the sufferings that you're facing, focus on what is good. Notice that that is basically the force of what Paul is after here. Be thinking on those things. Be thinking on the things that are good. Now again, remember the situation of the Philippians. You know, there's verse six of chapter four. It points us to the possibility of anxiety, the possibility of being anxious. Well back in chapter 1, verse 30, we noticed language there of a conflict that the Philippians were going through. There was a conflict they were engaged in. That's language that might even refer to a struggle They're engaged in the same conflict or struggle that Paul himself is engaged in, we read in chapter 1, verse 30. They have the same conflict which they saw is in him, and now here is in him. What is that struggle? What is that conflict? Well, in chapter 1, verse 29, they have been granted to suffer for the sake of Christ. Well, Paul also has been granted to suffer for the sake of Christ, as at the time when he writes Philippians, he is imprisoned in a prison cell, probably in Rome. And where he is, he is engaged in suffering for Jesus Christ. So we see the circumstance that the Philippians are in They are suffering for Christ. They are aware that Paul is suffering for Christ. They're also aware, very aware. that the possible outcome of Paul's imprisonment is being put to death. And being put to death wrongly. When Paul was imprisoned in Rome It was very much a bad circumstance in which he was put in prison. It was very much under the pretense of very false charges against him. They were charges that did not hold water in the Roman court when it came to every single official who examined the charges against him and the reason why he was in prison. They always ended up saying, This guy doesn't belong in prison, why don't we let him go? But there was this one hiccup that he had made this appeal to be heard by the Caesar, and so they kept having to hand him from one place to the next And so in in the in the midst of that, um, you know, you can think of all kinds of reason why there might be anxiety, why you might become anxious, troubled over the situation. Paul, their beloved mentor in so many ways. might possibly die. Might be put to death. Might be put to death for something that doesn't even make sense They too are suffering for Jesus Christ. Paul is suffering for Jesus Christ. Now can you understand then why these instructions come at the point at which they come? In the midst of all that, what would you be tempted to focus on? You would be tempted to focus on what you are suffering. You would be tempted to focus on the thing that is possibly causing you anxiety. But in the midst of that, Paul reminds the people, the Philippians. It says, put your focus on the things that are good. Put your focus on what is true. Put your focus on what is noble. Just, pure, lovely, of good report, virtue, and what is praiseworthy Now again, um part of Paul's situation also involved there were men who had evil intentions that were set against him. Um we came across this back in chapter one. Where there were these believers who actually were preaching Christ out of selfish ambition, trying to add affliction to Paul's circumstance, trying to make his life more difficult where he was in prison. When you have people who have evil intentions against you, and you know that that's true, what is it easy to focus on? It's easy to focus on that But notice what is Paul saying. Meditate on not those aspects of his circumstance. Notice uh uh meditate on what is good, what is true, what is just, what is lovely, pure, etc. So again, you can see how the thrust of what Paul is doing here is to direct the focus of the Philippians onto things that are good. Yes, there's difficulty. Yes, there's suffering. Focus on what's good. Focus on what's good in the midst of what is difficult and in the midst of what is bad. Now, we actually see Paul himself doing this here in the book of Philippians. He says so in chapter 1. In chapter 1, back where he is describing his situation in prison What does he say in verse 18? He says, in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Paul himself rejoices that Christ is preached. So we see these circumstances that seem completely not right at all, involving the reasons why Paul is in prison. Involving how he ended up there, involving what people are trying to do to make his life difficult when he is there. What does Paul do? Well, I would submit that Paul is the example here in Philippians of what it means to meditate on the things that are. Everything in our text. True, noble, just, pure, lovely, of good report, etc. What does Paul do? He does not meditate on the evil ambitions of those who are set against him. He does not even meditate upon the fact that he might be put to death wrongly. Paul meditates on that which is good. And that which he meditates on at the beginning of Philippians is that the gospel is preached, that Christ is preached. So again, here's the thrust of what Paul's saying. He's saying, there's difficulty you're facing, and there's suffering that you are undergoing. And you're tempted to be anxious. But he's saying the answer to that. Meditate on what is good. Meditate on what is true. Now, what is the thing that he has in mind? Now, of course, um, you know, this language sounds very general. Whatever is true, whatever is pure, whatever whatever is lovely. Um Some people have seen this language and they have noticed that it is fairly similar to some classical Greek language that describes classical Greek ethics Is Paul here teaching a form of ancient Greek ethics? Is he saying, go back to the ancient Greek philosophers and learn from them what is good and what is true and what is noble, etc. ? I don't think so. I don't think so. I think again what Paul has in mind, he's using language of things that are good, but what counts as good in Paul's mind? Well what counts as good in Paul's mind has been set out for us in the book of Philippians. Again, what does Paul value in the midst of what he's going through? He values that which comes from heaven. He values that which comes from God and from Christ. In the midst of his sufferings, he focuses on what God is doing to bring the gospel to bear on his situation and on other people. And this is what Paul does. Paul meditates on what's true, pure, lovely, just, etc. , by rejoicing that even through his suffering The gospel is being preached, and Christ is being preached. So what does it mean for us then to meditate on what's true, noble, just lovely, etc. , in our circumstance? Whatever our suffering might be, what does it mean for us to meditate on these things? It means to look at what God is doing. By bringing the gospel into the midst of this world. And it means finding a reason to rejoice in God's plan. God is able to work through Jesus Christ, even through our sufferings. And so when we uh remember that and rejoice in that, through whatever we're going through, then we are doing the thing that Paul says here in verse 8. We are meditating on, thinking on. You know, in our circumstances, there's always something, there's always a sort of a downside to whatever we're going through. And you could always meditate on that. But that's not what Paul says to do. Paul gives us the example. Paul himself teaches us what to do. He says When you think on what's true and noble, that's demonstrated by what he was doing when he was focusing on the gospel being preached, even through the things that he was going through. Now some other examples of this do come to us from the life of Paul. For here in verse 9, what does he do? He points the Philippians to his own example. He points the Philippians to the things that they learned and received and heard and saw in him, and told them to follow his example. Do these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Again, Paul left with the Philippians a pattern of faith and life that demonstrated the very things that he's teaching here. Now again, his own example in Philippians, as he's in prison, but also his earlier example in the time that he had spent with them on prior occasions. Now you know one s one great example we get that of of that comes in the book of Acts, chapter sixteen, for in Acts 16, we see some of the initial events in which Paul came to Philippi and preached the gospel in Philippi. But one of those very significant events was it sounds kind of similar. Um you know if you've been following in Philippians, where Paul is at in Philippians. What happened to him the first time he came to Philippi sounds kind of similar. He also then at that point got thrown into a dark, dirty prison cell on false charges, on unjust charges that didn't stick At that point he got beaten with rods, he got stripes laid upon him. The the beating went so bad that it was causing him stripes and wounds that were visibly bloody He got thrown into a prison locked into stocks. Well notice what does Paul do in Acts chapter 16, right around verse 25? He's in this situation. It's a it's a very terrible situation from every earthly perspective. If Paul were to meditate on what was wrong with his situation, he'd come up with lots of things to say, lots of things to dwell upon, lots of things to think upon, lots of things to meditate upon about what was wrong with his situation. But what do we find Paul doing? In verse 25 of Acts 16, at midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God. He's praying. He's singing hymns to God. He's able to rejoice even in that situation Now again, that's amazing. Surely this had a an impact upon those who were paying attention. It's through this incident that his jailer later on comes to Christ and believes in Jesus. Jailer later comes to believe in Jesus owing to the fact that that there's an earthquake that is seems to be a divine miracle And in the wake of this earthquake, Paul and the prisoners could completely get up and leave and get out of prison, but instead they stay there and they wait for the man. And then when the man sees that they're still there, he wants to know how they can be saved or how he can be saved, and he and Paul tells them But yet the the point here is the what's demonstrated here by what Paul um actually does here. Paul is giving the example of what it is to meditate on what is true, lovely, pure, just, etc. Focus on what is good. Focus on what God is doing in the midst of even a difficult circumstance here. You know, remember in Acts chapter 16, the whole reason why Paul got thrown into prison in the first place in Acts sixteen was because he had spoken a word that delivered a slave girl from being possessed by An evil spirit. And yet he gets totally mistreated for doing that, something that is only a good thing. And yet he doesn't complain about that. He simply rejoices that he's been used by God. And in the midst of that, he's able to find reason to rejoice. He continues praying and singing hymns to God. And this is what we see reflected in Paul's circumstance. So again, there's that question of in the midst of suffering. How do you do this? How do you do what Paul says to do? How do you do what Paul himself did? How do you find God to be the God of peace in the midst of whatever you're going through? How do you find him to be the one who gives you peace? Focus your heart and focus your thoughts and focus your meditations. on the good things that God is doing. For this is what we see. This is what Paul has to say, and this is what the Word of God instructs us in. How are we to find joy and peace in God in the midst of whatever is difficult? Remember in the midst of those things what God is doing. How God might even be using your circumstance to bring himself glory, and how God might even be using these things. To spread his eternal glory by means of the gospel of Jesus Christ, by means of your witness to the gospel of Jesus Christ. For this is what Paul did. This is what Paul told the Philippians to do. This is what the Word of God instructs each of us to do. And so then our calling, beloved, is very clear. In the midst of what we suffer, in the midst of what we go through in this life under God's good hand, think upon, meditate on what is good. And put your focus on what God is doing through Jesus Christ. For in this you will find possibly remarkable strength. Possibly remarkable joy in the midst of suffering. Possibly the ability to keep your sufferings in perspective in a way that befuddles the world. Possibly something that surpasses understanding and doesn't make any sense. For this is what Paul is talking about. Again, you notice in first seven, just before this. The peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Jesus Christ when you make your request known to God. There is such a peace that God gives That does not make any sense to those who witness it, and does not make any sense owing to the circumstances. There is such a peace that God gives. Yet here in Philippians 4, 8 and 9, the way he gives that peace has to do with, again, focusing on what God is doing, focusing on what is good in the midst of the suffering and the difficulty. So beloved, our calling here is clear. Yeah, read through the book of Acts, look at some of the things Paul went through to bring the gospel. And be amazed that he does it without hesitating and he he seems to show remarkable poise and joy in the face of things that would completely undo possibly one of us But we have the same God and we have the same Savior, and we have the Holy Spirit who is able to grant to us such joy, such confidence, such peace. Yes, even in the midst of suffering, even in the midst of many afflictions and difficulties. May we therefore be quick to look to him and do the things that Paul tells us to do May we be quick to focus on what is true, what is noble, what is just, what is pure. May we look to our Savior and look to what he is doing today. May we look to be used by him. So that he might bring his glory about even through us. May this be true of us more and more, as his Spirit works these things in us for the sake of Christ Jesus. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, we do come before you today giving praise to you, giving thanks to you for what you have spoken in your word. You point us to the Lord Jesus Christ. You point us to your great plan that you are working out through Him. A plan in which the gospel reaches the ears of many. And spreads the fame of you to the ends of the earth so that many people come to know you and turn away from worshiping their idols, and instead turn to serve you, the living God. And are given life by you in your presence forever, as that life comes to us through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. O Lord, we rejoice that you have given us such instruction For you give to us hope, where there would not be hope otherwise. You give to us a reason to have faith in you. Where left to ourselves, we would be left in darkness. And so we do give praise to you for this, that you have given us things that are true and noble and just And upright to think upon. And those things that we are able to think upon are the things that you are doing and the things that you have declared in your word. Your great plan, your great plan of sending your gospel to the ends of the earth. Oh Lord, help us to think upon how we might be witnesses to you in the midst of what we go through. Help us to receive our afflictions. As coming from you, under your sovereign hand, and yet aimed at our good, even when it's hard for us to understand. Help us to receive from you the peace that does surpass all understanding. For yes, Lord, sometimes we must confess that we don't understand, and yet you still grant to us peace sometimes, even when we don't understand. We ask that you would grant that to us more and more, especially when it's hard to understand. Yet, O Lord, help us to walk in your ways, help us to be people who faithfully image your glory and and show forth by our lives. such testimony to your grace and such testimony to your great plan in Jesus Christ that it causes other people to pay attention and causes other people to hear, to ask and to inquire of us What is the hope within us? Lord, we come to you as people who have no hope in ourselves, and yet we have every reason to hope because of your great work. And so we look to you. We commit ourselves to you in Christ's name, and we ask you to bless and to hear us and to receive us and to use us for your glory.