If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to Joshua, we'll be in chapter 2 this evening. I believe that's on page 210 of your Pew Bibles. We continue our study tonight Let's hear the very word of God. Joshua chapter two, beginning at verse one. And Joshua, the son of Nun, sent two men secretly from Shittim as spies, saying, Go! View the land, especially Jericho. And he went and came into the house of a prostitute, whose name was Rahab, and lodged there. And it was told to the king of Jericho, behold, men of Israel have come here tonight to search out the land. Then the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, Bring out the men who have come to you who entered your house, for they have come to search out all the land. But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them And she said, True. The men came to me, but I did not know where they were from. And when the gate was about to be closed at dark, the men went out. I do not know where the men went. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them. But she had brought them up to the roof, and hid them within the stalks of flax that she laid in order on the roof. So the men pursued after them on the way to the Jordan as far as the fords And the gate was shut as soon as the pursuers had gone out. Before the men lay down she came up to them on the roof and said to them, I know that the Lord has given you the land, and the fear of of you has fallen upon us. And that all the inhabitants of the land melt away before you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites Who are beyond the Jordan to Shion and Og, whom you devoted to destruction. And as soon as we heard it, our hearts melted And there was no spirit left in any man because of you, for the Lord your God, He is God in the heavens above and on the earth beneath. Now then, please swear to me by the Lord that as I have dealt kindly with you you also will deal kindly with my father's house, and give me a sure sign that you will save alive my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all who belong to them, and deliver our lives from death And the men said to her, Our life for yours, even to death. If you do not tell this business of ours, then when the Lord gives us the land, we will deal kindly and faithfully with you. Then she let them down by a rope through the window. For her house was built into the city wall, so that she lived in the wall And she said to them, Go into the hills, the persecutors, the pursuers will encounter you, and hide there three days until the pursuers have returned. Then afterward you may go your way. The men said to her, We will be guiltless with respect to this oath of yours that you have made us swear. Behold When we come into the land you shall tie this scarlet cord in a window through which you let us down, and you shall gather into your house your father and your mother, your brothers and all your father's household. And if anyone goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be on his own head. We shall be guiltless. But if a hand is laid on anyone who is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head. But if you tell this business of ours, then we shall be guiltless with respect to your oath that you have made us swear. And she said, according to your words, so be it. Then she sent them away, and they departed, and she tied the scarlet cord in the window. They departed and went into the hills, and remained there three days until the pursuers returned, and the pursuers searched all along the way and found nothing. Then the two men returned. They came down from the hills and passed over and came to Joshua, the son of Nun, and they told him all that had happened to them. And they said to Joshua, Truly, the Lord has given all the land into our hands, and also all the inhabitants of the land melt away because of us. Let's find a reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come now to your word. What a blessing. To be a people who can come and enter into worship and serve you and hear, Father, the goodness of your word. The revelation of yourself, of your son, the Lord Jesus. And so help us now, Holy Spirit, as we seek to know more of you, more of your Son. Grant us this tonight. Work in our hearts. Plant deeply your word there. And Father, apply it. Apply it powerfully to each and every one in this place. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you been moved to pursue the will of God? It's a question that we should be asking ourselves. Jonah, Jonah was moved to pursue the will of God Initially, as he was called to go to Nineveh, as you know the account of that particular prophet, he wasn't moved to do God's will. He actually ran in the other direction. seeking not to do the Lord's will. And so as he entered into the ship, and as that ship entered into the sea, we know that the sea grew more and more tempestuous. I think that means there was a great storm. The sailors were then moved to throw Jonah into the sea. They were moved by God. And the raging stopped. But not for Jonah He was cast into the depths of the sea at the bottom of the mountains, as if bars of the earth were wrapped around him. And what did the Lord do but appointed a big fish to swallow him? Strange means used To bring Jonah to his senses, to move Jonah to finally go to Nineveh Yes, Jonah was moved to pursue the will of God. In a sense, that brings us to our text this evening. As we've seen that the people, the Hebrews, the Israelites, were on their way to the promised land. They were right at the cusp of entering into the promised land. You know that Moses was called to bring the people out of Egypt. and into the promised land so that they could worship, truly worship the living God. You know, if you have followed our our study that their first attempt to enter the promised land was a failed attempt because they failed to trust God. They failed to be moved to pursue the will of God. And at first attempt they actually sought to stone the two of the twelve spies who said, Let's go in, let's Take the land, the Lord's given it to us. And so the Lord had them wander in the wilderness forty years. And now that forty years has come to an end, and Moses, who sinned against God, was not going to be the one to lead them into the promised land. No Joshua had been selected. Moses was dead. We've learned that. The leadership has changed. And now the word of God comes to Joshua to go arise, go over the Jordan, and enter the land. You and all the people. Prepare your provisions. That was the word that was going out to all of the Israelites. Prepare provisions, for in three days we're going to possess the land. All twelve tribes were told, some in different ways, but the simple message was prepare, we're going. Joshua was told to be strong and courageous. And there's a sense in which uh the text doesn't yet tell us how. How is it that he will be strong and courageous? And that brings us to our text this evening, chapter two of Joshua. As Joshua sends this second set of spies forty years later. Unnamed men, only two as opposed to twelve, in particular to Jericho, and that's where they meet Rahab. A central figure in this passage. A prostitute. A sinner who hides the spies Who informs the spies of the condition of the hearts of the people which have melted away because of the works of the Lord? The king's men were deceived The two spies were able to hide themselves unnoticed and returned to Joshua to provide the news of the melted hearts of the people of Jericho. You might sum up the teaching here in the second chapter this way. The Lord Jesus uses means and the fear of God to lead his followers into glory. The Lord Jesus uses means and the fear of God to lead his followers into glory. Tonight we'll see that in three points or three doctrines. First, the means of the Lord may surprise. Secondly, the works of the Lord are fearful And finally, the plans of the Lord fulfill his will. As we go through this chapter tonight, again, I'd like you to be asking yourselves Have I been moved to pursue the will of God? Well that brings us to our first doctrine, our first point, our first head. The means of the Lord may surprise. Well remember, this is the second attempt to spy out the land. In the first attempt, God had told Moses to select one man from each of the twelve tribes. So there are twelve men. going to spy out the land. And in numbers, each one of these men were named. Each one. And so we know exactly who was going up into the promised land and we know exactly their assignment. See what the land is. Whether the people who dwell in it are strong or weak, whether they're few or many. And whether the land they dwell in is good or bad, whether the cities they dwell in are camps or strongholds, whether the land is poor or rich. Be of good courage and bring some of the fruit of the land. That was their assignment. That was their call. But now the call is very different. Joshua, the son of none, sent two men. From Shittim as spies, go view the land, especially Jericho. That's it. That's your direction. Unnamed men, call the spy, go view the land, in particular, and especially Jericho. You might think or expect, look, the army is supposed to cross in three days. Shouldn't we know something about the land? Shouldn't we know something about the people there? It's been 40 years. Shouldn't we know what kind of weapons they have or you know how thick the walls are or maybe a path to get there? Where's the water we're gonna drink? Nothing. No direction. Nothing like the first flying trip. No details sought out. Just the house of a prostitute. Look at verse 1. And they went and came into the house of a prostitute. That's all we know. That's all that's told us. We have the spies, two men sent by Josh Joshua to spy out the land Entering into the house of a prostitute. Now we can speculate all day long as to why they chose this house, or even if they knew it was a house uh used for prostitution, but I'm not sure that's profitable. The text states that that is what they did. This was the will of God. These godly spies sent out to pave away for the people of God, sent to bring back a report that would be of help to the army of God. Sent to collect information that would guide and direct their plan of attack, sent at the direction of their new commander, Joshua, these two decide to enter a house of a prostitute House of sin, and not only enter, but in effect place their lives in the hands of this woman, Rahab. She's the only one named in this chapter. The only one named in this account, making her in the eyes of the author significant. It's surprising, right? Rahab, who knows who the spies are and why they were sent, she knows the hearts of the people in the city. She provides the only information retrieved by the spies. She protects the spies. She provides a safe place for them while the king's men come to the house. She provides a safe way home for them that they may carry back the information gained. This is part of God's providential plan to save his people, which has many parts. Many threads as he weaves together this beautiful tapestry that we know of as the kingdom of God. Rahab. Rahab becomes the one who births Boaz, who is the father of Obed. Who's the father of Jesse? Who's the father of David? Who's ultimately the earthly father of Jesus? God's providential plan, weaving together a beautiful tapestry that we know of as the kingdom of God But it's surprising that he would use Rahab, a prostitute, the sinner. The means by which God used to save the spies and ultimately help Joshua and the Israelites be strong and courageous As they cross over the Jordan to the Promised Land. The Lord does certainly work in surprising and mysterious ways. Isaiah tells us, my thoughts are not your thoughts, my ways are higher than your ways, my thoughts than your thoughts. We know God works in surprising and mysterious ways, sometimes using unexpected means to save his people Who would think of using a sinner? A sinner known by all to be a sinner, a prostitute, even Rahab, as an instrument in the hands of God. To provide a path of salvation. Who to think of sending his own son, his only beloved son, to the cross at Calvary? Who would think of saving a lost and vile sinners like you and me through the pure and righteous blood of his own son? Who would think of loving unlovable sinners by and through pouring out his eternal wrath? On his innocent son. Who would think of defeating Satan by doing exactly that which Satan thought would bring victory, sending his son to the grave? My thoughts are not your thoughts. My ways are higher than your ways. Well, so what? So the Lord uses surprising means to save his people, so what? Is that just for our musing upon tonight? It certainly was not for the spies. They had to see Rahab as an instrument of God. Jonah had to see the big fish. As being sent by the Lord, an instrument of God. So how does that affect the way we live for Him today? I suppose the real question is, should you be surprised that the Lord uses means that you don't expect? In other words, maybe you should expect that the Lord would use means such as people like Rahab to fulfill his plans. Why not? Why should you be surprised that Rahab was used of God to save the spies? Why is that surprising? Maybe it's because we don't think Rahab is worthy, worthy of being used by God Isn't that why we find Rahab's role surprising? Isn't that why we find that she's the only one named in this passage? Because we read the word prostitute or sinner and think that Rahab wasn't worthy to be used of God. A prostitute. She certainly wasn't worthy of being saved by God. This must reveal something about us, about the way we think of ourselves versus the way we think of those who we know to be an open sin. They are not worthy. You may be thinking in your heart right now, no, no, I don't think that way. But deep down somewhere in our unspoken inner souls, we really think they are hopelessly lost, of no worth. But that's not biblical, is it? Remember Jesus' words. Truly I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes Go into the kingdom of God before you. He was speaking to the Pharisees and Scribes. Why? Because the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed And the Pharisees didn't. Remember Mary, the one who was washing the feet of Jesus with her tears Remember the Pharisee whose house Jesus was in was saying, If this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman who is touching him. The Pharisee was saying, she's not worthy. Isn't that how we think of sinners sometimes? But you see, Jesus doesn't think that way. As from Mary, he says it, for therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much Jesus ate with tax collectors and sinners. He reclined at the table with them And as the Pharisees see this and they proclaim against Jesus, why is he doing this? He said, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. For I came not to call the righteous, but sinners See, Jesus knew that each and every man, woman, and child were created in the image of God, that each was an image bearer, and then each needed him to be washed clean from their sin. Have you noticed throughout the Gospel of Matthew how it is that those who had cast off their pride and humbled themselves before Jesus, those sinners were the sinners that he blessed. And announced that they had been saved by their faith. You see, it's those who know that they are sinners, wretched in the sight of God, who humble themselves before the King of Kings and Lord of Lords who belong. in the kingdom. This Rahab was a notorious sinner. Just like you and me. But the spies must have considered that she was being used of God, that she was worthy. They were moved to trust the means provided by their Lord. Rahab was not worthy because she was a sinner, but because she trusted and knew the mind of God. So actually, it's really not surprising that God would use her as the way, the means, as a humble instrument in his hands. to save the spies and to encourage all Israel. The call tonight is for you to trust the means used by the Lord to bring you into glory. Brings us to our second point, our second doctrine. The works of the Lord are fearful. You say, yes, I know that. Of course you do. Come and see what the Lord has done. He's awesome in his deeds toward the children of man. Even Isaiah, as he writes of the Lord Jesus, a child is born to us, a son is given, the government shall be on his shoulders, his name shall be called wonderful. Wonderful counselor, mighty God. God's works are filled with power and righteousness and justice and love and mercy and grace. We see it in the first book. of the Bible. Let there be light, and there was light. And here Rahab describes The providential, the saving, the powerful work of the God of creation regarding his people, the Israelites. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt. You must remember there was no internet in Rahab's day. No, these works were known. Not just by the Israelites as they defeat the two kings of the Amorites, but that which occurred many years ago, certainly before Rahab was born. For we have heard not only how the Lord brought the Hebrews out of Egypt forty years ago, but how the Israelites Much more recently, defeated Sion and Og the Emirate king. We have heard all the people of Jericho had heard of the works of the Lord What wonderful news. That the works of the living God are known. As we have our food pantries, we we have a connection with every single person that comes in here. The works of the Lord are known, his eternal power, divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world The works of the living God are known. Everyone in Jericho had heard, bringing men to a general fear of God. They've heard of the wonders of God as he brought ten plagues upon the Egyptians in order to secure the release of his people. They've heard of how valued the Israelites were in God's eyes. As he wrenched them out of the hands of an oppressive and wicked Egyptian nation. Isn't that how anyone would understand the ten plagues that were used by God to destroy that nation? God so loved his people that he would destroy Destroy a nation who stood in the way of his communion, his fellowship with his people, the Israelites, the Hebrews, the Jews And so Rahab indicates that the hearts of the people, meaning her people, have melted away like a snowman in July here in Maryland. Under the withering and blistering heat of the sun's rays, snowman would never stand, and neither would Rahab's people. And Rahab knew it. All the inhabitants of the land melt away before you. There was no spirit left. In any man because of you. And that brought Rahab to the right kind of fear. Rahab's heart has has clearly been changed by God. She was no longer one who would in pride look down upon the Lord and his people as the king did, wanting to destroy them. No, Rahab revered God, for she knew that he was able to accomplish all his most holy and perfect will. She knew that the Lord was giving the land to the Israelites, to the Hebrews. She knows she knew that the Lord had promised to do that and that he would destroy the current occupants, including Rahab and her family. She knew that she was headed to destruction if she didn't trust in the Lord. Just think of this for a moment. Rahab's house was on the city wall. It was in the city wall. That's how she let down the spies. In a few more chapters, we're going to read about the Israelites' attack on Jericho. And then it was by the walls falling down that the city was overrun. The Almighty God of creation would bring about the demise of Jericho and Rahab's house, which was on or in the wall. Rahab knew it But there was more to Rahab's fear than just the guarantee of destruction. I know that the Lord has given you the land. That He is God in the heavens and heavens above and on the earth beneath. And so she tied the scarlet cord in the window. Rahab feared God with the right kind of fear. You see, it's the right kind of fear that saves. It's not that anyone is saved by fear But if anyone truly knows God through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, if anyone that truly trusts in Jesus Christ, then that one will have the right kind of fear, the fear of God that follows from a knowing serving, loving, trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. And Rahab knew. She trusted that the Lord would bring about his promise to give the land to the Israelites. She knew and trusted that the God of creation Was able to do his most holy and perfect will, that he was almighty, that he would destroy all those who stood in opposition to him. Rahab knew that well. But her fear was such that she trusted the Lord would uphold, faithfully uphold his promise to save his people. And Rahab wanted to be included In that number. She wanted to be included in the people of God. She wanted to be named as the person of God. Do you have that kind of fear? Not a fear of destruction or punishment. That will come if you don't trust in Christ. But a fear that knows the Lord Jesus Christ intimately, personally, a fear that knows of his eternal love, a fear that trusts that he's keeping you until the day of salvation. Isn't that exactly what the Lord Jesus Christ does to the hearts of his people? Isn't that what he does when he changes the heart from stone to flesh? Isn't that what he's doing when a when a heart is converted? Doesn't the hardness of the heart just melt away Is that not what the person, the work of Jesus Christ does? Doesn't it cause the hardness that we're born with just to melt away? As one is touched by the power of the Spirit, is he not melting away all opposition to Christ? Is not that the Spirit's work? A work of melting? Melting away that refusal to confess sin. Melting away that which would not only hold on to sin, but seek to justify sin in your own heart. Melting away the desire to be autonomous or self-ruling. Melting away the rejection of the authority of Christ. Melting away that adamant refusal to submit to his holy and pure rule and reign. This is the spirit works. There is a breaking down of all this opposition to the rule of Christ over your heart. And there's also this breaking down of an opposition to the truth of Jesus Christ. As the Spirit melts a heart, it becomes tender and receptive to the very Word of God, the very words of Christ and the promises of God. Isn't that what Rahab knew? Her heart was melted. Her heart was tender. To the Word of God. For the Lord your God, he is God in heavens above and on the earth beneath. Is it not because the Spirit had convicted her, convinced her of this truth, which is also found in the Word of God? That her heart was melted. So that she could receive, truly receive, the Word of God. A tender heart desires to hear more of this truth, doesn't it? A melted heart is ready to receive and absorb all that Jesus has for it. Does that describe your heart tonight? Has your heart been transformed and melted? Like Rahab, whose heart was melted and moved to join herself to the spies, to the Israelites, to the people of God, to those who live in righteousness. She was moved to submit herself to the very will of the Lord. Have you been moved in this way? To pursue the will of God. Brings us to our third point. The plans of the Lord fulfill his will. If you've been noticing the plan of God in this passage, you it'd be hard to miss. Consider the fact that the spies enter Rahab's house and Now consider where that was located. It was located on the wall, right? Her house was built into the city wall. What a coincidence. No The spies needed to flee unnoticed. Remember they had been noticed as they entered into Rahab's house. That's why the king was able to send people to that particular house as Joshua sends them out in secret. They weren't very secretive as they enter the house. And so then now they needed help to get out. And so the Lord brings them to a house built into the wall. Then she seeked that let them down by a rope through the window, for her house was built into the city wall. Just a description of the perfect detailed plan of God, isn't it? The Lord had already planned for and provided an escape route. For the spies who weren't very secret about entering into this particular house, they needed to escape The Israelites needed the spies to escape. If they didn't, if they were captured, the intelligence, if we can put it that way, that they had gathered would not make it back to Joshua and to the Israelites. They needed the information that the spies had gathered So they could be strong and courageous. Isn't that how God works in the hearts of his people? We know that the Lord works in hearts in general, don't we? The king's heart is a stream of water in the hands of the Lord. He turns it wherever he wills. Proverbs 21 But does the Lord also work in the hearts of his people? I hope you're thinking, yes, of course he does. It's throughout Scripture. John 14, Jesus told his disciples, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives to you, do I give. Let not your hearts be troubled. Did Jesus work in the hearts of his disciples? Of course he did. As Paul writes to those in Philippi, and the peace of God which surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds. Not only does Jesus leave his peace with his people, with his disciples, with you tonight, if you're trusting in him, but it's that which guards your heart and minds. His peace guards you. It rules in your hearts, as Paul writes to those at Colossae. God does work in the hearts of his people. Jesus powerfully works in the hearts of his people. And in order for God to ensure that his plan comes to pass, he must work within your heart. And he does work. He works through encouragement and confirmation of the truth of his word. In this passage, the spies bring back. The only thing they bring back are the words of Rahab. Think of that. What was it that they gained in their venture into the promised land, into Jericho? The first set of spies bring back all kinds of intelligence about the size of the people, the fortifications, the fruit of the land. These two unnamed spies didn't bring any strategic information back, but they bring back the words of Rahab. Our hearts melted. There is no spirit left in any man. For the Lord your God, he is God. That's what they brought back. They brought back an account of the state of the hearts of those, at least in Jericho. Listen to their words as they bring them back to Joshua. Truly, truly, the Lord's given all the land into our hands. Remember the words of the Lord to Joshua in verse 3 of chapter 1. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I've given to you. And now the spies come back after three days in the promised land and they say, you know what? The Lord's right. It's true. Can you believe it, Joshua? Yes, be strong and courageous. Think of how those words encourage the warriors to cross the Jordan. As the word goes out, their hearts are melted. They know that the Lord is with you and He's sending you into this land to destroy us. We know it. We have no spirit left within us. Part of the Lord's plan is to confirm the truth of his word, which will in turn encourage his people. And motivate you to pursue his will. Have you experienced that? Has the Lord Jesus Christ ever shown you the truth of His word, the fulfillment of His promises, through the events of your life? Have you ever seen the confirmation of God's word being played out as you live day to day? Have you been looking for these things? You may be thinking to yourself right now, uh maybe not. Maybe you're not looking hard enough Remember, the Lord has told us no temptation is overtaking you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with temptation he will also provide the way of escape. Have you been provided a way of escape? If you have, then the Lord God is confirming his word before you in your life. Every time he gives you a way of escape. Thank you, Lord. You just confirmed your promise to me. The Lord does know how to rescue the godly from trials. Have you experienced that? Well, you undergo trials, yes, but have you been rescued from them? Have you been brought out of them after a season of being in them? And as you have, have you given thanks to the Lord? And you said, Lord, you just confirmed your promise to me. I've just experienced the fulfillment of your promise as you brought me out of that trial. Or maybe Jesus' promise I'll be with you. I will not leave you nor forsake you. Can you confirm that tonight? Christ has not left you And can you say with your brothers and sisters, thank you, Lord, for confirming your promises to me. You never left me nor forsaken me. That should motivate you to pursue the Lord's will, shouldn't it? Praise be to God. The Lord Jesus does use means and the fear of God to lead his followers to glory. Jonah. Jonah was turned around, wasn't he? The Lord used means to turn him around so that his will would be fulfilled. Rahab was the means used to save those spies. And to encourage the Israelites and to confirm his perfect plan and promise to them Praise be to God. Let us be looking for the ways in which God continues to confirm his promises to us and as Jesus continues to lead us into glory. Amen. Father and our God, what a joy it is For us to see how you work, how the means you use are may be surprising at first, but Lord God, we should not be shocked or surprised that you use sinners So help us to trust in the means you use to bring us into glory. Help us, Lord God, to, oh Father, to be fearful in the right way. Seeing how you work and how you've worked in the past and how you've worked in our lives. Oh Lord God, give us the right kind of fear. And move us, O Heavenly Father, move us by your Spirit to pursue your will all the way into glory. Help us, Lord Jesus, as you work all these things, as we seek to follow you. Bless your people, strengthen your people. And help us to give you all the praise. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.