Well let us turn to the uh scripture text today from second First Timothy chapter two. We begin reading at verse eight and read on through verse fifteen. First Timothy two verses eight. This is a continuation of our study in First Timothy. Let's now hear the word of the Lord. I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath or and doubting. In like manner also that the women adorn themselves in modest apparel with propriety and moderation. Not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing, but that which is proper for women professing godliness with good works. Let a woman learn in silence with all submission. And I do not permit a woman to teach or have authority over a man, but to be in silence. For Adam was formed first, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived. But the woman, being deceived, fell into transgression Nevertheless, she will be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith, love, holiness, with self-control. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. For us. In the last time we were together, we looked at on uh in Timothy, we looked at verses six and seven uh where we uh spoke about those verses Which teach us that Christ gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in good time, in due time, wherefore I am ordained a preacher and apostle I speak the truth in Christ. I lie not, a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. And now Paul tends from that section, he turns to, first of all, a matter of prayer, and then to a matter of Life within the body of Christ specifically focused on men and women and their uh activities within uh that body He expects men, for example, to pray in a certain way, along with a certain attitude. And he expects women to act in the body of Christ in a certain way with a corresponding attitude. And uh I do recognize that I venture into uh ground that is uh uh Controversial um and uh And yet I feel I must preach the word as it says what it says. So, having said that, first we will look at what Paul has to say about men. And he begins in verse 8. He says, whenever men pray, whenever you pray, and you're to do so in a certain way. With that word whenever, it's an interesting word in that it suggests to me that men are to be one busy about prayer. That prayer is not necessarily just limited to the times that you're in church. But it is something that anyone, men in particular, as Paul is addressing them, it's something that they can do anytime, at any place. In our closets, before our families, at meals, on our travels As long as you keep your eyes open when you're driving. In solemn assemblies, whenever men pray in public or in prayer There's a certain thing Paul wants men to be aware of as they pray. Not only does this word whenever men pray suggest busyness In prayer on the part of a man, but it also does reflect a certain piety, a certain piety that is the norm. Not the exception for men in the church. Christian religious activity is not limited to women. As if women are somehow the more spiritual. You know, sometimes you get that idea in churches where Where women can tend to dominate the entire life of a congregation. And they're the ones who are looked at as the spiritual leaders But though what the Apostle Paul is suggesting is that men are to show their faith. They are to show their faith in a godly way, not necessarily parading their prayers. But so that it's known that they're busy about prayer, and they're engaged in prayer Or that they can be someone that can be turned to to pray for someone else who has need Verse eight goes on to suggest I desire that men everywhere everywhere, lifting up holy hands. Lifting up holy hands. Kind of the gesture that looks similar to this. All of these suggestions that are all these things that Paul is teaching to the uh men of the church Are true because we now have freedom of access into God's presence. It's not simply that the Holy It's not simply that the high priest is the one who is responsible for prayers. He's addressing all the men. All the men are also to be engaged in this activity. And that's because we now have boldness to enter into the holiest place by the blood of Christ. In a new and living way. We have a high priest over the house of God, and because we have a high priest, Hebrews chapter 10, verse 19, and following says, let us draw near to him. With a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water And so as we lift up our holy hands unto God We need to understand what that gesture conveys. And we can turn in the Bible to at least two different places where that gesture is mentioned to get an idea of what's involved. Both places are in the Psalms. In Psalm 63, verse 4 The word is recorded in this fashion. Thus I will bless thee while I live. I will lift up thy names. In thy name. So Looking at that picture, the psalmist says that when we lift up our hands in God's name, we are lifting up his name. We are praising his name. And this becomes especially true because we are lifting up his names in the presence of God, in his spirit. sanctuary where it's really just us and it's just me and him This idea of lifting up our hands not only conveys the image of giving praise or glory to God But it also conveys another image, as Psalm 141, 2 reminds us. Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense, And the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. It that that that verse Seems to suggest, but doesn't seem to suggest, that connects the lifting up of hands with prayers And prayers before God have multiple functions. We if issue we We pray in order to praise God. We praise in order to thank God. We praise in order to present petitions to God And to glorify his name. I believe that this particular reference in Psalm 142 would suggest That when we pray with our hands lifted up, we are also asking God to hear our needs. That we are needy. We need your help. So you've got, on the one hand, you've got lifting up of hands symbolizes praising and thanksgiving to God. And on the other hand, it talks about our expression that we are needy. We need his help. Thirdly, Paul adds that we are to pray everywhere, men are to pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands And without wrath and doubting. Without wrath and doubting. A person who is praying and giving intercession Especially whether it's praying unto God or interceding for someone else can hardly do so in wrath For to do so would be to have anger in his heart toward God or toward someone else. In other words, in our prayer activity, we can't be duplicitous. Instead, uh, we can't lift up our hands in anger But we are, or with wrath, because those who we're praying to or for are to be the very objects of our Christian love. How can you say you love God one minute and are angry with him? Or how can you say, I love my neighbor as yourself, but I'll pray for you even though I'm angry at you That speaks to questions of attitude. That speaks to What is to be our attitude when we're praying, either to praise God or to intercede for men. We are also to pray without doubt. Even though this is addressed to men, I do believe it also applies to all of us as believers. One who has faith in Christ Jesus ought not to doubt when they're petitioning the Almighty to act. This denies, you see, if we doubt, if we're if we're coming to God with doubt that God can do these things, it denies our confidence in the omnipotence of God. It does make a mockery of our faith. Now we certainly should pray if thy will be done, but that's a far different thing than praying, doubting that God can do something. Our scripture reminds us that God is the God of the impossible. He does the things that are impossible for us. He makes them possible. In James chapter one, verse six, James writes, Let him let him ask, but excuse me But let him ask, ask in faith, not wavering. For he that wavers is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. I hope you will understand this next statement. In summary, James here is not so concerned about mandating the frequency of men's praying, although that's a part of it And he's not as concerned about their particular posture, although raising up of hands is good, but you can glorify God and express your need without the raising up of hands. of hands. As if this is the only way to pray. But what underlies what James concerned is concerned is is he's talking about what their attitude should be. be toward God in their prayers and their attitude toward others when they pray. Do you see that? Do you understand that point? I'm not trying to say that lifting up of hands or praying without doubt, praying Whenever we can. I'm not trying to say they're not good things to say, but that doesn't get at the heart of what James is trying to talk about. What he's concerned more about is the attitude in prayer. Keep that in mind, because it bears to what's about to be said regarding women. The reason it says I say that is because verse nine begins with this little phrase. In like manner, in like manner also, women adorn themselves in modest apparel With propriety and sobriety, which is the word for moderation or temperance, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly array. What Paul has been saying about men praying, he now is applying to how women are to dress and to adorn themselves. In women's snake, he is focusing on the outward appearance The like manner applies to Paul's words again not so much focusing on the clothing, makeup, and jewelry, although a gaudy presentation of that would would certainly be restricted by Paul, but I believe he's also trying to get at the attitude of women while wearing such things. The attitude of women while wearing such things, in particular, not just women in general, but wish to women in the Christian community. Men in the Christian community. Women and men as they interact with one another, say in the worship service in particular, because he's going to start making some statements about what goes on in in in the life of the church. In in and and worship is one important part of that as to what goes on I believe what Paul is laying out in these words regarding women is that women should be temperate. Another way of saying it, they should be modest in their apparel and their adornment before God and before others. This should not come as any surprise to anybody. Because the Bible speaks of Christians in general. All believers are encouraged to adopt temperance. Or moderation in all areas of life It seems that Paul is after addressing the woman's inward relationship with God as he's pointing out these matters. Even though, see, it's an outward show, but the outward show is not to mask It's not to be in any way directed at some sort of attention to oneself or to gain someone's approval It's to be focused rather, instead, what is your attitude? Don't go running out and saying, well, I can wear whatever I want to the worship service because it's just about my attitude. Well, your attitude is messed up. That's what I would say. Your attitude's wrong. But I do believe that Paul is also in a like manner. Addressing what's behind what you're doing. Whether it's men praying or how women dress. Again, we are told in a number of different ways throughout the Bible that moderation Is how Christians should live their lives. In fact, one of the qualifications for leadership in the church is moderation. 1 Timothy 3, verse 2 Also sometimes translated temperance, sometimes translated sober. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife Vigilant, temperate, or sober, of good behavior given to hospitality, apt to teach In no area of life are we to go to extremes and how we live the life. Rather, we are to be, to use brother Brother Cliff's word, we're to be balanced. We're to be balanced. as and how we live before the Lord and before others. Now we get to this uh Second part of verse 10, where it says this kind of modesty on the part of how women Live or dress, which I believe is also directed to their heart attitude about these things He says that this kind of modesty becomes women, becomes a woman, as she is professing her godliness with good works. Again, you see the inward reality should take place, should take precedent over the outward appearance. Now Paul offers up the words which uh have been are are cherry-picked and I believe taken out of context on many occasions These are the words which Paul routinely gets accused of being a male chauvinist pig. Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. In that verse, he is talking about women learning something. Well, where do women learn? Where do we learn? Where do all of us learn? We learn from our reading. We learn from Our families, hopefully our Christian husbands, but we learn also in the communion of the saints called the church. It doesn't really apply to say let a woman be silent And learn as she's reading her Bible. She's already silent. It doesn't really so much apply to her husband Let her keep silent as her husband is speaking about the things. Because I I I think that there's uh interchange that's permissive. possible in that kind of situation. But I think I think that Paul's major point that he is stressing here at this point, let a woman keep silent Under what she learns is what she's learning within the formal activities we call worship Now even s even saying that we have to be careful. I'm trying to be careful. Because we should not m apply that as saying that means that women have to be absolutely quiet during worship service Because if that were true, if that was Paul's point, then women couldn't even sing. I don't know that anybody teaches that Nor there not only could they not sing, but in other situations in the life of the church, they couldn't do that either. For example, lead a Bible study for women. Or teach Sunday school for kids or for other women The issue is not silence Nor is silence indicative of lower standing. But she is to learn silence. In all submission. There are many instances in the Bible of Christians submitting Think about it. The Bible talks about wives submitting to their husbands in Ephesians 5. 22. In Ephesians 5. 21, which everybody seems to forget when they look at Ephesians 5. 22, every believer is to be in subjection or submission to one another. Submit to one another in the fear of the Lord. And then he goes on to talk about wives. We're all to be in submission to one another. Wives especially to be submitted to their husbands. Children are to be submitted to their parents. 1 Timothy 3:4. Slaves are to be submitted to their master. Titus chapter 2, verse 9. Christians are to be submitted to their civil magistrate Romans 13, verse 1. Even Jesus himself is submitted. unto his father. First Corinthians fifteen twenty eight. And when all things shall be subdued under him, then shall the Son also himself be subject or submitted unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all It's not a dirty word. What do you want servants to do? Do you want them to rebel or do you want you want them to submit? This now it says a woman should learn submission. This Learning, submission. It needs to be learned. It won't come naturally. It doesn't come naturally for a woman to her husband. It doesn't come naturally to a man, to his boss. It doesn't come naturally to children and their parents. If you don't believe that, what is the first word kids learn? No. It's an odd kid that isn't speaking no as their first word. I mean often often there may be mom or dad or a variant of that But no is I you know I don't know what nobody's ever done the study as to what the the percentages are, but I know it's very high up there It has to be learned. It has to be learned by all of us. Adding to Paul's statement about a woman learning submission is this other thing he adds about women teaching. I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. At this point, I believe that what Paul is addressing at this point is particularly the woman's position within the church. And especially within the leadership of the church How the church teaches and how the church governs, I believe Paul is saying that men must lead. They must be the only leaders, and that women are not to be leaders. Now, I say that because Paul cites two reasons, in the text why he feels this way. And and you cannot I'm talk I'm saying Paul, I'm saying Paul, I'm saying Paul, but Paul didn't dream this up This is the inspired word of God to Paul. And the inspired word of God to Paul gives two reasons why women are not too the teaching in leadership roles in the church. I know I'm flying in the face of almost everybody in the Christian world today. It used to be, I can remember when women first were teaching in the churches, because I was in a denomination where The women it was the first church in America that allowed women to teach. And that was the United Church of Christ. It was the first church. And before long, you know, everybody got on the bandwagon. At that time I didn't know any better. I wasn't even a Christian. I didn't even care. These arguments at that time wouldn't have convinced me But that didn't matter. These are God's arguments. And the first thing he says After he says, Women are not to have youth authority over men, but to be in silence. Verse thirteen. Adam was formed first, or first form. than Eve. The first thing that he cites is for this argumentation is not cultural values But he cites creation values. He cites the temporal priority of the creation of man over woman. Adam was first, then came Eve. I'm not sure why that's the case, but that's what he cites. There's a temporal precedent of Paul over Eve. The second thing he says is verse 14. Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. In other words, now we are back, now we're at the fall in creation. And in the fall Eve did something that Adam didn't do. Eve was deceived. The serpent deceived her. She listened to the argument. She was seduced by the argument. I suggest that that that is uh Adam, when you when you read the text, Adam was never deceived The woman gave him, the text says the woman gave him the fruit and he ate. He knew full well that he was being disobedient. You might look at me and say, well, Pastor Taylor, Adam was disobedient, Eve was deceived, what's the big deal? They both sinned. The woman's deception is given as a reason why she cannot have authority over man. And that means she can't be teaching because when you teach you have to have authority. It's interesting to note that as you go through the book of Timothy Remember, this uh Paul is instructing Timothy how to lead the church in Ephesus. It's interesting to note that This whole issue of being women being deceived by modern day serpents comes into the pro the question, comes into the book of Timothy in the fifth chapter. If you go to the fifth chapter, look at verse 11 and following. But younger women, as he's talking about here material support, he says, for younger widows, widows refuse, for when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry. Having damnation because they cast off their first faith, and withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house, not only idle, but tattlers, also busybodies. Speaking things which they ought not. I will, therefore, that the younger woman marry, bear children, guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully. And then he adds this Little statement. For some are already turned aside after Satan. In Timothy's own church In the church that Paul started and labored and is turning over to Timothy, some women in the church have already turned themselves aside to Satan. They have, in other words, they've been deceived. It comes up again in 2 Timothy chapter 3, 6 and 7. For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins away with diverse lust. It's not that we're all not subject to deception, but it is that there's a special susceptibility that women seem to have. have with regard to spiritual matters to deception, which Paul is saying is something they should not, why they should not teach. or have authority over a man in the context of the life of the church You also have to factor into this as a part of the curse The woman is said to, as we read in Galatians, as we read in Genesis 3, the woman is said to have a desire for her husband. But it goes on to say, but he shall rule over you. Is it not the case that this is an outgrowth of part of the curse that women are not to have teaching responsibility over men In the life of the church or authority over men. Even though Paul singles out Eve here for deception and Adam for his He doesn't single Adam out at all. Adam is not let Scot free because elsewhere Paul singles out Adam. And he writes in Romans chapter 3, verses 12 through 19, which are those famous subject the famous section about Adam is the first created versus Christ. The new Adam. And Adam fell into sin. Adam did this and Adam did that. And we sinned in Adam. There's no mention of Eve. It's all Adam. And then you get to First Corinthians fifteen, where he carries over uh and summarizes Romans uh five, twelve through nineteen. And says in verse 21, for since by man came death, by man also comes the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, S even so in Christ shall all be made alive. My point there is simply that Adam isn't off the hook. I stole my last sentence previously and shot my fire. But I'll I'll say it again I think we need to understand this, that Paul's arguments are are creationally based And from a perspective of sin based, they are not in any way reflective of the contemporary society For believe it or not, the early church was far more accommodating and amenable to women than the culture. Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. In sorrow you shall bring forth children, thy desire shall be for your husband, and he will rule over you. I hope this helps understand women in church. I hope that understand I hope you understand that What's happened in the church has followed the lead of those who don't love God and don't love his word and have attempted to reverse the curse. They wouldn't say that. They aren't even cognizant that they're doing that. But that's what they're doing. It's an attempt to reverse the curse God rest the word to you. Amen. Our Heavenly Father We pray we pray, O Lord, that um people would listen, they would hear the truth They would not try to run away from the truth. They would not try to dismiss it. They would not try to call it old-fashioned. Sinful, uh prejudiced, racist, chauvinistic Give them ears to hear and hearts to believe God's plans are such that we may not always understand why, but one thing we better understand that his word is right. Right for his people. In Christ's name we pray, amen