Now, direct your attention to the book of Amos and the third chapter. And we will be looking at tonight from verses 3 to 8, but I will start reading in verse 1 of chapter 3. So hear now the word of the Lord. Hear this word that the Lord has spoken against you, O children of Israel. Against the whole family which I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying, You only have I known of all the families of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities. Can two walk together unless they are agreed? Will a lion roar in the forest when he has no prey? Will a young lion cry out of his den if he has caught nothing? Will a bird fall into a snare on the earth when there is no trap for it? If a trumpet is blown in a city, will not the people be afraid? If there is calamity in a city, will not the Lord have done it? Surely, the Lord God does nothing unless he reveals his secret to his servants, the prophets. A line has word. Who will not fear? The Lord God has spoken. Who can but prophesy? And thus far ends the reading of God's Word. And I'd like to speak to us tonight on the subject of the revelation that the Lord gives to his people and the very act of mercy that that giving of revelation reveals. Tonight, as we look at these verses, we find ourselves initially from verses 3 through 6. being confronted with a series of questions. They're questions that most for the most part have an obvious answer. May not be always necessarily clear to us. Because some of the circumstances are that that are spoken here are things we don't have a lot of familiarity with. For example, lions roaring So but but I think we get the gist of this these verses three through six with a series of questions that the Lord answers that really have obvious answers to the people that he is uh addressing this to The effect of this section, one question after another, is to establish This important point, namely that God does speak to his people. And he speaks to them his words by the prophet or by the prophets. And Amos, God's prophet, has something to say to the people of God living in the northern kingdom before its destruction. Even and in some ways what Amos has to say is relevant to us as well. But it's at this point it's specifically God speaking to those people of the northern kingdom that the that that telling them about what that destruction is coming and why why that is going to occur. Now, again, as we look at these uh Series of five statements and questions from verses three through six. We see that essentially the questions posed would be very obvious, would have very obvious answers to the to the listeners. Can two walk together except they be agreed? Obvious answer, yes. That there needs to be agreement by two to go in a certain path for them to walk together along that path. It points also to the fact that God and Amos are walking together with regard to Israel's presence. Spiritual condition. Will the lion roar in the forest when he hath no prey? Probably, and and again I'm kind of guessing here because I've not been around lines a whole lot, uh, but I think the answer here is Yeah, he will roar in the forest if he has no prey, because he's announcing his presence and he's announcing that he's hungry. And uh and in a sense he's giving them a warning, a warning shot that there is anybody there or anything there, uh you better watch out, because I'm here, I'm hungry, I'm on the prowl. Will a young line cry out of his debt if he has taken nothing? The answer there is probably no, he won't. If he hasn't taken something, he's also probably hungry, and he wants, he doesn't want to scare anything off that might be nearby. Can a bird fall in this snare upon the earth where there is no trap for him? Shall one take up a snare from the earth and have nothing and take nothing at all? In other words, if no bird is snared, there will be no bird snared if there is no trap. And and if you've got a trap for a bird, why pick it up when there isn't any bird there? It's still a good trap. It's still armed and ready to do work, it just needs the bird to come by Shall a trumpet be blown in the city and the people not be afraid? Long before the days of telephones and telegraphs, or or radios, or the internet. one of the ways to signal within a city that uh there was approaching danger or an approaching enemy or intent on capturing the city or besieging it was for someone to sound the trumpet, the sound the alarm uh that uh that uh the enemy is coming and unless you get out of the way uh you're likely to be uh destroyed And if people can't get out of the way, when they hear the trumpet blow, they know that there's something serious that may happen to them, that there may come fear in their life when they hear the trumpet sound. Some of you may have grown up in a in a rural rural setting. Did anybody grow up in a small town here besides me? In a in a rural, not urban setting Well, one of the phenomena that's a little bit similar to this, in a small country town, the fire siren will go off Because um and and and and then and I remember from my youth that a certain number of rings on the fire siren meant that The fire was located in this area. And another set of rings meant it was located in another area. And because we had a volunteer fire company, when the fire siren went off the the volunteers, that was the signal for them to get into their trucks and either get to the station if they could or if they couldn't to go into the general area where the they they would find a fire and be there ready to help. Kind of a similar kind of thing that happens in a in a small town. Not exactly the same as the trumpet sound But long before the days of effective, more effective instantaneous communication, this is the way it was done. Shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord hath not done it? This is a statement, the answer to which is yes. The idea is that whatever happens is due to God's providence. If evil befalls a city It has to be in accordance with God's providential decree. Although God is not the author of evil, he is sovereign And he will bring catastrophic judgment to those in a city who are against him. And we see this played out on the pages of the Old Testament over and over and over again. And so many times we see it done. But The important thing is, and what I think is rather astounding, is that God here in this passage And beginning in verse 7, he announces to the people there in northern Israel. the in the kingdom of Israel. He announces to them that he's about to do something, but he's going to tell them What he's going to do by the his messenger, his prophets. Surely the Lord will do nothing But he reveals his secret unto his servants, the prophets. And they in turn have a message from the Lord, and they're not going to be silent. They're going to share that message with the people to whom the message is about, for whom the message is about. And hopefully, the whole idea is that as God speaks and he threatens judgment for their wickedness, that they might change, they might repent and turn aside and not suffer the catastrophe that God says He is bringing. But it is the case, is it not, that when God speaks to his prophets in the Old Testament, and they in turn speak his secrets to the people involved, that is it not that that's that's revelation God is revealing his plans. And he there there's there he calls them his secret plans, but they're not secret in the sense that he doesn't hide from his people what he's about to do. And the prophets become they're called my servants, my servants the prophets. That phrase keeps coming up repeatedly. You saw it in the do in the Jeremiah passage that I read tonight from Jeremiah 7. My servants the prophets will declare my will. And so God is giving his people advance warning of what he is going to do. And and that's on top of the fact that he has already told his people how they're supposed to live. He's already revealed to them as far back as uh uh uh well, the books of the books of the Pentateuch with Moses' writing, uh who is, by the way, a great prophet of God. He has also revealed to them that as they come into the promised land and as they settle it, they will get receive blessings. Uh they will see his his his handiwork. It's a land flowing with milk and honey that he's going to give to them But he does demand obedience. And he makes it very clear. Deuteronomy 27, Deuteronomy 28. That if you listen to the very commands that I give to you, and those commands are not burdensome, he makes it very clear that you'll be blessed. In the land which you're about to inherit. If you don't listen, he makes it very clear that you'll be cursed. And the prophets keep delivering this message. There's always, with God's people in the Old Testament, there is always this. people going their own way because of sin. And there's always they always flaunt God's word. They disobey God's word. And they don't believe that God is going to bring the curses that he says he's going to bring. believe. Nevertheless it's happened to their ancestors over and over again. Nevertheless many prophets preceded Amos. And said the same sort of things to the people of Israel's forefathers. For some reason, even though God is warning in his revelation, and in essence giving them a chance to turn away from their sin. and repent and perhaps avoid the consequences of disobedience. Even though that's the case, they won't do it. You remember the Jeremiah passage? He tells Jeremiah to go out and tell the people, to warn the people, and then what does God say? But they're not going to listen. They're not going to hear you. And, you know, of all the prophets in the Old Testament, it may be the case that Jeremiah had the toughest. ministry, the hardest hearts, another 150 years past Amos, when he spoke to the people of Judah. Well, no one listened. They threw him in jail. They threw him in jail for speaking God's words. To Jeremiah, the people of Jerusalem during the time of Jeremiah. They wouldn't listen. They wouldn't repent. They wanted to go their own way. Even though God threatened them with judgment, that they weren't going to repent. Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He reveals His secret to the prophets. And they in turn unto the people. Our God is good. He determines to make his will clear to us. So that no one can say, I never heard that. I didn't know that. I didn't understand. That I wasn't supposed to be, that I was supposed to be obedient to you, God, in the promised land. He reveals his truth to his servants and through them to us. We are not left without understanding of what God wants And why he wants things to happen the way he says they will. That is true in the Old Testament. It's even more It's even more true in the New. Because whereas in the Old Testament we had my servants the prophets, now according to Hebrews chapter 1 We have something even better. We have the Son. We have the Son who speaks God's word directly to us. Hebrews chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets. Jeremiah seven, Amos chapter three, and so on and so forth. But hath in these last days spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, by whom he also made the worlds. We focus here on the revelation of God by the prophets to Amos. But in Hebrews, we have the ultimate prophet. We have the ultimate word. Not only do we have the ultimate word, but we have the last word. But revelation at this point is complete because God has not only revealed that he will bring judgment for disobedience. But he has also revealed the gospel through of his son, by which he's telling people that we can avoid God's judgment. Not by running and hiding in a cave somewhere, but by faith and repentance, turning to the sun. Who has spoken? Now some may say, well, you know, he spoke a lot of stuff when he was here on earth But that was then. He doesn't speak now. What am I supposed to do? He's not speaking now. Where am I going to find God speaking? The son isn't gonna come back, is he? Well yeah, but he isn't coming back to speak so much as he is coming back to bring about final judgment. But We know that the Lord Jesus' words are here because He is the Word. He is the Word. And He is the final revelation of God. And he pleads with sinners everywhere to repent. And that's the testimony to God's mercy and his goodness and his grace. Over and over again, as I said before, the prophets are depicted as God's servants. They do his bidding and they speak his word. They speak his words for him. Second Kings chapter 9, verse 1, the prophet speaks. Thou shalt smite the house of Ahab thy master. This is to uh J uh uh Jehu, uh the one who eventually overthrew the ro the uh the reign of Ahab. That I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord at the hand of Jezebel. So during that reign of Ahab and Jezebel, there must have been a numerous prophets that were killed, or numerous servants that were killed with God. Even Isaiah at one point had not Isaiah, Ezekiel. No, not him either. Elijah. Got my prophet mixed up. At one point even Elijah was under death warrant by Jezebel. And remember he had to run. To get away from that. And the Lord protected him. I read from Jeremiah 7, verse 25 I have sent to you. From the day of your fathers came forth out of Egypt till this day, I have even sent unto you all my servants, the prophets. Daily rising up and sending them. Hearken to the words of my servants, the prophets, whom I sent to you. But you have not hearkened. Jeremiah 26, 5. Jeremiah 35, 15. I have sent also unto you all my servants, the prophets. You know, it just goes on and on, the litany. Of God says, I in history have sent to you my prophets. Thirteen minor prophets In the Bible whose words are recorded. There are other prophets whose words are not recorded, who don't have books of the Bible named after them. But they came bringing God's revelation and bringing the gospel of repent uh uh pressing the people for repentance. And believe in God The ongoing efforts of God to speak his words to his people is not to be ignored or dismissed. In the particular context of Amos, where Amos is speaking to that northern kingdom, their very lives are going to depend. upon whether they hear the prophet and repent or not And they will go the way of their fathers again by declining and refusing to hear God's word Of warning, but also his word of mercy. Remember that pointed plea in Ezekiel? Turn ye, turn ye, O house of Israel of your wicked ways, why will you die? The lion in verse 8. It says, The lion hath war roared. Who will not fear? Again, never heard a lion roar, but I can imagine it's a fearful thing to hear. especially if you're out there in his territory and don't have anything to protect yourself. They're very powerful beasts. The line hath roared, who will not fear? The Lord hath spoken. Who can but prophecy? God here in Amos hath spoken. The prophet Amos must speak God hath spoken and sent his son, Jesus. He is the final speech. From God regarding gospel salvation. There is no other speech coming. We strongly believe that. The end of God's revelation is done with the completion of God's redeeming work in Christ. What else can't needs to be said, but repent and believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and all who do so shall be saved. When the line roars, all will fear. When God speaks, God's servants, the prophets, will speak his word. And all who are God's people better listen. In Amos, in Amos's day, the prophet spoke God's words. Encourage the people to repent and avoid disaster, pleading with them for mercy. And now Whatever God reveals to us by His Word, whether it be by the prophets, whether it be by Christ, or by both. It is mercy from God, even the mercies of salvation and redemption And let us pray. Lord, we would uh we come to you and we ask you, Lord. That you would make us sensitive to the words of your son, the Redeemer. Lord, that his words would impact our hearts. And where there is correction needed that we would listen and not be hard-hearted. Lord, we pray That we would see that the importance of your word not only serves to sanctify us, but also serves to save us. And maybe there are some out there who will hear this message who need salvation. Who need to have their sins forgiven, who need to know that they are right with God. Flee not from the message of the gospel Repent and believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the kingdom of God is at hand. Hear that message. It's a message written on the pages of God's Word, delivered by His prophets, and finally delivered by His Son. These things we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Our final hymn tonight is 88. Eighty-eight. Let us rise and sing. Eighty eight