Let me invite you to turn to the Word of God to John chapter 6, excuse me, John chapter 4, and verses 1 through 26. where we read of the familiar encounter between the Lord and the Samaritan woman. Hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, though Jesus himself did not baptize but his disciples, He left Judea and departed again for Galilee. But he needed to go through Samaria So he came to a town of Samaria which is called Sikar, near the plot of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there, and Jesus therefore, being wearied from his journey, thus set by the well, it was about the sixth hour. A woman of Samaria came to draw water, and Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Then the woman of Samaria said to him, How is it that you being a Jew ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. And Jesus said to her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, give me a drink. You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with. And the well is deep. Where then do you get the living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us this well and drank from it himself, as well as his sons and livestock? Jesus answered and said to her, Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water. springing up into everlasting life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw. And he said to her, Go, call your husband, and come here. And the woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have well said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one with whom you now have is not your husband. In that you spoke truly. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour is coming, and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and in truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. There's a multitude of things that can be said about this passage. Many things that have been said by others. There's no lack of commentary on this particular passage of God's Word But uh for our purposes today I want to look at this section uh as it I think it it it shows very clearly one aspect of the work of ministry, namely that of evangelism. And in our Book of Church Order, we find that ministers are who are ordained to that sacred office are involved in regularly sharing the good news, the good news of Christ with other people. As our church order book says, that pastors minister to the poor, the sick, the afflicted, the dying, and they are to make known the gospel to the lost. They are to make known the gospel to the lost. Generally, we call this type of activity of a pastor the work of an evangelist. Now the word evangelist is derived from uh the Greek word Which means the preacher or proclaimer of good tidings. The preacher or proclaimer of good tidings. Good tidings. This is good tidings that is to be proclaimed. And when in 2 Timothy 4, verse 5, when Paul says That Timothy, and when Paul exhorts Timothy, he says, Do the work of an evangelist. And he also tells him many other things to do, but he says, also do the work of an evangelist. And he precedes that with the statement, he precedes that command with the statement, you will have many afflictions. Prior to that, there's another statement to the effect of you will endure much suffering in all the work of ministry. Paul is telling this young pastor, Timothy, and any others who are interested in sharing the good news about Jesus Christ. That the work of the evangelist may well involve some affliction, may well involve some suffering. Being a sharer of the good news is not easy. But then neither was dying on the cross for our sins. There are many Christian methods of evangelism. Many have been taught You're probably familiar with some, and maybe you've even undergone a course where you've learned some of these methods Surely for a long time one of the ways in which the church did evangelism was to knock on doors. To go from door to door and just knock on people and knock on doors and meet people. Others would put things down in succinct spiritual laws. That they could use to share briefly with others, very quickly, get these, that I think it was four points, get these four points before people. And then there are still others, even within the Reformed community, broadly speaking, that devised a program called Evangelism Explosion Where people learned a method. I have nothing against methods. They have their place But the more that I've been involved in ministry, the more I am certain that evangelism is not about memorizing a method. Evangelism is not about memorizing a method, but is more about you being your Christian self. More about you being your Christian self. Evangelism involves acting as Christ's representative in interactions and conversations that you have with others. And this means that all of us have to be engaged with people. That comes easier to some than others, but it's still our opportunity. It's still Something that we must do. And we're and you and I, as representatives of Christ, are engaged with people whether we're talking or not. Your witness is constantly on display. You are being watched. And I don't mean the federal government. That may be true too. But that's not the point. You are being watched by everybody out there to see what it is about you, what makes you tick. Memorizing a formula may have its place. But I think it probably comes across to the people that you are engaged in as being less than genuine. Even causing them to think that you're uncertain about what you believe What I want you to see, and what I want you to do, is to let your knowledge of Christ and your witness from Christ flow from your life. Flow from your heart into your life. A life lived faithfully with Christ, a life full of the Holy Spirit's. What do I mean about being genuine? in your conversations and in your interactions with people. To me The Lord Jesus' interaction with this Samaritan woman here is one clear example of what I think genuine means. In this conversation with this Samaritan woman Christ, of course, is aided by his divine knowledge of all things. He knows what the woman's going to say before she says it. He knows what he's going to respond before he says it. He knows what the outcome is going to be. He knows all things. Yet the fundamental approach that Christ takes with this woman, I think, is a good model for us as we try to be genuine in witnessing to others. Now, I know you know what the setting of this incident is. I know you know that this is a familiar incident. It's a famous incident in the ministry of Jesus Christ. But just to remind you of a few things. It occurs at Jacob's well. Jacob the patriarch dug this well, fed his family, or watered his family and his livestock. It's in this time, it's in the region of Sikar, it's in the city of Sikar, in the region of Samaria. This was the area that was given to Joseph as his tribal allotment. Actually given to Ephraim, one of Joseph's sons. This is where this occurred. The people who are living in this area now are Samaritans. They are not full Jews. They are half Hebrew, or they have some Hebrew ancestry in the succession of wars and deportations of Israel and captivities. The land of the northern kingdom was populated by other peoples who were not Jewish. And when the Jews came back under Cyrus the Persian king and under the ruling of uh Nebuchadnezzar under the time of Nebuchadnezzar and Ezra, and even before that time the Jews were trickling back. into this region. And they intermarried with these other people. They intermarried with these groups of people who came from other countries. They intermarried with Gentiles. Once again, repeating the old prohibition that is as old as the book of Deuteronomy. That God's chosen people are not to marry with those who are outside of the faith. But nevertheless, they intermarried, and this brought up Great resentment and hostility on the part of the Jews. And you see that hostility reflected in the woman's comments. In verse 9, she says How is it that you, referring to Jesus, being a Jew, ask a drink of me? I am a woman of Samaria, and Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. No dealings, no interaction. Think about that The people of God who have the oracles of God and the history of God have, for whatever reason, cut themselves off from Samaria. who are really half Jews, who have part of that history as their history. There is a longstanding history of mutual contempt for one another. It is said that the Jews would go out of their way Not to even enter Samaria, not to have to step even one step in their soil and get Samaritan dust on their sandals. And it's interesting, it says that as we look at the beginning of this, it says that He needed to go through Jesus in verse 3, he needed to go through Samaria He was in Judea, but he's going north to Galilee. But he had to go through Samaria. Most Jews would do an end run around Samaria, even though the route was longer. They would take that route to avoid coming into this territory. The Samaritans understood that they were persona non-grata among the Jews. So instead of going down to Jerusalem to worship, they build a temple in their own mountain, Mount Gerizim. And there they worship, as the woman had said, Sir, verse 19 and 20, I perceive that you're a prophet. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain. And you say that Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship? This is what Jesus is doing is political correctness run amok. This encounter, from a political correct perspective, should never have happened It has no possibility of any kind of positive outcome. No possibility. But our Lord Jesus is not deterred by possible outcomes. He knows, he believes, he understands that regarding the matter of who can be saved As he said in Mark 10, 27, with men it is impossible. But not with God. For with God all things are possible I would suggest to you that in any kind of and I'm saying this to myself, please understand I would suggest to myself and to you that in any kind of encounter you might have with an unbeliever, good Pardon me. Go into it with the mindset that everyone you meet, it is possible for God to do a work in that person's heart You may not think so, but God does the impossible, does He not? And the interesting thing is that sometimes he does the impossible through you. We do have treasure in earthen vessels vessels. We have this treasure. We have the treasure of the treasure. gospel. The good news. Earlier I said that I don't believe that methods are the best way to go. Rather, the posture of believers in any encounter is to be your Christian self. Let me try to explain what I mean by that. Be your Christian self. The Lord Jesus was undeterred about the multiple cultural violations he was committing. He is in Samaria. First of all, as a Jew, he shouldn't be there. Secondly, he's talking with a Samaritan. That too is Virgoten. Thirdly, he's talking with a woman. That's not culturally acceptable. Fourthly, he's asking her for a drink from a Samaritan cup. The Jews, you see, wrongly asserted that the Hebrews could not eat or drink with Samaritans. Because that would make the Jew unclean. Simply by having contact With a Samaritan person or by having contact with their cups or their plates. He would be unclean. Jesus declared this false when he said to Jews, Hebrews in Jerusalem, Matthew 15, 11, it's not that which goes into the mouth that defiles a man. But that which comes out of the mouth that defiles the man. All of these cultural quasi-religious norms, Jesus ignores. Your Savior ignores Because his agenda is much more important Christ's concern is not what others might think or say, but he is concern for this woman's soul. His focus is on her, not what others say. He wants her to hear the good news, his good news. The good news that he is, not just that he brings. The gospel, you see, is for all sinners. All sinners, not just Jews. The gospel is for all who know they are sick, sin sick. It's not for the well who believe they have no need of a physician. The gospel is not exclusively for the Jews, but for all nations. Including Samaritan half-breeds. Today, we might update that to say the gospel is for atheists. It's for radicals who burn churches, for political enemies. Regardless of party persuasion. For worshippers of Islam. Yeah. For all who hate Jesus. The gospel has an interest. They are targets. I'm tired of Christians being targets. Because of their faith. Let's take the weapons God has given to us and let's tear down strongholds of unbelief. Your weapons are far more powerful than the weapons of the world Your weapons have the ability to pierce to heart, through hearts, and proclaim life and truth in Jesus Christ You can speak to sinners who have broken God's commands and are therefore unholy before Him, and you have the opportunity to show them the way of life. As Galatians chapter 3, verse 27 said, for as many of you who have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. And there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female. All are one in Christ. Those who do not yet know Christ need to hear that they can be saved from their sin sickness by faith and repentance in the name of Jesus Christ as the only mediator between God and man. It is a work of God's grace, not a work of their efforts. Notice how Jesus enforces that point in verse 10 of chapter 4. He says to the woman, If you knew the gift of God and who it is who said to you, Give me to drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water. I don't know about you, but I don't know of any biblical four spiritual laws or EE explosion that has living water in their memory thing. And their method. You see, Jesus is not having, he's not using a methodology. He's simply talking with this lady He's simply interacting. He's having a normal conversation that starts off with a normal request. Give me a drink of water, please. He goes to a place in the city. He goes to the well, which most likely is centrally located, because everybody has to get to it as easily as possible. He goes at the sixth hour. And as the Jews tell time, that's noon. He goes at noon. Here at the well, he knows. Location and time suggest that there's a high probability that he's going to meet somebody there. Needing water for their daily needs. Let me ask you this question. Is there a strategic place in Lanham or Bui where people gather and linger, a local diner, a senior citizen center Ubiquitous Paneras. Is that a to uh is that a place you could go, maybe, and have a conversation I bet it is. Jesus then succeeds in using each of her responses to him. There's a dialogue. You know, it's not just her him speaking. It's not just him getting out a precanned message. There's a an uh there's a there's a there's a statement and a question. And a statement and a question going on here. He is not following this pre-planned method. He's engaged with this woman And far too often, if we are engaged in a pre-pan method, I think we run the risk of missing openings that the unbeliever will leave for us. Because we're so concerned that we have to get that message out. I would like us to take seriously when we think about interacting with people, the fact that we are all being right now mentored And sanctified by the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is not out there talking to us. He's in here talking to us and leading us. When we engage in a conversation with people Will we realize that with us is the Holy Spirit in the conversation? Pray that we can be good listeners and ready with an appropriate response wherever the conversation leads. I am clearly preaching to you, but I'm preaching also to myself. We have with the Holy Spirit A tremendous advantage. For God is with you. I mean, we God is hearing what you're hearing. And I have confidence That I do have the Comforter who will lead me and guide me into truth and understanding. Do you believe that? The Lord Jesus said many times about the Holy Spirit's work, particularly in John. Speaking to the disciples, he says, I pray the Father, and he will give you another comforter. And he will abide with you forever. Does forever somehow mean, well, he's not there when we're talking to people about the gospel? No, it means them too, you see. John 14, 16. John 16, 13. When he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth. Do we believe that God's Spirit is leading us in truth. Of course we do. John fifteen, twenty-six, when the comforter comes The Spirit of truth, which proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me. Because we have the Holy Spirit, we can and we will testify about Christ and bring him glory. And if you think you're weak and unable and uneducated and you can't do this, join the club. But don't forget, the Holy Spirit is with you. The Comforter, who is the Holy Spirit, who the Father will send in my name, Jesus said, shall teach you all things. and shall bring all things to your remembrance. Whatsoever I have said to you. In addition to all of that, the Holy Spirit is producing the fruits of the Spirit in you. So that when you speak to a person Who's an unbeliever? It shouldn't be an exercise in bashing them. It should be an exercise led by love. Led by love for their soul, led by love for your fat for for Christ This is what pastors are called to do as evangelists: engage people one-on-one with the gospel of Christ, with the good news. That we are sinners. And Christ has come to save sinners from their sin. You don't have to be a pastor to do this. All you have to do, as a Christian, is talk. And you don't have to think, I gotta get every point out there that has to be gotten out. If I don't, I'm a failure You can see here in this text that the interchange just moves back and forth between Christ and this woman. And in the end, in the end of this discussion between Christ and the woman, He says to her, finally, she says, I know the Messiah is coming. When he comes, he will tell us all things. And Jesus said, I who speak to you am He. I think this is the only place in the Bible where Jesus identifies himself as the Messiah. And the Messiah has been talking to this woman. What's he been saying? Words. Words of life. Words of salvation. Engaged in a normal conversation And what's that woman to do now? What's she to think? How is she to respond? If she is a child of God, which I think there's reason to believe She's going to go home and hang on every word. And she's going to try to learn more about the words of God. Our dear Heavenly Father, grant that this particular message will inform our own understanding of how we can best serve you. How we can best share the treasure of the good news that you have given to us with others who do not know it or understand it or have false understanding and opinions about it. Lord, we pray that you will do the work in your people's hearts, that you will raise up Many who long who desire, Lord, to see uh those who are lost in sin, uh those who are struggling with uh um Matters which are indirectly and often yet too directly related to their sin cause them to see that that path leads to An unfruitful life, but it also leads to death and destruction. But you have provided, Lord, a way. You have provided, Lord, the way. The way, the truth, and the life, so that anyone whom you have appointed can come to the Father through Jesus Grant faith, grant repentance. Lord, be with us, Lord, in the next opportunity that we have to be genuine before the world and show our Christian self by engaging in conversations. Be with us, Lord, as we do so. Lead us, Lord, to those to whom you wish to hear. And Lord, we pray that you will be glorified by our conversation. These things we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.