I would uh direct your attention now to the Word of God in 1 Peter 5 verses 1 through 4. Let us uh hear uh God's word. The elders who are among you I exhort. I who am a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that will be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God, which is among you, serving as overseers, Not by compulsion, but willingly, not for honest gain, but eagerly. Nor as being lords over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock And when the chief shepherd appears, you receive the crown of glory that does not fade away. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated As I said earlier, this now forms the second in a series of sermons regarding the work of the minister Last week we looked at John 21, where Jesus interacts with Peter and talks to him about tending and feeding the sheep of the Lord Jesus. And uh as Jesus tells Peter that three times in uh John uh twenty-one. He makes it very clear that this is the role Peter is to assume until the Lord returns. Peter is to be a shepherd there, but he is also a steward. As shepherd, he tends and feeds the sheep. even as elders and apostles and ministers since tend and feed the sheep. And it's God's sheep. As Psalm one hundred verse three reminds us Know that the Lord, He is God. It is He that made us, not we ourselves. We are His people, and the sheep of His pasture. God has entrusted the spiritual welfare of his people to shepherds who are weak, sinful men. Jars of clay. And we discussed last week that the minister is called to be a steward over God's flock. He watches over them, cares for them, cares for their spiritual welfare because he is responsible to God. And we'll have to answer for how he did that stewardship, how he exercised stewardship over the flock. Today you cannot divorce stewardship from pastoring. But there are some things that are particular about each one. And I want to discuss and focus more on pastoring and seeing how that is closely related to the title minister or under shepherd. Or shepherds, if you wish. I chose, however, to call this under-shepherding out of deference To Christ Himself, who is the chief shepherd of the sheep, as 1 Peter 5, verse 4 calls him. He is the good shepherd. The sheep know his voice, and they know him. And only as shepherds seek To declare the voice of Christ to the sheep, will the true sheep listen and follow? He wears the title, Good Shepherd, because he alone is good. And he alone demonstrates his goodness in the ultimate sense in that he lays down his life for his sheep. Think about that again. It never ceases to amaze the Christian believer. God laid down his life for me. Whether it is and I you know I struggle with this whole series for many reasons, but This isn't the way I normally approach preaching. I normally approach it through a verse-by-verse exegesis of a passage. But because there is so much rich material about shepherding in the scriptures, there's so many passages I could turn to. I could have preached this sermon in many ways from Ezekiel 34 or Jeremiah 23 or um uh John chapter 10 or um you know many there are many different passages about Shepherding. First Timothy chapter three. And maybe in the f in the future, you know, I'll be I'll get to some of those as well. But So I'm just saying that because I'm kind of aware of the fact that I'm going to give you many, many scriptures today. And I want to do that in such a way that it's kind of that it's that the message is cogent. And you understand the point that is being made. Whether it's Old Testament priests or New Testament ministers, who, by the way, the apostle calls the aroma of God's message to men. To one, we are the saver of death to death, and to the other, we are the savor of life to life. That in and of itself is mind-blowing. That by proclaiming the Word of God, we are dealing with a person's eternity. And I think that's probably why Paul said, as he wrote that verse in 2 Corinthians 2. 16, he said, Who is sufficient for these things? If the truth is told, no man is sufficient to be a shepherd of the Lord Jesus Christ. No man is sufficient in and of himself. And I believe that insufficiency is intentional by God. As 2 Corinthians 4. 7 puts it, as we think about the job of the shepherd and the insufficiency of being able to do that on our own. 2 Corinthians 4, 7 says, we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us Do you understand what implications that means for any person who is called to be a shepherd and equipped to do so? He has to realize everything he does in faithfulness to God is not because of him. It's because of God working through him. 2 Corinthians 3 verse 4 says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything of ourselves. Our sufficiency is of God. Who has made us able ministers of the New Testament? Not of the letter, but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. See, that's my hope. I'm not sufficient, but God has called me and enabled me. Or any minister really has to have that perspective. All men or leaders or shepherds, whether you call them priests, ministers, shepherds, whatever you call them, are weak. Because they're all sinful. They will fail no matter how zealous they are and righteous. They will only be more or less better in their callings as ministers or priests, or stewards, or shepherds Even as the Apostle Paul had just gave to me, he said, we're all unprofitable servants. Apostle Paul did recognize that he was weak. Because after he goes through the lists of the armor of the Christian in Ephesians 6, after listing all of that armor He comes back to the congregation and says, pray for us. Pray for us. That's an acknowledgement of need. It's an acknowledgement of weakness and the need for God's blessing upon his labors. The Old Testament weaknesses of the shepherds of the people became so severe at various occasions that God made promises to his people. one of which we read in Ezekiel 34, a roughly parallel though different in time. Um statement is found in Jeremiah twenty-one. Excuse me, twenty-three Where God speaks through Jeremiah and says, Woe to the shepherds that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture. Obviously, there were shepherds then who were not taking care of the Lord's sheep. They were destroying the sheep. By their activity, by their words, by their labors. Thus, therefore, thus says the Lord God of Israel against the pastors that feed my people, against the pastors. the shepherds that feed my people, you've scattered my flock, driven them away, not visited them. I will visit you upon the evil of your doings. And then he adds, I will gather the remnant of my flock. I, verse four. Will gather them. I will set up shepherds. And then he adds in verse five. I will raise unto David a righteous branch. A king shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth In his days, Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely. This is his name, whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. The Lord our righteousness, a righteous king of David, is coming. And he is going to fulfill the promise in Jeremiah 31, excuse me, 23, that he will care for the remnant of the floor. That God Himself will be their shepherd As Ezekiel thirty four, eleven puts it, I will search for my sheep. I will seek them out. I will search for my sheep and deliver them out of all the places whereby they have been scattered Yes, truly, Christ is the good shepherd who does these things. He is the chief shepherd of the people. He is. He is the fulfillment of Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still water He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake God will raise up some shepherds who will follow in the path of the good shepherd. But the good shepherd is the one who fects redemption for the sheep. He and he alone does that. What are the works that a good, faithful under shepherd does? What does he do? And there are multiple aspects of this. First, he feeds the flock. When you think and think about sheep, and I know most of us hardly ever think about sheep. Most of us don't know much about sheep, but we know some basic rudiments about sheep. It certainly doesn't help that Isaiah chapter 53 characterizes us as all sheep have gone astray. And the Lord has laid iniquity on us all. But you know, sheep are not, number one, they're not smart. And number two, they are prone to wander. And because sheep like tender grass, they constantly have to be moved around. And hence the shepherd comes in It's his job to feed the flock of God The word there feed the flock is the Greek word shepherd, or the Greek where it's also translated in some cases pastor. The good shepherd must know what to feed. And you know what? Peter knew what to feed the flock. It wasn't that Peter was to feed the flock his own words, but he understood he was to feed the flock God's words. Again, as he said in John 6, verse 68, where would I go, Lord? You alone have the words of eternal life. Only God's words have life. Our words have no life Our words have no life. Only God's word has no life. And of course, where do we find God's word? Here. What do we feed God's sheep with? This. And this alone. The feeding of God's Word must also be centered on the subject. Of God's Word. What is the focus of God's Word, Old and New Testament? Or better yet, who is the focus of God's Word? Old and New Testament? Is it not Jesus? Is it not the person and work of Christ? Veiled in the old, revealed in the new, shadow and type in the old, fullness in the new If we're going to really feed God's people as ministers and as under-shepherds, our messages must show them who Jesus is. And it must show them what Jesus did. It must show them what the gospel is. It must focus on what the Bible says these things are. And of course, not our own ideas. So the one thing the shepherd must do in his work is feed the sheep. And that Doesn't assume the sheeder doesn't assume the sheep are going to feed themselves. He must feed them. And then he must encourage them to feed themselves as well. Well, the sheep also need protection. Isn't it interesting that uh sheep don't have a whole lot of protective ability And generally speaking, they're of somewhat docile temperament. But the sheep do have enemies. In the world, just regular sheep, you know, they have enemies who want to do them harm. Acts chapter 20, verse 29, which is another one of those passages that we could talk about in relationship to the work of the shepherd. The Apostle Paul says to the elders at Ephesus. I know this, that when I leave, grievous wolves shall enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Also of your own selves men shall arise speaking perverse things to draw disciples away after them. Therefore, watch, watch. And remember that in the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone, night and day, with tears. Sheep need to be protected, not browbeaten, not left to their own devices. But you notice the protection is with tears. That simplif that signifies care and love for God's sheep. The sheep, like people, need to be comforted when they find themselves in dire circumstances. When I was in South Dakota, I think you guys have heard a lot of heard a lot of me talking about South Dakota But I think that's probably because I learned a whole lot in South Dakota. Uh and and it was it's funny because I I learned it from farmers. And I don't really have much affinity with farmers Uh although I do like to dig in the dirt uh with the garden, but that's this is on a whole different level. Farmers and ranchers. And they had sheep and they had cattle And we used to have services at nine in the morning in s in South Dakota. And on a cold winter, I never figured this out. I never figured out why sheep and cattle in South Dakota calve in February or bring use in February. One of the coldest months of the whole season And the sheep is out there on the range, and the poor farmers have to go out there and find the sheep that, for example, is pregnant It is having problems because it's breach. The poor guys would come into church at n seven at nine o'clock after being out since three in the morning, caring for their delivering their sheep, delivering their lambs, excuse me. And uh they'd hit the heat of the building and ten minutes they were asleep. That's uh that's one advantage of being here, I guess. Uh in that uh you know you're not going to sleep. But um Human pastors have to come along God's sheep and provide comfort and encouragement from the Word and with prayers, because sheep, human sheep. grieve too and are troubled too about many things And as a good shepherd, shepherds need to seek and find the lost sheep. Not just keep the ones in the fold and help them, but they need to seek and find the lost sheep too. I read the Isaiah passage earlier. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. Jesus told this parable. Luke chapter 15, verse 4. What man of you having a hundred cheap if he loses one of them? Does he not leave the 90 and 9 in the wilderness and go over that which is lost until he finds it? And when he finds it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them Rejoice with me, for I about A sheep, which was lost. I say to you that likewise joy shall be. For what repents? More than ninety and nine just persons who need no repentance. Find the wandering sheep and restore the wanderers to the fold. That is also part of the challenge. Sharing the good news of the gospel to the sheep who are lost. Because they left Christ, the chief shepherd of their souls, the one whom the Lord has laid upon our own iniquity To what end or purpose is the pastor under Shepherd's work? Is it not the same goal? As the labor of the Good Shepherd in Psalm 23:3. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. I discovered something in looking at that passage. He restoreth my soul. What does that mean? How do you restore a soul And I was helped in two ways. Both the Hebrew word to bring back, a Hebrew word that's used there. is translated to bring back, to turn, and to return You restore the wayward soul by turning the wayward soul back to God and away from sin. And then the Greek New Testament, excuse me, the Greek Septuagint translation has the same, not the same Hebrew word, but it has the Greek word. Epistrephos, which means to turn around, to turn back, to return. Whether it's the Hebrew word shouv or it's the Greek epistrepho, they're both words in the scriptures that are used for repentance Repentance and faith restores the soul. And you see That's the pastor's concern, to nourish your soul. To bring you back to God in case you have fallen away. To bring you back through repentance and faith. So we can experience, so you can experience the Good Shepherd rising with healing in his wings. Even as the good shepherd leads the flock in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. See, it's not just enough to turn from sin. It's also important to lead in righteousness, to provide the example And I think that these bring to conclusion the thought of the Under-Shepherd's labor. I probably haven't gotten all of the nuances and all of the aspects. of the shepherd or the under shepherd of the sheep. But when you're considering the next pastor, a fundamental question To that candidate should be, what is your greatest desire as God's Undershepherd of the Sheep at Trinity Reformed Church May God give that person the wisdom to say, I want to restore the souls of the sheep. And I want to lead them in the pathway of righteousness, as the shepherd, the good shepherd, leads his sheep. Amen. And let us pray. Oh dear God, we ask you for your church. This church and your faithful church, wherever it exists around the world Lord, that you will still continue the labor of calling and sending forth faithful pastors That faithful pastors will come alongside the sheep and will do all they can. Humanly speaking, and with your blessing and with your increase, help restore the souls that are needed to be restored Comfort us, O Lord God, because in the final analysis we realize that it is you who do this work It is you who the Lord Jesus has fulfilled the work of the Good Shepherd. He has given the model, He has set the course. He is God Almighty, our great shepherd of the sheep. Lord, may your shepherds aspire to serve Him Faithfully for his glory with his word and by the power of the Spirit demonstrate his example In Jesus' name we pray, Amen