While you're standing, I'd like you to turn in your Bibles to Acts chapter 20. Acts chapter 20, verses 17 through verse 31. This is uh most likely a familiar passage to you. Uh this is the uh it's one I've preached on a number of times. It's uh a passage that keeps giving. Uh uh There's so much in here about uh ministry, about uh serving the Lord, how ministers are to serve the Lord, that I thought it would form a good uh uh text to preach on about the gifts, uh the work of the minister. We pick up reading in verse 17. Let us hear God's word. From Miletus. He sent to Ephesus that he would be Paul and called for the elders of the church. And when They had come to him, he said to them, You know from the first day that I came to Asia, in what manner I always lived among you serving the Lord with humility, with many tears and trials which happened to me By the plotting of the Jews. Now I kept back nothing. How I kept back nothing, that was helpful, but proclaimed it to you And taught you publicly, and from house to house, testifying to Jews and also to Greeks, repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And see, now I go bound in the Spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there. Except that the Holy Spirit testifies in every city, saying that chains and tribulation awaits me. None of these things move me. Nor do I count my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus. To testify to the gospel of the grace of God. And indeed, now, I know that you all among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God Will see my face no more. Therefore, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all men For I have not shunned to declare to you the whole council of God. Therefore Take heed to yourself and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. For I know this That after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock, also from among yourselves Men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. Therefore, watch and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day with tears. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated. We have been going through a series of sermons on the work of the pastor. And we've looked at numbers of a number of scriptures to describe that work of the person who preaches the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have seen that the word calls the minister, it calls him various different words, calls him under-shepherd. Calls him steward, calls him teacher, calls him servant. And there are more such words. They are descriptive of what pastors do, what activities pastors engage in in their ministries on behalf of the Lord to the Lord's flock. As shepherd, the minister leads and guides the flock of God to food, greener pastures. Sometimes the shepherd has to prod the sheep with his staff to get them to move in the right direction. Other times he uses his staff to protect the flock of God from enemies. And at other times, the minister-shepherd goes out, seeks the lost sheep, and bring it back into the fold. As a servant, the minister sees himself as obedient to the master's call A call to be devoted to the caring and feeding of the Lord's flock. The servant of the Lord serves God and serves God's people. This calls for humility and gratitude so that the minister can willingly serve the people Humility in the sense and gratitude in the sense because of Christ's amazing love that has that the minister himself has experienced. A love that redeems him from sin and eternal damnation, just as it redeems the flock. As teacher, the minister of the Lord is charged with giving understanding to the Lord's flock. Another way of saying that is he is charged with giving to Christ's people the best spiritual food available. Carefully feeding them with the Word of God, teaching it as truth, God's truth. In order that God's people know and are experiencing increasing spiritual growth as Christ's people The teacher's desire for his students is that they not remain spiritual babes, on the contrary. That they may not be tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, and so grow into mature believers. As steward, the minister of the flock is placed over the Lord's large spiritual house with the profit with the responsibility of protecting the master's Investment It's especially important that the minister recog uh the steward recognizes that he is protecting the master's investment when the master is away. The Lord's investment is in people. It's in you, His elect. Those who are saved from sin, saved by grace, and bought and paid for by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. The steward cannot ever take the master's absence as a as a reason to slack off, thinking perhaps that the master will never return. The steward never forgets that when the master returns, he must give an account for how he has taken care of the Lord's assets James chapter 3, verse 1 actually talks about that. He says, My brethren, let not many of you be masters. Knowing that we might receive greater condemnation than sometimes translated teachers. Well, these are just summaries of four different sermons we've already looked at. And with these What the Bible has to say about these matters, you might think that what you should be looking for in the next pastor is what I would call a spiritual superman. A spiritual superman. Sometimes in the providence of God you may get such a man, and sometimes not. But I would like to just suggest to you that setting the finding of a spiritual superman to be your next pastor, one who excels in all the activities we've just described is not probably the best place you should go about the selection process. Because you're not actually looking for a spiritual Superman What you are looking for instead is a team player. Now you look in the OPC where it talks about pastors and teachers, and you're not going to find pastors and teachers Described as team players. This is something I thought of. That's why it's not in the Book of Church Order, probably. However, I do think I want to explain to you what I mean by team player In some respect, I mean exactly what Peter and Paul meant when they talked about ministers in the New Testament church. Peter's statement in 1 Peter 5 and now Paul's statement here in Acts chapter 20. They reflect a team ministry. A team player kind of mentality with regard to the ministry in the New Testament church. I could say it another way Ministers are called to be Presbyterian, not in name only, but in how they function. With the rest of the leaders in the church. I would like to go so far as to say both Peter and Paul were Presbyterian And how they conducted their ministries. Even as apostles, you can see this collegiality to their ministry. So let me just look at a couple of things in Acts chapter 20, verse 17. and share with you why I think this this text drives home the point of team players. There there's There's some there's some degree of I in all of this. You know, the Apostle Paul talks about his ministry among the church at Ephesus and how he did this and he did that and he did this and he did that. I didn't cease to warn you night and day for the space of three years with tears There's some I involved, but at the same time, who is Paul talking to here? Notice in verse 17 of Acts chapter 20, notice the setting. He summons the elders to Miletus. These are the elders of Ephesus. Have you understand the background of this? The very church that Paul spent three years in a pastoral ministry. Down here he says, night and day I labored for three years. Among you. He didn't spend three years anywhere else. He didn't spend anywhere close to it. This is Paul's pastoral ministry to the church at Ephesus. And he says to them, what he has to say to them, he is saying to the whole group. He's saying to not one elder, but elders. Elders. Elders in the church. Acts 20, verse 17 shows that in all the time we see Paul at Ephesus, he also had spiritual leaders there with him They were involved. These are men that, in all probability, Paul trained And ordained to kingdom service. They are elders. They work and they serve Christ alongside of Paul. It was Paul, you see, the apostle, it was Paul the Apostle's practice to ordain elders in whatever church he ministered to. Acts chapter 14, verse 21 and 23, one of the missionary journeys of Paul with Barnabas. It says that when they had preached the gospel to that city, Then it taught many. They returned again to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch. Those are churches in Galatia. They returned there and confirming the souls of the disciples exhorted them to continue in the faith, that we must, through much tribulation, enter into the kingdom of God. And then verse 23. When they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fast. I thought we were the first ones to think of that. That we should pray with fasting for elders. No. Apostle Paul did that. And they ordained elders. They commended them to the Lord on whom they believed There were elders at the church in Lystra, elders at the church in Iconium, elders in the church at Antioch, and there are elders at Ephesus. And they're all carrying on the ministry of the Apostle Paul because he has left the scene. He's not there, or he's about to. In Ephesus, in this meeting that goes on in verse twenty Excuse me, you're 17 of chapter 20, when Paul meets with them, these elders are going to join with Timothy. Now, Timothy's name is not mentioned here. But if you go to 1 Timothy 1 and verse 3, you find that Timothy was the one Paul left behind at Ephesus. He left Timothy behind at Ephesus with a charge that he would disrupt any false teaching. That came to the church. So it's it's I think it's very, very likely that among this anonymous group of elders that probably Timothy was At verse twenty eight. And again, there's a lot more before verse 28 that we could look at. But in verse 28, Paul gives the elders Commands for continuing their ministry in the church. And he says To these elders, this group of men, he actually couches the verbs in the imperative mode, which is a command, but also in the plural. Take heed therefore to yourselves and to all the flock Of which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to feed the Church of God. Which he purchased with his own blood. Take heed to yourselves. That's the first thing he says. And he says it to the whole group. Now, You might think that the Apostle Paul, who had worked with these guys Some of them maybe for three years, maybe some less. These men who are elders, you might think that the apostle didn't really have to say this to these guys To take heed to themselves, to examine themselves, to see if they were continuing to believe You might say that Paul is being excessively worried here, that he's a worry wart and a perfectionist who can't never seem to let things Just work out. Surely, you might say, nothing can go wrong in the lives of elders of the church. These men were ordained by Paul. What could possibly, why would they possibly need to be told to take heed to themselves? Well, if you think that way, uh if you think that Paul is just going through the motions here. And I'm afraid to say to you, you have your head in the sand. Paul knows these men. In fact, down in verse thirty, he says, Also from your own selves shall men arise. Speaking perverse things. Well, who's he talking about? From your own selves? Who's that? You've got to be the elders. Can't be anybody else From your own self, men will arise speaking perverse things to draw away disciples after them. You see, there's a there's a little thing called Pride that gets sometimes confused with leadership in Christ's Church. Everybody wants not everybody, but lots of people want to be chiefs, but not The warning here is corporate. It is, of course, designed To speak right to every individual elder, but at the same time take heed to yourself is for the entire group of leaders to think about. And what I mean by that is that the beauty of effective Presbyterian government Is that the church is run by a group of spiritually qualified men, not by one man. The task of leading the church properly is too big for one man. Even for Paul, do not look for a spiritual Superman. Only Jesus is that person Frankly, the rest of us ministers, though under shepherds of Christ Need each other to take heed to ourselves. We need, in other words, people to watch over us who are our peers. Watch out for each other's spiritual welfare. Watch out for one seems who seems to be wavering in doctrine or life. Yes, elders can do that It's not a perfect system, even though I tout Presbyterianism as God's way of governing the church is not a perfect system because we're sinners. The men who are involved in leadership are sinners, redeemed, but still susceptible. The sin. What task Is it that is too big in the church for anyone to do alone? After Paul says, take heed to yourselves, He says, and to the flock. The same degree of care That ministers are to take with regard to one another's spiritual welfare is to be duplicated in the lives of the flock. All of the elders are assigned to the task by Paul of taking heed to the flock. The body of Christ, the church are to be the Elders concerned, the people, watch out for their spiritual condition. Take note of their the way in which they interact with others Follow up when they are absent from fellowship. Ask questions about their growth in Christ. Care for them when they mourn. Listen to them and bear their burdens. And always point them to the refreshing help of the Word of God. In short, love them. And that's one of the assumptions underlying this word, take heed to the flock, or this phrase. And that is that the elder must have Christ's love for people. To even bother being an effective elder. What is needed is a people person Who engages others and only desires Christ's good for them. What is needed is one who seeks the edification of the saints. And works to do works to complete that responsibility. Such engagement I almost laugh when I say this You could talk to any of the elders in our church. This engagement with people often gets messy. and is not simple work. They have to love them As Christ loves the church to be effective. And you have to have humility And this gets more toward the question of being a team player. You have to have humility to place others' welfare above your own Willingness to get messy is a requirement Because you see, when you get messy with somebody else, you might be attacked. And you might be scorned by a lifelong friend. For telling the friend the hard truth of the Word of God as it applies to their messed up life Where do such leaders get their example of such selfless care, of such humility, and of such love? Obviously you know it comes from Jesus. He is the good shepherd. He endured all kinds of hatred from us. He humbled himself But God highly exalted him. Why would God risk putting his church with all church leaders potential weaknesses? is in the hand of several sinful yet redeemed men. Only one answer for that Comes in 2 Corinthians 4 verse 5 and following where the scriptures talk about we have this treasure in vessels of clay. We have this treasure of gospel and of gospel ministry. And then it goes on and says, we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power might be of God. In other words, you know, the work we're doing is testimony to God's power. And at the same time, it's It's work that, because it testifies to God's power, it's work that God should get all the praise for. It talks about Holy Spirit making people overseers to feed the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Where do elders get their authority? Where do they get their job description? Where do they get help to carry out their ministries? From the Holy Spirit, who made them overseers. To feed the church. Every church leader, elders, are overseers in the sense that they are guardians, they are supervisors of God's flock. They are equipped, prepared, and ordained by God's Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is working in every elder's, every believer's heart as well as every elder who believes hearts, producing the fruit of the Spirit. And helping us to mortify the deeds of the flesh. Over time The Church of the Lord Jesus Christ has recognized that elders are divided into two types, ruling elders and teaching elders. God equips such men with all the gifts necessary to fulfill their ministry. He also gifts elders with different emphasis of gifts. What I mean by that is all elders must be able to teach and rule their own house well. But a ruling elder's primary focus is on ruling the church, while a teaching elder's primary focus is on teaching and preaching. I admit there is overlap, but there are these areas of focus. And together they worked to accomplish the work of leading Jesus' church. And that has this whole idea of working together. That's where I get the thought of being a team player. They work together to be overseers. They work together to feed the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. They must work together. And that means, that means specifically, that means that a new pastor When he comes into a new church, he must understand and function as part of the team that God already has in the church. The team that's there to provide spiritual leadership, blessing, and training. And our church is no exception to that. The minister or the teaching elder is is is not first among equals. Part of the team. And that means among the team, some will quite likely see the needs of the flock differently. And the concern that you must have is: will the new minister display the kind of character and humility that he is willing to work as a team member? Respecting and valuing the input of all the elders. Or will he seek to run Rashad over the other elders and push his agenda? Above all else? That's a pretty important question. Team player, it's not just a title It's an attitude. It's an attitude that's reflective of the heart. It's an attitude that's reflective of an understanding of how God has chosen to lead A one man show is not leadership in Christ's church. It can be tyranny It has no place in the Church of God. A teaching elder and a ruling elder must work together with mutual respect and appreciation for the gifts that each one brings to the leader. Leadership of the church. I do pray that God will let your next pastor be a leader who values the truth of God's word. That he will be part of the team that the Lord has ordained and equipped to lead Trinity Reformed Church. Amen. And let us pray. Oh Lord our God, you know You know your people, and you know your people's needs, and you know, Lord, your people's heart. As they come to you and they ask you, Lord, what are you going to do about the situation at Trinity Reformed Church? What kind of pastor, Lord, are you going to bring us Lord, I have full confidence in you, that when your people listen to your word, then you will lead them to your man. And I pray, Lord, that your people, though, would be diligent to do justice to what your word says. I pray that, Lord, because this congregation, as all faithful congregations, are and need to be. continuing lights in the midst of the darkness of this world of sin And I pray, Lord, that your people might be focused together and their leaders would be focused on getting out the good news. That our Lord Jesus has saved sinners. And He's fully satisfied the penalty for our sin. That he has removed sin as far as east is from west, and he's making us his holy people, his treasured possession. Lord, apply your words, the words of this message in conformity with your words to the people's heart. And bless them, Lord, as they seek to do your will. Amen