Continue to remain standing. Turn to Matthew chapter 8 and 1 through 4. Matthew chapter 8, verses 1 through 4. Let us hear the word of the Lord When Jesus came down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. And behold, a leper came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And Jesus put out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing. Be cleansed. Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one, but go your way, show yourself to the priest. And offer the gift that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. Thus far ends the reading of God's word. Please be seated. Today I'd like to talk with you about another aspect of the work of the minister. And this is the aspect in which the minister is involved in being a chaplain or a minister to the poor, the sick, the afflicted, and the dying. And our Book of Church Government concludes a lengthy description about the pastor and his labors with the words from our title. He is to minister to the poor, the sick, afflicted, the dying, and to make the gospel known to the lost. It seems to me that in in in in our country, at least our cultural tradition is that Uh most people expect that the minister will come to the hospital to care for the sick, the afflicted, the suffering, the dying. And oftentimes it's also assumed that the church or the minister will also interact with those who are poor. and help uh uh eliminate some of their issues uh uh as much as possible. Even unbelievers make these assumptions in our culture. And um I began to think about that and began to wonder, where does that assumption come from? I'm not wondering that because I don't want to do any of it. I'm wondering how is it that people who maybe don't even know the scriptures think that when somebody's in the hospital, the minister needs to come. And then it began to occur to me That in the Bible, particularly in the Gospels, there's so many recorded instances of the Lord Jesus Himself caring for the needy. Caring for the afflicted, caring for the suffering. Doesn't mean he doesn't care about others, but some of the more amazing interchanges between Christ And people come about when the sick come to him Some of the ones that particularly are endearing to our hearts. And I think that in many ways it's the It's the the vague familiarity that even unbelievers have with some of what Jesus does in the Gospels that the minister is associated with Christ. to come and to bring some kind of edifying or uplifting word to those who are suffering or to help eliminate suffering by some sort of gift to those who are poor. Again, there's so many issues. Even the Lord Jesus, you see, um People flocked to him early on with with many illnesses For example, in Mark chapter 6 and verse 56, it said, Wherever he enters into villages or cities or country, they laid the sick in the street. and brought him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment. Um as many as touched him were made whole Look at that. Doesn't tell how many, but there must have been a large group of people laying in the road. In the pathway, people bringing those who were afflicted, just so they might be able to touch Christ's garments. And the Lord Jesus, it says, He, as many as touched him were made whole. Individuals with long-standing illnesses would sometimes approach Jesus. Mark Matthew chapter 9 verse 20 and an incident that occurs right after this A particular instance, or soon after this incident, a woman who was diseased with an issue of blood for twelve years came behind Jesus and touched the hem of his garment. Deaf and mute people came to Jesus. People who couldn't hear and couldn't speak. Mark chapter 7, 33. Christ took the man aside from the multitude, put his fingers into his ears, and spit and touched his tongue, and looking up into heaven, he sighed and said unto him, Aphratha, that is, be opened. And immediately his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and the man spoke. Blind men, deaf men, dead men, even the dead Not just Lazarus, but remember the widow's son in the city of Nain. They're having a funeral procession. Recorded for us in Mark in Luke chapter 7 verse 14. Jesus came and touched the coffin, the beer. That bear him. And they that bear him stood still, and he said, Young man, say to you, Arise. And the man came from the dead. These healings in Jesus' case Serve a purpose, even more than what the minister can do when he can go and visit people. In Christ's particular case, the purpose being served is that the Lord Jesus was revealing his identity as the Messiah. When John the Baptist wanted to know, are you the Christ? And he sent his disciples, while John is in jail, he sends his disciples to Jesus. And says, they say, are you the Christ, or should we look for another? And what does Jesus do? Quotes the scriptures. And he says Tell John Go your way and tell John what things you have seen and heard, how the blinds see. The lame walk. The lepers are cleansed. The deaf hear. The dead are raised. To the poor the gospel is preached. That was a quote from the text we read earlier in Isaiah 35. It's also found in Isaiah 29, particularly about the blind seeing, the lame walk, the lepers being cleansed. Well, I hope you're not having all those expectations of me, because I do not have that kind of divine power, and I am not the Messiah, the Lord Jesus says. This is his purpose. To reveal himself to those who will, by God's grace, understand what is going on when they see this magnificence. of healing going on, unlike anything they have ever seen before. But it still gets back to the question, what is it about the ministers? uh job that it there are these expectations that they will go and visit the needy and the poor and the sick and And all of that, the afflicted. And again, I think it is in many ways looking at uh uh it's it's part of what Jesus did. So that's a model, and that's what we should be doing But at the same time, there's more to it than that. Not that that isn't important. But what are what are ministers doing when they do this? What are they uh what are what's their purpose? What are they trying to accomplish? And I believe there are some biblical answers to that, those questions. And I'd like to direct our attention now to this brief story in John Matthew chapter 8, the four verses that are here about Jesus cleansing a leper. This isn't the only time. Jesus cleansed the leper. It is a passage that is a very amazing passage in so many different ways, a very famous uh illustration here in this section that continues to amaze me every time I look at it and think about it. Let's look at verse 2 of chapter 8 of Matthew. Behold, there came a leper and worshiped him, saying, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. If you go back just a few verses, you see that Jesus has already been doing significant amount of teaching. and uh s a significant amount of uh uh of uh statements about uh Building your life on a rock. And it's in that vein the leper then comes to him. Notice he identifies Jesus. In a number of different ways. Notice how he comes to Jesus. He's seeking out help, obviously. He begins to worship. He falls on his knees. He worshiped Jesus. He bowed low to the ground. He calls Jesus what? He calls him Lord. At very least we can say with that statement, he respects Jesus. He respects his authority. And by calling Jesus Lord, the other side of that is he identifies himself as the Lord's servant And he says to Jesus, Jesus, if you're willing, you can make me clean. He casts himself down to God's mercy. He places his very condition in the hands of Jesus the Lord. He does not demand that the Lord treat him. He simply asks for the Lord, if it is his will, to help him. He's not in any way saying I'm entitled to be healed, but rather he is saying, Lord, it's all up to you. And I am fine, and I am fine with whatever you do, with whatever you decide He says in that in those words, he said, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. It it is the word he uses there. He uses the word willing and he uses the word For able is the word, the Greek word for power. If you are willing, you have the power to make me clean. Which is Which is, again, quite a testimony to what this man understands about who Jesus is And our Lord does heal this leper. He heals this leper, this man. has is suffering on an unparalleled level. If you think you've suffered, you have not suffered in the ways in which this man has suffered. Think about it. He's suffering physically. He has a death sentence upon him. A slow and painful death. That's what he has to look forward to in life. But add to that, he is undergoing economic suffering No man will hire this man. And so he's reduced to begging. I never want to have to be reduced to that. Never want to see any of you having to be reduced to that. But that's what he's been doing. Because nobody's going to help him Nobody's gonna, in a society, nobody's gonna lift up their hands and hire a leper because you see they treated leprosy by ostracizing them Taking them out of the regular society and putting them into a colony of lepers, where the only people he can socialize with are fellow lepers. And you know when you get together and you start talking about yourself and you start talking about your situation, and if you're all lepers, you know you're going to be talking about woe is me Look at me. So the atmosphere is depressing. It's not a fun place to be But add to all of those types of suffering, he's also not just a social outcast, but he's a religious outcast. He cannot enter into the temple. He cannot ever go there. He's forbidden. And plus there would be a social uproar if he was. I mean, this man really has problems, and the Lord heals him. But I'd like to just take you into the next verse to show you something that I think is one of the most amazing pictures of how God relates to his people. I know this is about ministers being chaplains to the poor, the sick, and the needy, but you've got to see this too to appreciate why it is that faithful ministers do what they do. The Lord Jesus in verse three puts forth his hand and touched him saying, I will, be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. In the parallel verse in Mark chapter 141, it says the same thing, except it precedes everything that Lu uh uh that uh that Matthew 8. 3 says, it says Jesus moved with compassion. It adds that one little variable, that one little fact. Moved with compassion, put forth his hand, touched him, and said unto him, I will it. Be thou clean. Four parts. Moved with compassion. Christ saw this man and The Greek word means his, he was moved in his bowels. He had bows of mercy. He had compassion for this man. It got him right in his gut, this man's situation. And no other easy way to say it. It got him right where he lived, where we live. And and This kind of compassion is present in many of Christ's outreaches to the poor and afflicted and sick. And another famous healing, Bartimaeus, the blind man who sat by the road as Jesus was entering into Jerusalem. He cries out, Son of David, have mercy upon me. And it records that Jesus had compassion upon him and gave him sight. After this kind of interchange where Christ has compassion on the man, it says he stretched out his hand. Jesus stretched out his hand. Jesus stretched out his hand to a leper. Almost Well, I think it is. I think as you think about the situation, it's almost as if Jesus is saying, come on. Come to me, it's all right if you do. Come to me And then it adds. It adds. He touched him. And this is where it's hard for me to hold back the tears when I think about this man. Jesus, the word the word there, it should it's better to find a take hold of him Or it might be defined cling to him. Can you imagine that? Jesus, the Lord, God Almighty, has got his arms around a leper. This man, whom nobody cares for, who's a social outcast Who can't, who has nothing going for him in his life except he seems to know who Jesus is. And he's got everything. Because now the Lord comes to this man full of leprosy, which I think in a certain sense is a picture or a metaphor of human beings full of sin. And he puts his arm around them. Brothers and sisters, what could be more? What could be more wonderful? To contemplate the very reality that Jesus did the same thing for you. You weren't pretty in your sin. He didn't love you when you got all gussied up and had your hair dressed and in your finest clothes. He didn't require you to do that. He loved you when you were ugly, totally depraved sinners. We all are. It is that that's that's the heart of the gospel, you see As Jesus demonstrates, God Almighty loved this man And by, don't forget the point. Don't miss this point. By wrapping his arms around this man, Jesus himself becomes ceremonially unclean. He can't go, well, according to the law, he can't go into the temple either, because he's contaminated Outwardly. And surely according to man's rules, not to God's. But again, I I just never get over that picture. It's the most it's And then Jesus said something. He spoke as he healed. I will it be clean. Words of mercy from a benevolent God to his people. By the way, those same words are here. In this story, and in countless other stories. The Word is the Word of Jesus. He speaks to us His healing that Jesus performs is not like your doctor's And I'm I'm not this is not a put down of doctors at all, but surely they can't heal immediately They're not going to heal leprosy immediately. And usually they have to give you some kind of medication or some kind of operation The Lord's attitude is not like the doctor's. You know when you go to the doctor, it's very sterile. It's always very clinical. And that's taught in medical school. They don't want doctors showing compassion. Because frankly, if a doctor did, and he did it to everybody without being Christian It would destroy him. In the end, it would destroy him. If he really showed compassion You know, my my son Josh is a nurse. And for nine months, he worked on the chemotherapy ward. And after four deaths, that was enough. Four people that he cared for. Couldn't handle it. Not doing it anymore. That's uh uh well but the but the point is our Lord has abundant compassion on sinners And it's not the leper may be the most amazing example, but you see it every example. You see all these healings. You see it over and over and over and over again. It's this compassion of the poor for the poor, the sick and the afflicted, the dying. In sin that is so special that I believe it's the model for how ministers ought to interact with those who are afflicted and suffering. So much about this model that there's uh uh attention to. Somebody outside the church or a friend of one of the parishioners calls you to come and visit his friend or a person you may know. And you may have had prior contact with, you know, this person is not a believer. And he's now suddenly ill, he's in the hospital, and he's in need And you as a pastor wonder why go? You know, I don't know this guy very well. Uh my friend would like me to go see him. Why what's the purpose? Well, first of all, one lesson I've learned, and it comes out of this passage. Never forget to take your Bible. Never forget to take your Bible. What better time is it to read a passage specifically geared to sharing with the person who is suffering, sharing with them who Christ is. And what the good news is, that one person died and paid the sins for sinners to repent. What better time The Word of God heals. Maybe not always our physical needs, but that's not our greatest need. Our greatest need is our spiritual need. It heals. It brings healing. It brings Life from death. Maybe not from physical death. Not everybody's gonna survive. It's not God's will that they will survive. But it may just be that They would die physically and live forever. Because the Word of God spoke to their heart. The Word of God, you see, is a life-giving word. It is quick, it is powerful, it's sharper than any two-edged sword. Not too long ago I visited a man who is a friend of mine, who I know from having breakfast at McDonald's There's kind of a kind of an an an old well it's kind of called the geezer's club. And we kind of get together, we have breakfast together and we visit and we talk and those kinds of things. And this man Bob was there. He's an older gentleman. And uh over the weekend that he had an aneurysm in his brain that ruptured. This was a couple of a couple of months ago. And he wasn't expected to live. Um nobody asked me to. I wanted to visit him Because he was my friend, and I wanted to be able to share the comfort of the Word of God with him, knowing that he was not a believer But I do know one thing. The Word of God can penetrate anywhere. And I know that even though my friend was completely out of it and had been operated on, so he had a big bandage around his head. I know that when I read the scriptures that or I assumed that that that that the word the scripture did its work. Now Part of the good story is that Bob has experienced a partial recovery. He's out of the hospital. He has regained most of his faculties. So still has a few problems, not completely healed. The first day, the very first day I saw him out of the hospital at McDonald's, he came over to me and he said I heard you reading the Bible. Thank you. I heard you pray for me. Thank you. I had an opening with that man to continue to share the Word of God with him that I wouldn't have had had I not been. A chaplain to the poor and the needy and the afflicted and maybe the dying. There's another time. This time it was a friend who go who's a Christian. Very fine man. This man, uh well known in his community, attends a large church. They went and visited him, and he had a heart attack And he was doing better. And you know, I I went in, we talked a little while, and then I read the scriptures and I prayed. And then I left. When he recovered, he said to me, You know, Pastor Of all the people who visited me in the hospital, you're the only one who read the Word of God to me. And he thanked me. Because you see, the Word of God, even for a Christian, it doesn't have the same evangelistic purpose, but it has the purpose of reminding us. That our God is with us, even on the deathbed And the final incident that I want to relay to you, I'm wrapping this up What I'm trying to say is this from this incident. The minister who cares for the afflicted It almost the dying, the poor, not only is following Christ mode, not only has an opportunity to share the gospel that they may not have not only helps encourage God's people, but that minister will in the end be blessed himself. Let me tell you this final story. In my first pastorate, I've told this story before, so some of you will remember it, but Again, it's one of those stories that I never forget. I never, never will forget this. Until I die, I'll remember this. A lady in my church in South Dakota, when I got there, she just had discovered she had leukemia. This was 1978 They didn't have the kind of drugs that for leukemia then that they have now. The success the survival rate was not as good as it is now And she, by God's grace and mercy, battled the drug for f battled the disease for four years. But in the end, the drug took its toll, the disease took its toll. And I remember going to the hospital with her family all around And being there the last day of her life in the hospital. Now, if you've ever seen someone who's dying, it's not a pretty sight. It's not for the faint-hearted. Particularly if they're in the hospital. Because they have they're hooked up to everything. You've got wires attached, you've got tubes attached, coming out of orifices in your body Usually the belly starts this being distended because she had leukemia it got to her liver so she looks yellow She could not open her mind, open her she couldn't open her um her eyes At least most of the time. She could not it was in and out. She was high, uh she was drugged. You know, they had morphine going through her to ease the pain. And so, you know, multiple times I was with her for several hours, multiple times. You know, you say to yourself, first pastorate, what are you going to do? What in the world can you do? The first time I had somebody die in my church. Or in even in my it turned out even in my presence. What do you do? Well, thank God for the word. That's what I did. I kept taking every passage I could think of that had something to do with the fact that Jesus is our shepherd. Jesus takes us with him to be with him forever. He guides us through the valley of the shadow death. On and on it went. He, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep I did that multiple times. Toward the very end of this time, a phone call rings next to the bed of this woman And uh and and she was a really faithful Christian. When she died, there were 700 people who came to her funeral. And that was in a town of 4,000. She was well known and well respected. And our our church only held about a hundred people at the most. So there were people outside and people in the downstairs in the in the basement listening. But she was she was a faithful Christian and I'm sitting there Trying to be helpful with the word of God, trying to help with prayer, encourage her. She can't open her eyes, but they were and she couldn't talk either because because the drugs that they were given her were making her throat hurt. They she was just in agony in many ways. And It was her sister calling long distance from North Carolina. And this woman, Betty, was her name. She, I don't know how she did it, but by God's grace, she said a few things to her sister. She said Jesus is my Lord and Savior. And she looked and she said to her sister, What about you? And within an hour she was gone. That me Not seem like a great story, but for a minister of the gospel, it's the greatest thing I can ever imagine. The C God works, even in death, to overcome death through faith in His Word. Bringing the gospel to the lost, as she brought the gospel to her sister, as God wills. Well, I hope you can understand that I believe that being a chaplain to the lost, poor, and needy, those languishing in poverty, is not an adjunct part of the ministry. It's at the heart of it as well. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, as we come to you this day, we thank you, Lord, for these moments in your word. that um touch all of our hearts. Thank you that we have such a Savior as Jesus Christ. Who is not the least bit interested in our in our worldly status But has every interest in our spiritual well-being and has given his life to bring many. to know eternal life. And continues, Lord, to shepherd them throughout life, through the Difficulties through the ups and downs, through the good times and the bad. The Lord gives life to his people through faith And he leads us out of dark places into his glory. We thank you, O God, for your designing such a marvelous Savior and salvation. And for choosing us in him before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless in his love. We ask all these things now in Jesus' name. Amen.