Please remain standing. Turn to John chapter 3. And we'll be reading the first 21 verses. John chapter three, verses one through twenty-one. Let us uh hear the word of God. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? And Jesus answered. Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and the spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. And that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but cannot tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth So is everyone that is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be? Jesus answered and said, Art thou a teacher of Israel that knowest not these things? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, we speak what we do now, and testify that we have seen, and ye receive not our witness. If I have told you earthly things and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you heavenly things? And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that cameeth down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God This is the condemnation. That light has come into the world, and men loved darkness. rather than light, because their deeds were evil. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But he that doeth truth come to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, they are wrought in God. Thus far ends the reading of the Lord's Word. Please be s please be seated. Today we look at another aspect of the role of the minister of the Lord's Church. In the past, we have looked at the minister as servant, the minister as under-shepherd. I can't remember one of them. Another one. And now we look today as the minister who is a teacher. Now our Book of Church Order says that ministers, every minister of the word is a teaching elder. A teaching elder. And it goes on to say, among those who minister the word, the scripture distinguishes between the evangelist, the pastor, and the teacher. Today, then, we want to look at this aspect of the minister as teacher. And we want to see the work of Jesus. as teacher. I mean what better example can we find than our Savior's teaching labors? And there are many of those instances in which Christ interacted with people. and uh gave uh a significant amount of teaching uh to the people uh and and it was all toward the intent of revealing truth to them so that some, his elect children, might become his disciples. John 3 This whole interchange between Jesus and Nicodemus is one of the more famous interchanges between Christ and a person in the Bible. You probably heard some familiar verses in there. After all, everybody knows John 3. 16 But Nicodemus was a Pharisee. He was a leader of one of the parties of the religious elite in Israel during the time of Jesus. And Jesus, we also find out that Nicodemus was also a teacher. And it's in this one-on-one confrontation or interaction that Jesus has with Nicodemus that we see him at work teaching. Teaching one who may indeed become one of his students, one of his followers. This isn't the a one-on-one kind of teaching occurrence between Jesus and Nicodemus. It's only one type of the way in which Jesus taught. Sometimes he'll teach large crowds. Other times, he will use questions to provoke people to think. Others, he uses metaphors and parables to cause people to search for truth. To cause those to whom it's given to search for truth, to search for truth. There's no one way that Christ uses to be to Teach. There's no one way that he uses to be a communicator. It goes beyond saying that no one ever taught like Jesus He is the master teacher. He taught in a very clear and recognizable way. It was profoundly different from what the people were used to hearing. He taught with urgency. He taught with authority. He taught with passion to communicate to his listeners and to communicate his subject matter. And primarily that subject matter boils down to really a couple of things. He taught what we call the gospel. And he taught of how we all owe glory to God the Father, who has brought the gospel to us in his Son. The Bible actually predicts that there will be a time when God Himself will teach His people. That prediction is found in the text we read just a few minutes ago from Jeremiah 31. Jeremiah is a situation. This passage occurs as a promise, as a prophetic promise from God to the people through the prophet Jeremiah. People are in Jeremiah's days are about ready to go into experience a complete devastation of the nation because of their sin. They're going to be actually picked up from Jerusalem and taken all the way to Babylon and held there in captivity Because of all the evil they have done, God has brought judgment to his people. But in the midst of judgment, he makes this promise. And the promise he makes. is what I have said before. It's God basically saying to his people, I'm going to teach you. I myself am going to come to you and teach you. Listen to what he says. This is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days. That means after this taking into captivity, after those days are done. He says, I will put my law in their heart, and I will write it on their hearts. And you hear the word write, you think the teacher on the chalkboard, I will put my law in their hearts, I will write it On their hearts, I will be their God, and they will be my people He goes on to say, They shall teach no more every man his neighbor and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. For they will all know me. In other words, the teacher's work will help them to know who God is very clearly and very well From the least of them to the greatest of them, says the Lord, and I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember them no more. Fast forward now, almost 600 years, to the events we see recorded here in John 3. Through this interchange between Jesus Christ and a man named Nicodemus. And here you see that prophecy. Coming full force, coming to fulfillment Wouldn't you kind of love to be in a fly on the wall and listen to this going on and to watch the Lord teach this man? Because that's what he's doing. The Lord Jesus is teaching Nicodemus. It starts off, the story starts off by Nicodemus coming to Jesus. He calls him a Pharisee and the ruler of one of the rulers of the Jews. It says he came to him by night and he said to Jesus, Rabbi, We know you are a teacher sent from God And then it goes on to say how he knows this. He says, no man can do these miracles except God be with him. Nicodemus gives Jesus two titles in that one verse. He calls him first of all rabbi. Which is a title of honor and respect that Nicodemus is conferring upon Christ. In Nicodemus' eyes, Jesus, you see, is a very wise man. He's wiser than most, and he is deserving of this title. It's as if Nicodemus said, When he used the word rabbi, said, you're the master, teacher. You're the master of the truth. But he also did add the word teacher. They're two separate words that are being used here. Rabbi is certainly a title of honor and respect. Teacher also is a term of respect. It's highly important that we appreciate what Nicodemus is saying because as a member of the Pharisees, he's going against most of his peers. Most of his peers hate Jesus. Most of his peers detest what Jesus is saying. Most of his Phariseetic brothers cannot stand Jesus and are out to kill him. But Nicodemus does have some respect, and he shows deference to Jesus with these terms. Nicodemus acknowledges that one of the reasons he calls Jesus rabbi and teacher is because of all the miracles he does, but because he recognizes that those miracles couldn't be done if God were not with Jesus. He hasn't quite got it all yet, you see. He's willing to acknowledge that Jesus does miracles in the power of God. He's not there yet in terms of really understanding who Jesus is. That Jesus is God with him at that very moment. That part he hasn't gotten yet So what does Jesus say to Nicodemus as the teacher of Nicodemus? What is the content? What does Jesus want to get across to people who are listening to him? Christ is always in all of his interactions with people, whether it be a big crowd or a small crowd, whether it be one or five thousand. Christ is always focused on revealing himself as God, and he is focused on on revealing the fact that he as God has brought a kingdom This content can be said in a variety of different ways. You can say that Christ's content of his messages is the gospel. What it is and what it's not. You can say that he is interested in showing people that he is the Son of God and the Son of Man, that he is both divine and human. He demonstrates a singular focus on giving his children, his elect children, the understanding of these incredibly important past matters. It's not enough to say that Jesus does his work because God is with him. That's not enough. You've got to understand that Jesus is God. And that Jesus' ministry is one of God being with us. What is Jesus called? Emmanuel. What was the promise of Jeremiah 31? That they, I will come and I will teach them. I will put my laws on their heart. I will write it there. So that They I will be their God, and they will be my people. That's God with us. Jesus in his efforts is always truthful There is no falsehood that comes from his mouth or from his lips. He is dedicated to explaining God's word And only God's word, because only God's word is truth Well, Pastor, you don't know that. I do. I do too. It says so. It says so here. Jesus said it What he said to his disciples, sanctify them in my word, for thy word is truth. John 17, 17 Jesus also said it again when he said, They shall know the truth, and the truth shall set them free. John 8:31. Jesus said it again through his servant Peter. Where shall I go, Lord? You have the words of eternal life. John 6, 68. Christ, in his the content of what Christ is teaching us is truth. But it's also life. It's truth unto life. This is what defines his teaching. This is what is different about his teaching than all other teaching. Christ's goal is to give us truth But it's also to give us life. Life for how we are to live in His kingdom. Right away, we see some aspects of Christ's content on display in this interaction with Nicodemus. Nicodemus never asks Jesus a question, not yet, not as he first introduces the subject matter. He simply comes to Jesus and proclaims who Jesus is, rabbi and teacher. And that starts Christ in a full-fledged teaching mode. A full-fledged presentation of the gospel of the kingdom of God. He focuses on God's kingdom and he tells Nicodemus how to enter it. And in the process, he shows him how to gain life itself. Verily, verily, Jesus says in verse 3, except a man be born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. What's Jesus' concern here? Entering into the kingdom of God. How does he say it happens? You gotta be born again If you don't know Christ, you're out there scratching your head. What in the world does he mean? And Nicodemus had some questions about this too. How do you get born again And he's serious. He's not joking when he says, when you say, Jesus, I have to be born again, what does that mean? Do I get into my mother's womb and come back out again? He doesn't understand. And rather than say, Nicodemus, I told you once, you need to go out and find the answer for yourself, what I mean. Christ elaborates. Christ spends the time one-on-one personally Talking to this one man about the most important issues that any person will ever have to deal with. What is truth and what is life? What is this life all about? What is my purpose? Why am I here? What is the point? Christ goes on and tells Nicodemus more truth. This message, you see, is targeted directly and personally to Nicodemus. He says, I say unto you. You imagine that? What would you do if God was here right now and started talking to you I mean, that would be something, wouldn't it? On so many different levels. And he's interested in he's interested in in me. He wants me to know Truth. He wants me to know truth that leads to life. And he's willing to sit down and talk with me about that. This message is targeted directly and personally to Dicodemus. Now I'm going to do something here, and I would do it whether we have any teachers here in the audience, public teachers here in the audience or not. And I personally am not trying to denigrate the job that the public school teachers have. I think it's an impossible job, made impossible by the curriculum, the content of their curriculum, and those who are overseeing their job. But nevertheless I'm old enough to remember when it wasn't this way. I'm not old enough to remember the McGuffey readers being part of the curriculum. But I am old enough to remember as a child in elementary school that teachers were focused on helping students. On answering questions and helping students to learn knowledge and apply it. And often the Bible was involved in that discussion. It was not unusual to get individual attention if a child was lacking or lagging behind. But frankly, today teachers cannot do one-on-one interaction with their students, at least not on school time. They have to teach everybody the same thing at the same time. And in the process, they quote unquote dumb down. So that many are held back in terms of the content of what they're hearing, in order that everybody might learn at the same pace. And so the effect of that is that learning and intelligence drifts down to the lowest common denominator. And the content I don't profess to know what's going on in Cully School. It's been Tw twelve, thirteen years since my daughter was in public school. Maybe more than that. But I remember her talking about things, and it was very easy to discern that what's going on there, and you know this, they're teaching everything but truth. Everything but God's truth. Everything but God's truth is truth. Isn't that right? Teaching today in the public school is the denial of everything about God and the gospel. With the effect being that the children are being alienated from God The creature is being systematically separated from the Creator Christ's passion is for each one of his sheep to live and to learn as much about God and his word as possible Not so we can put all that learning somewhere up here or somewhere in the piano here or somewhere in the pew. But so that what we learn about Christ comes down into our being and hits our heart. I will write my laws upon their heart. And when I say on their heart, I mean so that it makes a difference In your heart. In your very heart. Christ's concern is to teach truth and life So that you as Christ's sheep might live In fact, Jesus defines this as his purpose in John chapter 1010. The thief comes not but to steal, to kill, and destroy. I am come. that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. Now Jesus is not talking about abundant life in terms of engaging in all of the excesses of our lusts and our passions He's talking about life with him. He's talking about life in his kingdom. He's talking about life that that begins here on this side of heaven and continues on forever. I have come that they might have life and that they might have it abundantly. That's why every word that comes out of Jesus' mouth as he teaches is a word of truth and a word of life for his sheep. His content is driven by his passion, and his passion drives his content. The method Christ uses is varied, as I've said before. Here, in this passage, in order for Nicodemus to understand, Christ tears down all false and corrupted and stereotypical ideas of the Jews Regarding truth and life. And he presents truth and life in a way that Nicodemus doesn't immediately understand. And we hear his questions. How can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Imagine if Jesus had walked away at that point. Nicodemus, got a question there. Go figure it out for yourself Imagine. But he doesn't. He goes on. Verse 5. Verily, verily I say unto thee, unless a man is born of water and of the Spirit. He cannot enter into the kingdom of God. Now Nicodemus has something to think about. Here Jesus is telling him: Gotta be born again. Got to be born again by water, and I believe he refers to the Holy Spirit. When he says spirit. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the spirit is spirit Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. The wind blows where it wishes, you hear the sound of it, but you can't tell where it came from. Or where it goes, so is everyone born of the Spirit, Jesus says. And Nicodemus, he's still puzzled. He says, How can these things be? Apparently this is this is the teacher of Israel. How can these things be? What are you talking about? The Spirit? How is the Spirit involved in helping me gain life? Being born again? Why do I need to be born again? What's the problem? What's wrong with me in the first place? Jesus, the Lord, the teacher, the Lord God Almighty, is teaching this man, and he takes more time. To help Nicodemus understand what is really a complicated matter, that about being born again. You've heard the phrase. It's synonymous with becoming a Christian. To help Nicodemus, Christ gives him this common occurring situation in life of the wind blowing. And compares it to the work of the Spirit. In a sense, he's telling Nicodemus, at least he's telling Nicodemus, if you gotta be born again, It's gotta be by God's doing. God has to do the work You can't do it. But God can. Simple thing for him In a sense. I I well yeah, I'm gonna do this. Because I'm I'm going. The blood is running. Again, I contrast this with some of the teaching that goes on in our world There is a variety of ideas and methods that are used to improve quote-unquote learning. Down to even the physical structure of the buildings. Remember the time when they came out with schools without walls? That one worked real good. But usually they're fooling around with the curriculum. Truth, any truth taught. In our public schools, has no concern for eternal life. And frequently it isn't truth at all. Teaching truth, quote unquote, is done because the teacher is concerned to get the kid to the next grade. Eternal life? Most teachers would say that's absurd. Truth? What is truth? Don't we all have some truth? The concern they have is to have students be able to graduate and cope with life While at the same time, they and the system are systematically and ruthlessly embracing man's wisdom and cramming it into kids' heads And thereby systematically and ruthlessly depriving kids of everything God says is truth and life. I asked, teacher, do you really care about your students doing their best in life? Why would you work in a system that goes to extreme to hide God's truth from your students? Why wouldn't you at least expose the student to God's truth under life and let the student decide? No, you can't do that No, we can't do that. We can cram every other thing into their little brains and hope that that will lead them to a happy and productive life. Don't let them hear anything about God. Don't let them hear anything about Christ. Don't let them hear anything about eternal life. Don't let them hear anything about the gospel. In the end, this method of teaching will only lead students down the path to eternal death, not eternal life, unless God in His mercy exposes the child to the truth of the gospel. Thirty-five years ago, or maybe a little longer than that, somewhere between 1938 and 1981, I'm driving along a road in Winter, South Dakota, in my first pastorate. At noon, Paul Hardy would come on. As some of you know that name, he was a well-known commentator who would always give his His slant on the world. And Paul Harvey, I believe, for the things that he said, I listened to him enough time to know that he knew the gospel and probably was a Christian. And he was commenting then, 35, 40 years ago, he was commenting them on the situation in the public school system. And after commenting on it, he said, all I think we are doing is succeeding in making our children more clever devils. That was then. It's worse now. But this is not Jesus For Jesus' teaching is always with passion and usually with compassion. You hear this coming from Jesus as he interchanges with Nicodemus. Even challenges him, verse 10. He says to him, Are you a teacher of Israel? The same word that Nicodemus used to describe Christ in verse 2. Are you a teacher of Israel? And you don't know these things that I'm telling you? Christ cannot, in a sense, Christ is saying, I don't believe that you don't know about the Spirit and how the Spirit brings truth and life. And Christ's question here at to in verse 10 of chapter 3 puts Nicodemus on notice of two things. Number one, Nicodemus, you don't know as much about the spiritual things as you may think you do. And number two, hopefully that's going to whet Nicodemus's appetite for more study in the Word of God until he learns the truth. Until he learns how to be born again, until he learns how to live in God's kingdom, so that Nicodemus can teach others properly. Finally, what is the goal of Christian teaching or Christ's teaching? We can describe this in a number of different ways They all mean the same, with different emphasis, each one of them. The goal of Christian teaching is not simply to have us learn as much knowledge about God as we can, the goal is to lead us to truth. The goal is to lead us to live unto eternal life in Christ. By understanding the gospel, you will understand your need of a new heart. Because you see, all of our hearts are dead in transgressions of them. sin. That's what Ephesians 2. 1 says. We're all dead. By nature. We have Adam's death in our hearts. That has to change. We need a new heart. And a new heart comes as the Spirit of God leads his people. and a continuing understanding of what God's word, but ultimately brings his people to the point where they say to God, I am wrong and I am sorry that I have offended you. Me Lord. From this point on, Lord, I want to serve you and not myself. Help me, Lord, to believe in Jesus. The goal of Christian teaching, of Christ's teaching and all teaching Christian, is to save sinners. to make them disciples of Christ. As Jesus said, excuse me, as Paul said, Paul's servant said to the Philippian jailer In Acts 16, 31. A jailer wants to know, what can I do to be saved? And Jesus says, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved You and your household. Christ is about the business of making disciples for him. People who are willing to live for Jesus and not for themselves. To impart knowledge, to transform the heart, so that the heart Loves God and loves their neighbor as themselves. Instead of an old heart dead in transgressions and sins, which really is a heart that hates God There needs to be a new heart that loves God, that sacrifices for the things of God, and sacrifices to help your neighbor. So that you serve Jesus with your life, becoming more and more Christ-like, changing your old ways and committing to Christ's ways Regardless of how painful that can sometimes be. The goal of all Christian teaching is the fulfillment of the new covenant promise Whether it be to Nicodemus or to you. I will put my law on their inward parts and write it in their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. As Christ told his disciples, all authority in heaven and earth is given to me. Go therefore and teach. which is the actual word, make disciples, of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit teaching them, same word as which Nicodemus calls Jesus, teacher, same root word, to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always even till the end of the age. It is the truth that no human pastor should ever think that he can approach Christ as the great. Teacher, or approach the greatness of Christ, the great teacher. Jesus is the master teacher, the master discipler. But that does not mean that we as pastors should not strive to learn and live more for him. It does not mean that we can be as ineffective as we want to be as Christ's substitute teachers for his people. Nor does it mean that we can lose sight of his message or abandon the Word of God, which is God's curriculum And replace it with our own thoughts. Damn us all if we do. It means the pastor as the teacher Can never lose sight of the goals of the teacher. Preach Christ. Preach his truth. Preach eternal life of God's kingdom to God's flock. Preach the word to those who are elect that may not yet be in God's flock. So that disciples for Christ will be made. Preach and help the flock to live with God now on this earth. And for the ages to come. Amen.