Brothers and sisters, let's turn to the Word of God to John chapter 13. John chapter 13, beginning in verse 1 and reading through verse 17. Hear now the word of God. Now therefore the feast No, excuse me. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, that he should depart from this world to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. And supper being ended, The devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son to betray him. Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he had come from God and was going to God. Rose from supper, laid inside his garments, took a towel, and girded himself. After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet. And to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded. Then he came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to him, Lord, are you washing my feet? Jesus answered and said to him, What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will know after this. And Peter said to him, You will never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I do not wash you, you have no part with me. Simon Peter said to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only to be washed, only to wash his feet, but is completely clean. And you are clean, but not all of you. For he knew who would betray him. Therefore he said, You are not all clean. So when he had washed their feet, taken their garments, and sat down again, he said to them, Do you know what I have done for you? Excuse me, to you? You call me teacher and Lord, and you say, Well, for so I am If I then your teacher, Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Most assuredly I say to you, A servant is not greater than his master, nor is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. And thus far ends the reading of our Lord's Word. Please be seated. Well we have been uh looking at a series about what the Bible says about uh ministers, uh uh the ministers of the of the Lord's people. And uh we have spoken in the past about Ministers as stewards, ministers as under-shepherds. On today we talk about ministers as servants. There is significant overlap between those three different categories. However, there is also These words also have some exclusive ideas that are connected to themselves. And it's those exclusive ideas that I want to bring forward to us this morning as we think more about what ministers do In the book of church order in our denomination, the form of government, it says this about ministers. It says, minister, as a minister or servant of Christ, it is his duty to feed the flock of God, to be an example to them. To have oversight of them, to hear, to bear the glad tidings of salvation to the ignorant and perishing, and beseech them to be reconciled to God through Christ. to exhort and convince the gamesayer by sound doctrine and to dispense the sacraments instituted by Christ Today, I'd like to think about that statement in light of what we read in John chapter 13, in this very familiar incident of Christ washing the feet of the disciples. I think it would help, first of all, to set the tone or to discuss the setting in which this event occurs. And we don't have to guess about the setting. It's revealed right away in verse 1 of John chapter 13. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them to the end. This whole event. This whole footwashing episode occurs right before the Lord's death. Right before Passover begins. We're at the last week of Christ's life. We know too that Jesus knows very well, fully aware That his hour had come, according to verse 1, that he would soon depart this world and be with the Father In other words, the cross is looming large in Jesus' thought. The cross and the fact of his sacrifice there. The labor of his atonement for us, his substitutionary atonement, is in Christ's vision. It's in his mind. It's in his heart. Christ's death will be the salvation For everyone in his presence in this group. Their sin, their hard-headed rebellion, Would actually be the cause of his death, along with all other men, and their total depravity. And our Lord's atonement would save these men. All of them. But one Can you imagine that If you're under that kind of knowledge that you know for certainty what's happening at the end of the week. And what's happening at the end of the week is the worst day ever Would you not seek some pity? Might you not If not pity, might you not be a little frustrated at what is what you're gonna about to do for these nitwits? These nitwits that are here. These sheep who can't get it right. But you see none of that with our Savior. Rather than dwell on the impending loss of his own life and seek pity. Your Savior focuses on what he was called to do. When it says he loved them to the end. This whole incident of his foot washing is a pre, it's a it's a part of his love It's not the ultimate part of his death, but the willingness to do it characterizes our Savior's willingness to die for our sin. He is called, you see, to be a servant to his flock. To take care of their legitimate needs. And he does so without resentment or anger at what their sin is about to do to him. Instead, having loved his own, he loved them to the end. And that's with the certain knowledge that he knew what was in their hearts and in their minds. Even as he's about to do what he's gonna do. He actively engages the people around him He actively addresses their current need. Now, their current need is maybe not something that seems all that significant to us But it would have been to them. He's washing their feet. A seemingly insignificant activity. An activity which is only proper for those who are of low estate to do Do servants do this. Not the Lord of glory When Peter under a false profession Of his pride, protest, Lord, do you wash my feet? And then follows it up by saying, Lord, you're never gonna wash my feet. We all love that. That's us. Don't understand. Don't understand at all. Don't understand at all what Jesus is about. When he's under that false profession, our Lord has to threaten to disown him as one of his disciples, unless the Lord lets him Excuse me, Peter relents and enables the Lord to wash his feet. You don't let me wash your feet. You have no part in me. Don't miss that. What he is saying is, Peter, you don't understand who I am and what I'm about. You haven't got a clue. As to what the gospel is. No one Propelled Jesus to do this. Nobody requested this. He saw a need and he met it. No one preceded him in the action of washing their feet. There were no other servants there, apparently. No one else thought to do this. So the likelihood is high that no one cared excuse me to do this He didn't have to be told by anyone to do this. You know, it's like, wouldn't you as a parent just want Love to have Mary pick up her room without being told. Or Johnny take out the trash without having to be told. I know it sounds funny. I know it sounds like a small thing. Nobody told Jesus to do that. He did it out of his own love. For his sheep, but also for his father. Because his father loves the sheep enough to let the son die for them When it says in verse 2 that he loved his own which were in the world, he loved them to the end. Both times the word. For love is agape or agapa-o. Both signs. And I don't have to go into what that means, but it's the It is the concrete expression of showing love that's involved here. This is an act. It's not, oh, I love you. Go wash your own feet. It's I love you and I will prove it to you. Because I will wash your feet. And that's just the tip of the iceberg of redemption, of the saving work of Christ's love for his people. How would you characterize this act of foot washing if you wouldn't at least say it is the act of a servant? It's the washing of others' feet then or now, you see, can't be seen as a pleasant thing Stooping so low as to perform such a meaning menial task to benefit someone else? Is that something we're naturally inclined to do? No. Yet Isn't Jesus' whole life of death and eventual resurrection one of serving us? If washing your people's feet is a menial job, humiliating and unpleasant, what do you think dying for your people is? And I think there's I I'm kind of going back and forth about this in my own mind, and I'm not sure it's significantly important. But I think I've come down on the side of saying Judas probably experienced this. If that's true, if that's the case Christ washed the feet of one who was not elect, who inwardly despised him. Dying for a people like the disciples Who, of course, like the rest of us, has disobeyed all of God's laws. For those whose sinful nature will sooner or later lead them to temporarily disown the Jesus now washing their feet. Even some of your closest friends will say they never knew you. But he's washing their feet. Again, I think we need to appreciate the back of this work which is done to others is an expression of the fact that Jesus as the servant is fulfilling his master's will. This is not fulfilling the will of the any of the disciples. They didn't ask for it. He is doing this in order to fulfill the master's, the f his master's father's will. His master's will, in other words, the Father's will. In the broadest sense Every good servant exists to do their master's will. Did you hear that word exist? The servant lives to accomplish what his master wants. We don't think about this because we don't live in this kind of environment. But go to some place where it's prevalent to have a master and slaves, and that's what The master will impose upon the slave, do my will. In so doing, when the slave does the master's will, he demonstrates the highest degree of. In Christ's case, love. But maybe for others respect might work. Respect for his master. Because he's being obedient to his master. Everything just says applies to Jesus, and add to that Christ is fulfilling his master's plan His Father, his eternal plan that can only be fulfilled by Christ's death, to save his people from their sin. And God gets all the glory for it. Are you just getting or beginning to feel what it means to be called a servant of God? I hope you are We earlier read from Matthew 20, the two disciples, Jesus said, can you drink the cup that I'm about to drink? And I really believe that James and John said the stupidest thing ever uttered here. Yes, we can. And Jesus said, You will, but not now If it's the father's will that there's no other way, or the master's will, that there's no other way to save the sheep, Then by Christ being obedient to the Father's will to the point of death, then you, Jesus, as the servant, do it And that's precisely what we see Jesus doing in Gethsemane. O my Father, if this cup may not pass from me, except I drink it. Thy will be done. The servant obeys his master because he desires the Father's will. To be fulfilled even more than he desires his own will to be done. If there is any hint of conflict between the master and the servant, Jesus, the servant, follows the master. He subordinates everything to the master's will. In Jesus' case, that meant he gave his life to fulfill the Father's will. It meant that he put God first in everything. It meant that the Father would be highly exalted by everything Jesus did. This man, Christ, broken despised, naked, bleeding, mocked, and scorned by men This man, God highly exalted, and gave him a name which is above every name That every knee should bow. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Things in heaven and things in earth. And things under the earth. And that every tongue confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father Ministers are called to be servants too. For as Jesus says in the conclusion of John chapter 13, this incident Beginning in verse 13, he says, You call me Master and Lord, you say well, for so I am. If I then, your master and lord, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash. the feet of others. I have given you an example that you should do as I have done. Verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than the master. Neither is he that is sent greater than he who sent him. If you know these things, happy are you to do them Ministers are called to follow Christ, to serve the cause of Christ, the Master and the Lord. As a servant, the minister is to have the mind of Christ He is called to lovingly serve Christ and Christ's people. He is called to do so, never to advance his own kingdom But to bring and disciple more sheep into Christ's kingdom for the glory and the praise of the Father. He is always to have the mindset, my master. Not me. The servant of Christ has an ongoing battle to put Christ ahead of himself. As Jesus put it so well in Luke 9, verse 23, if any man come after me, let him deny himself. Take up his cross and follow me. The servant is called to recognize that as Christ's servant, he can only do all things through Christ who strengthens him He is called to put himself last before others. He is called to be least before others, and to think and act in that way. To see Jesus last and least in footwashing? Truly it bespeaks of a perfect humility All who love Christ are to serve Christ. It's not just ministers who are to serve Christ, but ministers do have. Some difference in the way in which you serve the things of Christ. For you see, ministers will have to give an accounting To the master for how faithfully they have served Christ. How faithfully they have served the sheep in their calling to be a servant of Jesus. No minister can be your perfect servant. There's only one of those He is the servant of God. But I think you will not go wrong If you, as a congregation, seek a minister who makes it clear in word and deed that he is humbled and honored to be designated a servant of Christ Servant is not greater than his Lord. Neither is he who is sent greater than he who sent him. If you know these things, happy are you if you do them. I am tempted to suggest that when a candidate comes, someone in the congregation will be so bold and ask the prospective candidate this question. Would you be offended if I asked you to wash my feet Maybe very revelatory. When I began ministry 37, 38 years now ago I would have failed to answer that question. You know what I would have said? I would have said the OPC doesn't do that. That's what I would have said. I believe I can answer that question, yes. I wouldn't or no, I would not be offended now. Sorry, shouldn't be about me. I don't mean that. But by God's grace, I'm thankful I can say that. Let us pray. O Lord our God, we ask your Spirit to speak to all of our hearts. As we seek, Lord, to be good and faithful servants for the kingdom of Jesus Christ and for The gathering of ever-increasing glory to the Father for his most marvelous redemptive plan. Amen.