Now I'd ask you to please turn to the scripture reading upon which the sermon is based from the book of John, chapter 21, verses 15. through verses 25. We read this last Sunday at the, this was the subject of the sermon on the resurrection last Sunday. Because it occurs, as verse 14 says, it's the third time Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he was raised from the dead But it uh I also think it speaks to the subject matter of what ministers are called to do. And so I'd ask you now to hear the word of the Lord as it's recorded for us here. In John chapter 21, verse 15 and following. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my sheep. Now he said to him a third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him, The third time do you love me? He said to him, Lord, You know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Most assuredly I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished But when you are old, you will stretch out your hand, and another will gird you and take you where you do not wish. This he spoke, signifying by what death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said to him, Follow me. Peter, turning around, saw the disciple, whom Jesus loved, following. Who also had leaned on his breast at the supper and said, Lord, who is the one who betrays you? Peter, seeing him, said to Jesus, But Lord, what about this man? Jesus said to him, If I will that he remains remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me. Then this saying went out among the brethren that the disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but if I will that he remain till I come. What is that to you? This is the disciple who testifies these things and writes these things, and we know that his testimony is true. And there were also many other things that Jesus did, which, if they were written one by one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that would be written. Amen. Please be seated. Well, as I said previously, even though this section of God's Word is one I preached as early as last week. And I preached it in the context of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. I think this passage also addresses the questions Of what does a minister do? Or what is a minister called to do? Now, the reason I'm Changing from our series on Hebrews and starting now another series on the calling of ministers is because of what happened at the congregational meeting And and that of course was that I announced that I was looking to retire in the near future and uh the congregation asked Well, will you please preach some sermons about the role of ministers? So this is that attempt to begin to honor that concern and that commitment. And this is the first one in this in this series. And um I'm not sure that what I have to say today is the most important thing about what a minster do, but it certainly does, but it's certainly very high up there. And I'm going to look, first of all, at that section where Jesus and Peter are talking with each other. Now you remember, Peter, the Lord's disciple, is the one who when he when he heard that Jesus was going to die And was going to be resurrected, that Peter denied that. He initially denied it. He said, God forbid that this would happen to you. And at that point, Peter, the Lord Jesus, turns to Peter and said, Get behind me, Satan. You don't have the mind of the things of God. You're minded after the things of Satan. Later on. Jesus announces to the disciples that Peter Before the the and I always get this wrong, before the cock crowed Twice, Peter would deny him three times. That's right in the context of Christ Being taken, Peter following where they had taken him, and Peter, you remember, denying. I never knew this man. And then the cock, he did that several times, and then the cock croned. So um, oh Peter's got some baggage. Coming to this appearance of Jesus after the resurrection. Verse 14 of this passage notes that this is the third appearance of Jesus after the resurrection. This time it's by the Sea of Galilee. And it's early morning. And there's seven of the disciples. Seven of the eleven are here. Of course, Judas would not be here. But seven of the eleven are here present and they fish, not catching anything And Jesus appears on the shore and he tells them, throw your nets over the other side, and they bring up a boatload full of fish. From then they have breakfast That that brings us right to this discussion, right to this interchange. And there is this Questioning that Jesus brings to Peter. And he asks Peter, Peter, you know, who with all of his baggage is necess nevertheless one of the more preeminent disciples Of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, it was Peter who first said to Jesus, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And it's, if you think about it, here is this man who has been given some information, some knowledge. about Christ and yet is so obviously flawed that he will deny his own Lord and Savior, who he's worked with now for three years, He will deny him. And want not to be associated with him. And so Jesus comes to Peter, and in very pointed language, he asks Peter, Do you love me? I hear what you say, but do you really love me? And as I we talked about it the last time, I said that that was the Greek word agape, which is the word sacrifice. Do are you, Peter, ready to sacrifice for me? That's what Jesus is asking Are you ready to give yourself for my kingdom, for my name? Peter, of course, says, yes, Lord, I love you. And Jesus says to him, okay, Peter, love my lambs. Feed my lambs. Well again I it's it's it's a truth of scripture that lambs And sheep are often referred to in Scripture as the Lord's flock. We humans are compared to sheep that often go astray. But sometimes, by God's grace, hear the voice of their shepherd. So He says, feed my lambs. And when you stop and think about that, the lambs are little sheep And here's this burly fisherman who's being asked now to care for little kids, little people. Quite an interesting question. Well, after that initial encounter Uh Lord Jesus tells Peter, okay. Peter, do you love me? He comes back at him a second time. Do you love me? Peter says, yes, Lord, you know I love you. And uh and then Peter, then the Lord says, Feed my sheep Now we got a man's job. You know, now we got those bigger animals out there, those grown-up humans who like sheep. Are described in Scripture, Isaiah 53, as sheep who are prone to wander, who often go astray. Jesus in his parables told stories about sheep His own sheep. My sheep hear my voice. Or he tells the story about the one sheep out of the hundred that goes astray And that the shepherd will go and find him and bring him back. In a sense, what Jesus is saying to Peter, one of the things he's saying to him with these metaphors about feeding my sheep. is he's calling Peter to be a shepherd who loves God's people. Whether they be little or s or or uh adult, big or small Who will carry on a ministry in the Lord's name for his sheep The sheep belong to the Lord. They do not belong to the shepherd. Nevertheless, the shepherd is called to care for them as if they were his own. Be a shepherd to them Be a shepherd to them for as long as they're your sheep. Then we come to the third time, and Jesus reiterates But he's already said, except this time, he doesn't use the word love agape, he uses the word love philato in Greek, which You might remember that's brotherly affection. Peter, do you love me as a brother? Do you really like me? And of course, Peter is quickened or is cut to the quick. Says, yes, Lord, you know I love you. Once again, feed my sheep. And then Jesus adds some more. Come. And follow me. And as he adds that more, some more, he talks about Peter, you're gonna face a time. When they're going to come people who will come and take you and lead you where you don't want to go. And then the text describes that by saying that's indicative of those who would take Peter to death. So he's telling J he's telling Peter, be a shepherd for my sheep. Care for them as long as they are your as they as long as they're you're a shepherd over them on my behalf. And then he gives them the job description. Oh yeah, by the way, Peter You're gonna die for doing this. Pretty sobering job description, isn't it? But isn't that like your shepherd Jesus? Doesn't he so love the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Isn't he the good shepherd who lays down his life for the sheep? Isn't the love of God such that herein is the love of God, not that we loved him, but that he loved us and gave himself to us? So The call, you see, that God has given to Peter is long-term call of being in the business of being a shepherd of the sheep of the Lord Jesus This is a responsibility. It also includes other aspects of shepherding which we need to appreciate. And one of those aspects of shepherding, one of those aspects of taking care of the Lord's flock And making sure, you see, that those chef those sheep are well cared for. And in this case, it doesn't mean that they're fed Breakfast. It means that they're fed faithfully with the Word of God and with the person of God. One of the responsibilities has to do with being a steward. Of what God has given to you. In our denomination's Book of Church Order, in the sixth chapter in the first section, we read this. The ministry of the Word is a calling of God to stewardship in the gospel. In this ministry, there is a diversity of gifts that are essential to the discharge of evangelistic, pastoral, and teaching functions Pretty good statement. But it talks about a calling to stewardship in the gospel. In the John 21 interchange between Christ and Peter, we see Christ calling Peter. To embark upon a lifetime of being a shepherd for God's sheep. Soon after Jesus issues this final feed by sheep He encourages Peter to follow him, which I've already said means that Peter ultimately will die for Christ and his sheep. Peter is called by Jesus. Peter didn't just come up to Jesus on the beach and say, Lord, I want to atone for all that I have done by being your shepherd. He didn't put himself out there front and center. In fact, for a while Peter was hiding. And didn't want to have this conversation. It was the Lord who spoke to Peter It was the Lord who called Peter to this task, which very well would mean his life. The ministry of the word is a calling to stewardship Neither did Peter go in the opposite direction and say, well, I'm the Apostle Peter. I'm numero uno among the disciples, and therefore I can go out and proclaim myself as the Lord's successor. He did not self appoint himself. You see that He wasn't self-appointed. He was called by God. And when you think about the pastor of the church, that's a very significant issue. And it's one that you all have to be aware of. What do you mean? It's a significant issue. How do you judge if a minister is called to the ministry Well, I believe that and and here is a lot of discussion. There are some that advocate or would say, well, you have to have an internal call. You have to feel it. You have to feel that God has, quote-unquote, spoken to you in order to do this ministry, in order to be a minister. By that I mean he's spoken to you in such a way that you've kind of audibly heard him say, go be a minister. Well, that's of course what Jesus did say to Peter, right? But but that's all you have. That's only the beginning place. Of discerning a call. What else is involved? What is involved is oftentimes The churches, the individual church, be it Trinity Reformed Church or another church, The church is evaluation of a man who is engaged in some sort of Bible study or some sort of teaching Some place in which he's using the gifts that Jesus has given to him for preaching or for understanding or or explanation or clarity uh of the the scriptures to God's people. And that evaluation would come in the sense of how the people in the church evaluate the man's interaction with the rest of the flock. How does he use whatever God has given him for the benefit of God? How does he feed the lambs? How does he feed the sheep? Um that's at base more what I think begins the process of calling. There may be this internal call, which we call, but there has to be some objective calling. Which includes formal training. By the way, Peter underwent three years of training With Jesus. Three years of preparation. Three years of evaluation of Jesus' methods and of his interaction So there has to be some kind of training, and that training can come either through mentoring, as Paul did with Timothy and with Titus But more and more in our age, it's also through the seminary, where men are exposed to a rigorous course of study in the various disciplines of Ministry. Does it mean that a seminary graduate is automatically equipped to be A leader of the church or a minister of the church, but it means that he has at least been exposed to the tools necessary and to the theology involved. And after that, the Presbytery gets involved if you're in a Presbyterian system and they provide oversight and testing and approval or certification of the man. This is how this is morphed into what's here, now, present in our day and age. But this is all part of the calling. And I think as you as a congregation are evaluating the next man, you need to ask some pretty specific questions Does he have an understanding of his calling from God? And if he does, what is it? Can he share it with you Another probative question, which I think is helpful and illuminating. The answer could be illuminating. Does the minister consider his work a calling from God, or does he consider it a job from God? Ministers It's not just a calling, but it's a calling to exercise stewardship. Exercise stewardship. Christ committed to Peter his flock. Christ still commits to ministers his luck The concept of being a steward is not one that we use much today, but it comes up often in the Gospels. In Christ's teaching, Christ tells stories and parables connected to what he calls the chief servant of the house. The chief servant is sometimes referred to, chief servant, master servant, but often in the King James he's referred to as the good man of the house. And in Luke chapter 12, verse 42 and following, there is a very important passage. using this stewardship condo concept that I want to bring to your attention Verse 42 of Luke chapter 12 and following. The Lord said then, said, Who then is the faithful and wise servant? Whom the Lord shall make ruler over his house. Ruler over his house. There is, doesn't quite say uh steward, although it said it earlier. Ruler and steward, faithful, wise steward are all connected in thought He is whom the Lord shall make ruler over his household to give them their portion of meat in due season. Another way of saying that is which servant of the Lord, which wise servant, wise steward, will feed the Lord's house? The Lord's people. Going on. Blessed is the servant whom the Lord, when he comes, shall find, doing so. That is doing so, giving Meat to the people in the house, food, solid food. I would argue that means the scriptures For them to chew on. Of a truth I say to you that he will make him ruler over all that he has. But and if that servant says in his heart, My Lord has delayed his coming, and he begins to beat the servants. And to eat and drink and to be drunk. Then the Lord of the servant will come in a day when he doesn't look for him. In an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers And that servant which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did, according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes, but he that knew and did commit Things. Oh, yeah, that's what I said. For unto, and then he adds, for unto whom much is given. Of him shall be much required. To whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more. Unto whomsoever much is given, to him shall much be requ r required. The servant is a steward Of the Lord's flock. He has been made ruler of the house by the Lord. He's placed in charge of all that the master has when the master goes away. He is called to be faithful and wise, and he shows that if he takes good care of the Lord's property and his people. He gives them their portion of meat in due season. When the master returns, the steward will have to give an accounting And upon the accounting of his labor, there will be either rewards or punishment Both Peter and Paul pick up the use of this stewardship model in their discussion of ministers. Paul in 1 Corinthians 4, verses 1 and 2 says, Let a man so account of us as of the ministers of God and stewards of the mysteries. Of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Think about that. Faithful in feeding the people of God with the mysteries of God from his word. Their meat in due season. When a steward, when the steward describes the minister of the gospel, the minister's role is this. One, to recognize that he is entrusted with the Lord's treasure. It is always the Lord's flock, the Lord's lambs, the Lord's sheep, for whom Jesus died for. Their welfare is the minister's or the steward's responsibility. He will be required by God to give an answer for his stewardship. That's why James 3 says, verse 1: My brethren, be not many masters knowing that all shall receive the greater condemnation. It's called the recognized He's called to realize that the Lord has given him a great responsibility. Precisely because as the steward he has been given gifts for the task of ministry. He must be found faithful in little so that he is to be trusted with much. He is to realize that, he is to understand that as the steward, he is nevertheless a servant. who is called to exercise care for the well-being of the master's possessions, his lambs, his sheep. After all, he is a lamb He is called to be wise and faithful in the performance of his stewardship duties. faithful unto the master, who has committed into his possession for his care while the master is away. This is foundational for the man who is to be a minister of the gospel. Is he willing to faithfully and wisely care for the master's flock for as long as the master is away? Is his goal to be a good steward of all that God has given to him, even as Christ was a good steward of all that the Father gave to him For it was Jesus who said in John 17, verse 12, While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those that you have you gave to me. I have kept. None of them is lost, but the son of perdition, that the scriptures might be fulfilled. fail, fulfilled. In that candidate, that minister candidate's heart is his attitude to serve Christ, the Master, by being a blessing to the Lord And his sheep. That is to say, is he like Jesus in his love for God and for his people? Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we ask for the blessing of your word to be beneficial to the spiritual interests of your people. And uh Lord, that uh it will uh result, Lord, in uh As your people seek to be faithful, that it will result in many blessings to them for years to come. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.