If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to Daniel, as we continue our study there. Daniel chapter eight. I think that's on page eight hundred and eighty-five of your few Bibles. We'll be reading the whole chapter tonight. It's a bit long. And so if you need to, please feel free to sit. Daniel chapter 8, beginning at verse 1. In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar, a vision appeared to me, Daniel. After that which appeared to me at the first. And I saw in the vision, and when I saw, I was in Susa the citadel, which is in the provinces of Elam. And I saw in the vision And I was at the Uli Canal. I raised my eyes and saw, and behold, a ram standing on the bank of the canal. It had two horns. And both horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last. I saw the ram charging westward and northward and southward. No beast could stand before him. And there was no one who could rescue from his power. He did as he pleased and became great. As I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west across the face of the whole earth without touching the ground. And the goat had a conspicuous horn between his eyes. He came to the ram with the two horns, which I had seen standing on the bank of the canal, and he ran at him in his powerful wrath. I saw him come close to the ram, and he was enraged against him, and struck the ram, and broke his two horns. And the ram had no power to stand before him, but he cast him down to the ground and trampled on him And there was no one who could rescue the ram from his power. Then the goat became exceedingly great. But when he was strong the great horn was broken, and instead of it there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven. Out of one of them came a little horn, which grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the glorious land. It grew great, even to the host of heaven. And some of the host, excuse me, and some of the hosts and some of the stars it threw down to the ground and trampled on them It became great, even as great as the Prince of the Host. And the regular burnt offering was taken away from him, and the place of his sanctuary was overthrown And a host will be given over to it together with the regular burnt offering because of transgression. And it will throw truth to the ground, and it will act and prosper. Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to the one who spoke, For how long is the vision concerning the regular burnt offering? The transgression that makes desolate, and the giving over of the sanctuary and the host to be trampled underfoot. And he said to me, For two thousand three hundred evenings and mornings And the sanctuary shall be restored to its rightful state. When I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand, and behold, there stood before me one having the appearance of a man. And I heard a man's voice between the banks of Uli, and it called, Gabriel, make this man understand the vision. So he came near where I stood, and when he came, I was frightened and fell on my face. But he said to me, Understand, O Son of Man, that the vision is for the time of the end. And when he had spoken to me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face to the ground. But he touched me and made me stand up. He said, Behold, I will make known to you what shall be at the latter end of the indignation For it refers to the appointed time of the end. As for the ram that you saw with the two horns, these are the kings of Media and Persia. And the goat is the king of Greece, and the great horn between his eyes is the first king. As for the horn which was Broken, in the place of which of four others arose, four kingdoms shall arise from his nation, but not with his power And at the latter end of their kingdom, when the transgressors have reached their limit, a king of bold face, one who understands riddles, shall arise. His power shall be great. But not by his own power. And he shall cause fearful destruction, and shall succeed in what he does, and destroy mighty men and the people who are the saints. by his cunning. He shall make deceit prosper under his hand, and in his own mind he shall become great. Without warning he shall destroy many. And he shall even rise up against the prince of princes. And he shall be broken, but by no human hand. The vision of the evenings and the mornings that has been told is true But seal up the vision, for it refers to many days from now. And I, Daniel, was overcome and lay sick for some days. Then I rose and went about the king's business, but I was appalled by the vision and did not understand it. That's fine. Amen. Please be seated. Our Father and our God, we come to a difficult but important passage of Scripture. There is much that you have laid before us tonight. And we plead, Lord God, send your spirit. Fill us that we might have understanding, that we might be indeed even convicted of sin. But yet once again, Lord God, that you would remind us of your promises. Those which you have given to us, those which we hold dear, those which are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. Guide us tonight, Lord God. Help us to see the significance, the importance, the critical nature of your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As Paul writes to the saints at Philippi And as we remember, he's writing from prison, and we remember that he has suffered much physically in his ministry. In chapter 3, he tells those who are reading his letter that he has suffered loss of everything. Indeed, he has counted everything that he had as rubbish. And Paul had much He had much to count in terms of things of value, of who he was, a Hebrew of Hebrews, a Pharisee. He knew the law inside and out, and from a Pharisee's perspective, he was blameless. But he counted that all rubbish that he might gain Christ to be found in him That he might know Christ, the power of his sufferings, and his resurrection, becoming like him in his death. And then he added that he pressed on to make these things his own Because Christ had made Paul his own As Paul writes these things, we have to wonder what would cause this man to count all that he had, all that he had accomplished, as rubbish? And we see as he explains it to the people there at Philippi that all of it was based upon the promises of Christ. Everything. Because the promises of Christ have become a reality for Paul. I pressed on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. He knew of the call. He knew that it was a reality, this promise. He knew that his citizenship was in heaven, and that he was awaiting the Lord Jesus' return. And he knew that the promise was that Christ would transform our lowly bodies to be like his glorious body and subject all things to himself. You see how Paul knew the word of the Lord Jesus Christ, he knew of the promises He knew that these things were foretold, and he ascribed them to the promises of God, and they had become a reality for Paul. And as a result. He was able to live in such a way that he counted everything that he had as rubbish so that he could gain Christ. It's a bit of what we have for us tonight in this passage. This passage in Daniel, which is describing once again the battle of the world. This passage, which is describing the attack of the world upon God and upon God's children. This passage, which is describing the striving of men against one another and ultimately against their creator and against his children. Tonight, as we look at this vision, this second vision of Daniel. I'd like us to see just very simply that the word of God is critical to the perseverance of his children. The word of God is critical to the perseverance of his children. We'll see that in just three simple points tonight. Providence publication. And perseverance. As we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourselves: does ancient history make any difference to me tonight? Does it have any bearing upon me as a Christian? What purpose would this entire chapter eight of Daniel have for me tonight? Well, first, providence. Last week we spoke about sovereignty. Last week, as we read this passage in Daniel chapter seven. this first vision of Daniel, one of the things that he saw, the centerpiece of what he saw was the Ancient of Days. And the Ancient of Days took his seat. He he was enthroned And we saw that his throne was fiery flames, its wheels were burning fire, it had a stream of fire that issued out from before the ancient of days, and the ancient of days now sets up court. He sat in judgment. And as a result of that image, as a result of that picture, we saw the sovereignty of God over all things. Webster defines sovereign as one who is a ruler, who's superior to all others Who possesses the highest authority? Isn't that what we saw in the middle of Daniel chapter 7 when we were reading about the beasts? First the image of the beast and then the explanation of the beasts. But right in the middle we see the sovereignty of God over all things. Tonight we're going to be considering Providence. And Providence is related to sovereignty, but it is distinct. As we read in the Westminster Confession, we read the definition, in a sense, of providence. God, the great creator of all things, does uphold direct, dispose, and govern all creatures' actions and things, from the greatest to the least, by his most wise and holy providence According to his infallible foreknowledge and his free and immutable counsel of his own will. That's Providence It involves sovereignty. Indeed, without God being a sovereign God, he could not be a providential God. He would never be able to accomplish the things that he has decreed if he were not sovereign. But you can see a difference, a demarcation between sovereignty and providence. And we also understand that the providence of God is based upon his decrees. That would be his eternal plan. As we think of the providence of God, we must first think of God's eternal plan. For all eternity, as the shorter catechism tells us about the decrees of God, they are his eternal purpose, according to the counsel of his will. That God has planned out whatever has come to pass. And you ask the question, well, how does he do that? Well, he does it through creation and providence. Now we see the connection between Providence and His decrees. It's a bit like a builder. Who has a blueprint or a plan for building a house? And that plan, those pieces of paper with drawings on it, would call for maybe a three-bedroom house With a kitchen and two bathrooms. Now that would be equivalent to God's decree. A plan. God's plan is eternal. The builder's plan is not. But then the builder will use that plan as he brings subcontractors in. to construct the house according to the plan. That's God's providence. As things happen, as things are directed, as things are upheld, as things are disposed of. As things are caused to happen. That's God's providential plan. Like the subcontractors coming in and building the house according to the blueprints, God's providence Is everything happening according to his eternal decree? That's the idea. And so we see that here in Daniel chapter eight. This vision that's given to Daniel. Is part of God's decree. God is saying, this is my plan This is what will happen in the future. This is part of my eternal decree. God was unveiling just a portion, a small portion of his eternal decree. for his people, for the redemption of a people for himself. And then if we were to turn to history books, we would open them up and see how God had worked providentially To bring his decree about the plan, the vision that was given to Daniel. How he had by his most wise and holy providence brought his decree to pass That's what we have before us tonight. We have that vision, that decree that's set forth before us, a decree which is explained. And then as we enter into the history books, we see the providential hand of God played out. Well, let's do that just for a moment tonight. This is not a history lesson. We don't want this to be a history lecture, but we do want to understand God's plan and how it indeed did work out throughout history. We'll do that through using a timeline. First, the first vision for Daniel was in the first year of Belshazzar. Now, the second vision, which we are in tonight in chapter 8, is in the third year. of King Belshazzar's reign. So two years after the first vision was given to Daniel. Now according to commentators, and I'm going to be using two of them Dale Ralph Davis and Stephen Miller to help with understanding this timeline. According to them, this vision of Daniel occurred about 550 to 547 BC, meaning before Christ. So Over five hundred plus years before Christ, Daniel has this second vision. And we read, I raised my eyes and saw and behold a ram standing on the bank of the canal. It had two horns. Both horns were high, but one was higher than the other. Now, this is explained by the interpreter who Daniel meets in his vision in chapter verse 20. As for the ram That you saw with the two horns, these are the kings of Media and Persia. Stephen Miller explains that before Cyrus comes to power, media had already been a major force Well, Persia was a small country, and now Cyrus succeeds in gaining control of media and combines the two nations into the Medes and the Persians. That happened sometime in the 500s. Now, in 356 BC, Alexander the Great was born. Daniel's vision in verse 5, I was considering, behold, a male goat comes. Now we have the ram on the bank, and he sees a male goat coming from the west across the face of the whole earth Without touching the ground, seemingly coming very fast, with with much power. And the goat had a conspicuous horn between the eyes, one horn, and we read That the goat is the king of Greece in verse 21. So we have the Medes and the Persians of the Ram. And we have the goat, which is the king of Greece. And this happens sometime around 336 BC when Alexander the Great succeeds his father as king of Greece. In three hundred and thirty-four BC, the ram came the the came and he meaning goat came to the ram with the two horns. And now he demolishes the ram. He strikes the ram. He breaks the two horns. The ram had no power to stand before him, and he cast him to the ground and trampled upon him. In 334 BC, apparently Alexander attacks the Persians and destroys them. Within only three years Alexander had conquered the entire Near East. It made Greece the greatest nation on earth, according to Stephen Miller. But in 323 BC, not long after he achieves this great victory, Alexander dies. According to Stephen Miller, Alexander had carved out an empire of 1. 5 million square miles. He'd conquered much. The goat became exceedingly great. But when he was strong, the great horn was broken, and instead of it there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven. Verse 22. As for the horn that was broken in the place of which four others arose, four kingdoms shall arise from this nation, but not with power. That's exactly what happened. Miller writes, when Alexander the Largehorn died, he left two sons, Alexander the Fourth and Hercules, both of whom were murdered after a period of infighting and struggle. The Empire came to be partitioned among four Greek military leaders. This division took place roughly according to the four directions. Four divisions of the nation of Greece, or the Greek Empire after Alexander died. Now, for about the next hundred years or so, Alexander the Great after his death, the Egyptians began to control Judo. And finally, finally, about 175 BC, hundreds of years later, now Antiochus IV. comes into power. Daniel chapter 8 at verse 9. Out of one of them came a little horn Which grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the glorious land, the glorious land being Jerusalem. It grew great, even to the host of heaven, and some of the hosts and some of the stars it threw down to the ground and trampled on them. Now the explanation in verses 23. In the latter end of their kingdom, when the transgressors had reached their limit, the king of bold face Who understands riddles shall arise. His power shall be great, but not by his own power, he shall cause fearful destruction, and shall succeed in what he does, and destroy mighty men and the people who are the saints. This is a description of Antiochus the Fourth. Davis writes that he visits Jerusalem in 169 BC, looted the temple, and carried out horrific bloodbath. In 2 Maccabees, one of the Apocrypha books, in chapter 5, we read this He ordered his soldiers to cut down without mercy those whom they met, to slay those who took refuge in their houses. There was a massacre of young and old, a killing of women and children, a slaughter of young women and infants In the space of three days, 80,000 were lost, 40,000 meeting a violent death, and the same number being sold into slavery. He laid his impure hands on the sacred vessels and swept up with profane hands the votive offerings made by their kings for the advancement, the glory, and the honor of the place. Assuming that this vision describes Antiochus IV, history tells us that he set up an altar to Zeus. In the temple in one sixty-seven BC, according to Davis. The persecution According to Miller, it began in about 170 B. C. with the assassination of the high priest and terminated in 163 B. C. , a period of at least seven years of terror. In 167 BC, according to Miller, Antiochus committed the crowning act of against the Jewish religion by erecting an altar to Zeus in the temple and offering swine. upon it. The numbers recorded in Maccabees, according to Davis, were probably exaggerations. But yet the death and destruction of the people of God, and certainly of the temple, were very real. God's providential hand is shown forth. His decree in the vision of Daniel And then as history unfolds itself over hundreds of years, over 400 years, we see the providential hand of God weighing heavily. Upon his people. The publication. In the second vision, we should not only be thinking about providence, but we should also be thinking about the publication or the revelation. of the promises of God. Indeed, this vision given to Daniel who recorded it for us has now become part of God's special revelation. And so as we think of this vision, we think of this publication in the sense of what was to come. Indeed, the promises of God that this is what will come to pass. Not that day that it was given to Daniel, but sometime in the future. Understand, O man, that the vision is for the time of the end. It refers to many days from now. Verse 26. You see, God was promising to Daniel and to us, and all that would read this book of Daniel to understand his word that this would come to be. And so as we think of God's publication, his revelation, some of what he reveals to us are his promises. Indeed, as we think of the covenant of God, we consider the covenant made with Abraham. I will make you exceedingly fruitful. I will make you into nations, and kings shall come forth from you. These were future events, future promises, a promise given today for things that would happen in the future. I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. God not merely forecasting what would happen, but promising that this would come to pass. That Abraham would have many descendants and he would be their God. In a sense, God not merely forecasting the future, but a commitment, a promise, a confirmation from the very mouth of God that this event, this thing, would come to pass, whatever it is. The supernatural vision given to Daniel from God. God was condescending to reveal himself, his plan of salvation, his decree, and the way that he would bring it about. God of creation was speaking to those which were made in his image, finite creatures, so that we would be able to understand, so that Daniel would understand, so that those who Daniel shared this with would understand so that the people of God living in one sixty-seven BC would understand That's what the Westminster Confession tells us about the Word of God. That He's given it to us, not only to reveal Himself But to declare his will to his church and afterwards for the better preserving and propagating of the truth, for the more sure establishment and comfort of the church against the corruption of the flesh And the malice of Satan and of the world. That's God's word. That's why He's given it to us. And we see that here in chapter 8 of Daniel. This passage is a great reminder of what we as a people of God should be focused and fixed upon. In terms of the covenant of God, his promises, his prophecies. While the foretelling of the future and promises may have slight differences, they belong to the same family. And Daniel was given this foretelling, but also this promise. Yes, he was told that this little horn would become great, even to the host of heaven. To become so great, as great as the Prince of the Host, meaning as great as Christ, if that were possible So much so that the regular burnt offering would be taken away and the place of his sanctuary would be overthrown. This is how great the little horn would become Antiochus IV He shall cause fearful destruction and shall succeed in what he does in destroying mighty men and the people who are the saints. This was the foretelling of what God was going to bring to pass. Without warning, he shall destroy many, and shall even rise up against the prince of princes. But God has also added a promise. In verse 25, and he, meaning Antiochus, meaning the little horn shall be broken. But by no human hand. The foretelling was foreboden We see as I Daniel was overcome and lay sick for some days. Then I rose and went about the king's business, but I was appalled by the vision and did not understand it. Well, we can also imagine that the promise of the demise of the little horn must have been of great comfort and hope and certainty to Daniel. Let me ask tonight, do you know the foretelling and the promises of God? Do you meditate upon them? Do you lean into them Are you knowledgeable of those instances in Scripture which foretell the future and yet to our knowledge are unfulfilled at this point in the history of redemption? It's not that we must over-emphasize the promises of God or his prophecy, but the question tonight is: do we even consider it? Do we know the foretelling of the future such that we are expecting that which God has told us will come to pass? Are we looking for it? Are we waiting for it? Are we relying upon His Word such that we can tell others about it? Do we depend upon the God of Word such that we are waiting? For his promises to unfold. Promises for this life. Just think of The revelation that Jesus Christ has risen from the tomb and that now he sits on the throne and will continue to sit on the throne. Until all of his enemies are under his foot. That he won't be removed from the throne That his throne will be continually occupied by himself at God's right hand, at his father's right hand. There will not be a time when when he will vacate. There will not be a time when someone else will sit. That's a promise of God. Do you meditate upon that? Do you rely upon that? When you get up in the morning, you think, oh, Jesus Christ is ruling this day. Things will be okay. Because he's there. Because he's been given all dominion, power, control, and authority. No one else has No one else is greater than our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. No one else is going to occupy his throne. No one's going to take him from it. That's a promise we have today. And because he's there, we have another promise. And that is that the Spirit will continue to abide. For all those who have come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, who are resting in his finished work, who have been washed by his blood, Who have had their sins forgiven. Obviously their hearts changed. Have the Spirit. And the Spirit will continue to abide until Christ returns. In a sense, very similar to Jesus sitting on the throne tonight. There will never be a time, never a moment, never a day, never a week, never a month when the Spirit does not abide with each of you as you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we know that the work of the Spirit is varied and multiple, but do you know the way the Spirit is working? Are you meditating upon it? Because this is the promise of God. You must know the work of the Spirit in order to pray. How reliant are you He helps you understand the scriptures. He will be sent. He has been sent to teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all things that Christ has said. Do you remember that promise? Are you relying upon it? Are you asking the Spirit to reveal you, reveal to you your sins? When he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. He has come. He is abiding. Are you praying that he would reveal your sins to you because you know the promises of God? Are you pleading with the Spirit that your repentance today would be better and more complete than yesterday? As part of His work, as part of the promises of God. Yes. These are just a couple. A couple of the promises that we should not only know, but be praying about. That we should be relying upon, meditating upon, telling others about promises of God for this life The only question is, are we believing upon them? Are we resting and relying upon Christ, His kingship, and upon the abiding work of the Spirit? That brings us to our third point, perseverance. If nothing else is clear in this chapter 8 of Daniel, I'm hoping that this is that God has a concern For your understanding of his word. You see, he gave a vision to Daniel, his vision of the ram and the goat. And he didn't leave Daniel with just that vision. No, he provided messengers. Gabriel, make this man understand the vision, one like a had the appearance of a man comes and calls Gabriel to give Daniel understanding And we read that he does. I will make known to you what shall be at the latter end of the indignation, for it refers to the appointed time of the end. And then he describes the vision. See, the Lord does not give his people riddles or shadows. Yes, we have some shadows in the Old Testament. But the New Testament opens those up for us, doesn't it? Are some things mysterious? Of course. Who can understand the Trinity? Who can understand the dual nature of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, completely? Yes, some things are hidden. But has the Lord God made clear to his people the way of salvation? And the answer is yes, he has. Those things which are necessary to be known, believed, and observed for salvation are so clearly propounded and opened in some place of Scripture, others. That not only the learned but the unlearned in a due use of ordinary means may attain to a sufficient understanding of them. Westminster Confession, Chapter 1 Here then, we see this wonderful example of the Lord giving to Daniel this interpreter, one having the appearance of a man. We see the desire of God to communicate. to bring understanding to his people, of himself, of his will, and certainly of the truth of his word. And so as we look at this vision, as we consider this vision given to Daniel about this ram, this goat, we see this vision, this interpretation for Daniel. We hear the messengers of God. Explaining to Daniel what will happen and now as those living in the 21st century, we can look back upon the history of redemption. We can see that God brought to bear those things that he promised would indeed happen. His decree was worked out in his providential hand. The Medes and the Persians did come to power. Greece became the superpower Alexander the Great rose to power and then died shortly thereafter, and as a result, these four separate kings come to power, and finally Antiochus Runs roughshod over the people of God. He destroys mighty men, he takes away the offering, he desecrates the temple. God's decree is being worked out in the history of redemption. This should lead us in two different but related directions. First, this passage of Scripture tells Every single Christian. It instructs the Christian. It directs the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ that you can trust the Word of God. Yes, we see that throughout Scripture, don't we? But this passage is so powerful in giving us that truth. You can trust the Word of God. It's certainly central to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But here, here in 167 BC, the saints, those in Jerusalem, experienced the veracity, the truth of the Word of God. The temple was overrun. They were being killed. They were being slaughtered according to that which had been revealed four hundred years earlier. Knowing that which that which God states is true. And that if it relates to the future, it will come to pass. They experienced it. We know that every single time it will. Every single one of God's words is true. Every prophecy of a future event will indeed happen in His good timing. Every promise of God will be fulfilled. And we can, as Christians, as followers of Christ, completely, unequivocally trust in the infallibility of the Word of God. This passage reiterates that truth Have you experienced the truth of the Word of God in your life? You may hear the Word of God. You may believe the Word of God, but have you experienced its truth? In a somewhat superficial but very powerful way, those living in the 160 BCs in Jerusalem would have experienced the truth of God's word. They would have lived through the events of Antiochus IV, and some of them would have died. They would have been terrorized and lived in terror according to this vision that Daniel was given. Have you experienced the truth? For Satan believes the word of God, yet he does not heed it. He doesn't experience it, for he is determined that he will not submit to it. Does that describe your heart tonight? If so, Christ is crying out to you. To not only believe, but indeed experience the truth of his word. Many of us are experiencing weakness in our flesh. We prayed about some tonight. Sickness, disabilities, depression. But God has revealed, He's promised His truth. Paul records it for us. My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Paul experienced that truth As his thorn in the flesh was given to him, it was a messenger of Satan. It must have been awful. But he experienced the grace of God. That was sufficient. He not merely knew the truth, that God's grace was sufficient, he experienced it. So much so that he was able to and did boast in his weakness. Let me ask, in your affliction, have you experienced the truth of the sufficiency of God's grace? It's part of the perseverance of the saints. Even through affliction, the kind of afflictions which Daniel was shown in the visions, part of God's purpose appears to be the preservation of his children. And preservation is based in great upon entrusting and believing upon the very word of God. The truth of God's Word also prepares us. That's the second aspect. It prepares us for what is coming. Dale Ralph Davis concludes that that God provided this vision to Daniel in part that he would not only share it with the people of God, but that it would prepare them, not for next week. But for hundreds of years later, as the vision was being played out, as God's providential hand was being put into place. He was helping his people prepare for what was coming. The severity of the rule of Antiochus IV Having this vision given to them in advance would have been very helpful. The events described concerning the Medes and Persians and and the Greeks and their battles and And then finally the attack upon Jerusalem itself. Living at that time Experiencing that terror and then looking at God's word. I'm not sure how they could have prepared for that. But now they would have known that this was part of God's plan, that He's actually standing behind us, that He knew and And he was working all things in accordance with it so this would come to pass. And then knowing that he would provide relief for those that survived. They were likely persevering because they were clinging to his word. So this passage really asks you tonight, are you ready? Are you ready for those things that the Lord has told us will come to pass, but have not yet come to pass? Are you ready for the return of Christ? We're told that that will come about. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous. The Son of God will come in his glory with the angels. He'll sit on his glorious thrones. He'll separate People from one another as one separates sheep from the goats. He will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels For those on his right, he will welcome them into glory. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 10. These are the promises. Yes, the foretelling. But the promises of God that have yet to come to pass. And the question for us tonight is. Is are you ready? Are you ready for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ who will judge, who will separate? Are you ready for Him to return? And the answer to that question must be tied up in the way God causes you to persevere. Think of those saints in Jerusalem as Antiochus was terrorizing, killing, slaughtering. How would they survive? It's only by persevering in Christ. It's only by relying upon the decree of election. It's only because of God's free and unchangeable love for his people. It's only because of the efficiency, the efficacy of the merit and intercession of the Lord Jesus Christ, who's sitting on his throne and who will not be removed. It is only because of the abiding of the Spirit who has been sent by God and the Son to remain within you until He returns or until He takes you home. Do you see? All of that goes back to the very Word of God, His promises, His decree. His providential hand. Yes, the word of God is critical to the perseverance of his children. Isn't that how Paul persevered in prison? Isn't that how he was able to say, I've counted everything as lost, as rubbish, because he knew the word of God? Because he knew the promises of Christ. Because he knew that Christ was returning. He knew He was set in place to learn of his sufferings, to share in his sufferings, to know the power of his resurrection. All contained in the very word of God. Praise be to God for the way that He causes us to persevere through His Word Amen. Father in heaven, this is such a difficult chapter to grasp. But yet in another way it's so very straightforward and simple. We thank you so much for your word. Use it powerfully in us, Father, that you might cause us to continue to persevere until Christ returns. Or you take us home. Help us, Lord God, to be ready. We ask all these things in Jesus' precious name.