Amen. If you turn your Bibles now to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue there our study on the Sermon on the Mount in chapter 5. I think you'll find it on page nine hundred and sixty three of your Pew Bibles. We are in the midst of Jesus opening up some of the Ten Commandments for his disciples. This morning we'll be hearing about adultery and then even more specifically lust. And Jesus is called to mortify sin. Let's give our attention now to Matthew chapter 5, beginning at verse 27, the very word of God. You have heard it said. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than let your whole body go into hell. As far as the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Father in heaven We ask now that by your Spirit, you would not only engage us in the preaching of the Word, but Father, you would edify us, that you would convict our hearts of sin. That you would root it out. Father, and then that you would remind us Of the power of the resurrection, of the blood of Christ, to wash us clean, to grant us forgiveness. And of His Spirit to lead us in mortifying sin. Help us now, Lord. We're weak, we're frail. We need your spirit. We need your word. Work in us that which is pleasing in your sight. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As God entered into covenant with Abraham. He called him to place a sign of the covenant on every single male in his household, eight days and older. Every male was to be circumcised. It was a sign of the covenant between God and Abraham, between God and his people. Every male in the household was to be circumcised. A covenant In the flesh, to be an everlasting covenant between God and His people In order for one to be brought into the covenant, he had to be circumcised. Those who were not circumcised were excluded. They were not part of the covenant. They had no part of the family of God. They had no claim to the inheritance. They had no claim to the promises of God, and thus no part of God Himself. There had to be this cutting off, this severance, and this casting off, this throwing away. A sign of the covenant, the circumcision, was always pointing to the need for one's heart to be circumcised. Moses spoke of that in Deuteronomy chapter 10. We read it this morning. To keep the commandments and the statutes of the Lord. which are good for us to love him to walk in all of his ways and then Moses called the people To circumcise the foreskin of your heart and no longer be stubborn. As Jesus was preaching to his disciples, we see that stands behind the text we have for us. Which he has for us this morning. Jesus has been preaching the Sermon on the Mount. He began with the Beatitudes Poor in spirit, those who mourn, those who are meek, those who are thirsting for righteousness, those who are merciful, those who are pure in heart, those who are peacemakers. All describing the hearts of those who had been changed by the Lord Jesus Christ, who had been given new fleshly hearts as opposed to their stony hearts, describing those who were in heaven already. As Jesus finished the Beatitudes, he called his disciples to be salt and light, to use that which they have been given to project his image into the world. And now he's begun To teach them intimately what is actually contained in some of the Ten Commandments. Last time we were together, we spoke about murder And Jesus revealed to his disciples that murder actually begins in the heart with unrighteous anger. Today we have something similar as he speaks of adultery and lust. Here, I want us to see this morning that Jesus calls his disciples to mortify even their secret sins. Jesus calls his disciples to mortify even their secret sins. We'll see that in three simple points this morning. First creeping up to sin, secondly letting sin remain close, and finally cutting off sin This is a critical passage for us this morning, as Jesus deals specifically with one type of sin, but then very generally with all kinds of sin. This should be convicting our hearts this morning, cutting into them, and causing us to depend even more upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Well first, creeping up to sin. Everyone knew what adultery was and that it was Prohibited by God. You have heard that it was said. You've heard. Jesus knew that his disciples knew. This was common knowledge among the Jews. That law was known by all. All of the Jews Not only heard the law, they knew the law. And that's what Jesus means when he proclaims, you have heard. Not merely that it was spoken in their hearing, but they knew the law. They knew adultery, they knew what it was. They knew that it was prohibited by God. Indeed, they knew what it meant. Jesus uses that phrase, you have heard, six times. He knows the disciples know the letter of the law. He knows that they understand the prohibition. But he also knows that they don't know the depth of the law They knew that it was serious. If a man commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor, both the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death. Leviticus chapter 20 They knew that this involved an unfaithful interaction with one of the other sex outside of the marriage bed. It was an unnatural union. They knew that adultery had been associated with connected to other sins as well. But they didn't know that it started in the heart. They knew the headline. They knew the outward, like murder. They knew the physical manifestation of adultery. But they didn't grasp that adultery begins or is formed or is conceived in the heart. Even though they had the Proverbs. Even though Proverbs 6 speaks of the adulterous woman and continues, do not desire her beauty in your heart and do not let her capture you with her eyelashes. The idea, the concept, the truth of lust had been set forth before them, but they hadn't dug it out of the scriptures. Lust. That's what Jesus speaks of now. That's what he calls them to be aware of. That's what he knows that they know of and yet have not confessed it. Webster defines it as that which is to desire eagerly. To desire eagerly with the gratification of carnal appetite. To satisfy the flesh, yet within the heart, the secret sin One of many. No one knows of it except yourself and God And so Jesus begins, you have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery, and then the word but comes. The disciples were likely beginning to learn But they didn't know the law yet, as Jesus consistently uses that word. But like Murray, the disciples knew the physical, they knew they were Considering the physical. But seemingly they had not been taught that which they need to be most concerned about. The heart. Isn't that why Jesus began with the Beatitudes which are all about the heart, poor in spirit, mourning, meek, thirsting for righteousness, merciful, pure in heart, peaceful. It's our nature, it's human nature to be so concerned for the physical and neglect the spiritual. Not only do we pray at times with great weight upon the physical, like the disciples, we tend to focus more upon the act of sin. Rather than the root of sin. As we focus upon the physical act of sin, we draw a line. And then we try to live righteously before God, not crossing that line which we've drawn. Here then is our general problem. Here then was the general problem for the disciples. And Jesus knew, and Jesus knows that we are creepers. Every one of us. Every one of Adam's sons and daughters are creepers. We creep up to the line of sin. We challenge the line of sin. We approach the line. And think to ourselves, we have not yet crossed it. But here Jesus states so very clearly, no, no, you have already crossed it. You creepers have already passed over the line as you misjudged, as you misunderstood, where the line had been drawn by God because you drew your own line. You fail to consider the holiness of God and what it means to be a truly righteous person before Him. Yes, we're creepers. And Jesus was preaching to creepers, and Jesus was telling them, you've already crossed the line. Brings us to our second point, letting sin remain close Now, as Jesus has informed them that they just didn't understand the depth of the law and of their hearts, and that their consideration needed to be squarely upon their hearts and what was going on there. Now he speaks positively about tearing out and cutting off. Look at verse. 29. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. There's action required. Jesus has revealed the problem to his disciples, and now he tells them there's action required, and we tend to focus our thoughts fairly narrowly on that part of the instruction, the command here, to tear out, to cut off. We'll do that. We'll do that under our third head. But first we need to consider the first part of this instruction. If your right eye causes you to sin, Or if your right hand causes you to sin. Jesus puts it nicely. He places a condition on it. But yet there's an implication, there's an assumption within his instruction as he's teaching, and that assumption, that implication is that the disciples were indeed sinning They were sinners. And they were keeping sin close. They were not cutting it off. They were not active in mortifying sin. That was the problem. And like the disciples, we tend to deal lightly with sin. We tend to keep it close. Isn't that the truth? We sin, we break God's law, we transgress his commands, we confess it, we repent, we ask the Lord for strength. And the will to hate our sins, to turn from it, to turn to God, and to strive after new obedience, but then we sin again Sometimes, many times, the same kind of sin. The same kind of transgression. That is what we might call a besetting sin. One which we continue to engage in after we've confessed it and repented of it and return to it again and again and again. The truth is, as set forth in our confession of faith, that while sanctification is throughout in the whole man, it's imperfect in this life. That there is abiding still within us remnants of the corruption in every part of us Flesh lusting against the spirit. Why? Why is that What is our problem? Why is it not that once we recognize and confess that we have broken God's law, that we don't turn from it forever? Well, we must admit that one reason is that we keep the door open Did you notice that Jesus used two actions, two verbs? If your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It's the failure to do the second, which enables a return to the same thing. sin. One reason we engage in besetting sin is because we leave the door open to return to it. We don't shut it. We fail to lock it tightly. We keep the way back to it open. Yes, we grieve over our transgressions. Yes, we confess and ask for forgiveness. For breaking the laws of God, yes we feel guilty and we should. And we do But our hatred of that sin has not risen to the height of cutting it out, plucking it out, tearing it out, throwing it away. We fail to shut the door and throw away the key. On that sin, we keep it close. We have to admit that we keep it close. We keep the key to the door. We've been down the road to that particular sin. We know the way, and we fail, in fact, refuse to throw the map away that directs us to it. Why? Because our hearts are yet corrupt. Those who are in Christ are no longer in bondage to sin. We know that. Scripture tells us that. We believe that. Our old self was crucified. The one who has died has been set free from sin. Romans chapter 6, verse 7. Jesus Christ has broken the chain. Yet we don't hate our sins enough to shut them out and off. Isn't that what Paul was confessing in chapter 7 of Romans? For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. This is partly the work of Satan. He convinces us that our sins are just not so bad. Yes, we've grieved. over the same sin. But then as time passes, we we forget the guilt that we've experienced fades away. The way in which we have offended our holy God uh Slides into the back draw. These thoughts don't come to mind as quickly as they should. And Satan begins to suggest to us that that sin which we've committed previously is just not so bad. And we listen to Satan. Just as Eve listened to Satan in the garden and judged for herself that the forbidden fruit was good for her, we take the bait from Satan and consider whatever sin it is. Pornography, worry, idolatry, anger, envy, strife, hatred, bitterness, even lustful desires. Yes, Satan tempts you to think that these sins are just It's not so bad. And in our weakness we believe him. We keep the way to sin close by, the road to transgression remains open Here then is the grave danger. If this sin remains close, so close that you continue to partake of it ultimately without repentance, but with joy, such that you substitute your joy for that sin for your joy in Christ. Then the end is eternal agony in the fires of hell. I'm not suggesting that one can lose their salvation this morning. That's not the case But we must note that Jesus speaks this way. It is better that you lose one of your members. Than that your whole body be thrown into hell. Jesus was reminding his disciples again that the end of unrepentant sin is hell. That place reserved for the devil and the beast and the false prophet, where they'll be tormented day and night forever, also known as the lake of fire, the second death. And if anyone's name is not found written in the book of life, he will be thrown into the lake of fire. The clear implication of these statements that Jesus has made was that those who remain in their sins, who do not trust in Him for their salvation, who refuse to repent, who love their sin and their rebellion against God will be cast into hell. You will suffer the punishment of the eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. Night Second Thessalonians chapter one Brothers and sisters The psalmist tells us there's no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation, there's no health in my bones because of my Sin. Jesus is telling us to cut off and cast out that which causes us John Owen, who was very helpful to me in preparing the sermon, puts it this way: Sin untunes and unframes the heart itself by entangling its affections. Do you understand? As we lust after the world, our affections are entangled. Owens continued, or Owen continued, the unmortified soul cannot say uprightly that truly God is its portion, having something else. That it loves. It's like Lot's wife, who turned back to look upon Sodom As destruction was coming. Her eyes were were not set upon Christ. No, her desire was for the world. She longed so much. For the world, for the sin that she was engulfed in. But she turned and looked back. She refused to look forward to the promises Of Christ. Indeed, there's a warning this morning in this passage A warning from Christ that hell awaits those who reject him and love the world. And John tells us so very clearly in his first epistle. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not hidden in him. Brothers and sisters, hear this warning this morning from the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't allow sin to remain close. Brings us to our third point, cutting off sin. Now, Jesus does provide the solution to lust. Separate it, remove it, mortify it, kill it, cut off whatever it is that leads you into it, and then throw it away. Sounds simple enough. But what causes you to sin? Isn't that the question? Isn't that what you need to ask yourself? What causes me to sin? Short answer to that question must be your heart. It's your heart that's been corrupted along with other things in the fall, and so each of us has inherited that corrupted heart from Adam, our first father, and been turned away from God. We've inherited corrupt hearts. And Jesus tells us so very clearly, it's not what comes into you that corrupts you, it's what's what comes comes out of you that defiles you, out of your heart. Sin comes from within. It's rooted in our desires. is that which springs forth from our hearts of corruption. And so therefore sin must be dealt with at its root. The Christians' work then, the disciples' work of that day, and our work of today. Called by Jesus to remove, to take out that which causes us And so he gives us two examples. One, a specific metaphor. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. Obviously, to look upon a woman or a man. Involves seeing. It involves the eyes. And Jesus was saying in a very simple way, the obvious: if one cannot see, cannot look with lust. But then the second confirming illustration, Jesus calls his disciples to cut off their right hand if that causes you to sin. Cut it off, throw it away. But this illustration is not specific with regard to a particular sin. The first was seemingly connected to the sin of lust. The second metaphor is very general. It's not connected to any particular sin as the I was to lust. The second is left wide open It seems to be that Jesus is saying, whatever it is that causes you to sin, separate yourself from that which leads you into it. And so now we need to consider at least two aspects. Of this command by Jesus. First, the violent nature of it. Second, how to apply it Clearly, Jesus uses violent language, tear it off, cut it off. Throw it away. This is a graphic metaphors. We know that Jesus was not advocating the mutilation of one's body. That's not his intent. That's not what was at the root of what he was advising or commanding. No, the Lord has blessed us with bodies that he's created and given to us and called us to preserve our bodies. He's not calling for actual mutilation. But he is speaking of attacking sin violently, not in a timid or shy or a gentle manner. No. He speaks of attacking that which causes you to sin. So serious is this thing that we do. This abomination to the living God that Jesus calls us to approach it with a violent, a warlike attitude. Remove it, throw it away. Remove that which enables you, or through which you accomplish Sin. Just the opposite of leaving the door open. Just the opposite of allowing sin to remain close. Just the opposite of keeping it within your grasp. Way back into transgression. These are not gentle, these are not timid words These words used by Jesus are crystal clear and lead themselves to only one interpretation. Separate yourself from that Which is close to you. That which is likely to lead you back into the same sin. Indeed, there's not much that is closer to you than the various parts of your body, and that's what Jesus was. getting at how precious is your eyesight how valuable is your right hand very but not as precious or as valuable as eternal life with the Lord Jesus Christ Approach sin aggressively with a warlike mindset. Now, how? How do we do this? It requires your participation. He's not telling them something that they were unable to do. He's telling them you need to participate. John Owen again compares this work to the work of a farmer Let the heart be cleansed by mortification and the weeds of lust constantly and daily rooted up. I know some of us here are gardeners and know of weeds. Constantly constantly growing, constantly needing to be plucked out by their roots, so that there will be room, as Owen says, room for grace to thrive and flourish. Weeds of lust rooted out, providing room for grace to thrive and flourish. That's the idea, daily, a constant rooting out of these weeds. Consistently, then there'd be enough room for God's grace to thrive and flourish. That's the tearing out. If you watch the news, you also saw last Sunday there was an accident on I-95. A bridge as a result of that accident and the fire collapsed. Traffic on I-95 could no longer proceed on that route. It was shut off. It is shut off. You can't go the same way. That's the idea. Rooting out, throwing away, destroying the path back to sin. That's the bridge that you need to destroy. Could begin this morning to create a list of ways to cut off opportunities to sin, such as controls on your digital devices, your computer, your phone, covenant eyes accountable to you. Having an accountability partner who will ask you about your walk with Christ. These are very specific and we need broad applications applicable to everyone and all sin. So here now is the application. And it's obvious Yes, there's work for the believer, but that work is wholly and completely dependent upon the Spirit's work of circumcision. He's the one who must circumcise the heart. He is the one who must continue to abide. He is the one who must lead us away from sin. It's exactly what Paul writes in his letter to the church in Rome. In chapter 8, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But If by the Spirit, let me say that again, if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. Spirit is necessary. You must rely and depend upon the Spirit and follow His lead. Again, our confession. embodies this truth. Through the continual supply of strength from the sanctifying Spirit of Christ The regenerate part does overcome. It's the heart which needs to be circumcised All. All that leads the heart astray, away from God, it needs to be cut off and thrown away. And that is supernatural surgery. You need the Spirit's work so that you can strive toward that new obedience. Yes, use those digital programs. Hide your eyes from that which tempts you to transgress. And then, brothers and sisters, most importantly, pray these prayers. From Ephesians chapter 3 That God would grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being From Philippians chapter 2. That the Lord would be pleased to enable you to work out your own salvation with fear and trembling For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. And from 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Pray. Pray that the God of peace himself would sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, you're required to work, but it's only by the work of the Spirit that you can do these things. Jesus does call his disciples to mortify even their secret sins. Brothers and sisters, one had to be circumcised in order to be a child of the covenant. And as the Spirit works, you are having your heart circumcised because you are a child of the covenant. Praise be to God. Amen.