Let me direct your attention to God's Word, Hebrews eleven, uh verse uh Verse 23 through 29. Hebrews 11, 23 through 29. The focus today will be on verses 27 through 29. Let's hear God's word. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden three months by his parents. Because they saw that he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king's command. By faith, Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. For he looked to the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. For he endured as seeing him who is invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he who destroyed the firstborn should touch them. By faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by dry land, whereas the Egyptians, attempting to do so, were drowned Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. I'd like us to focus our attention on verses 27 through 29 today because it speaks of Moses' God-given faith during the Exodus. And in the past couple of weeks, we've been focusing on Moses and the faith that God gave to him. We've seen him as a young child. We've seen that faith as a younger uh uh uh lad, young boy, young man, and now we see it um later in Moses' life uh and um And we are going to be looking at these passages, these verses Surely there are other aspects of Moses' life that the writer, the inspired writer of God's word might have chosen to place here? uh about Moses, uh we might have uh appreciated the fact that um uh Moses uh had the uh audacity and the boldness to denounce Pharaoh and to pronounce upon Pharaoh the ten plagues of Egypt so that God would let his people go. We might also have placed here the fact that Moses ascended Mount Sinai to see God face to face when all of the people below were trembling at the sight, the mountain of smoke and the rumblings of fire and thunder representing the presence of God on Mount Sinai. But Moses went up there. We might also depict Or think that there were numerous times where Moses acted as a mediator for God's people. One case God even offers to Moses, you know, I'll destroy all these people and I'll build a people out of you. And Moses says, no, Lord, you know, remember your promises. Remember your promises to your people. Remember the promises to Abraham. These are your people. So he intercedes, you see, and that would have been certainly a matter for placing here. But our text speaks of three other things. That Moses did. And I'd like to share those things with you. Always given the understanding that Moses did what he did. And he couldn't do what he could do, what he did, if it were not for the faith that God had given to him. So the first thing we look at is verse 27. It breaks down really easy, 27, 28, 29, all three depict. Something about the faith that Moses had. The same kind of faith that we have. Praise God. Amen. 27. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Moses forsook Egypt and all that Egypt had to offer. He didn't fear the wrath of the king. And this includes the fact. that Pharaoh had pronounced the death sentence on Moses. Back in Exodus chapter 10, verse 28, Pharaoh said to him, Get thee away from me, and take heed to yourself. See my face no more, for the day you see my face, you shall die. I don't know about you, but if somebody wants to kill me, I'm not really zealous to go into their presence But it says he forsook Egypt not fearing the wrath of the king. Moses is blessed by faith to fear God and not fear what men might do to him. See, the only reason he forsook Egypt and not feared the wrath of Pharaoh is because God had given him a mission. And God had given him a mission to accomplish. And that was the deliverance of God's people from Egypt. And Moses was fixed on that And it didn't matter if men were going to try to kill him to prevent him from doing that. He was going to do that with every ounce of strength and faith that he had. He endured, it says, he endured the onslaughts of men's opinions and the king's opinion. and desire to kill him, he endured as seeing him who is invisible. That's an odd statement. Seeing him who is invisible? Well, who is the him that he saw, who was invisible? Well, it's God, is it not? I mean that's pretty much self-explanatory. He endured seeing him who is invisible. This is not unusual for Christians. You believe, even though you don't see God facing you. to face. You endure trials because you see God face to face? No Because you see him who is invisible. Well, how can I see him who is invisible? You ask. Look outside. Look at his attributes and creation. But God didn't stop there, so that we would not have any misunderstanding He gave us his word. And he gave us his son as the author of his word. He gave us his son, upon whom all the fullness of the Godhead dwells. But you might say Show me Jesus, and I'll believe. That's akin to the Pharisees saying to Jesus, give us a sign, come down now off the cross. Now we'll believe in you. sign you see does not enable people to believe. Christ could walk in here right now And many people would not believe, perhaps. I hope you would, but there might be some who wouldn't. Christ could come out into the world today and perform a miracle. Which one do you want him to do? Let a paralyzed man walk. Let a blind man see. Let a leper be cleansed. Let 5,000 be fed with a few loaves of a couple of fishes. Which one do you want? What'll do it for you? Didn't do it for them. What makes you think it's going to do it for you? Now you see, those things Christ did are given for those who have eyes. Eyes to see and ears to hear, which God gives to those who believe. Yes, our God is invisible But invisible does not mean he is non-existent. He is, you see, from his creation, he is eternal. He is infinite. He is all-knowing, all-powerful. The skies declare his glory. Day after day they speak his language. nineteen. Moses faith sees God as we see God Anybody seen Jesus? But you believe. Why Why Peter put that thought into perspective when he said Speaking about the work of Jesus, he said in 1 Peter 1, verse 8, Whom having not seen you love In whom though now you see him not, yet believing you rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. As Hebrews chapter 11 records for us in verse 1, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. It's not like God hasn't left lots of evidence. The problem is with us. We're not giving To accepting the evidence. We're not geared to understanding the evidence. Therefore, even faith and understanding have to be given to us by God. In order for us to believe. We read His Word, and by faith, God confirms and deepens. Our relationship with Him. And we begin gradually to understand that reality does not revolve around us. But it revolves around him. All reality revolves around him. Through faith it says he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, verse 28. Lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. That would mean the people Moses is in company with, which would be the Hebrews. Moses kept the Passover, and you recall, before Israel left Egypt, there was the night of the last plague. The death of the firstborn. And unless the blood of the Passover lamb was covering the doorpost, Any firstborn that lived within that home would be destroyed, be they Egyptian or Israel or Hebrew, or any other. This was to be a night, as Exodus chapter 12, 42 puts it, a night to be much observed unto the Lord. For bringing them out of the land of Egypt. It's right after the Passover that Israel starts the journey out of Egypt. This is the night of the Lord. to be observed of the child to be observed by all the children of Israel in their generation. So not only, you see, was the Passover Important, but it was to be within the activity of God's people every year. It was to be regular. It is what can rightfully be called as an Old Testament sacrifice. Or, excuse me, an Old Testament sacrament. Now Moses, of course, kept that because God had commanded it to be done. But we shouldn't ignore the fact that God had also commanded circumcision to be done, and Moses somehow previously forgot to do that to his own sons. And he incurred the wrath of God. Listen, Exodus chapter 4, 24. It came to pass by the way in the inn that the Lord met Moses and sought to kill him. Then his wife, Zippurah, took a sharp stone and cut the foreskin off of her son, and cast it at his feet, and said, Surely a bloody husband art thou to me? So the Lord let him go. There's no other way to interpret that than Moses was lax about observing the circumcision of his own own son. And God was greatly upset. Enough to kill him. And the crucial question to ask yourself is why? Why? The Passover, of course, was one of the Old Testament sacraments It was a sign of God's covenant with his people because you see the Pass the Passover talks about the deliverance of God's people. It has profound redemptive importance. The blood of the Lamb and Passover protected those From death, which is what our wages earn. It protected the Hebrews from death Protected the death of the firstborn of Israel. But it also is a sign of a greater redemption that comes. Passover foreshadows. The fact that one day God's people will be delivered from sin and death, and they'll go into a new land, not called Canaan. But heaven. And they will go there by the blood sacrifice of one whom the New Testament calls our Passover, Jesus Christ. He will take us to heaven because your Passover, Jesus Christ, By his death, emptied the wrath of God upon you for your sin. He fully drained it. And he turned away the wrath of God from you and took it on himself. Passover points to that. Moses' act, you see, is far more than just obedience. Don't you remember? They just got done celebrating the Passover. Now I'm not so sure how much time has elapsed, but it can't be long. They've just come out of Egypt and they're on they're coming to the Red Sea. And there m could be legitimate questions in someone's mind to the effect of why do it again? God commands it to be an annual thing. Why do it again? We just did it. We just had that. We just went through our church activity for the day. Wasn't that long ago And we start asking those kinds of questions and ask why he did it. Why would he keep the Passover again? If he didn't believe in its ultimate, in its connection to an ultimate greater redemption Just lucky, I guess. Coincidence. Or the influence of faith By faith, they pass through the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians So doing were drowned. Well, are they here, not Moses Suddenly there's a shift in the subject for Moses today, but Moses was not, Moses was involved in this decision That they are the people of Israel, backed up to the Red Sea How many are there? How many Hebrews are there? Exodus 1237. Who knows? Six hundred thousand. Look it up. Besides women and children. Six hundred thousand. Backed up to the Red Sea. Well, that might not have been so bad. I mean, after all, they've got a vacation and a hot spot. You know, they could take their time. Unfortunately, unfortunately, Pharaoh was over here. And Pharaoh was coming to Gatham. With all the chariots of Egypt and all the mighty men of Egypt, intent on their death Pharaoh is in the distance. And you can imagine the clamoring that's going on. And we have a record, which was read earlier this morning, of some of what the people were saying. Exodus 14, 11. Moses, because there were no graves in Egypt, have you taken us out here to die in the wilderness? Why have you taken us out of Egypt? Didn't we tell you that this is what would happen? And then they said, they, the they, the day of this passage said, Let us alone that we might serve the Egyptians. For it has been better for us to serve the Egyptians that we should die here in the wilderness With you. Moses said to the people, Fear not Stand still. See the salvation of the Lord. Which he will show you this day. For the Egyptians whom you have seen today, you shall see them again, no more forever. When are they going to see the Egyptians? Never. And that must look pretty pretty pretty it's a pretty bad situation here. They're backed up against the river. Pharaoh's over here on the hill. You might remember. At that very moment, God Appears as a pillar of fire and interposes himself between Pharaoh and the Hebrews. Moses stands for God. And as the people are complaining with really ugliness It's not, you know, it's not it wasn't ultimately Moses' idea to do this. It was God's. And so they're complaining against God, too. God, why didn't you let us die in Egypt? At least we had food there. Ingratitude is appalling. However, unfortunately, we are not immune from ingratitude. Moses stands before God and he rallies the faith of the people. He reminds the people of God that God fulfills his promises. He functions as an intercessor and as a mediator. And God tells him to take up the rod. A seemingly insignificant point. Taking up the rod, just like any old rod. Any old rod will do. Take up the rod and stretch out your hands. And the Red Sea parts. And the walls of water are held up. And the land is faced, the sea bottom is faced with a big wind They have time to sit there and wait while the ground dries out. For God, you see, is with his people. And Moses takes the rod. Why the rod? Is it not the rod of the shepherd? Of God's people. Thy rod and thy staff shall comfort me Is it not the rod of the intercessor between God and man? The rod that protects God's people as the shepherd leads them? And the rod that the shepherd uses to protect and defend his flock First Corinthians chapter 10, verses 1 through 10 looks at this incident and says this Moreover, brethren, I don't want you to be ignorant, talking to the Corinthian church, how all our fathers were under the cloud And all passed through the sea, and they were all baptized into Moses and in the cloud and in the sea. The entire six hundred thousand plus went through the Red Sea unharmed. They were all symbolically baptized, cleansed symbolically by the washing of the water. And the truth of God's word, as Moses spoke it to them. When you put verse 28 and 29 together, when you put them both together, You see that Moses' Acts in verse 28 and 29 You can see that Moses is responsible for leading God's people to keep the sacraments. One old Passover, one new baptism One, Passover appoints the people to see their need for blood sacrifice in order to be delivered from slavery The other baptism reminds the Hebrews of their need for moral cleansing and purity in the eyes of God. If they are to remain in the promised land as God's people. They need holiness, you see, if they're going to dwell there with God in that land. Both sacraments point all the people of God to his provisions to have our sins washed away. From the eyes of God. To have our sins washed away by blood, the blood of the Passover Lamb, the blood of Christ, our Passover. Passover. Moses interceded with God's people to enable them to keep the faith as the descendants of Abraham. One focused, one of the sacraments focused on God as their Redeemer. And says that the seed is the coming seed of Abraham, who Galatians 3:16 says is Jesus Moses' God given faith, you see, is commended and revealed, revered, revealed here in these three verses. For several reasons. One, he fears God more than any man, even the Pharaoh. He makes his And it's God where he places his trust and his confidence. The God he sees Secondly, he sees the people's need for an intercessor, mediator, and he makes his life One of the mediator who serves God and his people. Thirdly, because Moses fears God more than any man. He leads by example, so the people will trust in God's revealed word and his promises. And come to believe in God as their covenant Lord. Fourthly, Moses' God-given faith is commended because he believes God, the Almighty, invisible Spirit. Moses believes in his existence and divine control of his very life. When everything and everyone in this world repeatedly tries to convince him and to convince us. To believe in the ways of this world. All that Moses can see is Jehovah. Finally, Moses' faith shows us that he directs the people to keep the sacraments. And anticipating the fact that God will finally one day deliver his people Not from Pharaoh, but from Satan and sin. Not two shabby reasons for these three verses being here We can see Moses' faith in this way because it models the pattern of the greater Moses, Jesus. The Christ, who has come to save you and deliver you from the cruelest of all kings, sinner. And to shepherd his people to the promised land, which is called Head. Amen Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we recognize and we acknowledge, Lord, that our faith is very weak many times. And we ask you, Lord, to be merciful, to forgive us. Especially, Lord, we pray that you would give us The kind of sensitivity to you that we would desire to have our faith strengthened and nourished in Christ above all things. And Lord, we thank you for your promises that are yes and amen. We thank you, Lord, that throughout history you're working to have a people for yourself. And that Jesus Is the only mediator between God and man. That long after As we approach our declining days, Lord, may that faith in Christ Continue to help us to look to the God who is invisible to take us home, to cross from this world to the next into glory. May God be praised For Jesus and all his many blessings. May God be glorified, we pray. Amen.