Continue to stand. While you're standing, turn to the text for this morning, Hebrews, chapter twelve. Verses 22 through 24. And let us hear the word of the Lord. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels To the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn who are registered in heaven. To God, the Judge of all. To the spirits of just men made perfect, to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Thus far as the reading of God's word, please be seated. We continue to find our way through this section of Hebrews 12, verses 22 through 24. That certainly is a very rich passage of God's Word as such wonderful thoughts are kind of like piled one on top of the other. And uh and we have been looking through a number of these, and today I want to bring us to um uh the the the the statements that say which are names which are written in heaven and to God the judge of all and to the spirits of just men made perfect. The text uh continues to uh carry through the thought that believers have come to this reality, to this set of descriptions that define our present and our eternal condition. and our residence. You have come, not you will come, you have come. You have already come. In spirit you've already come and in glorified body and spirit you will come. into Mount Zion, into the church of the living God, into a place where your names are written in heaven. You will come before the judge. God, the judge of all. But we read that our names have been written in heaven Now, again, it's very clear that all of the blessings that are spoken of here, all the places we are said to have come, that that is all predicated on the fact of Jesus' work. That ends the section. We have come to the the um As it says in verse 24, we have come to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood that speaks better things than that of Abel. Jesus is the reason for all of this, for all of this being said about where we're going and what we're going to see and what we're going to experience there. Your name has been written in heaven. Think about that. Ponder that for just a few minutes. By God's grace, you've exercised saving faith in Christ, and your names are written in heaven It implies, you see, if something is written in heaven, it implies a permanence. Not like something that would be written here on earth. You know, you write the Constitution of the United States. I was Was it the Constitution or the Declaration? They had taken it out and were restoring it, and now somebody's put a thumbprint on it, or a handprint on it. They can't read the fully John Hancock's signature A mistake was made. Not permanent. We think it's permanent. It's lasted two hundred and some odd years. We think it's permanent. We think it will last forever. But that's only on paper Why don't you go down to the to the mall? The next time you go down to the mall, why don't you go over to the Vietnam War Memorial? And you look at the Vietnam War Memorial. I think it's made out of granite A very solemn place in our country. And you go there, you see all those names, names, fifty thousand plus names of men that died in Vietnam. Or people that died in Vietnam. And you say to yourself, that's always going to be here. Well, we think it might But it's not. Even that is not permanent. You know, that that that all could someone who wanted to could blow that thing to snither reeds if they in a minute Along with all the other major buildings of the of the country, the U. S. Capitol, we could have an earthquake. It could be gone. Remember the earthquake we had here? Well, w what happened to the Washington Monument What happened to the cathedral over on uh Wisconsin Avenue, the National Cathedral? You know, there was damage These things are not going to last forever. But your name is written in heaven. Amen. Amen, brother. There's a permanence about that. There's a a reality and a permanence And if your name is written on heaven, here's where it gets right to you in your heart and in your soul. If your name is written in heaven, what greater security can you have? than to hear in Scripture, your name is presently written in heaven The tense of the verb for the writing is passive. Again, not our doing. We never wrote our names there The assumption, of course, is that God directed that our names be written there. And it's already done. It's already done. Even though you're not there yet In spirit, as one who has been saved by the blood of the mediator, Jesus Christ, the better blood, your name is in heaven. If your name is there, who's going to remove it? Who's going to have the power and the ability to remove the name from heaven? Who's going to destroy it? Wherever it's written. I mean I don't I know it's in heaven or whatever medium it's used to to write on it. Who's gonna take it away? Who's gonna burn it up? Who's gonna destroy it? Nobody Nobody. And no one, you see, can ever erase your name once God has written it there. And it's not just Yeah, Amen. But behind the Amen is a is an attitude of joy and thanksgiving. And remember when Jesus had his disciples go out on their first great missionary experience? Remember, they came back with these reports. We saw Satan fall like lightning. And they were happy. Yeah, this was a great deal to them. And Jesus said to them in Luke chapter 10, verse 20, He said, Notwithstanding in this rejoice not That the spirits are subject to you. But rejoice, because your names are written in heaven. You see, as a result of you through Christ coming to heaven, where your names are written There seems to be, to me, I read this, these three four verses here, there seems to be an atmosphere of joy Surrounding, I mean I know it's difficult to say that. I know that's a subjective impression, but I certainly am rejoicing, and I hope you are too, to read these things. To read in some manner trying to get a handle, get our minds around what this means to you right now to live this world. If in a in a certain sense, having your names written in heaven is one of the great ideas that underlines all of the of reform thinking. It's because of grace that your names are written in heaven. It's because of God's mercy that your names are written in heaven. Your names. I mean, I look out at this crowd today and I don't see, I don't see a president here I don't see a great religious leader here. I see just a bunch of normal folk. Who God in His great mercy has gifted with the ability to respond to the gospel call If ever there is a text that says that God doesn't play favorites, this is it That's a text that also speaks of the wonder of God's promises and the greatness of his grace. Now let me point out another thing, and I'm sorry about my voice, but this is what you get when you have allergies. I'm trying to hold this together. If you want to, you can pray me a prayer right now But think about it You're coming, we're said to be coming to heaven, to the church of the firstborn, where our names are written in heaven The joy that you have, it stands in utter contrast To the fear that permeated our first parents after the fall You know, Adam and Eve didn't want to come to God. They didn't want their names to be called out by God. They wanted to hide. They wanted to run away. They wanted to get as far away from God as possible. But you Have come. You have come. Sin led them to hide from God. And sin in all of its permutations throughout the centuries continues to have people hide from God. With our sinful nature, you see, no man is ever eager to come to God or anything that has to do with heaven. Call it fear, call it shame, call it pride. We don't want to have anything to do With coming to the place of God's fountain of mercy. And because we don't want to have anything to do with that, we will not come to him, but we will certainly go anywhere else but him. We will seek our own ways to find mercy on our own terms And that is the great lie that Satan, part of the great lie that Satan has perpetrated on us To tell us that God somehow doesn't want us to know things or to believe in things. or to do things God's way, that God is somehow holding things back from us And so we take the bait and we run headlong into doing things on our own terms, in our own way. We refuse to come to God. And we can't find when we go our own way. It's a two-headed sword. We're running away from God and we're going toward ourselves. Or anything else we think is going to make us content. You can't come to God on your own terms. You must come to God. Through Jesus, because he is the way and the truth and the life. And no one comes to the Father but through him Simply to say that we have come to Our names written in heaven, or we have come to God, or we have come to the new Mount Zion, or the heavenly Jerusalem, simply to say that is an acknowledgement that something dramatic has happened. to us and our relationship with God. It's so dramatic that it's the difference between day and night. A radical change. And that something is that the curse has been broken. The curse has been broken. And its effect in our lives has been eliminated. And it's been replaced. With the Holy Spirit our helper who helps us to love God with all of our heart, mind, soul, and straight, and to love our neighbors and ourselves. As remain in heaven But we have come to God, the judge of all. Sitting here I'm thinking about that. Remember? We're running from God because we're ashamed. We're fearful. Why would we come to him who is pictured as one who judges us? You know, pardon me for posing this question, but what's so great about coming to the judge? If you've done something wrong, do you want to go to the judge? No way. Again, you want to hide, right? Paul, ponder that in your mind for just a minute. Why would we do that? Is it not because we also have, God has also told us that in Christ our names are written in heaven. Is it not the case? That because that is true, that our judge we know of us is going to be fair. He's going to be merciful. He's going to judge us through Christ. And he's going to find us because of Christ. What? Righteous, not guilty, not worthy of death But he's going to judge us as his people, his children we talked about this morning, his adopted ones He's going to judge us through the blood of Christ, and only through the blood of Christ, the only mediator between God and man, whose blood speaks better than the blood of Abel. And you're gonna hear. You're gonna hear. Forgiven. Righteous I may not want to go before the judge, and even I'm not trying to make light of the fact that God is not a horrific judge. And that he will not bring punishment, that he will not bring death to those who are not his people. I'm not trying to make light of that. Because that will happen. And that will be the last place that the rest of the world who doesn't know Christ will be the last time they can ever try to run away from God Because they too will appear before his judgment seed. And they will reap in their own lives. The just judgment of God, in the day of you eat of it, you shall surely die. They will reap the judgment for their disobedience. But that is not you. Isn't that wonderful? You have come to The place, heaven, where your names are written. To God the judge. To the judge of righteous men made perfect. You see, it heaven is a place where there are righteous men It's the the righteous, whether they be from the Old Testament or old characters, Old Testament characters, or New Testament characters, men and women, or people even this day. There are righteous men and women in heaven. Only righteous men and women in heaven Only your brothers and sisters who confess Jesus as Lord and Savior throughout the centuries Who believed in him before he was on earth, who believed in him after he left from earth. They will be We come to Jesus joyfully, almost eagerly, with confidence. Because our names are written in heaven by God's order, whichever reminds us that the judge of all Oh, excuse me. I don't want to say it that way. I want to say it this way. We come to God because our names are written in heaven by God's order And that is a constant reminder to the one who is the judge of all, that his dear son is also Already paid the price. And he has already covered us with his robes of righteousness. We come by faith in Jesus Christ to the mediator of the new covenant, and in him we are now found to be holy before God. With all our sins paid for. In Christ, God, who is the judge of all, has his justice fully served We come to Jesus. We come in Jesus. We come by faith in Jesus. His blood has made you his children. Christ shed blood has made you one of the just men and women who has been made perfect. Perfect before God, as the Spirit has been at work. He has made you holy and just in his sight. His blood has removed all your sin as far as east is from west West. No longer are you the objects of God's wrath, but you are the His children who live with Him in His mansion. This is why we as Christians alone, among all men, rejoice to come to God, our judge. Jesus paid it all to God for me. Because he lives, I do. And I live to him forever. By his grace