Uh let me uh let me now direct our thoughts toward uh the next uh sermon text to first Timothy one and verses eighteen through twenty. First Timothy All right, let us hear the word of the Lord. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou might by them Mightiest war, a good warfare. Holding faith and having good conscience a good conscience Which some, having put away concerning faith, have made shipwreck, of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme Now, as uh As I have told you from the first couple of verses of 1 Timothy, Timothy we find is a young minister being mentored by the Apostle Paul. And the Apostle Paul left where they were ministering, which was Ephesus, and he left behind Timothy. to uh care for the the the church that was there in uh in in Ephesus And part of the caring for the church had to do with protecting the church Protecting the church from false teachers. Verse 3. He said, When I went to Macedonia that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies. So the Apostle Paul was uh was uh giving Timothy some warning about what it is he's going to face in the ministry and one of the things he's going to face is false teaching. And uh And that he's he shows that that's very dangerous. Other doctrines than what he has taught are very dangerous. Because they lead the people, taking heed to fables and genealogies, and getting sidetracked from the need for them to be edified by the Word of God. So, this young man, Timothy, is at Ephesus, following up the Apostle Paul's ministry, and given a charge. basically protect the sheep from false teachers. Now as he comes back to verse 18 which begins our text today, he re- he refers again back to this charge that he has given to Timothy. This charge I commit to thee, Timothy, according to the prophecies which went on before you, that thou mightest by them Mightiest war, a good warfare. Or mightest, excuse me, mightiest war, a good warfare. Paul charges Timothy to be faithful to this charge. Well, he might. because this could be a very uh uh ongoing kind of thing. Uh there will be many false teachers. Who will come to the church of the Lord Jesus Christ? And one who is a minister or an elder, a leader of the church, has to be on guard and has to be ready to confront false teaching. He said as we've read in verse 4 and verse 3 that he would charge some. Tell people. He would sternly tell false teachers that they teach no other doctrine. They teach no other doctrine than the one Paul has been ministering. And he goes on to say, the charge that I have given to you, Timothy, is in accord with the prophecies which went on before thee. In other words, Paul, I think, is referring back to Timothy's ordination and the things that were said about Timothy in his ordination Things that were said by other elders and ministers of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And you get some indication of what it was that they said. We don't have it exactly But we have some indication of what they said when we look at 1 Timothy 4 verse 14. Neglect not the gift. that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of hands by the Presbytery. Don't neglect the gift that comes with the laying on of hands. And then we read in Second Timothy one six More of this charge that was given to Timothy. I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God. which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. So when he refers back here in our text today, to the prophecies which went before on thee, he's reminding Timothy that he has a solemn ordinar ordination charge He's been ordained by the Presbytery. He's been ordained by godly men to follow in the footsteps of the gospel, to minister the gospel to the people of God. Don't forget that charge, he's saying to Timothy, and use that as part of the war that you're going to be engaged in. That's the second thing. Paul says to Timothy, that you buy them by remembering these things, by remembering what the Presbytery has said to you and the gift that they have given you through the ordination of hands, through the words of the Scriptures that you become acquainted with and well known You might wage war. You might war a good warfare, as the old King James puts it. Paul is telling Timothy, I have charged you to protect the gospel of Jesus Christ from false teachers. I've encouraged you to prevent false such false teachers from teaching their errors to the flock This is completely in accord with the charges given you by the elders in the Presbytery when you began your ministry. He's saying to Timothy, I, Paul, support your ministry. And the entire group of the elders of the presbytery in the early church is with you. God, through his people, is also with you in this task. God has given you, and the elders have recognized and affirmed the ministry gifts. which you have. In one way, Paul might be saying to Timothy here, in a very succinct way, when he says According to the prophecies which went on before you, in a very succinct way he's saying to Timothy, remember your ordination and your vows. And by them you might wage, you might war a good warfare This is sometimes translated, you might fight the good fight. The Greek, as you look at the Greek Is is much more in a tune with the King J King James translation that you might war a good warfare. Literally, uh That you might be a soldier in the good war. A soldier in the good war. I think that that statement by Paul is very revealing It's very revealing of what he considers ministry at times to be, which is war. Ministry of the gospel of Jesus Christ is war. It's a war for the gospel It's a war for the heart and souls of people. It's a war against the spiritual forces in high places. It's a war. And Timothy, you have become a soldier in the war. And if you're going to work in the war, you're going to have to recognize it is a war. It's a serious matter. Wars are not declared usually over frivolities. It's a serious man, although there has there was a war in South America where they fought over a soccer game. Which I would consider a frivolity. However, usually we think of war as being kind of the last step. Now um um He's put Timothy on notice that what he is engaged in is serious business, that he's called to be a soldier Now when you're called to be a soldier, I never was in the military. I've always had great respect for the military, but I was never there. But I do understand one thing about the military, and that is When you become a soldier, you put your life on the line. And It seems that that's the same motif that Paul wants Timothy to understand about his ministry, as he's going to engage the forces of false doctrine and unbelief. And as he's going to preach to the people, he's going to be engaged in a war. It is not a war in which there are literally bullets flying back and forth and spears and grenade launchers and tanks and all that kind of stuff. But it's a spiritual war. A spiritual war with spiritual powers involved on both sides This is the reality of the charge that Paul is giving to Timothy. Behold, Timothy, the nature of your warfare. As we spoke in 2nd Chronicles, 2 Chronicles, 2 Corinthians 10. Beginning of verse 3, Paul talks similarly about the war that Christians are engaged in. And he says, though we walk in the flesh, We do not war after the flesh. Though we are flesh and blood, though we are, that's part of our human composition. Though we are flesh and blood, we do not use the weapons of the of mankind to fight the war for the gospel. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal. That means they're not fleshly. That means they're not human. Not what humans think about when they think about warfare. These weapons are mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. To the pulling down of strongholds Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God These strongholds that Timothy is charged to take in this warfare without Earthly weapons, without man's weapons. He says these strongholds are characterized as places of imaginations. Vain imaginations, false ideas, false ideas about God, false ideas about salvation, false ideas about man and his capabilities. Casting down imaginations, these strongholds everything, high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. When you when you take that statement and understand that statement, that's that's humanity. That's evolution. That's anything that that's i any idol That's anything that man thinks of about God that is untrue. It's any idol, any stronghold where man wants to put God into some sort of box where he can contain God and not allow God to be the God of the scriptures. The God of who he is. It's a false imagination. That's the battle we fight. That's the battle we fight, Timothy fights, that's the battle which every Christian is engaged in in some degree or another. fighting against that mentality. Fighting against the same mentality that manifested itself in the building of the Tower of Babel. Wanting to be to reach to the heavens, wanting to be in the places with God. Full of sin, and yet exalting oneself. That's the battle. That's the strength of the battle against mankind. The weapons we use against such things are desired or to bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. If you want to make a good goal for yourself, you want to have a lifetime goal, right here it is. I, by your help, God, for the sake of the gospel, want to take into captivity every high thought that wages war against God. And I want to bring it captive to you. Captive to you, and that obedience would be the hallmark of that new captivity. Obedience to God and His will, having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience when your obedience is fulfilled. These things, 2 Timothy 2, verses 2 and 4 speak a little bit more about this warfare and about the weapons. The things that you have heard of me, Paul speaking again to Timothy, among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. Who will be able to teach others also? One of the ways in which God helps us to fight the fight. Is to teach able, faithful men who are willing to shoulder arms, God's arms With Timothy in the church at Ephesus. It's not a war just for one person to be engaged in. It's a war for Timothy and members of his congregation to join together in the fight. But they have to be faithful. And they have to be willing to learn. To learn from the words which Paul has formerly taught the doctrines that he has taught. You will endure verse 3 of 2 Timothy 2, 2 for four for four 2 for 4 you will endure hardship as a good soldier of Christ. No man that wars entangles himself with the affairs of this life That he may please him who's chosen him to be a soldier. Not all are chosen to be soldiers. But some are. And to them, that is the vanguard, that is the spearhead of the attack on unbelief. They lead the charge. Now he goes on to give further instruction about this warfare and about How it shows itself even in the church. And this is probably the most poignant statement Where we realize that the warfare that Paul has in mind is not simply warfare that is out in the unbelieving world, but it's warfare that is also going on in the church as well. He says in verse 19, having faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck. Here Paul tells Timothy that in the war for Christ that he is fighting, he needs to have two things. Always. Not the only two things, but he must have these two things always with him. The first is faith. The first is faith. First mentioned is faith. Of course, as we understand the faith that we have, it's not faith. That comes generated from us, but it's faith that is given to us from God. Secondly, it is not simply a faith that acknowledges that there was a historical Jesus. It's not simply a faith that can say Jesus is the Son of God. I remind you the devils can say that too. But they're not, they don't believe. Historical faith, true saving faith, is faith in Christ Jesus alone for your salvation. That you're trusting and resting in Christ Jesus alone for your salvation. That is the flag. That is one of the flags you carry into battle That's the flag, the standard that you're willing to live for and willing to die for in this war It's not only faith, as I said. Ephesians chapter 6, verses 12 through 19, which you're all very familiar with. The armor of the soldier of God who's engaged in the spiritual warfare. I always like reading this. for an for a number of wonderful reasons. We wrestle not against the flesh and blood, Hebrew excuse me, Ephesians 6, verse 12. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers Against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. It's not just Hymenaeus and Alexander that Timothy has to worry about. That Timothy's charged to fight against. It's the spirit of evil The spirit of wickedness in high places. That's behind this. That's behind the humanity's strongholds. It's Satan and his deception. that often wreaks havoc in the church as well. So, against spiritual wickedness in high places, verse thirteen, wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God that you may be able to stand in the evil day and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, above all, take the shield of faith. Take the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the evil one. Take the helmet of salvation, sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. and watching whereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints, and for me, that utterance might be given to me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery. of the gospel. These are the weapons. We can name them. Above all, take the shield of faith Now he also mentions another weapon that Timothy's going to have to employ in this warfare. It's one we won't normally think about. He says, verse 19, having faith and a good conscience. A good conscience, which some having put away Concerning faith have made shipwreck. Then he says, conscience, having a good conscience, I think that what he is uh what Paul is driving at. is expressed in a number of different ways through several different other verses that Paul Or other places in the gospel has written. I refer you to John, and I'm trying to get a handle on this word good conscience. So I first refer you to John 8, verse 7. Through nine. When they had continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him cast the first stone at her. And again, he stooped down and wrote on the ground, and they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, being Beginning at the eldest, even the last, and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. We do have a conscience. We have a conscience, and that conscience is fine-tuned. It's fine-tuned to the will of God. It's influenced also by our heart, the heart that knows. The truth about God and about His Word. And that conscience is either going to affirm Our good our our our desire to be good or it's going to affirm and reveal when we have not been good And a good conscience is necessary for the fight, the fight that Timothy needs to wage. The opposite, a bad conscience is not going to be profitable. A bad conscience would essentially put Timothy as a hypocrite Engaged in this fight. A conscience that is uh is talking out of his mouth about the gospel, and at the same time is secretly inside being convicted of unconfessed sin is not the kind of warfare or warrior it's not the kind of warrior that Timothy needs to be. He needs to have those unconfessed things right before the Lord. He needs to repent of those things. And uh live in the spirit, hopefully, so that he can have a good conscience in the warfare. You understand that? Okay. So As this incident occurs with this woman who was adulteress She Jesus looked at them and said, He is without sin among you. Let them cast the first stone. In good conscience, they could not cast the stone Because they understood that they were, by God's grace, they had come to understand that they were guilty of some sin, maybe not the same sin as this woman, but they were guilty of some sin and they had no they all had they all did not have All of them could not say that they had no sin. That's what I'm trying to say. And their conscience Bore witness to that. So they couldn't stone this woman. Verse fourteen of Romans chapter two speaks also to this issue When the Gentiles which have not the law doomed by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written on their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness. Timothy, as you go about the work that I have charged you to do As you go about being a soldier for the Lord Jesus Christ, you must have two necessities at least to engage in spiritual warfare, faith and a good concept. And he goes so far as to again mention two men, Hymenaeus and Alexander. These two people seem to be at war with Paul and Paul's doctrine. These two people are associated with the enemy, but they're apparently well known to Timothy and to the congregation. Hymeneus is also referred to in another place in 2 Timothy 2, verses 17 through 19. You can look that up. But he is not referred to in a positive way. It's said that his word will eat like a canker were a sour, of whom Hymeneus and Philadis are mentioned. Alexander is a another pretty common name He's mentioned in 2 Timothy 4 verse 14, Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil. Paul said that. The Lord reward him according to his works. These very well are people very well could be people in the church, maybe leaders, who refuse to keep Paul's charge. Who refused to keep Paul's doctrine and did much damage, even in spite of Paul's efforts to prevent them. And apparently they're still at it because he tells Timothy to watch out for them. So, again, the necessities of spiritual warfare. Recognize the leaders of the church and you two in general are involved in a war. And you're soldiers in the war, and you need to be equipped well The best equipment you can have to wage this war is spiritual. It's faith, trust in Christ alone. It's salvation. It's God's righteousness. It's the gospel. Take it. Fight the war And watch God tear down the strongholds. Amen. Let us uh conclude with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, thy spirit is always at work. And we pray, Lord, that that that the Holy Spirit uh will now take those things which uh have uh been uh faithful to you and will minister to them uh to your people minister them to your people uh for their blessing. We pray these things in Jesus' name Christmas name, Amen. Our last hymn is Christ