If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel. We'll continue our study there in Matthew chapter 25. I believe that's on page 987 of your Pew Bibles. And we'll read the first thirteen verses of this particular chapter. Let's give attention now to the very Word of God. Then the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins who took their lamps And went to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish, and five were wise. For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them. But the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps. As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. But at midnight there was a cry. Here is the bridegroom. Come out to meet him. Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the wise answered, saying, Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves. And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came. And those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut. Afterward, the other virgins came also, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered, Truly I say to you, I do not know you. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour. That's from the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Our Father and our God, we ask now that you by your Spirit would help us. Guide us, Holy Spirit, give us understanding. But We ask in addition to that understanding that you would convict us of sin, convict us of the truth of your word, and refresh us. Refresh us, Father, with the goodness of your word, with the truth of your word, with the promises which are contained in your word. Help us. Guide us now, we pray. In Christ's name. Amen. What will you take with you to meet Jesus when he returns? There's a passage in the book of Esther. If you're familiar with Esther, Esther was selected amongst many To become the next queen, queen to King Hazarus These women were set aside for a long time to be beautified, so to speak, and then to be brought to the king, and each woman was allowed to take whatever she desired in with her when she met the king. Esther, according to the word of God, asked for nothing except what Haggai, the king's eunuch advised her to take. Apparently whatever these women took was special, was significant to the king. And so as Esther goes into the king, the scriptures tell us that she won grace and favor in his sight. Seemingly what the women brought with them was important. That brings us to our text this morning. Jesus Christ has just finished at least beginning to tell his disciples about the end of the age, about when he will return from his session at the right hand of God, even though they didn't quite understand that yet. He has told them about the signs which will appear in heaven before he returns, and then he will he has ascribed to them his return, what that will look like, so they will not be led astray by false Christs and false prophets. And he's told them that no one knows the day or the time when he will return. Now you might think that Jesus would have just left it at that, just that bald statement of truth. But he doesn't And so in our passage this morning, what Jesus does in this passage and the one next to it is reinforced his teaching and opens up again what it means to be ready for his return He's already told his disciples that they must stay awake in anticipation of his return. And if they didn't understand quite yet what that meant, now Jesus uses these two parables, first the parable of the ten versions and then the parable of the towns, which we won't get to today. To really drive home the point as to what it means to stay awake or to be ready for Jesus' return. This morning, as we consider this parable of the ten virgins Five wise and five foolish. As they're waiting on the bridegroom to return, there's no doubt that he's coming. There's no doubt that he is returning, that he's coming for the wedding. The only question is when? When would he be coming? And would the people be ready if he were to delay. And so as we go through this passage we see that the five wise virgins prepared for this delay. They took oil, extra oil with them in flasks. Referred to as the wise virgins, and the foolish virgins don't. They don't bring extra oil. And so they miss. They miss the bridegroom's coming, the one who they were waiting upon, they miss his coming, and ultimately they're not allowed to enter into the banquet hall, into the marriage feast. The door was shut and the five foolish were left outside and the bridegroom even states that I don't know you All the while the five wise virgins are inside enjoying the wedding feast and being with the bridegroom. This parable is building upon what Jesus had already told his disciples concerning that day and the hour, no one knows. Therefore, you must also be ready. We might sum up the teaching here in these first thirteen verses of chapter 25 in this way. To find the true Savior and thus the door to heaven, you will need to have the Holy Spirit To find the true Savior and thus the door to heaven, you will need to have the Holy Spirit. So you've got this morning in these three doctrines, these three truths which are set forth here in this passage, first the bridegroom will return and open the door to the kingdom. Secondly, the Holy Spirit will abide and lead the way to the kingdom, and finally, the wise will enter the kingdom, but the foolish will not As we go through this passage this morning, I want you to be asking yourself that question, what will I take with me on the day that Jesus returns? Well first. The bridegroom will return in the door and open the door to the kingdom. Look at verse 5 in this passage. As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. Right away we have a truth being given by Jesus in this parable. He's teaching his disciples that there may be a delay to my return, at least from your perspective. The disciples were likely thinking that Jesus is Coming as the king to restore Israel's dominance was coming soon, quickly. Indeed, there were those who thought that Jesus was going to return in their lifetime or take the throne in their lifetime. Indeed, Jesus taught, truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. They misunderstood what that meant. Even Peter, as John records it in the end of his gospel, as he's speaking with the Lord, and Peter refers to the Apostle John. He says, What about him? And Jesus said, if it's my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you? Again, the thinking that John's going to stay alive until Jesus takes the throne or comes again. And yet here we are two thousand years after the death and resurrection and ascension of the Lord Jesus, and He's not yet returned. How do you wait? From our human perspective, there's been a delay. How do you prepare? In a time of waiting, even as his return is delayed, from our perspective. How did the wise virgins wait? Expectantly, knowingly, confidently, hopefully. They were preparing with that kind of attitude, that mindset, this heart of expectation That's certainly one of the central teachings of this parable, that the bridegroom is coming. Jesus the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, is returning for his bride, the church, and for judgment. Question is not if, but how will you wait for the when Well, Jesus has promised, hasn't he, that he will return. We've already seen that in chapter 24. He's already taught his disciples that he will return. The Son of Man is coming. He's coming on the clouds of heaven with power and with great glory. He's taught his disciples that. He's promised his disciples that And in fact, this was taken from Daniel the prophet hundreds of years earlier Daniel 7, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. Daniel has already been told and now has prophesied that Jesus, without the name, was coming. Again, that's what Jesus told his disciples in the upper room discourse recorded by the Apostle John. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And will take you to myself. This parable is reinforcing and confirming that truth. Not only were the wise virgins and the foolish versions, expecting the return of the bridegroom. There was no doubt in their minds the groom was on his way, the wedding was going to happen. Yes, there was a delay, but the bridegroom comes. There were watchmen looking for him. At midnight there was a cry. Here's the bridegroom. Come. It wasn't a dream. It wasn't a fantasy. It wasn't a wish. It was a reality. The bridegroom comes. And he comes for his bride. How could Jesus not? He's the perfect and holy bridegroom. He's the faithful husband. Isn't that what Paul records as he writes to those in Ephesus? Husbands, love your wives. How? As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. How could he not return? He's given himself up for his bride. Yes, this parable teaches clearly that the bridegroom who is Jesus Christ will return, but there's another truth taught in this parable. And that is that he's coming in an hour you do not expect. Jesus is driving that point home. An hour you do not expect. Well the virgins knew that the bridegroom was coming. They just didn't know when. And so as he delays, from their perspective, they become drowsy and they slept. Verse 5. This was to be a wedding. A great celebration and feast. Who comes at night to a wedding feast? So they go and sleep. It's okay. He's not coming at night. That would be unexpected. And so drowsiness covers them like a blanket Just when they did not expect it. At midnight the cry goes out, here's the bridegroom, come to meet him, and you can be imagining what's going on in the virgins' minds and hearts. Come now? We're asleep. It's midnight. Can he wait until the morning? No. He will come at an hour you do not expect. And so the call is to be ready. Why? Because Jesus is your husband. And it's the wedding day that you've been waiting for. Think of how Brides and grooms so anticipate their coming together on their wedding day, looking forward to it. Can't wait for it. Is that how you feel about Jesus' return? I can't wait. I can't wait for that day. And as the bridegroom of the church, Jesus has opened and will open the door. Notice in this parable, the door to the marriage feast is not opened until the bridegroom comes. That's what Jesus does. He opens the door to eternal life, to heaven, to glory. And behold, As Matthew records the crucifixion and the death of the Lord Jesus Christ, and behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. Jesus opens the door to heaven. He has, and he will, at any time At the unexpected, at the inconvenient time, he will open the door. So what does it mean for one to be ready? For the any day, any time, the unexpected time of Jesus' return? What does it mean? How do you get ready? Last week we We pulled out the idea of staying awake as part of being ready. And this parable, the rest of this discourse Seems to continue to answer that question as to how you must be ready And so in this parable then, being ready is equated to a represented by having enough oil on hand. Which brings us to our second point. The Holy Spirit will abide and will lead the way to the kingdom. Well yes, oil was necessary. So we speak then of being ready. The oil becomes significant to us in our understanding. of this parable and its teaching. And so to understand this parable it's necessary for us to understand the working of an oil lamp or lantern. Not too many of us use those these days, so it might be good for us to review. What's what are what's going on here? And so we read that as the cry goes out, then all the virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. Well to trim a lamp means to take care of the wick. Today wicks are made of cotton and they go from the top to the reserve where the oil is kept. And to trim the wick means, as I understand it, at least looking on the internet, which is infallible. That's not true. The internet is not infallible. To trim the wick, one removes that portion of the wick which has become blackened or frayed, and to cut it away in such a way and to shape the wick in such a way that it provides the most illumination. An untrimmed wick will not provide that. And so that's the idea behind trimming the wick, to to make the lamp burn as brightly as possible. But the fuel, that which actually burns, that which the wick soaks up from the reserve is the oil It's not the wick that burns, but it's the soaked up oil which burns and illumines. So one must have enough oil in his or her lamp that the wick which has now been trimmed is able then to soak up the oil which is in the reserve so that it actually burns and provides lights for the wick itself is not burning. It's the oil It's the oil which is needed, which soaks up the which is soaked up by the wick, and then which provides light So clearly having enough oil in the lamp was critical to locating the bridegroom who's now been announced and ultimately entering into the wedding banquet. Virgins needed a sufficient amount of oil to light the way. So there were five wise and five foolish The difference between them was that the five widest brought a flask, an extra amount of oil, thinking that there might be a delay. They were ready. The foolish did not So as we think of the oil, it should cause us to think of who is it that provides illumination to us. That should bring the Holy Spirit to mind. We know that there are only two categories of virgins, those with and those without. And so that causes us to again to think of the Holy Spirit. There are only two categories, those with the Holy Spirit and those without the Holy Spirit. So we think of the Spirit, and the Spirit's need to abide within us, we think of Jesus' words, don't we? Jesus said to him, I am the way. No one comes to the Father except through me. If Jesus is the way, and he is, then all who desire life must follow Jesus. They may must be able to find Jesus, the bridegroom, and follow him. into life, because he is life. So God the Father gives to those whom he chooses the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit of Christ. And so as we consider this scenario, all who are waiting upon the bridegroom to appear and the wedding feast to begin, the only question is whether Or not, you will be awake and be able to find the bridegroom and follow him as he opens the door to the wedding feast And the only way for the virgins to do that was with the light from their lamps. The only way for us to find the Lord Jesus Christ Is by and through the light provided by the Holy Spirit. You must have the Spirit to burn within your heart. If you're to find Jesus. Without the Spirit burning within your heart, you will have no desire to find and know Jesus Christ. As the Spirit burns, as he lights that fire, as you are illumined, then you'll know Christ He will point Christ out to you. He will define Christ for you, and he will then show you the way to Christ. You see that symbolism of that burning light, providing a way for the virgins to find the bridegroom who's been announced And then to follow him into the wedding feast. It's the Spirit who must burn within you to give you that desire to follow find Christ and then it's the Spirit who must lead you then to Christ and and then it's Christ who then leads you in to eternal life. So the question arises, do you have the Holy Spirit? Is the Holy Spirit burning within your heart this morning? If you just raised your hand in your heart and said, Yes, yes, yes, praise God. For he is the one who has gifted the Spirit to you. You haven't done anything to earn The indwelling of the Spirit. You haven't done anything to light the Holy Spirit's fire within you. He has lit it. He has illumined you. He has given you the desire to find Jesus Christ and He has led you to Christ. And so your response this morning should just be of praise God. But if you said in your heart, no, I don't I don't know the spirit, I don't have the spirit. He's not dwelling in me today. You should be asking, how can I receive the Spirit? How can the Holy Spirit dwell within me? How can he light my heart on fire for Christ? As it says before, you cannot earn the Spirit. You cannot do anything to be good enough to earn the Spirit. Simon offered money to the apostles as he saw them laying hands on individuals and the Spirit being poured out. And Simon said, Let me buy that right. That I can lay my hands on others and give them the spirit. And Peter responded to him and said, I see that you're in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. Repent therefore of this wickedness of yours He couldn't buy the Spirit. There's nothing we can do to earn God's favor. So the question remains, how can you receive the Spirit and the only possible way is to get down on your knees and humble yourself before the living and holy God and confess your filthy sin before Jesus Christ and plead with him. Plead with him. To give you the Spirit, to grant you that fire that burns for Christ. And to lead you to him. It's only by grace. It's only by the grace of God that you can receive the Holy Spirit. So cry out to Christ now. Call out to him. Go to your knees. Beg for the Spirit to be sent. For without the Spirit, you will be locked out of life. And spend eternity in hell and damnation. Cry out to Christ. Brings us to our third point. The wise will enter the kingdom and the foolish will not. So listening to a sermon by Robert Murray McShane this week, as he opened up this particular passage. And he opened it up by saying, this is the perfect parable for this church. And you're scratching your head and you're wondering, why why is that? Why is this one the perfect one? He said, well there are only two groups of virgins, the wise and the foolish. And these were representing those who would be saved and enter into glory and those who would be passed over and enter into damnation and to hell. There were no other categories, no other groups. And he said, this is the perfect passage because these are the two categories that exist in this church. It perfectly describes all of the members of this church, either wise or foolish. Either those who are being saved or those who are not being saved. If McChane was right, then this parable perfectly describes all congregations. And so as the parable continues, as the cry goes out, and the bridegroom has arrived, as each of the ten virgins trim their lamps or lanterns, and five are running low on oil. The trimming reveals that the foolish failed to bring a sufficient amount of oil. And now they don't have a way to illumine their way to the bridegroom and to the wedding feast. The five wise virgins brought a sufficient amount, and now as they waited on the bridegroom, they've been able to find the bridegroom with the light that's illumined their way and entered into The wedding feast. They were ready. It seems to be what Jesus is teaching, at least in part, that these wise were ready. Look at verse 10. And while they were going to buy, he's referring now to the foolish, while they were going to buy the bridegroom came, and those who were ready, meaning the wise with the oil, went in The five foolish had failed to prepare adequately. They were not ready. They did not have enough oil, they did not have enough light to find and follow the bridegroom, and so they could not make it into the marriage feast. Now you may be thinking, well There were five with a sufficient amount, why didn't they give some to the foolish? Indeed, Jesus addresses that. The foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the wise answered, saying, Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves. Many walk away from this parable thinking this might be the focal point And the five wives were just greedy women. Self-interest in mind, a failure, a refusal to love their neighbors, no self-sacrifice going on here But that does not appear to be the teaching. First of all, there's usually a primary teaching of every parable Singular point. And here, greed does not appear to be such that teaching. Secondly, the virgins were referred to as wise. Now, Jesus doesn't usually describe wisdom to those who are outwardly and openly, wantonly sinful. Generally speaking, to refer to someone as wise usually has an implication that they were godly And that seems to be the case here. They were fixed, the five wives were fixed and focused upon the bridegroom and being with the bridegroom and entering into the wedding feast and enjoying that celebration. And thus bringing enough oil. That was their focus. Think just for a moment on Martha and Mary. There's a passage in Luke chapter 10 where Jesus is at Martha and Mary's home and Martha is preparing hospitality, but Mary's sitting at Jesus' feet and listening to him and Martha says to Jesus, hey, tell my sister to come help me. Don't you see I need help here preparing this hospitality And Jesus responds and said, Martha, you're anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing, one thing is necessary Mary has chosen a good portion, which will not be taken away from her. See, there seems to be a parallel between Martha and Mary and the ten foolish and the ten wise. Wise virgins were not greedy. Jesus is saying what they have will not be taken away from them because they chose the good portion. Now, the point of the parable The primary teaching of the parable seems to be given to us in verse ten. And the door was shut. Be ready, or the door will be shut. The five bullish virgins now return with oil for their lamps, and we see that the door to the wedding banquet, the marriage feast was shut. Access, entry into the feast has been cut off. For them, the five bullish virgins even cry out, Lord, Lord, open to us But they weren't ready. And so the bridegroom or the Lord says to them, I do not know you. The five wise virgins made it inside and were enjoying their communion And the marriage feast with the bridegroom. But I want you to see the finality of this The symbolism of finality. The door shut seems to symbolize the finality of Christ's universal offer of salvation. And now because the five wise weren't ready The doors shut because they didn't know the one inside. Friends, there is coming a day when the door to heaven will be shut. Paul writes to those in Corinth, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation, and Jesus Christ's offer of salvation continues to go out. The call to be ready, to plead for the Holy Spirit is still open. Anyone, anyone can plead with Christ this day For salvation, for the filling of the Holy Spirit, for the desire to find and follow Jesus Christ. But there will come a day when he will return. And upon that day the door to heaven will be shut. And all those outside of Christ will be lost forever. So the call goes out, even this morning, even today, be ready. What will you take with you? If you don't have the Holy Spirit, you will be shut out. Plead, call out to Christ. For the filling of the Spirit. Yes, to find the true Savior and thus the door to heaven, you will need to have the Holy Spirit. Esther brought with her what she was advised to bring, and apparently that pleased the king. And the five wise virgins had with them exactly what they needed. to find the bridegroom and enter into the marriage feast. Oh, what a joy, what a blessing it is to have the Holy Spirit. Let's pray that the Lord would continue to pour out his Spirit on those who are lost in darkness without the light, that they might receive the light and find Christ. Amen. Our Father and our God, we praise you, Lord. We praise you for your spirit. We praise you for your Son. We praise you for the filling and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit and for his illumination. O Holy Spirit, you have lit a fire in us, a burning desire to know Christ and to be with Christ, and we praise you. And Father, for those who have not yet received that illumination, we do pray, Lord God, that you'd help us to be a reflection of that light. So that others would come to us and ask us how they might receive the light of Christ. Work in us, Lord. Help us to have a heart for the lost, and to shine brightly that which the Holy Spirit has illumined within us. The light of Christ. We ask all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.