If you turn in your copy of God's Word now I think that's on page eight hundred and seventeen of your Pew Bibles. Lamentations follows Jeremiah. We'll be in chapter three this morning. As we once again coming new year. I'm going to be reading a portion of the third chapter beginning at verse one. Let's give attention to the Holy Word of God. I am the man who has seen affliction under the rod of his wrath. He has driven me and brought me into darkness without any light. Surely against me he turns his hand again and again the whole day long. He has made my flesh and my skin waste away, he has broken my bones, he has besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation. He has made me to dwell in darkness like the dead of long ago. He has walled me about I cannot escape. He has made my chains heavy. Though I call and cry for help, he shuts out my prayer. He's blocked my ways with blocks of stones. He's made my paths crooked. He is a bear lying in wait for me, a lion in hiding. He turned aside my steps and tore me to pieces. He has made me desolate. He's bent his bow and set me as a target for his arrow. He drove into my kidneys the arrows of his quiver. I have become the laughing stock of all peoples, the object of their taunts all day long. He's filled me with bitterness. He's sated me with wormwood. He has made my teeth grind on gravel and made me cower in ashes. My soul is bereft of peace. I have forgotten what happiness is. So I say, my endurance has perished. So is my hope from the Lord. Remember my affliction. And my wanderings, the wormwood and the gall, my soul continually remembers it and is bowed down within me. But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, says my soul. Therefore I will hope in him. The Lord is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. Must find the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, help us Help us as we consider this passage, as we seek to dig into it. Father, by your Holy Spirit, we pray that you'd lead us, that you would convict us. That you would encourage us. Help us to see more of Christ, even now. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. How will you wait in this new year? As we come to the end of 2025, many of us have had experiences, trials, tribulations, persecutions, disappointments. Attacks from Satan, and many failures with regard to keeping the law of God. As we think about those things, we can conclude, even confess, that our strength has perished. We can feel as though mercy The mercy of God has been exhausted, completely used up. We can become discouraged, disgruntled, even doubting the Lord's presence among us. As we look at the world today and consider all the conflicts, all the controversies, we see the war continuing between Russia and Ukraine. People are dying day after day in this conflict. We've witnessed the war in the Middle East that has recently come to somewhat of a a conclusion. We see what the prophet Daniel foretold that there would be wars and rumors of wars going on even today. Indeed, even within the United States, we can mourn over what we see as continual immorality and corporate sin as state legislators and governors and the federal government continue to implement Laws which validate and commend sin. We're witnesses to all sorts of evil. Murder in the streets, in our schools, and in our communities. How can we move into the new year? Where will we find mercy to press on as the calendar flips a new page? How will you transition? Will it in fact be new? Or will it be more of what you've experienced this past year? Where will you find mercy to press on? How will you wait as you search for it? How did Jeremiah the prophet wait and search? That's what we're looking at this morning in Lamentations. Jeremiah was the author of Lamentations and considered that his strength had evaporated, that it is perished, as if his strength had personhood. He has broken my bones. He's besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation. Though I call and cry for help, he shuts out my prayer. These are the words of Jeremiah. I have forgotten what happiness is. My endurance has perished. So is my hope from the Lord If we read the two chapters and lamentations that preceded this beginning of chapter three, uh we would have likely seen and understood the reason for Jeremiah's emotions, which were being poured out as he cried out to the Lord. Jerusalem had been destroyed. As we read in chapter one, the road to Zion mourn. The roads mourn. All her gates are desolate, referring to the city. It's been crushed, it's been destroyed. The center of worship for the people of God has been decimated The people have been annihilated and removed from the place where they dwelt with God. Jerusalem had sinned grievously. Therefore she became filthy. Judah has gone into exile. There's a picture here of God removing his protective hand from the midst of his people. All her people groan. So much so that Jerusalem, the city, has a voice, and she's crying out in her decimation. For these things I weep, my eyes flow with tears. For a comforter is far from me. That all leads us up to verse twenty two in chapter three. As we come to these verses, there's a sense in which they just don't fit into the context, this one of great suffering of destruction, of the wrath of God, the temporal wrath of God being poured out upon the city which had turned from God But Jeremiah gives us that picture, that image of waiting, even through destruction. For this, the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. That's part of Lamentations that we're going to focus on this morning. And as we do, we might sum up these few verses this way. The compassions of Jesus are inexhaustible and fresh for those who know of his great faithfulness. The compassions of Jesus are inexhaustible and fresh for those who know of his great faithfulness. We'll see that in three points or three heads this morning. First, the Lord's mercies are never ending. Secondly, the Lord's mercies are new. And finally, the Lord's mercies are great. And as we go through this passage, once again, I'd be asking you to ask yourself that question, how will I wait in this new year? Well first the Lord's mercies are never ending. There's that passage. That passage we know well, but we have to understand the context that it is in in order to understand the verse, the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases, his mercies never come to an end. It's an extraordinary statement given the context We might be asking ourselves, well, what compassions or mercies was Jeremiah referring to as he sets forth his book of laments? That's what it is. All five chapters are are chock full of laments. Where can we find compassion? And the answer is actually throughout, throughout all of it. The Creator God, the living God, the covenant God of his people, Israel. The Lord was exercising and demonstrating compassion to his people throughout this entire event. Throughout the destruction of Jerusalem, throughout their exile, he was exercising compassion. That's exactly what he was doing in destroying Jerusalem God was ultimately preserving a people for himself through the destruction of Jerusalem. The city of David was overrun. It was destroyed. Yes, the people who had neglected their God were removed, taken into exile, like Adam and Eve, removed from the garden, just as was foretold by and through Moses in the book of Deuteronomy. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord to be careful to do all his commandments The Lord will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. That's exactly what happened. You shall be a horror to all kingdoms of the earth. That's why the city is pictured as crying out. She had become a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth. The Lord will bring you and your king, whom you set over you, to a nation that neither you nor your fathers have known. And you there shall serve other gods of wood and stone. That's all found in Deuteronomy. The Lord was keeping his covenant promises. But ultimately what he was doing was restoring a people to himself. They had to be destroyed. They had to be broken down. They had to be broken in order to return. Deuteronomy thirty reads this way Then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have mercy on you. He will gather you again from all the peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you. See, that's how Jeremiah can write these verses in the middle. And the exact middle location of this book of laments, the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. Jeremiah ultimately saw the compassion and the mercy of the Lord even as he waited through this destruction. What about you? Have you seen the Lord's compassion, his mercies this year? It's about to come to a close. And as you think upon all that has happened, are you able to say yes? I've seen the never-ending mercies, the compassions of my God throughout all of it. Samuel Rutherford, who spent many years exiled from his congregation in England in the 1600s. As a result of his exile, meaning his removal from his congregation by force, he wrote many letters. And in one of his letters, as he was suffering this exile, he writes this: the Lord is with me. I care not what man can do. I burden no man and I want nothing. No king is better provided than I am. Sweet, sweet, and easy is the cross of my Lord. My chains are overgilded with gold. Yet both sweet and sour feed my soul. No pen, no words, no engine can express to you the loveliness of my only, only Lord Jesus. Samuel Rutherford knew of the mercy of the Lord Jesus As you review, as you think upon the events of this year, the circumstances of your life, are you able to conclude that you have experienced the mercies of God? If you're thinking, no, I can't say that I've experienced the Lord's compassion, then you need to look again. Just as Samuel Rutherford did. Even as a prophet here in Lamentations, even as Jeremiah reviewed and rehearsed the destruction of Jerusalem, the exile of the people, the temporal wrath of God. He saw the mercy and compassion of the Lord right here in the middle of his lament. Because he waited upon the Lord to show it to him. Have you asked the Lord to show you his mercy? Have you waited upon him once you asked him? It does bring us to our second point. The Lord's mercies are new. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Think of that in the context in which Jeremiah was writing. As he was looking out upon the decimation when the sun was breaking, they are new every morning. How do we understand that, this reference, as Jeremiah considers the mercy of God? This is certainly tied back to the steadfast love, the love of the Lord never ceasing, his mercies never-ending. But there's a different aspect that he sets forth before us. It seems as though the prophet is stating that while the loving kindness and mercy of God did not have a beginning, nor will it have an end That it's consistent and constant, it is nonetheless presented as if it were something new every day. That the Lord's loving kindness or steadfast love and mercies will never become old or commonplace. We must be careful here. Expected. They will be fresh and in one sense surprising each and every day. Consider the manna which fell in the wilderness as the Israelites were wandering for forty years They got to a point where not only did they expect it, they loathed it because it became common and dull and plain and lacked that which excited their taste. They failed to consider that was a new mercy every single morning, and yet a consistent mercy. Here the prophet writes and speaks against receiving the mercy and loving kindness of God that is that which one expects Or becomes dull to because he constantly receives it. Think about a sunrise just for a moment. The newness of the Lord's mercies, the loving kindness, is compassions. Every day break. How do you understand the Lord's compassions as they as they're new to you every day? As the sun rises each day, shedding its bright light, indeed Sometimes hidden by the clouds, and yet the day, the newness of the day is broken. That seems to be the image that's being given to us by the prophet. The night is gone, the darkness is over, that which you've been immersed in for the past twelve hours or so has receded as the brilliance of the new day, the light of the sun is now breaking. Through breaking in and purging that darkness. We could all agree, I think, that every day break is different. As the sun breaks through the darkness as it's peeking around the clouds, which is formed differently each day, as the light is piercing your vision, into your world. It's different each and every day. It would be difficult to equate one day break to another, for our world is continually turning and changing with regard to the clouds, the angle of the sun's rays every single day throughout the year. That's the newness to every daybreak. And that's the image that the Prophet is giving us this morning that he's painted for us. And so how do you take that image and equate it to the mercies, the compassions, the loving-kindness? of God. What will you be meditating upon, thinking through each day throughout this coming year as you're confronted with the different circumstances of life? So let's unpack this a little bit. Morning by morning, sunrise by sunrise, newness of mercies, the compassions, the loving-kindness of God. We might consider three ways in which you can think of the newness of the steadfast love and mercies. The first, the newness of the Word of God. Second, the conviction of sin and the application of the Word to you. And third, the continuing revelation of the beauty of Jesus Christ. Let's go through those. First, the new revelation to you. And I'm not speaking about New revelation in terms of a a new revelation from God to you personally. But as you're reading the Word of God How do you know of the loving kindness of the Lord? Isn't it in significant part through your reading of the Word? Isn't that where we find the newness or freshness of God's Word? Isn't that what happens as we read? We don't mean that God's word changes. We don't mean that we add to or take away from the Word of God. No, no. But we think of ourselves, we know of ourselves as finite creatures. And God is the infinite one who has condescended to us to speak to us in a way that we can understand. And yet we're reading about the infinite. We're reading about the infinite God. And so God, through his word, the infinite one, is revealing himself to the finite ones, us. Day by day, we'll never, as finite creatures, completely or fully understand the revelation of God. We'll never understand the infinite one. We'll never fully grasp him. And so by the Holy Spirit, he is feeding us day by day newness. He's opening our minds and hearts to who he is each day as his mercies are new. The one who made all things from nothing. The one who knows everything, even our thoughts, before they hit the tip of our tongues. The one who is holy, holy, holy. continues to reveal to us new things to us about himself. As the Spirit works in us, taking the word, planting it deeply within our hearts. Day by day we're we're seeing new things about God, about Jesus Christ, about the Spirit. We'll never know all of God because of our finite existence. Because he is everlasting and never-ending mercy, he by his spirit keeps opening our hearts and minds to new to me aspects and attributes of himself and of his son. So you should be looking for these things. You should be asking for the Spirit to reveal to you new things about God, about His Son, Jesus Christ, as you're reading. That's the freshness. Of the Word of God. That's the newness every morning of His compassions and loving kindness and mercy. It's a mercy that God reveals Himself to you at all. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. They're folly to him. He's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned But if you're loving Christ this morning and you know him as your Lord and Savior, he has revealed himself to you and he continues to do so. That's a mercy. In and of itself, it's new every morning. Second. Second, it's it's a new mercy day by day that he convicts you of sin. You may not think that. You may not grasp that as he's convicting you. But it's true. We all sin day by day, hour by hour. And some of our sins are readily apparent to us. In other words, as soon as we we think a particular thought or we speak a particular word or do something, we know immediately we've sinned against God. But there are others that are not immediately convicting. Think of King David. As he sinned against Bathsheba and her husband, Uriah the Hittite, and certainly against God. There was a time, there was a period of time when he was not convicted of his sin. It required Nathan. God had to send Nathan the prophet to him to tell him a story and then tell him you're the man. You're the one who has sinned. And so day by day, God continues to reveal to us by and through his Spirit ways in which we have sinned against him. And that's a new mercy, hidden sins. Just like David. And Nathan was a new mercy to David that day, for without David's confession of sin, he would have remained in it. And you see the Spirit, as He abides within you, as you trust in Christ, as your sins are not as obvious at times as you'd like them to be, by the Lord's mercy, he reveals to you the way in which you have offended him. And brings you to confess and repent, and that's a new mercy. That's the faithfulness of the Lord Jesus Christ, who will not lead you to rot in your sins, but lifts you out of it. And he by his spirit convicts you and by mercy leads you in your repentance, without which no one will see the Lord. Third, is the continuing revelation of the beauty of Jesus Christ You see, part of knowing God and part of knowing Jesus Christ is is seeking, is is seeing and knowing their beauty, their loveliness As we speak of the beauty or loveliness of God in Jesus Christ, we speak of something much different than external appearance, don't we? Beauty. Webster's defines it as an assemblage of graces. An assemblage of graces. A particular excellence. Westminster Confession of Faith provides this as it describes God, infinite in being and perfection, immutable Most wise, most holy, most loving, gracious, merciful, long-suffering, abundant in goodness and truth, forgiving iniquity, transgression and sin. That's beautiful We might use the word lovely as well. Interestingly Webster's defines lovely as possessing qualities which may invite affection. Just think of that. Doesn't that describe the Lord Jesus Christ? That he possesses qualities, characteristics, attributes which invite your affection John writes, the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Isn't that what John is writing about? He's writing about the beauty of Jesus Christ. It's caught up in his humility, his meekness, his his purity, his mercy, his peace, his his desire, his longing, his striving after and attaining. Perfect righteousness. That's the beauty, that's the loveliness of Jesus Christ. So much so that only He is able to cleanse and wash the church. That he might present the church to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy without blemish. These are the attributes of Jesus that invite your affection That excites your love for him. You see, because of our corruption in Adam, no one can see or appreciate or grasp all of this at once. But in God's mercy, morning by morning, he reveals more of Jesus' attributes which invite your affection to you. They're new every morning. As you awake each morning, will you be seeking the newness of mercy Will you expect to see them day by day? Will you wait upon the Lord to show them to you? And when you receive them, what will you do with those mercies? Will you share them with others? Yes, the Lord's mercies are new every morning. That brings us to our final head, our final point. The Lord's mercies are great. Look at verse twenty-three. Renew every morning. Great is your faithfulness. It seems to sum up the truths that have gone before, the never-ending mercy of God, the freshness or newness of his compassions every morning, seem to point to or culminate in or be summed up by those words, great is your faithfulness. What is it for God to be faithful? When we speak of our faith We speak of trusting in the promises, the truth of God. When we speak of our faith, we speak of that which receives and believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ as He's given to us in the Word and the Scriptures. Divine faithfulness is different. It's categorically different, even though we're using the same English word. For God to be faithful, it means that he is true to his promises. That he is fulfilling his covenant, the covenantal language, the covenantal text, the covenant which he himself instituted will come to pass, it will happen, it will be fulfilled, that is God's faithfulness. That he'll bring to pass each and every one of his covenant promises, for he's bound himself to do so. And so as we speak of God's faithfulness That's how we understand it, the fulfillment of his covenant, which puts a different understanding to his never-ending mercies and his mercies being new every morning, doesn't it? Because his mercies here are spoken of as they apply to his covenant people. Think of it that way. Those who were removed from Jerusalem and placed in exile, never to return again to dwell with God. Would they consider the destruction of Jerusalem and their exile as God's mercy? No. They were happy to live in their sin. And so God had taken them out of that place where they were living in their sin. They would not have considered it to be merciful. And they would not be able to say, great is your faithfulness, in the way that you would say it today. And they might be able to say, well, God did fulfill his promises, but would they be able to say that that was great, that that was wonderful, or a blessing? Absolutely not. Only those in Christ. Only those who are in the palm of God's hand would be able to truly utter those words, these words, great is your faithfulness. Only those who are his regenerated, believing, covenant people, enjoying his covenant blessings, would be able to say sincerely, at that time and even today, great is your faithfulness. For they, like Jeremiah, would be able to see, even through the destruction of Jerusalem and the exile of his remnant people, that God was working out his perfect powerful plan. For their good. Great is your faithfulness. The question is, how will you be able to say that this year? Well, Jeremiah actually answers that question. Look at verse twenty-five. The Lord is good. This ties back to great is your faithfulness. This ties back to the new mercies every morning. It ties back to the never-ending mercies. The Lord is good to those who wait for Him. To the soul who seeks him. It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord. This passage actually leads us right here. Ultimately, ultimately to this passage, this verse calling upon you this morning to wait quietly For the salvation of the Lord. This is especially, no, it's exclusively for those who are trusting in the Lord. Those who know that his faithfulness is indeed great, those who know that he's acting in accordance with his covenant promises Even for them, it would be difficult to order these words at that time unless they were patiently waiting upon the Lord. You see, that's what Jeremiah seems to have been doing. Even at that time, even when the city wept over its destruction, the people had been taken away, the temple was silent. At that time, the only way to utter those words of praise for God would be as they waited upon him. For that day was dark. And they were waiting for the light to shine brightly according to God's perfect plan. They were suffering, and so they waited upon the Savior of the one who would come to restore all things. They waited upon the Messiah, the Reconciler, the perfect shepherd, the Prince of Peace. They waited. Are you waiting? Are you willing to wait? Will you wait this year? As difficult things happen, as as circumstances change, as unexpected events, unpleasant events happen to you, will you wait upon the Lord Jesus Christ to see his new mercy? Day by day. Will you continue to seek him? The Lord is good to those who wait from the soul who seeks him Will you continue to hope in Christ as you see that maybe the only way to remain hopeful Are you ready to wait quietly for the salvation of the Lord? Brothers and sisters, it seems to be that that Jeremiah is telling us that that there will be suffering in order To make us right and ready for Jesus to return. But he's saying that that even in that suffering There are mercies. There are consistent mercies of God which are new every morning as you wait quietly upon him for his salvation. We must pray this year that He would give us the ability to wait As we see his mercies day by day, just like Jeremiah saw them. And gave praise to the one whose faithfulness is great. The compassions of Jesus are inexhaustible and fresh to those who know his great faithfulness. Difficult times will come this year. We're called to wait Upon his fresh new mercies day by day as he's working out our salvation. Praise be to God. Amen. Heavenly Father, our hearts are filled with praise this morning. Even as we saw Jeremiah giving you praise and thanksgiving in the midst of destruction, in the midst of suffering your temporal wrath, Oh Lord, we thank you for the way you've worked in this past year. We look forward to the way you will work in this new year. And we know we're confident, Lord, that your mercies are never ending in Christ. And that your mercies are new every morning in Christ. So help us. Help us to wait quietly. Upon his return, help us to wait quietly. Upon the fulfillment of your covenant, help us to be those who wait quietly While at the same time full of praise and adoration. Help us, Lord. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.