Let us turn now to the reading of God's Word, the book of Amos, the Prophet Amos, chapter 8. Chapter eight, beginning at verse one Let us uh hear God's word. Thus the Lord God showed me Behold, a basket of summer fruit. And he said, Amos, what do you see? So I said, A basket of summer fruit. Then the Lord said to me, The end has come upon my people Israel I will not pass by them anymore. And the songs of the temple shall be howlings in that day. Says the Lord God, many dead bodies everywhere. They shall be thrown out in silence. Hear this, you who swallow up the needy, and make the poor of the land fail, saying, When will the new me moon be passed, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath that we may trade wheat, making the Ephath small and the shechl large, falsifying the scales by deceit That we may buy the poor for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals, even sell the bad wheat. Thus far ends the reason. And we come to the fourth in a series of four visions That started in Amos chapter seven. And this last uh of these visions is the most uh uh definitive um wherein God um makes it very clear that uh this nation of Israel is no longer his people. Now it starts off with uh what we might consider a rather odd a rather odd interchange between God and Amos, in which we find Amos telling us that the Lord has showed him a basket of summer fruit and then asks Amos, what do you see? And kind of thought about this a good bit. I and and of course Amos responds back, uh a basket of summer fruit. And uh I have thought about this and tried to figure out what is going on here and as best as I can As best as I can figure. It's o it seems to me that um uh by God showing this to uh Amos He is uh uh uh wanting Amos in a in a way testing his prophetic uh reflexes uh it it it's akin to what are you hearing, what are you seeing? Um and uh of course uh this would be one possibility here of what's going on. It does accent the fact when Amos is very, very clear about what he is doing, that it's God who is giving this revelation. uh uh the Lord God showed me. Um now uh another way to think about this basket of summer f few fruit ties in to verse two where uh the basket of summer fruit comes up again And immediately after it comes up in verse 2, God says, the end has come upon my people. Now, bear with me for just a minute. Do you guys like to go to uh farmers markets? And usually you can only go into farmers markets during the summertime. And uh when you go there, there's a display of all kinds of uh fresh vegetables uh and And sometimes fruits as well. And when we see these things, these are all indications of Somebody having prosperity, somebody uh uh being richly blessed. Uh and uh there there the if you have something to to be able to sell it's not because the insects got got your zucchini or or the groundhogs for eating your cucumbers or your tomatoes. Um y you know, this is a symbol of productivity. It's it in many ways, it's a symbol of what God said he was going to give to the nation. He said, I'm going to bring you to a land flowing with milk and honey. So here's this symbol. God asked Famous, What do you see? And Amos says of asking a summer fruit. And it's it's all uh all wrapped up in that is the thought that God has provided This for these people, Israel, and look what they have done. Look, it's kind of a witness against them. This is what you have, but you're not going to have it anymore. And so uh I I think that's uh one of the senses in which uh this is meant. And I I know that that every one of you would much rather prefer A tomato that you grow out of the your own garden, then a hothouse tomato from the from the grocery store. You know, just how luscious that is Or other there's nothing like fresh fruit. blessing uh that it is. I I remember uh living in Texas one time. You know how you go to a roadside stand and and uh and you buy like some fruit and uh you get the fruit and it it's all hard. Or like even at the store you get the buy peaches. They're normally hard. You have to wait two or three days Well we went to this roadside stand in Texas, actually right outside of LBJ's ranch, and they were selling peaches And the peaches were just unbelievably good and sweet. And and that's that's what it could be. But that That's not what is going to happen to Israel. Amos said God I see a basket of summer fruit, and the Lord said to me, The end is come upon my people Israel. I will not pass again by them anymore. Um this uh again this uh the end of my people Israel will not pass by them anymore. He uses the phrase my people, which of course uh is uh is language of God's covenant, faithfulness to these people. But I will not pass by them anymore is another allusion to what we've seen earlier earlier predictions, an allusion to the to to God passing by the Jews in Egypt on the night of the first Passover God passed by Egypt, but he protected Israel, right? He protected Israel by the blood, the blood of the lamb on the lentil post. But uh in this case God is saying, I will not spare you from the fate of Egypt. What happened to Egypt is now your fate. The blood of the lamb no longer covers you. I will pass by you and you will be destroyed. They cannot plead that they are the chosen people of God. That will not spare them. God is saying that will fall on my deaf ears. I will not spare those who out of pride refuse to live holy lives and refuse to listen to my prophets. And it's not like Amos has hasn't been preaching. Uh he's been preaching his heart out. Along with some of the other prophets, Avis isn't the only prophet speaking to that northern kingdom, Israel, during this time period. history. He's one of about three or four. And before him was Elijah. And before him was Elisha. They're both northern prophets. So this is a people who have over and over again heard God's plea for them to repent. Come back. The judgment that is pictured here in this passage is quite striking. The song verse 3 the songs in the temple will be howlings In that day. God said, there shall be many dead bodies in every place. They shall cast them forth. with silence. Just imagine. We don't know what the temple songs were like for sure. There's no recordings, but I'm sure there were many beautiful songs that were sung. Um uh we have indication that in the in the Psalms that uh some of the psalms were sung. Many of the psalms were sung uh by the sons of Asaph, for example. Um uh imagine um going into a church where they're or to the temple where they're where they're singing singing psalms and all of a sudden that singing of psalms is met with howlings of despair. It would be like going into a great cathedral in one of the the Great churches where they're playing the Hallelujah chorus. And the Hallelujah chorus is going on in the background. Those of you who like music will understand. Man. Uh maybe it's the the best, I would say, uh except for some of Bach's stuff. But uh but anyway, be that as it may, so beautiful and yet then in the midst of that there's this w howling and wailing because of the destruction that God is bringing to these people. His own people my people. My people who have been acting as if they were not my people. Um we we find in verse four a clarification of why God God is bringing judgment. This is not deviated from earlier in Amos' uh presentation against the people. God has something against them. And one of the things he has against them is of course the fact that they've been worshiping at the false temples in Dan and Bethel, worshiping the false gods. But there was another issue that plays heavily into this judgment, and that is that hear this, O ye that swallow up the needy And uh it goes on, verse five When will the new moon be gone that we may sell corn, the Sabbath that we may They eat wheat, bring forth wheat, making the epath small and the shepherd great, and falsifying the balance By the sea. Verse 6, that we may buy the poor for silver, the needy for a pair of shoes, yea, and sell the refuse of the weak. Do you hear these people? Do you hear what's going on? I mean they're they're they're the uh equivalent in the in in in the in that period of time uh 700 They're the equivalent of the of the of the slave owner on the one hand. They're the equivalent of those who oppress the poor for their own gain. And on top of that, they're dishonest merchants. They s they they cannot, they sell, they make the EFAT small, that's a measurement They make the e-fax small and they make the shekel great. In other words, they're They're making the weight of EFAT less than an EFAT and charging as if it were for the EFAT. How many of you buy potato chips? Admit it. Okay. Have you ever noticed how in the past year The price maybe remains the same or goes up, but the amount inside goes down. You're paying you're paying more y you don't get as much and you're paying more for what you get. And that's kind of what these guys were doing as merchants. They're falsifying weights in order to extract the maximum profit. On top of that, they cannot wait for the Sabbath to be over that they might begin to sell their wheat. at false prices. And on top of that, they're oppressing the poor. They w want to buy the poor for uh uh a small amount. I think it talks about uh a group group of uh sandals uh for a price of the sandals. Um you know there's just uh there's just uh hypocrisy Going on all over the place. It's not as if God didn't have something to say about being an honest businessman. You can look in the scriptures. You can look at Leviticus 19, 35 and 36, where God establishes the principle: if you're going to be a businessman, you must do it with just weights. and standards. You can go look there and see. So they're not truthful. They're not honest in their business dealings with other people And on top of that, they're seeking to oppress the poor. The Lord, he says, and this is part of the this is the together that with with the uh rampant idolatry, their refusal to repent. That's why God is bringing judgment to these people. Now, in verse 7 it says, the Lord has sworn by the excellence of Jacob The Lord has sworn by the excellence of Jacob, surely I will never forget any of their works. This is an interesting statement. Normally, when God swears, he swears by himself. In the scripture. When he makes an oath, he swears by himself. But here he's said to have sworn by the excellence of Jacob. By the excellence of Jacob. Jacob, you remember, is a real person. who in his lifetime in young adulthood uh he was not always uh he ha honest He was deceptive. But by the grace of God, he became a believer and a true man of God And he represents the transformation that God does in people's lives, in sinners' lives. So God can swear by those who are truly elect because he's the one who has done the work in their lives. He who is doing the work in them and changing them. Now, the other thing that's interesting is a is about this whole idea of of their actions being against the poor and the needy Why is it that the poor and the needy are so important to God? Have you ever asked yourself that question? Why is it that the poor and the needy are so important to God? We read earlier From Luke chapter 4. As Jesus spoke, the Spirit of the Lord is on me because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. Now again, when it when it talks about poor, we have to understand that in in several ways. it the poor is not necessarily monetarily poor or it but it could be. Um the poor is uh more likely the the idea of those who are poor in spirit, those who are distressed, those who are downtrodden. uh those who are brokenhearted, as Jesus refers to them in Luke chapter 4, verse 18, to preach the gospel to the poor. He sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives. And the recovery of sight to the blind to set at liberty those that are bruised. So the poor is kind of like a A symbol for all these kinds of people who have these their various different afflictions, but it represents the afflictions of the soul. And and and so um when uh uh that's that's one aspect of God being interested in the poor. Now James in his writings, James chapter 1, verse 27, writes Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction. and to keep himself unspotted from the world. Fatherless and widows are not necessarily the same as poor, but they are people who are oppressed and needy. as we often think of the poor. 2 Corinthians 8, 9, and 10 For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. That through his poverty, that excuse me, that ye through his poverty might be rich As it is written, he hath dispersed the broad, he hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth forever. So I think the answer to the question Why is God interested in the poor? Because caring for the poor reminds all of us of our desperate condition before God. We are all poor. Even those who in Israel were rich and were oppressing the poor. They were poor before God, poor in spirit. And because they are oppressing the poor. poor, they're denying their own condition. They're denying their own condition before the Lord. But ministry to the poor also reminds us that our Savior became poor for us. The way Israel treats the poor is a reflection of how they are now treating God. And not only how they're now treating God, but it's a reflection of how they will treat Jesus. Only God cares for the poor. For those who are truly poor in spirit. And only God makes provision for them. His people are supposed to, because they're supposed to be Upholding his laws and doing that which is righteous in his sight. But they're not doing that, and they're not listening to Amos's or anybody else's appeal to change their sinful ways. So this is why this is a group of people who are called no longer my people. Amos writing to the Northern Kingdom, and Northern Kingdom 25, 30 years after Amos will not even exist. And only a few, which we'll hear about the next time. Only a very small remnant will be saved. Because there's only a very small remnant. Whom Elijah found out had not bowed the knee to Baal. Amen. All right, let us pray. Our heavenly God, we thank you that As the scriptures speak, that the matter of Israel during Amos' time Would become the matter of the Pharisees in Jesus' day. That just as those who are Of the persuasion of the works righteousness of the Pharisees, just as they were once your people, they would become not your people. And as second Peter as First Peter says that to the church, those who were once not a people, namely we were Gentiles, and outside of the covenant that was that was made between God and the national people of of of Israel, but also to Abraham and to his seed. Those who were once not a pe not a people now have Become your people. And those are us. All of us who are not did not have a background in the in the Jewish faith. You have drawn us to yourself in fulfillment of your promises to Abraham that in his seed all the nations of the earth should be blessed. And you have called us, Lord, to be the recipients of your blessings. The recipients not only of uh a land flowing with milk and honey but to receive the glories of heaven itself. Oh Heavenly Father, help us that we might so live in your land as your people in such a way that we are not hypocrites, but that we love you with all of our heart, mind, soul, and strength. And we love others, Lord, who may be poor in spirit or less well off than we are. We love them as ourselves. And we seek, O Lord, their best interests. We seek, O Lord, their conversion to Christ. We ask these things now in Jesus' name Amen. Our uh last hymn together today is uh four hundred and ninety-five. Four hundred ninety-five. Let us rise to sing, hymn number four hundred and And ninety five