Please remain standing. Turn to your Bibles. Mark chapter ten, verse seventeen and following. I uh will say from the outset that um I've been blessed to be teaching a confession class, and we've gone through the section about the immeasurable greatness and goodness of God. chapter two, section two, and it it is that study, plus the Wednesday night Bible study, uh, on this topic lasts This last Wednesday that has brought me to this point as I've brought the two together in my thinking and it's helped me to understand And what has puzzled me about this passage for a long long time and I'm I hope I pray that the Lord has illuminated this to my understanding and I pray that what I have to say will be illuminated. blessing to you as well. I'm likely uh to lose my voice, uh which is not a good thing. Um I'm likely to get carried away, which often is a good thing. So uh let us hear the wonderful word of God Now, as he was going out of the road, one came running, knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but God, but one, that is God. You know the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness. Do not the fraud honor your father and your mother. And he answered and said to him, Teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth. Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, One thing you lack Go your way. Sell whatever you have and give to the poor. And you will have treasure in heaven. And come take up the cross and follow me. But the young man was sad at this word. He went away very sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Thus far ends the reading of the Lord's Word. Please be seated For the few minutes that are before us this morning, I'd like us to consider this text under the title No one is good but God. If you were to ask Christians who know their Bible Where are the clearest examples of Jesus sharing the gospel with people? And I think most people would probably immediately go to John 4, the woman at the will. And if not to John 4, they would go to the numerous times that Jesus healed people during his ministry and afterwards said to them, Your faith has made you well. Go and sin no more. But I submit to you that probably very few people would say that our text today. The one that's before us right now, Christ dealing with this young man, probably very few would say that this is a text in which the gospel is proclaimed. Most would not think of this text And I think there are probably reasons for that, which I may share with you. But I'm interested in us understanding the dynamics between this young man and the Lord Jesus as this young man approached Christ. There's a lot that we know about this young man just from the six verses that are before us. We detect, first of all, that There is an urgency about him. Notice verse 17, he came running to Jesus. He had something in his mind, something that concerned him, something that bothered him, and excuse me He believed that Jesus could give him the answer. Why else run? Jesus isn't going anywhere. He's accessible, very accessible to people. Only uh desire in this man's heart to know the answer to his question Drove him to this urgency. As he comes to Jesus, he calls him good teacher. Well, as we've been studying in Mark chapter 10, his opinion of Jesus was certainly not trust very vividly with them. This is a man who apparently has heard Jesus' teaching, and he believes it to be good. He calls him teacher, which in the Greek is a term of honor. And a term of respect. Some of you may have it translated master, some of you may have it translated rabbi, but that conveys, I mean, it's It's not like the public school system today where teachers teach. This was a and this is no knock on them, but nobody has an exalted opinion of teachers anymore. This was a very high opinion of this man's view of Christ, that he was not only good, but he was a teacher. Very high up there. A guy who knew his stuff. And a guy who was speaking truth. And he wanted to learn some more. It also appears to me that his actions and his questions indicate that he's a very sincere person. He wants to know. He's sincere about his statements regarding Christ. We find out from verse 20, he's a very moral person. A very religious person. After Jesus has him recites 5 through 10, the man responds I have kept all of these commands from my youth. Well perhaps he was boasting, perhaps he was lying. But perhaps he was telling the truth, at least from his perspective. This was a, appears to have been a moral or quote-unquote religious man. Verse 22 reminds us he was rich. The Matthew Parallels 17, verse 20 calls him young. And the Luke Parallel 1818 calls him a ruler. So collectively, this encounter is generally spoken of as Christ's encounter with the rich young ruler. Oh, in many ways, this is a person you might think is a Christian. Or at least moral, or at least religious And if you don't think that, you would surely think he is a prime candidate for salvation. What a plus it would be to the church if such a man became a follower of Christ. But I would also point out the text reveals that under the veneer of righteousness There are two deadly problems. He is self-righteous Trusting in his good works. Because he says in his question, what must I do? Did you pick that up? What must I do? Now that's kind of a natural question. I'll give him that. But at the same time, it's reflective of our natural human heart. Is it not? What must I do to have eternal life And the second problem is, revealed at the end, he is an idolater. He loved his riches more than the cross of Jesus Christ. 21 and 22, he went away saved Again, what is his question? Let's look at that for a minute. So we've looked at the man. What's his question? What must I do to inherit an eternal life? Wouldn't it be wonderful if everybody in the world had that question? And they came to you and they asked you. Oh, that would be so encouraging. But we have to fight through just the question of who is God? What must I do to inherit eternal life? What a question! That's at the heart. Either it's when it's vocalized or it's in our collective subconsciousness as human beings. We're looking for eternal life. We may not want it in God's kingdom, but this guy did He wanted to know about it. He believed Jesus could tell him the answer. And apparently, whatever he's been doing up to this part, all these things I've kept from my youth. Is it answering his question? No, if ever there was somebody that deserved Salvation. Is it not this man? Is it not this man? Of course, as has already been pointed out. His self-righteousness has kind of betrayed itself in the question. What shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? Give me ten things, Lord. Give me the list. The ten things that I must do so that I can have eternal life. That I must do. I may have eternal life. Give me the ten things I can do it. I will do it. You see? See the self-confidence that's there. The arrogance. It's under the surface. The man's question reveals his sinful heart, but it's also the sinful heart of you. Of all men. For we all believe in our heart of hearts That my efforts will get me home to God That has to be rooted out, destroyed, crucified, along with the Savior at Calvary. Well now let's turn to the Lord Jesus and see the answer that he gave And as Christ often does, in a very initially aggravating way. He answers our questions with a question. But this time, the question is the most important question any man will ever face Why do you call me good No one is good but God Allah And certainly, I have puzzled over that response for a long, long time. It has bothered me. I could not in my own mind reconcile even this man who has these good qualities on the top and these underlying problems I couldn't understand why Jesus would take the risk of putting this man off. By essentially correcting him And I thought, at one time I thought, and I think this is a part of it, he's trying to get the man to understand that If you call me good and no one is good but God, then you must understand that I am God. And I think that's a part of it. But I think there's something else here, something deeper. And this is what I believe God has shared with me, and what the burden of my sermon is about. I submit to you that the Lord Jesus Christ's response is the beginning step in answering the man's question, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Very simply, Jesus has cut to the center of the issue And has placed before this man the reality of God Almighty This is Heavenly Theology One One Now, here's where the writings of our brothers 400 and some odd years ago come to play in the Westminster Confession of Faith question section Chapter 2, Section Two. God has all life, glory, goodness, blessedness. And in and of himself, in and of himself, and is alone in and unto himself all sufficient. Not standing in any need of creatures which he has made, nor deriving any glory from them. But only manifesting his own glory in, by, and unto He is the lone fountain of all being, of whom, through whom, and to him are all things. And has most sovereign dominion over them, to do by them, for them, and upon them whatsoever himself pleases In his sight all things are open and manifest. His knowledge is infinite, infallible, independent of the creature So as nothing is to him contingent or uncertain, he is most holy in all his counsels, in all his works In all his commands, to him is due from angels and men and every other creature Whatsoever worship, service, and obedience he is pleased to require of them. Glory. Hallelujah. This is God from the minds of men, reflected in the teachings of God's Word. What a God we worship This text focuses, this passage of the confession focuses us creatures to reflect on the independence and incomparable greatness of God. What does this mean for us? Well, one thing it certainly means is Paul's statement in Romans 11, 36. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. God is not only the supreme being. All life, all creatures exist through him. He made all things. He upholds all things all things be through him, all things in creation should be focused, preoccupied, and slanted toward God. Nebuchadnezzar had to be treated like an animal to realize the greatness and the goodness of God. And to realize how insignificant even he, Nebuchadnezzar, the great king of the world, was God is most holy in all of his counsels and all his works and all his commands. You, by his grace, have been privileged. To see this. Because he has revealed it to you What else can you do but to live for this God, to obey his commands, and to describe to him glory and worship him? There's only one other thing you can do. You can walk away sad Because the cross is too much to bear. The rich young ruler of Mark chapter 10, verse 17's problem is, you see, that he has yet to see himself. As utterly sinful and dependent upon the good God of the Bible. His world is self-centered. What can I do? Not God centered. Who is God and what has He done By forcing this man to reflect on the God of the Bible as the only one who is good. Jesus is actually blessing this man. By sharing with him step one in the evangelistic process Step one, as the answer to his question, what must I do to inherit eternal life? I am increasingly being convinced that our message of salvation, the gospel, evangelism, if you will, to today's modern man Must be the same as Christ's. It must be done in love. Remember? Jesus answered him First by saying, its text says, then Jesus loved him. Go and sell all your possessions and give to the poor. And then you'll have treasure in heaven. And it if it mean and this means Here's where I'll get more controversial. This means that you never start a gospel conversation assuming a man's ability. He cannot, you see, make a decision for Christ. He cannot make a an understanding of eternal life when he doesn't understand himself in Relationship to the God who is You must start instead with a robust focus on God, the God, not just any God, not just the philosophical concept of God, but the God of the Bible. And you must place your trust in His sovereign will that it will be done in the people's lives to whom you proclaim God too. Unless we accurately portray the God of the Bible, as Christ has just done here, there is none good but one, that is God. And as St. Paul did in Athens in the text we read this morning, where does he start? With the identity of the unknown God. And he calls him the God who made the world and all the things therein. Seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands, neither is worshiped with man's hands as though he needs anything seeing he gives life to all and breath and all things. Hallelujah! The Apostle Paul was at the Westminster Concession. Chapter 2, Section 2. Isn't it amazing? Not if you have a sovereign God Whom you believe controls all things. For he brings men to himself. He brings all of us out of the pasture, eating the grass like cows Because of our self-righteousness and clears our minds so that we might proclaim correctly his dominion. We have, and unless we start with the God of the Bible, we have failed God We have failed whoever desires to hear the gospel as Christ proclaimed it. We have given men the lie instead of the truth. We have given new life to their self-sufficiency. We have inflated their pride. And we've allowed them to continue to indulge their unholy rebellion against their Creator. Enough! Let all of us proclaim the good God. The great God, whose goodness is epitomized, and his greatness is epitomized by his son dying on the cross To save an innumerable number of humans, all of which were unworthy, rich young rulers in our minds. Humble us, great God Almighty, that we rebellious and unworthy sinners might through faith fall on our knees Beg for divine mercy in Christ. Worship you and eat of the bread of heaven that gives life to the world. Amen Thank you, Lord God, for your never-ending enlightenment of our minds and our hearts to the understanding of your word. O Heavenly Father, how indeed how great thou art. Let our lives be consumed by worship for you. Amen