Turn to Mark chapter ten, verses seventeen and following. Those of you who were here will remember that uh this was part of a message that I preached previously regarding Christ's encounter with a rich young man. And uh um I said at the time that uh this is a very rich passage. And uh I wanted to talk some more about it uh again. Uh uh unfortunately it uh was about two to three weeks ago when I preached the first part, but I'll try to get everybody up to speed. And if you're interested in hearing the first part in this, you can always go to sermonaudio. com and find it there. Well, let's now hear God's word. Now, as he was going out on the road, one came running and knelt before him and asked him, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? So Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one, that is God. You know the commandments: do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal. Do not bear false witness. Do not defraud. Honor your father and mother. And the man answered and said to Jesus, Teacher, all these things I've kept from my youth. Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, One thing you lack Go your way. Sell whatever you have. And give to the poor. And you will have treasure in heaven. And come, take up the cross, and follow me. But he was sad at this word. And he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. As you recall, this uh event in the life of the Lord Jesus is recorded for us here. It's also recorded in the Matthew and the Mark and the Luke versions of the Gospel without substantial difference between the three accounts This is one of the great encounters that we find during the life of Christ with people who come to him wanting to know. What they must do to inherit eternal life. We remarked the last time that this man expressed a general demeanor of excitement and interest. He wanted to know. He ran to Jesus, it says. And not only did he run to Jesus, but when he got there, he knelt before him. A position indicating a kind of worship or a kind of recognition of Jesus' superior identity, at least as he had called Jesus, good teacher. A position, a title of importance in the ancient world, a title that engend that demonstrates respect for what the teacher is talking about. And respect for his uh ministry. And I I think I remarked at the time, you don't often find people like this You don't find people coming running up to your front door and knocking on your door and asking, What must I do to inherit eternal life? Even if they know you're Christians, they're reticent about asking that question. So this is an unusual circumstance. And I think many of us as we would have, if we ever had such an encounter like this We would assume, wow, what a great opportunity. We would assume that we have a great privilege now to give to someone Answers to their questions, but please note this wasn't an ordinary question. This wasn't the kind of question that, Jesus, do you know who's going to win the ball game today It was a question about eternity. It was a question about living in eternity. What must I do to inherit eternal life? Good teacher, what must I do? Well, when Jesus begins to answer this man's question, he reminds the man, first of all, of the of the fact that there is only one who is good. He places before him the thought that there's no one good but one, and that is God. And it could be, of course, that Jesus is trying to get the man to see that if he calls Jesus good, then maybe Jesus is indeed God. Which is essential to understand about our faith. We believe that Jesus is God. Amen And we don't back down from that because the evidence in Scripture proves it But it also is the reality that as Jesus shows this man that there's no one good but God, he forces the man To start thinking about someone we never think about in life. He forces him to think about God. He forces him to think about the goodness of God, which is interesting because, you know, he could have done many things. He could have asked him to focus, he could have said uh focus him on the greatness of God, on the eternity of God, on the could have thrown the theological issue at him. He could have called talked to him about The omnipotence of God, throw out those words, the um the uh uh the uh omnipresence of God, the uh the infinite uh knowledge of God. He could have done all these things, but he talks about the goodness of God. God. And I'm not trying to say that we necessarily have to start there, but this was critical. This idea of the man understanding himself in relationship to God was critical in answering this man's question. He had to come to understand who God is. And I think that my experience, maybe this is your experience When you go out and you talk to people about the gospel of Jesus Christ and you say, I'm a Christian. I want to come to talk to you about what that means, or however you phrase it. Very often you will get people to respond. I've always believed there is a God. Or you'll say, or they'll say, I'm a Christian. You want my bona fides? I attend the Catholic Church every week. I'm there for all the services. And this man's response was no different. As Jesus comes and begins to communicate to this man, the second thing he says to him involves. Jesus saying to the man, Why do you call me good? No one is good but one. And then verse 18 No one is good but one. That is God. Excuse me for leaving that off. Then he said, you know the commandments. You know God's commandments. You're a member of the race that God gave the commandments to on Mount Sinai when Moses brought down the tablets of stone. You've heard the commandments of the Lord from time Since you were growing up, since the beginning of your time. And then he quotes some of the commandments. You know the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness. Defraud not, honor your father and mother Now, a person Oftentimes people, you begin to press them further about what their faith is relying on, they will say, I do the commandments or I keep the commandments. Or they'll have some variation of that. The the commandments might be Again, I go to church regularly. I'm involved in the life of my church. I give X number of dollars to the church. I participate in the life of the church. Or they'll say other things. I've never killed somebody. I've never committed adultery. You know, they might parade their pedigree the same way the rich young man parades his activities. And I don't fault him for saying that I think the man is being truthful here. He generally really believes, he really believes that he is a good guy. But think about it. Think about it. For all that he has done The man has no idea that he has eternal life. Because that's his question. I want eternal life. Tell me, Jesus, what to do. And I'll do it. I've done all this, I'm ready to do more Because obviously whatever he was doing wasn't fulfilling his question, wasn't answering his Deep question. Remember, he runs to Jesus to get an answer. He bows down to Jesus because he thinks Jesus has the answer. But he doesn't know. Why wouldn't he know? One of the problems is He failed to grasp the heart of the law of God. He had failed to grasp what we read earlier about the Pharisees coming to Jesus with another class. And I'm not sure that their question was motivated with a good had any good motivations to it, but nevertheless it was a big important question. And their question was What's the first commandment, the greatest of all the commandments? And the Lord Jesus said, you shall love Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And you shall love your neighbor as yourself. And we all know that Jesus said, this is the first, and the second is like it. They're inseparable commandments. And really, what Jesus did was give a summary of the Ten. Because the Ten Commandments start out one through four and/or five with a focus. On how we are to love God and to love Him exclusively above anything else. And then the next five focus on how we're to love somebody else. Don't kill them. Don't steal from them. Don't lie again. Don't bear false witness. Don't covet what they got. All this over a question. What must I do to inherit eternal life? Life. You know the commandments. In a certain sense, he did know the commandments because he comes back and he says, All this I've done. I've kept them all. All things I have kept. Now, you can say he was boasting. I'm not sure of that I think he believed he did. I think he believed he really had kept the commandments. These are God's commandments. They weren't handed down to us out of thin air. God wrote these things to Moses. Tablets of stone, which demonstrate that God intended for these things to be permanent. And the scriptures remind us of the permanence of God's commandments because it says in Romans That all people have the law of God written on their heart. A heart we can't get away from the law of God. We try We try to introduce all kinds of other ideas and thoughts and we make them our laws, but in and of ourself we know what is God's standard. We know what He says what is right and what is wrong. What we fail to grasp, what we fail to grasp is the love aspect. That the essence of the law, the heart of the law, is can all those words can be reduced to two things Love God, love your neighbor as yourself Now the Lord takes another comment to this man. And what I believe is really one of the more powerful parts of this passage Before I do that, I'd like you just to notice for just a second an interesting thing about. The man's response when he says in verse 20, teacher, all these things I have kept from my youth. Do you notice that the man who Jesus had just corrected doesn't use the word good That may be a small thing to realize, but I think it displays a sort of okay, you've said that. I'll be careful about what I say. A kind of deference, a kind of reverence, as it were, to Jesus All things I have observed. That you shouldn't interesting Greek word used there. Not the one you expect. Not the one I expect. I expected. The Greek word is the word for watching or keeping guard over. It suggests to me that this man was very carefully dedicated to keeping God's law. That he kept watch to do it. He watched. Maybe that's too much from the text, but I think it's there. This was not just the guy who's out there doing things to kind of parade himself. But he really is trying. He really is trying. But all of his trying doesn't have in view the love of God or the love of his neighbor. Why do you say that, Pastor Taylor? Why are you getting on this man's case? This good man, why are you putting him down? Why would you say such a thing like that? Because our Lord said it to him too. And he said it in a very interesting way. He didn't say to him, You filthy, rotten sinner. But he was creative. If I can say that. He was imaginative. He connected to the man where his heart was. And he said, One thing you lack Go your way, sell what you have, and give to the poor. And you will have treasure in heaven. And you will take up and take up the cross and follow me. There's another sermon. But just for today, I want you to pay attention to a couple of things. When Jesus said those words to the man, I didn't read it, but I should have. It says Jesus loved him. Greek word agape. The customary Greek word that means Is patterned after the death and resurrection of Christ. This was not an ooey-goooey feeling that Jesus had for This was the word agape, the word that talks of a concrete Action, a demonstration of one's love. It's always connected with the word sacrifice A sacrifice of oneself for somebody else for the benefit of another. He loved him. He loved him. That's why I get kind of upset sometimes that people when they well and many well meaning Christians They go around and they want to go through what they call the gospel, and they get to the point of addressing the individual, and they'll say something like You're really a filthy, rotten sinner. Don't you know that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God? Don't you know? And you know, there are different ways of saying it. But it's always it's always the truth and it's always offensive. Because that's what we do believe. All men have fallen short. All men sin and have fallen short of the glory of God. Romans 3. 25 But the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans Six twenty-three. So interested in trying to get the person to understand that they're sinners, that we we keep focusing on that aspect and we forget the love of God for sinners And we don't focus nearly as well on that or creatively on that. Jesus told this man, you're a filthy, rotten sinner. He didn't say Say it that way. Compared to God's law, and compared to God's being good, he showed the man that he wasn't really loving God He showed him he didn't love God because he loved something else. What did he love? He loved his possessions. He loved his riches And when you love your possessions and your riches, you are worshiping another God. Because this man shows that he had erected those things as the most important thing in his life. They were so important to him. That he could not at that moment acknowledge his need for Jesus. He could not at that moment say, I'm a sinner. And fall on his knees and ask for forgiveness. He isn't like that publican in the rich, yeah the publican and the rich man in Luke 18. The publican and the Pharisee in Luke 18, where the Pharisee comes in the presence of God and he says in Jesus' parable, and he says, I thank God I'm not like these other people. people. I fast X number of times a week. I give all that I have to the work of the church. You remember the publican? He didn't say anything. He just looked up to heaven and beat his breast and said God have mercy on me, a sinner You gotta see your sin. How you see it, you have to see it in respect to your relationship to God He's the only one who counts. He's the only one who can give you eternal life. The rich young ruler's problem is not That he's rich. The problem is he loves that more than he loves God. He loves that more than he wants his question answered. He wanted his question answered in such a way that if Jesus had told him what to do, he'd do it. It didn't matter what he would do what he needed to do. He would do it. He had the means He had the desire, he would do it. Okay, here it is. Sell your things. Give it to the poor. And you have riches in heaven. What are your idols? What are the things you love most in life? Oh. I know most of you aren't gonna fall into the trap of saying, it's my riches. But you could fall into the trap very easily of saying, I love my husband or my wife more than I love God. I love my children so much, more than I love God You don't have to carry around some kind of golden rip memory of your God. But we all have idols in our heart You might say, I love cake and ice cream more than I love God. But you gotta love God more. How in the world is that possible How in the world is that possible? My friends, in and of ourself, it's not possible with us. Amen. You can't do it. You cannot love God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. You cannot love your neighbor as yourself. But you sure can get on your knees and say, Help me, God! Help me. I'm a sinner. I'm in darkness. I'm drowning in this world. Help me out. Give me something to live for. Give me something that's eternal. Give me something that has meaning. Give me yourself! I want to know you. And I believe God hears that prayer. Because I believe that's the prayer of a new heart. Because I know you won't say that unless God has brought it into your heart to believe it. That you've got somebody else who's bigger than you that can help you. Well, how does God help you? He reminds us, you see, that all that we do cannot approach his goodness and his greatness. As Isaiah the prophet said, all of our righteousnesses is filthy rags. But your God gives you one whose righteousness is not filthy. Your God has given you one whose name is Jesus Christ, the Son of God in the flesh. And the Son of God. And I want to emphasize the fact that this was a gift. It's not something you did, it wasn't something you earned. He gave you. Christ. And he gives Christ for sinners. Scripture says, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for the un godly. The scripture talks in terms of something called grace, as opposed to works. If you persist in trying to think that by your efforts you will become good enough for God. The scripture has a word for you. Not a word, not one word, but a verse. Verse Galatians 3:10. For as many as are the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone that continues not in all things. Which are written in the book of the law to do them. If you go down that route, you've got to do everything. And you can And even if you think you can do it all, see the the other thing of it is is even though if you think you can do it all, you still haven't got to the heart of things. Why are you doing it? Are you doing it for yourself, for others to see how good you are, or are you doing it because you think you w this is the way to please God? You got to love God while you're doing these things. And that love is the same love that God loved us with. We got a sacrifice ourselves and the thing that we're sacrificing is this awful, unholy, ungodly focus that we constantly have. I gotta do it. I gotta do it. I gotta do it Gotta do it. Then I'll please God. There's only one who ever did that. There's only one who ever said, I love God's law and I will fulfill it. And that was Jesus. Because you see, the law as it applied to him Was all of the Ten Commandments. He fulfilled all of that perfectly. In addition, he went to do the Father's will. What was the Father's will? From the beginning of time. From beginning of time. Ephesians 1:3. God has chosen us in Christ before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless. in his sight. Jesus dies on the cross to accomplish that will. For who? For sinners The physicians have no need those who are well have no need of a physician, Jesus told the Pharisees. But those who are sick I have come to heal. Let me wrap up with one verse or a couple of verses, but a well-known text from Ephesians 2. Speaking about salvation. God who is rich in mercy, might you say rich in goodness as well? He has only one who is good. God who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us. Even when we were dead in sins. Has made us alive together with Christ. For by grace you are saved. He hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace. In his kindness toward us through Jesus Christ. Oh, the grace of God. The kindness of God You're in that ages to come where God is showing you His grace. There'll be ages more who will see the same For it is by grace that you are, listen, for it is by grace that you are saved through faith. And that is not of yourself. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast Not of anything we do, so any man should thus. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus to good works, which God hath prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Really what Jesus answered the man's question, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Really his answer was. Bow to the grace and the mercy of God. He must be your greatest love. And when he becomes your greatest love, as Jesus put it, to the rich young ruler, he said Come, take up your cross and follow me. You live for Jesus And not for yourself. You live for his glory and not for yourself. And the metaphor of the cross means that there will be times when you will sacrifice because you love Jesus. more than anything else. And we all realize that. The sacrifices can come in many different ways. They can come through physical persecution, as brothers and sisters around the world are experiencing even now, or they can come from just very innocuous things or seemingly innocuous things. where you're made fun of at work because you're a Christian or more and more you might lose your business because you're Christian and insist on doing things in Christ's way. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Heavenly Father, um thank you for such rich words. And uh Lord, I I'm sure that things could have been said differently and better But I do know one thing. I believe the Holy Spirit works in the hearts of people. And I believe the Holy Spirit works in conjunction with His word, with your word. And so I pray, Father, that you will bring this word to all of our hearts. Never, never does it hurt to heal Even for us who've heard it a million times before, as believers in Christ, it never hurts to hear. For it is by grace you are saved. We offer this sermon up to the glory of God. Use it to that end. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.