If you'd open your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel. It'll be in chapter 26. Thank you. I believe you'll find that upon page nine hundred and eighty-nine of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the Word of God, Matthew 26, beginning at verse 36. Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, Sit here while I go over there and pray. And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch with me. And going a little farther, he fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. He came to the disciples and found them sleeping. He said to Peter, So could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The Spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Again for the second time he went away and prayed, My father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. So leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again. Then he came to the disciples and said to them, Sleep and take your rest later on. See, the hour is at hand and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise. Let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we come to a passage which may be difficult for us to grasp or to understand. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would guide us this morning, that you would help us, that you would give us not mere understanding. But that you would continue to mold and shape our hearts after Christ's. We thank you for our Savior and Lord And now, Lord God, we pray. Reveal more of Him to us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How do you watch over your soul? It's a question that I think this passage presents to us this morning. How do you watch over your soul? Earlier this morning we read from Genesis chapter three where we read of the deception of Eve. We read of the fall of Adam and Eve as they transgressed the the law of God. And as we read that passage we saw that the desire of Eve's heart was overwhelmed. She looked upon the fruit, she saw that it was good for food, it was a delight to the eye, the tree was desired to make one wise. She saw that the desire of her heart overwhelmed her, so to speak. Yes, she was deceived. But she allowed her desire to supplant to take the place of the very will of God. Isn't that the root of our sin nature? Wasn't that at the root of Adam's first transgression? Was his thought not my will be done? It certainly was not God's will be done. Satan knew that that was the key to their fall. The desire of their heart that overcame their desire to align their will with that of God's. I think that's a good backdrop to our passage today. We know that Jesus has finished, has completed his preaching and teaching on the preparation for his return We know that he's taught of the signs of his return, he's taught of the judgment of his return, the effect of his return. All that teaching at this point is over. He's on his way to the cross. All the events now are set with the backdrop of the cross Even as we read of the last Passover meal and the first Lord's Supper, the cross stood behind it And even as we read of Peter's confidence in himself, I will not deny you, Lord, even if I have to die We saw that Christ's suffering stood behind his statement, his confidence in himself, even up to the point where he denied Jesus three times. And now as we go back and take a closer look at each of these different segments of Christ's suffering, we're taking a look this morning at that passage, that very Graphic, detailed passage of Jesus Christ at Gethsemane We see his suffering. We see even the temptation of Jesus in this passage. We see the revealed, the heartfelt prayers of Jesus Christ set before us. While his disciples begin to deny him, falling asleep, failing to keep watch with him, failing to keep watch over their own souls. Jesus now returns to the garden to seek not his own will, but his father's will. We might sum up the teaching here this way. Those who follow Jesus Christ must keep watch over their own souls through prayer. Those who follow Jesus Christ must keep watch over their own souls through prayer. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, prayer provides one with communion. Secondly, prayer leads one out of temptation. And finally, prayer empowers one to pursue the will of God. Well, as we go through this passage of Jesus in Gethsemane, I want you to be asking yourself that question. How do I watch over my own soul? Well, first prayer provides one with communion. Consider the sorrow that's in Jesus' heart. We see it twice in this passage. The two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful even to death. What's happened? What was happening in Jesus Christ that he would say that, that Matthew would record that sorrow even two times. What was going on? Well you may be thinking Jesus is headed to the cross. That's what he's sorrowful about. Very possibly. But what was Jesus missing at that point? Consider Consider the denial. Jesus had just met with his disciples and quoted scripture to them from Zechariah the prophet, and Jesus had told them that that prophecy was about to come true. about to be fulfilled that very day. And each one of them to a man denied him, denied the truth of Jesus' words, denied the word of God itself. And yet Jesus knew that these things would come to pass. His brothers had, in a sense, already denied him by denying the application of God's word to them through the mouth of the word. of Jesus. Consider the upcoming denials. Jesus knew that In his time of need, he'd have no one beside him. He knew that not a single one of his brothers, his spiritual brothers, would remain with him. After three years of ministry, Jesus has twelve, let's say eleven followers. And every single one of them would leave. And he knows it. He can feel it within his soul. Consider the ongoing betrayal. He knows Judas has left. He knows he's off and and making plans. He knows that Satan has entered in his heart, so to speak, and he's leading Jesus to gather a band of men and from the chief priest to come and arrest Jesus. He knows this. His close friend is in the midst of fulfilling his plan of treachery against him. And Jesus is already missing companionship, isn't he? He's fully human. Each of us are made for companionship. Remember what the Lord God said in the garden. He said that it's not good that man should be alone. You think, well that's for marriage. Yes, of course it's for marriage. But there's a principle there. It's not good for man to be alone. We're made for communion. And in a sense, in a very real sense, Jesus was already alone, already abandoned. You felt it. You know the feeling. When something is coming but has not yet arrived, something bad is on the horizon. You can taste it, you can feel it within your inner being, within your bones. Jesus was already likely feeling alone, left by himself by his closest friends. And so what does Jesus do? Given the scene, given the situation, given this lack of unity, Given the anticipated denials, given the danger ahead on the cross, given the crowd on his way to seize and capture him, what does Jesus do? Does he run? Does he hide? Does he tell his disciples to gather the swords and spears and shields? Obviously, no, none of these things. Not even close Jesus goes to pray. He goes to spend time with his Father. Jesus goes to pour out his heart. And seek the face of his Lord and God. That's the first thing that Jesus does after informing his disciples that they would flee from him and they denied it. He prays. He was alone with the Father. Did you see that? Sit here while I go over there and pray He takes Peter and two sons of Zebedee with him a little further. And then he leaves them behind. He goes a little further. He falls on his face. He's alone with his father. He does not ask his disciples to come with him. They have their own work to do. He wants to be alone. In intimate, personal communion. With the one who loves him. Do you do that? Remember, the disciples had not yet fled from him. They were not too far away. Jesus, Judas had not yet arrived with a band of men to arrest Jesus. Judas had not yet kissed Jesus with a kiss of betrayal, and yet as Jesus knows He knows that God has fordained foreordained these things to come to pass. Jesus knows that God has a perfect plan. He knows that the shepherd will be stricken. He knows that the betrayer will be betraying. He knows the sheep will be fleeing. He knows all these things and he goes to the one that he trusts even in advance Jesus is already in sorrow, and in a sense he's preparing himself for greater sorrow. He goes to pray. He heads to his knees immediately. Prayer cannot wait. It was imperative that he have time, quiet time to be with his father, to commune with him. Do you do that? Usually, if we search our hearts and our practice, we enter into our prayer when we're in the trial, when we're in the midst of the trouble, when the bad thing has happened. Defined as that which we didn't desire, even though God has planned it for our good. When we're in the midst of whatever the trouble is, that's when we go to prayer, not beforehand. We're asking for the pain to stop. We're asking to comfort us in our tears of betrayal or denial or offense. Tears that are pouring out of our eyes so much so that we can't see. We're generally not going to the throne of grace. Or seeing that it's important to go, or primary, before these bad things from a human perspective happen You see, we don't understand that our basic need is communion with the Father. Jesus knew that. He recognized that he needed to commune with his Father In a sense, this time was no different than any other for Jesus. In another sense it was. But in either case, at all times, at any time, Jesus knew that he needed to commune with his Father. And so he runs to his prayer closet, so to speak. Do you recognize that? That your true and basic foundational need is to commune with your Father in heaven. We think we have so many more important needs. We do have needs. Food, clothing, comfort, rest, good health, attention from others. But at times, brothers and sisters, if we're honest, we neglect this need. We overlook this need. We need to commune with our Creator. We were made for this. We need that fellowship. You were made for intimate fellowship with the Father and union with him And here's the amazing thing. He's always available. You see, even when Jesus' disciples were not available, When Jesus' betrayer was certainly not available, the Father was. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayers of the righteous. Proverbs fifteen. The Lord is near to all who call upon him. All who call upon him in truth He who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. There is not a time when God is sleeping and will not hear you Even Jonah, as he's sinking down to the depths of the earth and the waters when the Weeds are wrapping around his head when the bars of the earth enclose around him, when his life was fainting away. I remember the Lord my prayer came to you in your holy temple. God is always ready to hear you, ready to commune with you. How often when the winds of unrest begin to blow, how often are you remembering That your true and deepest need is communion with the living God That brings us to our second point. Prayer leads one out of temptation. Well, we know this prayer by Jesus. He prays, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And then again, my father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it. What is the cup? What does Jesus speak of? Well, he knows what's coming. And that's what he speaks of, that's what the cup represents. Jesus knows that the cross is near, Jesus knows that the cross is for him, and Jesus knows what the cross represents, but it's important for us just to break that down for a moment to understand what the cup is, what the cross represents, and we begin with physical suffering, and we would know that the cup represents excruciatingly painful physical suffering. It represents physical torture beyond our ability to truly comprehend it. The cross represents an inhumane and evil method used to cause one hanging on the tree That great amount, that excruciatingly great amount of pain and agony prior to bringing about death Hanging, literally hanging on the cross through nails driven through his hands and feet until the body can no longer hold itself up to breathe. If the cross represents an unquantifiable physical affliction and suffering, which was ultimately intended to bring about death, but not before the one on the cross. Suffered. But that's just the physical. The spiritual, I think we can say, was an even greater suffering. The cross or the cup represents spiritual suffering and for Jesus the spiritual suffering would be for an eternity. We you say, well he was only on the cross for a certain number of hours, but that was an eternity. Because the cross represented the sins of the world being laid upon Jesus Christ. The pure one, the innocent one, the one who has never transgressed the law of God, the one who loved the law of God and loves the law of God, the one who sought to do the will of his Father as his food, the one who never tasted his sin, the filth, the wretchedness of disobeying his father, and yet the cross would be the place, the very location where the sins of the world would be laid upon him. If we were to imagine sin, if we could put our sins into a bottle, say a gallon bottle that we might use for milk. I understand that a gallon of water weighs a little over eight pounds. And if you were to take all your sin and pack it into a gallon, a gallon jug. And then multiply that by the number of believers that have been or are or will be, and let's just say that was a million. We certainly don't know how many, but that would be about eight million pounds. or four thousand tons being laid upon Jesus Christ That's what the cross represented. Jesus knew it, 4,000 tons of weight pressing down upon his soul, crushing it. That's what he was getting close to. He would literally be suffocated by the weight and filthiness of your sin. And there's one more aspect that the cross represented for Jesus And that is, as the sins of the world were to be laid upon him, that intimate relationship that he had with his father would melt away. At that very moment, his intimate communion with his father, his fellowship, his sonship would be severed. The father could not remain in communion with the Son because of your sins. That's what Jesus was considering. That's what he was looking at. That's what loomed as the cross was coming closer and closer. That what was in the cup The eternal wrath of God to be poured out upon Jesus for your sins, the punishment for what you have done That may be the closest aspect of the cup that we think of as we think of Jesus drinking the cup of God's wrath. So the cup He might have a little bit better glimpse into Jesus' heart as now he prays, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. You see, Jesus was being tempted. He knew the path. Jesus knew the end of the path that he was on. And as he looks down it, he's tempted to seek another way, if it be possible A path which doesn't involve sin being laid upon me, a path which doesn't involve the crushing weight of sin bearing down upon my soul. Which doesn't involve the separation from you, my Father, whom I love, which doesn't involve your eternal wrath being poured out on me such that I must drink it into its dregs. See, Jesus knows. And so he's tempted to consider another way, if it be possible. Do you see what Jesus was doing? Do you see what he did? He knew. He knew that he would be tempted. And so now he goes to his father and he pours out his heart. He tells his father exactly what's on his heart. He tells his father exactly what I'm thinking. He tells his father exactly what his desire is, if it be possible Because he's under attack. Jesus is being tempted and he knows that this is Satan's desire. It's Satan's grand plan to keep Jesus away from doing what he was sent to do. saving a people for his father. In other words, to bring glory to his father. And so Satan is seeking everything possible to take that glory away from God. And so Jesus knows that he needs the strength and the power of the triune God to go before him and to go with him And so he prays. He pours out his heart, leaving nothing uncovered. Exposing everything that his father might work once again to the power of the Spirit to grant Jesus the strength he needs to find that exit route. From those darts and arrows that Satan is casting his way. You can almost hear Satan. Don't you want to remain with your father? How could you turn away from him and take on the sins of the world yourself? Don't you know that he loves you? How can he continue to love you with all of that sin? Save yourself. Do it another way. And so Jesus prays, because he needs to reveal his heart, all of his heart to his father. That he might receive the Spirit's strength and power, enabling him to say, not my will, but yours be done. And so at that very moment he's actually teaching his disciples, isn't he? As he exits prayer and And the disciples remain asleep, and he returns, telling that your flesh is weak. Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. Exactly what he was experiencing. He's calling them to do the same, follow me, watch, and pray. You've been tempted. And I think you'd have to admit that Some of us, all of us, have succumbed to that temptation because we didn't rise and pray Jesus was telling his disciples that he's human, completely human. Yes, two natures and one person, but he has a completely human nature, and he too has been tempted, and so he Calls his disciples, hey, if you're being tempted, rise and pray. Keep watch. You must pray as you're being tempted. Do you do that? As Satan is shooting his darts and arrows, his flaming arrows at you, and he does, what's your response? In the middle of that warfare, and it is warfare, is your response like Peter, I can do it on my own, I will never deny you Brothers and sisters, you don't have the strength to fend off the darts and arrows of Satan. He's too powerful. And he really wants you to trust in yourself. But Jesus trusted in the living God. And the call this morning is when you're tempted to go to your knees. Pour out your heart to the Lord and tell him what's happening. Tell him what your desire is, if it be possible. Plead with the Father, plead with Him in the presence of the Spirit to powerfully come And overcome whatever you're being tempted to think or say or do. Pray that the Spirit would lead you to the exit door out of Satan's house. His house of temptation and lead you in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. This prayer must necessarily include the pouring out of the desires of your heart. So that God Himself, by His Spirit, may address them. Finally, our third point, prayer empowers one to pursue the will of God. Did you see what happens is immediately following Jesus' prayer? Yes, he admonishes his disciples. Sleep, take your rest later on. Then he says, Rise. Let us be going. See my betrayer is at hand. Jesus rises from prayer and goes back for the last time to his disciples and gathers them. Consider that. He gathers those who did not stand with him. He gathers those who failed to watch with him and pray with him. He gathers those who fell into temptation and slept. He gathers those whose flesh was weak, who could not stay awake. long enough to help him. This is how his ministry began. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me. Isn't that what he's telling his disciples now? Isn't that why Jesus was sent to gather Isn't that a significant part of his work? Isn't that the one thing significant thing that he will be doing when he returns, gathering So now he gathers the wanderers. He is Prayed to his father, he's poured out his heart to his father, and now he's been strengthened by his father that now he can go and continue his work of gathering. Those who are tempted and succumb to the temptation. Doesn't that sound like you? I know it sounds like me. That's what Jesus does. He overcomes his own temptation and he comes to you. He says, come follow me. I'll show you. I'll show you how you can overcome this temptation as well. He gathers. That's the first thing he does. But the second thing he does is he's leading them back on the path to the cross. Jesus prays and now he's strengthened by his prayer and now he pursues zealously, doggedly the will of his father. Temptation has arisen Temptation was defeated through prayer, and now Jesus is continuing on his path of fulfilling his Father's will. There's been no break, there's been no cessation, there's been no void Jesus sought his Father, that fellowship, that communion with his father in prayer, and as the Holy Spirit has now lifted him up and now propels him in the Spirit's strength to pursue the cross. Now let's make sure we understand this. This is not merely a matter of Jesus subjecting his will to his fathers. That's different Because that means his will, if it be possible, still remained. But that's not the case. Because now at this point Jesus' will is completely aligned with his father's, not that it ever wasn't. But now this idea of there being another way is gone. Consider the prayers, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And then his subsequent prayers, as recorded by Matthew, my Father, if this cannot pass, unless I drink it, your will be done. These are very similar prayers, but they're different. There's complete alignment now. Gone is the thought of finding another way There's been a change. There's been through prayer, in a sense, at least outwardly, there seems to be this transformation, not that Jesus' heart transformed like ours. But there has been a change. And it comes through prayer. Brothers and sisters, I think we have to admit to ourselves that it is our will that our desires come to pass We want our wills to be done. That's what we've inherited from Adam. That defines our sin nature at its root. I want my will to be done. And we just need to look at the garden. And so we need to have our wills transformed. And we see it in this prayer. God uses means to transform your heart. He uses the word. He uses the preaching of the word. He uses the table. He uses the Lord's Supper, but he also uses prayer. Think of Isaac's prayer for Rebekah. For his wife, she was barren, and he prays, and the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebecca, his wife, conceived there's physical change as a result of prayer, but there is also spiritual change as a result of prayer. As the temple's being dedicated by Solomon, and he prays, when heaven is shut up and there's no rain, because they've sinned against you If they pray toward this place and acknowledge your name and turn from their sins when you've afflicted them here in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants. A spiritual change. As a result of prayer. We see that in Jesus' prayer. We see that that's not what Adam did in the garden when he was being tempted. And we see that's what you must engage in in order to lead yourself By the work of the Spirit, out of temptation, but back to that path of righteousness. Brothers and sisters, prayer will transform you. Such that it will be your even greater desire to seek the will of God And to align your will with His so that you can say, as the Spirit works, not my will But your will be done. Yes, those who follow Jesus Christ must keep watch over their own souls through prayer. Adam and Eve sought their own will in the garden. But Jesus returned to the garden. To seek not his own will, but the will of his father. He calls us He calls us to keep watch over our own souls by and through that intimate personal communion with our Heavenly Father. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God We're so thankful for this passage. We're so thankful for the humanity of Jesus. We're thankful for his divinity as well, but Here we see his humanity, and we see how he overcomes temptation. We see, Lord God, how he pursues your will, and we are a thankful people. Praise be to you, our God and Father. Praise be to Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Praise be to the Spirit. Who works all these things. Father, we thank you for your will. We know it's perfect. We know it's good. And so we ask, even now, we ask, Holy Spirit. Oh, align our wills with yours. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.