Turn your copies of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew once again We'll be in chapter 17, as we were this morning, but I'll only be reading verses 14 through 20. I believe you'll find that on page 978 of your Pew Bibles. Matthew chapter 17, beginning at verse 14, let's give attention to the holy word of God. When they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and kneeling before him said, Lord have mercy on my son, for he has seizures and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into the fire, and often into the water. And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him. And Jesus answered, O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me. And Jesus rebuked the demon. And it came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly. Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not cast it out? He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move. And nothing will be impossible for you. That's probably the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Father and our God, we ask for help. This is a difficult passage to grasp. We need you, Holy Spirit, to lead and guide us tonight. Help me to proclaim your word faithfully, powerfully. Such that it touches our hearts. Help us now, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. How powerful is your faith? We don't think of our faith as being powerful. But the question still stands, how powerful is it? What can your faith do? Earlier this evening we read from Exodus, as the Israelites were just beginning their wilderness wandering, having just passed through the Red Sea and now Enveloped in the wilderness where there was no river, no water 600,000 men of fighting age, plus women, plus children, plus animals And no water. And God tells Moses to take up your staff and head to the rock where I'll be standing with your elders. And strike it. Before all the elders, I want you to go and strike a rock. So that you can provide water to a million plus people How much faith did that take? And as the water was pouring out, how powerful was Moses' faith? I think that brings us tonight to this passage that we went over this morning in Matthew's Gospel, chapter 17. But I want to dig into it a bit deeper tonight. This passage wherein Jesus comes down from the mountain where he was transfigured. Where a father comes to him and tells him that his son is suffering and his disciples have not been able to cast out the demon. And Jesus heals. And yet we have that question how powerful is your faith? Tonight as we go through this passage, and we'll be focusing primarily on verses 19 and 20 of Matthew chapter 17. I want us to see that nothing will be impossible for those who in faith Depend upon the Lord Jesus Christ to accomplish His Father's will. Nothing, nothing will be impossible for those who in faith depend upon the Lord Jesus Christ to accomplish His Father's will. We'll see that tonight in three simple points. First, the necessity of faith, secondly, the magnitude of faith, and finally, the power of faith. Again, as we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, how powerful is my faith? Well, first the necessity of faith. We see that this passage is based upon the fact that the disciples were unable To cast this demon out of this little boy, this son, who was suffering seizures, who was being cast into fire and into the water. We see verse sixteen Wherein the Father tells Jesus Christ, I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him. That verse might be translated this way with the Greek, which means something along the lines of they weren't able. They didn't have the capacity. You might translate it this way, and they didn't have the power to heal him. His father was in distress. The son was in need, and the disciples were powerless. They were truly without power, disciples scratching their heads, unable to minister. to this one in desperate need. And we know that this was not a medical power that was needed. It was not a physical power that was needed. No, these disciples were lacking in spiritual power. For this was spiritual warfare. The devil was attacking and needed to be confronted, combated with spiritual weapons. If you're familiar with Ephesians chapter 6, we see all those spiritual weapons set forth, the whole armor of God to be used in spiritual battle. And then we see Jesus' response, O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Where was Jesus' compassion at this point? Where was his kindness? Where was his gentleness? He calls his disciples. At least some people believe that Jesus was referring to his disciples and probably the entire generation at that point in time. Others don't believe he was referring to his disciples, but I take the position that indeed He was speaking directly to his disciples and certainly those around them. Faithless, twisted generation. Why could the disciples not minister? There was a spiritual need. And the disciples had been following Jesus Christ in spiritual ministry, obviously. Why were they helpless in meeting the need? And they even ask that question, don't they, privately to Jesus Christ, not wanting to acknowledge their failure in public. Why could we not cast it out? And Jesus had already told them O faithless and twisted generation. In fact, that was a kind statement of Jesus, wasn't it? He was pointing them to the spiritual weapon that they had decided not to take to the fight. In Ephesians chapter six, we read, in all circumstances, take up the shield of faith. With which you can extinguish the flaming darts of the evil one They didn't take it. They didn't use it. And now Jesus explicitly states in verse 20, because of your little faith, that's how he answers their question. Why could we not cast it out? because of your little faith. Mark puts it this way. And when he entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, why could we not cast it out? And he said to them, This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer. And so we see a connection here between faith and prayer. That a true, sincere, saving faith Combined with prayer is effective. That's what James tells us. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Let him call for the elders of the church. Let them pray over him. And the prayer of faith will save the one who's sick. And the Lord will raise him up. Do you see what the disciples were lacking? They needed faith. We discussed that this morning. Their faith was misplaced. They needed faith and they needed to pray. They needed both to heal this young boy, and apparently they did not have either one. We know that faith is needed for salvation. It's the instrument of justification. The shorter catechism reads this way: What is faith in Jesus Christ? It's a saving grace. Whereby we receive and rest upon Him alone for salvation as He's offered to us in the gospel But as we speak tonight of the need for faith, we're speaking of it in another sense. We're speaking of the need for faith to do the works of the Lord. Wasn't that what the disciples were being called to? To do the work of the Lord, to restore this little boy. And thus the need for faith to do the works of the Lord. The Lord is not calling upon you tonight to cast out demons, but yet he's calling you to works. This opportunity to cast out the demon was indeed an opportunity to perform a work, and these disciples were unable to meet it. If you're trusting in Christ tonight, you are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Ephesians 2 verse 10. And so do you need faith? The answer to that question is absolutely. Absolutely. We must have faith to do the works of God. That brings us to our second head, the magnitude of faith. So we know we need faith It's that instrument of justification. Jesus preached faith. Mark records: the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. Those are Jesus' words. John's Gospel records that Jesus preached the same. Whoever believes in him is not condemned. He's speaking of himself In chapter 6, Jesus answered, this is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent. He's talking of himself. And remember Thomas. Jesus said to Thomas, put your finger here. See my hands. Put out your hand. Place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. Jesus constantly called all those who would listen. To faith, Peter, the one who abandoned Jesus Christ called listeners to believe. In his first letter, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. And Peter proclaimed faith to the Gentiles. In Acts chapter 15, brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you that by my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe. Paul and Silas called the Philippian jailer to faith. What must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. And Paul's letters are full, chalk full, of the call to faith. We hold that one is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. And in Ephesians, by grace you've been saved through faith. Throughout. It's throughout the Bible. The need for faith. But that's not the question, is it? The question is, does faith come in sizes? How big What does your faith need to be in order to be saved? Jesus spoke to the disciples of the absence of faith. Here in verse seventeen, O faithless and twisted generation Seemingly, there was a limit to how long Jesus would bear with unbelief. And so here Jesus speaks of zero faith or unbelief. We can understand zero. The writers of the Hebrews put it this way, without faith it's impossible to please him, meaning God. But are there different sizes? Like shoes. Jesus here spoke of little faith. Why could we not cast it out? He said to them, because of your little faith. Well, how big, how large does your faith need to be to be justified? It's really not the subject of this passage. But there is a relationship. And since we're close, let us consider that question. How much faith do you need to be saved? It must be clear the Bible does speak of degrees of faith, but seemingly not with regard to salvation. Consider the Westminster Standards. We read a few tonight. The grace of faith Whereby the elect are enabled to believe to the saving of their souls is the work of the Spirit of Christ in their hearts. You might think, well, I need to build up my faith, like you go to the gym and you build up your muscles. No. It's the work of Christ. It's the work of the Spirit of Christ. He's the one who is building up your faith. He's the one who has enabled you to believe. He's the one who has given you the gift. And he will bring it to completion. We read this earlier tonight. By this faith, the Christian believes to be true whatsoever is revealed in the Word, for the authority of God Himself speaking therein, and acts differently upon that. which each particular passage thereof contains. But the principal acts of saving faith are accepting, receiving, and resting upon Christ alone for justification, sanctification, and eternal life. That's the idea. It's the work of the Spirit who brings all these things about. Accepting, receiving, rest upon Jesus alone for your justification. Now the confession does see that faith is in different degrees, weak or strong, that it may be assailed, it may be weakened, but gets the victory. Growing up in many to the attainment of a full assurance through Christ Who is both the author and finisher of our faith? You see that it's Christ Christ is the author. Christ is the finisher. Comes from Hebrews chapter 12. The author or perfecter of our faith. If we're thinking in terms of levels of faith for salvation, I think we're thinking in the wrong direction. Christ is the one who works faith. Christ is the one who increases faith. Christ is the one who will assure. He will not lose a single soul that's been given to him. On the last day he will raise it up. See, there won't be any who are left behind because their faith was too weak. There won't be a third category Of those who were working and working and working, and yet just didn't get enough faith to be saved. The Bible is silent. Indeed, as Jesus speaks of the day of judgment, he speaks of only two groups. When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, he'll sit in his glorious throne, and before him will be gathered all the nations. He doesn't say just some of the nations. He says that all the nations will be gathered, and he'll separate people one from another as a shepherd. separates sheep from the goats. And he'll place the sheep on his right and the goats on the left. You see, one either believes in the Lord Jesus Christ who is salvation, or you reject the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no in-between. There is no partial or small faith which is not mature enough into a saving faith. It doesn't exist. There's only faith and there's only rejection. There's only belief and there's only unbelief. There's only life through faith and death through unrepentant sin. Now for thinking of assurance tonight, that's a different theological topic. And the Westminster Confession tells us that assurance does not so belong to the essence of faith but that a true believer may wait long and conflict with many difficulties before he be a partaker of it Don't confuse saving faith with assurance of your salvation. We are to be diligent to make our calling and election sure. No doubt. But if you come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, true, sincere, saving faith. You will be with Jesus in glory forever Well that's a bit of a rabbit trail, but I think a good one. So there's the question that's still before us, how much faith is needed to do the works? of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's really on our point, isn't it? How much faith do you need to do the works of Christ? Here Jesus speaks of little faith. If you have faith, like a grain of mustard seed, you'll say to this mountain, move from here to there, and it will move. Nothing will be impossible. But Jesus said that the disciples had little faith. So is there a difference between little faith and faith like a grain of mustard seed? That mustard seed is pretty small. I think we have to remember what Jesus had previously said as he speaks of their little faith. Because previously he said that they were faithless. And so it appears that the faith of the disciples at this point was not in the real Jesus. As I believe Matthew Henry points out, so these were not, these disciples were not yet accepting or believing in the need for Jesus to die. Remember what Peter said after Jesus said that he would need to die. He said, no, no, no, that's never going to happen. And so there's a sense in which they just didn't grasp, didn't understand, didn't believe that it was necessary for Jesus to die. They didn't accept that by faith. And they certainly didn't have faith in his coming resurrection, as they didn't know what that meant. So as Jesus speaks of the little faith of the disciples, seemingly there was no true faith in the real Jesus yet. So how much faith do you need to do the works of the Lord Jesus Christ? Faith like a grain of mustard seed. That's it. That's it. That's all you need. To do the works of the Lord Jesus Christ. That should be of great encouragement to everyone tonight. Because he's called you to works. So, well, I just don't have enough faith for that. And the answer to that is no no no. You do. You do have enough faith for that. if you're truly believing in the Lord Jesus. We raise that as and as an excuse, don't we? I just don't have enough faith for that. Oh, that that guy over there, he's got a lot of faith Now you all have been given enough faith, as Jesus said To say to this mountain, move from here to there, and it will move. You have enough. If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight. That brings us to our third point, the power of faith. Well, that's the question we've been asking. How powerful is your faith? And we see that this passage begins with the disciples' inability. I brought him to your disciples, and they could not Heal him. They lack the spiritual weapon of faith and prayer to move this demon out of this boy and restore him And the disciples, in their heads scratching, are thinking, wondering, why couldn't we do what you just did, Jesus? What was wrong with our technique? How did you do that? And so then Jesus utters that curious truth. If you have faith, like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, move from here to there, and it will move. Nothing. will be impossible for you. In other words, while you were unable to restore this boy, while you were unable to remove this demon because you lacked faith If you even had a small bit of true saving faith in me, then you could actually move mountains. And they're probably thinking, what? What does it mean? What is Jesus saying when he says nothing? Nothing will be impossible for you. He uses that graphic image of a mountain leaving its foundation and being cast into the sea, and in one sense, how could we imagine something more impossible than doing that, taking that which the Lord God Almighty has established in its place and calling upon it to move, and having the power to cast even a mountain into the sea. What does Jesus mean? Well, first, what he does not mean. Jesus cannot mean that Christians, that believers, that the faithful have the power to alter or thwart the will of God. No. God has placed every created thing in its place according to his will and by his supernatural power keeps them there. Nothing we can do, we can pray, or bring about will change the will of the Lord God Almighty. It's a misuse of this passage. There are so many things that we desire as fallen humans, as sinful creatures, that are not in accord with the Father's will, and some will use this passage to say whatever you want You can get it, for nothing will be impossible. That's a misuse of this passage. And so Jesus cannot be saying that you can accomplish anything, even if it's against the will of the Father. Jesus was always seeking to do the will of his father. There was never a time, a place, or a circumstance When Jesus was not seeking the will of his father. So what does this mean? Why does he use this mountain as an example? Remember, he just descended from the mountain where he was transformed, where God the Father spoke in the hearing of Peter and James and John. This is a passage, a verse which requires us to bring in other passages to help us understand it. Again, Jesus said to his disciples in John chapter 4, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his Chapter 5. I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just because I seek not my own will, but the will of Him who sent me. Jesus is constantly seeking the will of His Father. As he's the one proclaiming this word, as he's the one who is constantly and consistently and completely seeking and praying for the Father's will to be done, and so as he speaks these words, Nothing will be impossible. He must be doing so in keeping with his own practice and his own will. That is, in other words, if in faith you are seeking the will of the Father, nothing will be impossible for you. And so coming back to the mountain, if it's the Father's will for the mountain to be cast into the sea, then you can call for that to occur, and it will happen without question. That seems to be the idea. And so what do you take away tonight? How do you live knowing this truth? Well, what is possible? What is possible? First, this must mean that you can actually speak to God That would seem impossible. Speaking to God, the creator, the sustainer of the universe. But that's what Scripture tells us: that nothing is impossible. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. Do you put that in the same category as what Jesus just said to his disciples? Nothing's impossible for you. You can even speak to God If you're doing it in faith. It means, secondly, that you can know the will of God That seems impossible. To know the will of the one who made you? To know the will of the one who created all things and why they exist? And what tomorrow might bring you, you can know the will of God. Not the secret will, but the revealed will of God. Isn't that what Paul said in his opening to his gospel in Romans chapter 1? I'm not ashamed of the gospel. It's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Paul knew the will of God through his word. And as he writes his first letter to those at Corinth, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him. He's not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. The spiritual person judges all things. It means you can know the will of God. It seems impossible. And yet in faith Nothing, including knowing the will of God for your life, not that you know what tomorrow is going to happen, no, I'm not saying that. But you can know how the Lord wants you to live before Him. You can know what pleases the Lord. You can know the nature of the Lord God. But if we bring it closer to the passage of this text Notice where this verse is located. Jesus tells his disciples that nothing will be impossible for you, but he does that after they failed to cast out the demons. This they're scratching their heads, wondering what happened, what went wrong, why couldn't we do it this time? Jesus says nothing will be impossible. It comes after Jesus has relieved this one, this dear one. from the scourge of evil. In a very tangible way, Jesus Christ has taken evil and cast it out of this little boy, restoring him, and then he's told his disciples, nothing will be impossible for you, even though you were unable to cast out this demon. Just think of that for a moment. Think of the sin, the old man that yet resides within your soul. Think of the sin nature that is common to every single man, woman, and child in this room and in this world. who descended from Adam by ordinary generation. Think of how deep that sin is. Think of that sin nature within you. Think how hard it is to remove that from you. And that is exactly what Paul was saying in Romans chapter 7, where he was acknowledging his inner struggle with the old man, saying that he was not being able to do that which he knew he wanted to do Was he not saying and admitting and acknowledging his impossibility? What was Abraham told when he was given the covenant? To walk before me and be blameless. Who will ascend the holy hill of God? He who has clean hands and a pure heart and does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. That's the one. And so in your sin, it's impossible to enter into the presence of God In your sin, it's impossible to enter into covenant with God, for he has told Abraham to walk before me and be blameless. But in faith, nothing is impossible. In faith, as Jesus Christ works all things out for your salvation, nothing is impossible. And Jesus Christ, as he has done all things and done all things well, as he's taken on the eternal wrath of God for you, as he's dressed you in his righteousness. Nothing is impossible. Do you see as you depend upon the Lord Jesus Christ in faith Even your sin can be washed clean. I think that's what Jesus was speaking of, as he spoke of nothing being impossible. We think of the mountain being cast into the sea, and that's just impossible. Brothers and sisters, I think the ability of you to remove your sin from yourself Is an even greater impossibility. And yet Jesus Christ has done it. I think that's what he meant. He said, nothing will be impossible. You will be able to ascend the holy hill of God. Because of what Jesus has done, as you depend upon him, as he's seeking to do the will of his father, you are able. To ascend the holy hill of God and to enter into his presence because he's cleansed you, he's dressed you, and he's given you this saving faith. And in that faith, you're depending upon Jesus. And as you do, nothing is impossible. Indeed, nothing will be impossible for those who in faith depend upon the Lord Jesus Christ to accomplish the will of his Father. You know, Moses didn't actually bring the water from the rock. But in faith, he approached it. And in faith, in front of all the elders of Israel, he struck it. According to that which he'd been commanded. And nothing was impossible as Moses acted in faith. And that's what Christ is saying to you tonight. Nothing is impossible for you. As you act in faith, in dependence upon Him, to do all things and to bring you to salvation. Praise be to God. Amen. Oh Father, we are weak and frail. At times we think our faith is powerless. But yet tonight, Father, you have told us that there is great power in our faith. As long as we're depending upon Jesus, there's nothing, nothing that we cannot do in Christ Jesus as we depend upon Him to do all things. So we thank you for Christ. We thank you for His power. We thank you for His kingship. We thank you, Lord God, for His cleansing. We thank you for His righteousness. And we thank you, Lord God, for the faith that you've granted to us. Help us, Lord. Help us to do your works in faith. Help us to pursue them. Help us never to be those who say, well, I don't have enough. For Father, you've given us just the right amount. Help us to be those who go from this place, to use the faith that you've given us, to do all the works that you prepared for us beforehand. All for your glory, all independence upon Jesus Christ.