The scripture reading for the sermon comes from Ecclesiastes chapter one, the first eleven verses of Ecclesiastes. Now we're starting a new book today. We finished up Philippians. Here now we are in The book of Ecclesiastes. Here, the words of this book are attributed to one who is called the preacher throughout the book. He's never really explicitly named. He's called the preacher. Now A lot of what's written makes it sound like he's he's King Solomon. And um you know there are some people who don't entirely accept that, and you know I'd I'd be happy to talk to you about that more later if you want to sort of understand the authorship issue. Uh but the uh you know in all likelihood I I think there's every good reason to think that it's just Solomon, um that it easily is Solomon because It sounds like it's Solomon and there are a lot of reasons why I'd be happy to talk to you about that authorship issue later if you want to if you want to know more about that discussion and that that debate, but um without getting into it too much here. So here we are in Ecclesiastes. This person named the preacher is the son of David, king in Jerusalem, and He's reflecting on life and he's reflecting on the fact of his rule. Perhaps late in life. He's reflecting back on um what his life has been and he's reflecting on things that happened throughout his life. And he comes to a conclusion that he gives us here in Ecclesiastes that all things are vanity, all is vanity, vanity of vanities. So with that, by way of that brief introduction, let's now listen to the reading of God's Word. So again, Ecclesiastes. We're going to get into the thoughts of this preacher, and we're going to sort of di work our way through it and dig our way through it. But this is the reading of God's Word. Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verses 1 through 11. It is God's word, so listen to it as such. The words of the preacher, the son of David, King in Jerusalem Vanity of vanities, says the preacher. Vanity of vanities. All is vanity. What profit has a man from all his labor in which he toils under the sun? One generation passes away, and another generation comes. But the earth abides forever. The sun also rises and the sun goes down and hastens to the place where it arose. The wind goes toward the south and turns around to the north. The wind whirls about continually and comes again on its circuit. All the rivers run into the sea. Yet the sea is not full. To the place from which the rivers come, there they return again. All things are full of labor. Man cannot express it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. That which has been is what will be. That which is done is what will be done. There is nothing new under the sun. Is there anything of which it may be said? See, this is new. It has already been in ancient times before us. There is no remembrance of former things, nor will there be any remembrance of things that are but to come by those who will come after. That's why the reading of God's Word, may He add His blessing to it as well as to its preaching in our midst this morning. So again, I've already sort of introduced it a little bit. The preacher, this person who is presented as the preacher, as a son of David, who is or has been the king in Jerusalem Is thinking about wisdom. He comes to give his evaluation of life on this earth. You heard that phrase a couple of times, under the sun, under the sun, verse 3 and verse 9. Life under the sun, life upon the earth. And as he opens up his meditations and his reflections in this book, he gives his evaluation quite clearly straight out the gate. What is life like under the sun? What is life like here on the earth? Well it is what he says in verse 2 of the text. He calls it vanity of vanity. Vanity of vanities. All is vanity. All of life here upon this earth, all of life under the sun, from a certain point of view, can be characterized by that phrase, vanity, that word vanity. that phrase vanity of vanities. Now what does that word vanity mean? Word vanity, some other synonyms for it. Futility. You heard it in Romans eight, verse twenty. Meaninglessness, pointlessness Everything is pointless. Everything is meaningless. That would be another way of saying what the preacher is saying here in these verses. Vanity of vanity, all things. Or vanity. Meaninglessness, futility, emptiness, pointlessness. Another aspect to this word vanity is also, um there there's a there's a shade of meaning That's to do with the fact that all things are temporary. All things are ready to pass away. All things are transient. This word vanity is sometimes used to describe vapor or mist. Or breath, something that is here for a moment and then ready to pass away. And notice that these two realities of vanity Really come together and dovetail. Why is it that everything is pointless and emptiness and meaningless, according to the preacher? Precisely because it doesn't last. So he observes life in this world. He sees that the things that are good and the things that are enjoyable They're pointless because they're quickly going to pass away. So this is the preacher's point here. Vanity. Vanity of vanities. He's From a certain point of view, he speaks this reality about life under the sun. From a certain point of view, all things under the sun are meaningless, vanity. Maybe a good illustration of what the pre uh the the preacher is getting after has to do with um if you've ever worked on something like a project on your computer. If you've ever worked on something over the long term and you've saved often and you've saved early along the way, you've you know done what you're supposed to do, you're working on a big long project, you're writing a long story, a word document, something like that. You save every time you work on it. You're working on it day after day, month after month, year after year. Then one day your hard drive just goes and crashes. All your files are deleted. All your progress is gone in an instant. It's a great modern illustration for what the preacher is talking about here in Ecclesiastes. What what was the point of all the work you put in? It's gone in an instant. The hard drive crashed. It's all disappeared. Well again, this is what the preacher says life is like here in Ecclesiastes. So he says there's a certain sense in which it's pointless. There's a certain sense in which it's pointless because it is so temporary, it is so transient. The enjoyment that you have in this life is small and it's also fleeting. That which you have you can have, but you're only going to have it for a time. It's going to pass away before too long. Now notice he says vanity of vanities, vanity to the highest degree. Vanity to the superlative degree. All of life is absurdity in a certain sense. All of life is meaninglessness. This is what the preacher says here in verse 2 Now look at the things he says to support what he's saying. Because most of this section, verses 3 through 11, is really reflections that support his initial claim that all of life is vanity. So he supports it first of all with what he says in verse 3. Verse 3. What profit has a man from all his labor in which he toils under the sun? Again, what is the gain that you get from working? What gain can you get from working and from labor under the sun? Now you think about life. All mankind is always working towards enjoyment, seeking to find rest and enjoyment as the fruit of his labors. But when does he really get to enjoy the things that he's working towards? And if he does, how long does it last? We know this to be the reality of life in this world, perhaps in our own lives in uh many ways we all have experienced this to some degree or another. So, you know, his his point in asking this question is to say Uh uh uh you know, labors on this earth are frustrating. Now, that should really remind us of another place in the scriptures now, Genesis chapter 3. speaks to a curse that the Lord put upon the ground and upon man's labors in this world owing to sin. Now listen to the similarity and theme that you would get from Genesis 3, 17 through 19. Now after the man sinned, he was there in the Garden of Eden, and he sinned against God. God's answer to that sin was to curse the ground for the sake of Adam. And here would be the plight of the man thereafter upon the earth. Cursed is the ground for your sake, the Lord said. In toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field, in the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground. For out of it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you shall return. Now that curse that the Lord put upon the ground back after the man had sinned in Eden was a complete opposite of what life was supposed to be for him in Eden. So back in Eden, work was to be satisfying, enjoyable, and then food and the fruits of his labors would come easily and would be satisfying and enjoyable. Because of the sin of the first man, work in this world becomes instead frustrating. You will eat and live By the sweat of your brow, and by your toil, in a on a ground that produces thorns and thistles You will eat of the fruit of the ground, but you're going to sweat to get it, and you're going to toil to get good out of it. So we see in Ecclesiastes, once again, the same theme. We see this theme of labor. It's frustrating. Labor is difficult. It doesn't always produce the results you want. And the results that you get from it. are sometimes very temporary, very fleeting. Here's one reason why life is vanity. And I don't even have to illustrate that for any of you in this room because you all already have illustrations. and you already walk and live those illustrations day to day. Again, what is life like in this world ever since the sin of man? You carry on in the next verses, verse 4 through, especially through verse 7. One generation passes away, another generation comes. We see futility expressed here. Mankind goes on generation after generation. One generation comes, has things to learn. Has work to do, but the lessons of that generation are soon quickly forgotten as that generation passes from the scene and another generation rises up. That second generation sometimes has to go and relearn the same lessons, or sometimes has to learn new lessons for themselves the next time. So we see a certain futility. Man tries to make progress in his life. And yet it doesn't last, because the man who makes progress eventually fades and dies. Another man rising up. In his place. This seems to be what the preacher is talking about. And in the course of mankind coming and going, nature runs its course. The earth stays right where it is in verse 4. The sun keeps rising and setting indifference to the man who has come and gone here upon this earth. We see futility. We see that nothing comes to a point of satisfaction. Nothing comes to a point of settlement and rest and enjoyment. We see the rivers coming and going. The waters flow into the sea. The sea is never full. The sea is never satisfied. The same thing is true of mankind. All things are full of labor, the preacher says in verse 8, but man cannot express it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. Again, man continues to work, man continues to labor. To what end? Just enough to keep going day to day sometimes. And at the end of the day, when does he get to enjoy? When does he get to rest in the fruits of his labors? Not here in this life, not here under the sun, the preacher says. Life under the sun is not easy and it's not satisfying. There's enjoyment, but it's for a short time, and it's eventually fleeting. And it won't last Again, the the preacher carries on then as he goes in verses nine through eleven. So nature runs its course, man comes and goes. It seems to be a cycle. It seems to be a circle. No progress seems to be made. It's frustrating. When will there be enjoyment of anything? When will man enjoy the fruits of his labors? Verses 9 through 11, he's sort of cynical about uh what there is in this life. Um there's nothing new under the sun. You know, you can you can point and you can look at, oh, here's something new. What has the preacher said? If you can point and sit at it and say, see this is new, the preacher says, it's already been In ancient times before us. Somebody invented the automobile. We live in a new era. Mankind is still mankind. The heart of man is still the heart of man. There still is not peace between men or peace between nations. There is still sin and wickedness in the heart of men, and men still move from birth to the grave over the course of their life Again, you know, in this world, this world is filled with all kinds of promises. Well, here's something new and exciting that's going to change the way life is. And it's easy to get wrapped up in those promises. But again, the reality is that we still live in a in a world that lies under the the realities of the curse. Where sin and death are still the realities here and now, and that hasn't changed just by some new invention, some new technology. Whether it be in medicine and culture, some form of social progress, some form of technology, mankind has continually tried to break out of this cycle that the preacher is talking about He has never managed to do so, not by his own strength. This is what we see in Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verses 1 through 11. We see all things run their course. And they stay locked under this cycle of vanity, locked under this cycle of nothing truly new happening, nothing good ever happening that can change what life is like. under the sun. The question is, what do we make of this? What do we make of these these words? It's very clear, um, the tone of this entire text. is very clearly one of futility and weariness, wearisomeness in the futilities of life on this world. What do we make of these these words? What do we make of the preacher's thoughts and expressions? Are they presented as as if this is the way life is? Well yes they are. But how should we think about this? Now, one thing you need to remember is that what's spoken here is spoken from the perspective of life under the sun. So you see that phrase in verse 3, man toils under the sun. You see that phrase in verse 9, there's nothing new under the sun. You're going to see that phrase time and time again in the book of Ecclesiastes. Life under the sun. This is what life is like under the sun. Well, what perspective is that talking about? Well, notice the connection to Genesis chapter 3. Notice I made this connection earlier, how the frustrating nature of labor in this world is the fruit of the curse. It's the fruit of sin. The meaninglessness of life here upon this earth is the result of sin entering the world. And so when we read through the book of Ecclesiastes, what we need to understand is that this is an extended meditation and reflection upon what the world is like due to the curse. Here's what life is like in a world that is dominated by sin and the the influence of the evil one. This is life under the sun. This is the world in which the preacher lives and moves in our passage. He lives and moves in a world in which the sin of Adam has happened And in which sin and death are the reality. This is life under the sun. Now, I think it's also helpful to bring in um some language from the Apostle Paul In Galatians 1, verse 4, the Apostle Paul speaks about Galatian Christians having been saved by God. And notice what they've been saved from. Galatians 1:4 shows that Christ gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil age. So again, I think that that phrase present evil age is a synonym for what the preacher is talking about in Ecclesiastes chapter 1. Life under the sun is life in this present evil age. The present phase of the world is dominated by evil because sin and death And the influence of the evil one are realities that are present. Ecclesiastes is reflecting on what life is like in this present evil age. And we have to acknowledge that the things the preacher says are indeed true of this present evil age, with the realities of sin and death and the influence of the evil one. The history of this world and the history of mankind is indeed nothing but a history of futility. A history of a cycle that is doomed to repeat itself, tragically so, time and time again. A history in which there really is nothing really new that ever happens Mankind keeps doing his thing here upon the earth. The earth keeps doing what it does. The rivers, the winds, the sun. Life goes on and on and on, one thing after another. Maybe you've heard that uh there's a there's a saying, there's a it's attributed to different people, and it's uh attributed as a quote to Different people. There's a saying um that's sounds sort of cynical and you know they say history is just one darn thing after another. And maybe if you've you've heard that saying It's a good description of what Ecclesiastes is expressing. So again, we see that as this describes life in a fallen world We have to say that these verses are perfectly on target. We realize the preacher speaks as though he's speaking truth. The truth that he speaks is perfectly on target. If you're thinking about what life is like in a fallen world. So in that sense, we have to receive the truth of these verses. Here's what our lives will be like in a fallen world. But at the very same time, praise God that this is not the whole truth of our lives. And to praise God that this is not the whole story of what is true of this world and God's creation. Now again, uh uh think upon that that phrasing in verse 9, especially. That which has been is what will be. That which is done is what will be done. And there is nothing new under the sun. Again, it's speaking to frustration, futility, a cycle of futility But is that true? Is that really the whole truth about everything that has ever happened in God's good world? We have to understand that it's not the whole truth And it's not the full truth. Yes, it is the truth about life in a fallen world, but remember, the whole center of our hope as Christians The whole center of our hope as the church is that something new has been done under the sun, right? Christ, the Son of God, came. The eternal Son of God became man. He who lived, he who came from a world beyond what is under the sun. Came from above the sun, came down to live under the sun for us. In order to free us From such a life of vanity under the sun. Don't we know that that's true? Isn't this the center of our confession as Christian people who are waiting for the kingdom of God and who believe in Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ came and bore our sins. He lived under the futility of life under the sun in order to give us a new life. A life in which we will go to his presence forever in eternity. A life in which we will live once again in the presence of God, in a place where life is much more than what the preacher expresses here in these verses. When will men get to enjoy the fruits of their labors? When will men get to feel like we've done enough and we're ready to enjoy satisfaction? Only when we enter into the presence of God in the new creation, in the new heavens and in the new earth, there in the presence of God, there is no such thing as futility. But there is enjoyment, there is rest, there is satisfaction, blessing and glorifying the God who has brought us there. There, when we get to God's presence, we are free from the sufferings and the futility of this present age, there and there only. That's a new thing that's been done under the sun. Christ coming and paying for our sins is the new thing that broke the cycle of life under the sun. and undid the vanity that this world was consigned to and and uh uh s locked into Now we also need to keep in mind, beloved, as we may remember that a new thing has been done by Christ, there's also the reality for those who belong to Jesus Christ that our labors that are done in him are not in vain. Now listen to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 58, and know that these words are true for you. They are true for all of us as we labor in the Lord. Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 15, 58, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable. All is abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. So again, this is an undoing of what's been described in Ecclesiastes. Life under the curse is vanity, but life in Christ, our labors in Christ. Is fruitful. It's full of blessing. Not in vain. Is used for his glory. Is used to do new things here in this world So let's keep these things in mind, beloved. So again, we see the cycle of futility that is described in Ecclesiastes. We we know it all too well by our own experience. But we're reminded that God has done something new in sending his son to die for our sins. God has done something new. And God also does new things even through the labors of his people. Because this is true. Let's be quick to press on and to labor for the Lord, to go on trusting in him, waiting for that new world that is to come. but also laboring for his glory here upon this earth, here and now. May this be true of us, and may the Lord grant that it would be so all by his grace and his spirit. Amen. Father, we praise you this day that you have gathered us as your people, and we um see The words of of the preacher in Ecclesiastes, we see a reflection of so much of our lives, the futility that we sometimes wrestle with day to day and struggle with day to day in in the endeavors to um to keep our health good and well, to make our situation in life good and to improve upon it. We see what um seems like futility and we see that it is in so many ways the reality of our life in this world. Yet, O Lord, we praise you that it is not the full story, and that is it is not everything that is true about our lives in this world, for you have done something new by sending your son To deliver us from this present evil age, you have brought about a new creation in Christ. You have made us heirs of that new creation. You have given us the ability to participate in your work as those who labor in the Lord. Lord, we thank you and we praise you that you promised us that our labor is not in vain, as it is done in the Lord. We thank you and praise you that your great plan of salvation in Christ breaks through the vanity of life in this world and makes us able to serve you in uprightness and truth. Lord, use us, we pray. Spread your glory across the face of this world. We pray that you would bring many more people into your kingdom, many more people who are your new creation, and who are set free from futility and vanity. Lord, grant that these things might be true, we pray. Work these things in us. Through your word and through your spirit, help us to know the good news that life under the sun is not all there is, but that there is a life that you've given us that's new life. We come to you as people who are in need of this. We ask you to give it to us. We would pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.